Morning
06 04 1935

Conference reconvened Saturday morning, April 6, at 10:00 o'clock The Manti choir, under the direction of Ellis E. Johnson, furnished 

the music for this session. They sang as an opening number, the hymn Lord, we come before thee now." President Grant announced that 

the arrangement of this selection was by Professor A. C. Smyth and 

that it was sung under his direction at the dedication of the Salt Lake 

Temple. 

Elder M. Ezra Sorenson, President of the Bannock Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

/'Who's on the Lord's Side," an anthem, was sung by the Manti Choir. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers who were unanimously sustained as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Reed Smoot Melvin J. Ballard 

George Albert Smith John A. Widtsoe 

George F. Richards Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L. Richards Alonzo A. Hinckley The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. Saints 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Jonathan G. Kimball Antoine R. Ivins 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Rufus K. Hardy 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Stephen L. Richards 

David O. McKay Richard R. Lyman 

Willard Young John A. Widtsoe 

Rudger Clawson Adam S. Bennion 

Joseph F. Merrill Charles A. Callis 

Franklin S. Harris 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

John A. Widtsoe 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John W. Hart 

Orval W. Adams 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

David A. Smith, President; Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Frank W. Asper 

Alexander Schreiner Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Kate M. Barker, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, 1st Asst. Superintendent George R. Hill, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent Edith Hunter Lambert, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Albert E. Bowen, General Superintendent George Q. Morris, 1st Asst. Superintendent Frank L. West, 2nd Asst. Superintendent and the following as members of the General Board  Oscar A. Kirkham W. O. Robinson 

Franklin S. Harris Homer C. Warner 

John H. Taylor W. Wallace McBride 

Lyman L. Dames Richard L. Evans 

Joseph F. Smith Burton K. Farnsworth 

John D. Giles Floyd G. Eyre 

D. E. Hammond W. Creed Haymond 

Axel A. Madsen M. Elmer Christensen 

Strmgham A. Stevens Philo T. Farnsworth 

J. Spencer Cornwall Harrison R. Merrill 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Y. M. M. I. A. BOARD REORGANIZED 

I overlooked announcing that some weeks ago the General Supermtendency and members of the board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association were honorably released by the Presidency of  Church, and a letter was written to the board requesting that they continue to function until after this conference, when the new superintendency and board would be sustained. 

In retiring they do so with the love, confidence, blessing, good will, and deep gratitude of the First Presidency and members of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. All of you who feel to sustain the release of these men and to give to them our love and blessing in their retiring, will 'manifest it by raising the right hand. 

(The vote was then taken.) 

I can announce, as I have always done in the past, that the voting has been unanimous. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I pray for the blessings of our Heavenly Father while I stand before you this morning. I realize my weaknesses, but I want to assure you, my brethren and sisters, I never cease asking my Heavenly Father for his kindness, his revelations to me, that I may fulfil every requirement made at my hands, affecting his great, cause here upon this earth. 

'GIFTS FROM GOD 

How often I have heard the expression, particularly during the terrible depression we are passing through, that "Life is not worth living or striving for." Think of the many horrible suicides as reported by the press of the country. How many live a lifetime and never think that life is a precious gift from our Heavenly Father. He is the giver of all that makes life worth living. Are we as Latterday Saints appreciative of God's mercies and protecting care from the first appearance of the Father and Son to the boy Joseph Smith? Some are, others are not. Oh Father, assist us all to appreciate these things. 

The surest way to please our Heavenly Father is to put into action the commandments of the Father, and make them a part of our daily life, no matter where we are or with whom we are associated. Never be afraid to let the world, if necessary, know that you are a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have never, to my knowledge, lost the respect of a single person by my unqualified statement that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

STRIVING TOWARD PERFECTION 

Perfection in this life or world is impossible for mortal man, but we must employ every power we possess to reach it as near as possible. 

How often do we hear people rail at what they call fate. It is my opinion that we receive just what we make the proper use of. Let me quote the following: 

Fame, place and title finding a fitting use And rightfully demand all reverence due. But envy not the empty lot of man Who, winning without merit, wins in vain. Greatness, true greatness, mightiness of mind, And greater greatness, grandeur of the soul, Tell but one tale — capacity, not place. Capacity, whose sire, experience, Whose ancestors, innate intelligence, Original, inborn nobility, As oft in hut as mansion have their home. 

The more we strive to accomplish a thing, 'be it right or wrong, the more chance we have of success. This same principle applies to every action in life. 

THE EMPLOYMENT SITUATION 

I have wondered, my brethren and sisters, what is going to be the ultimate outcome of the dreadful conditions existing in the world today, covering nearly every civilized country, drawing from all sources the resources of nations; and I am quite sure that without the assistance of God, the Eternal Father, chaos would be the end. Suffering in the world,— I doubt whether there ever was a time that it was so widespread. 

I noticed in a government report the other day that there are 23,375,000 on relief in our country. That means that one person out of every five in our country is on relief today. This is an increase of 77 per cent, over a year ago. Yet business is at the same level as last April. 

The nation's workers in normal times total 50,000,000. Subtract our present army of 6,000,000 federal state and local government employes, and the 10,000,000 workers who are now jobless, and we havq 34,000,000 working in private industry in all of America— a startling statement, and yet it comes from the Government of the United States and cannot be questioned. 

FOREIGN OBLIGATIONS 

I thought that following the World War our government never would be placed in such a position again, I mean financially. With between eleven and twelve billions of dollars that our government advanced to the foreign countries involved in that war, at the close of the war it was owing $26,187,000,000, a sum unknown to the world before. 

It is true that between eleven and twelve billions of that amount was advanced to the countries involved in that war in which we assisted. I was a member of the committee that made the settlements with all the foreign countries that had received assistance  America during that great catastrophe. The settlements were made upon a basis of their ability to pay : Italy, 17 per cent of what she owed us, and we gave her sixty-two years, as we gave all of the other countries, in which to pay back their obligations to our country. Belgium 40 per cent, England 82]/ 2 per cent,— and I might go along the list, but it was all the way from 17 per cent to S2]/^ per cent, according to the showing that each made to the committee, and the committee used its best judgment in arranging the settlements. 

Of course England and France were the ones that owed the Government of the United States the most, — and the settlement was made upon a basis less than par — France, 51 per cent, England 82 ^ per cent; and then, my brothers and sisters, they were given sixtytwo years to meet these obligations, and yet every one of those countries has failed to carry out the contract! 

OUR FINANCIAL BURDEN 

What other nation in the world would have been so liberal? None, I assure you. The financial burden fell upon us, and it reached a deficit of $26,000,000,000, notwithstanding the heavy taxes imposed during the war period. I was chairman of the Finance Committee and senior member of the Appropriations Committee, — the one to raise the money, the other to expend it; — and that obligation was reduced to $16,000,000,000, at the time the present depression began. 

I am not finding any fault or criticising what has been done, but T want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that our obligations are such now that I, of course, never will live long enough to see them paid, nor will a soul in this congregation. They aimount approximately to $35,000,000,000! 

I know some people speak flippantly of a billion dollars. Do you know what $35,000,000,000 means ? I have been asked so many times, and once in public life I made the statement — at that time our indebtedness had reached $26,000,000,000— that if there were an unknown power who had an unknown receptacle, and that unknown power decided that it would, the very minute the Savior was born, place $26.00 in that unknown receptacle, and had continued to place in it $26.00 every minute from the minute the Savior was' born until the time the settlement was made with the United States, we would have about $26,000,000,000. 

LIVE WITHIN YOUR MEANS 

I do hope and trust that we Latter-day Saints will live up to the instructions that we have heard so often from this, stand, by every President of this Church; that is, to live within our means and keep out of debt. It is a hard thing to do, particularly if we live on the plane that has been set so high, I was going to say, in modern days; but to have peace of mind, happiness within the home, confidence among yourselves, keep out of debt; live within your means; and I know of no people anywhere that can do it so well as the Latter-day Saints, if they will. 

GREAT FAITH DEMONSTRATED 

I have had a great deal of pleasure, my brethren and sisters, in visiting the different stakes of Zion, during the last two years. I doubt whether there ever has been a time when there has been more faith demonstrated by the people of the Church than today, unless, perchance, it was during the early history of the Church, when the Prophet Joseph Smith and those noble men associated with him were called upon to sacrifice more than any other people since the days of the Master. 

My prayer always is, it always shall be if God grants me the desire of my heart, that his people, members of his Church, shall be honorable, honest and upright ) not only with men but with God himself. The plan of the Father is such that his work can be taken care of. There is no such organization in all the world. It was not many years ago when one of the great men of this country made the statement that the two greatest organizations in 'the world were the Mormon Church and the German army. I have thought so many times, — and did the very first time I heard it, — one for the salvation of the children of God, the other for the destruction of life and liberty. How proud we should be that we are members of God's Church. 

SUSTAIN THE PRESIDENCY 

Brethren and sisters, may I ask of you that you support the Presidency of this Church. I testify to you that they are men of God. I know that they are true to the Church, that they would sacrifice, if necessary, their very lives for its existence. Other men have done this, and there never will be a time when that will not be the case. God grant that it may never become 'necessary. 

I know that I echo your thoughts and your feelings and your prayers when I say to this audience, and all who may be listening in, let us uphold the hands of the Presidency of the Church, pray for them and sustain them and be with them; and also men holding responsible positions in the stakes of Zion, in the wards, in the branches and in the mission field. 

May God's blessings ever attend his work and may it increase in power for good in the world. With these expressions, my brethren and sisters, I pray that God's blessings may ever be yours, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I think the music we have heard by our Hawaiian brethren and sisters has been very beautiful. It came from the heart, and  how these people respond to the truth as expressed in our sacred hymns. You realize, my brethren and sisters, that these people of the Hawaiian Islands are of the blood of Israel. These islands were discovered in 1778 by Captain James Cook, who has left a remarkable description of them in his Journal which has been printed in seven volumes. Although the old British sea-captain, one of the greatest explorers of all history, was killed by the natives of the islands, he ascribes to them, nevertheless, fine qualities and noble beliefs. He writes on one occasion : 

I have never met with a behaviour so free from reserve and suspicion in my intercourse with any tribes of s-avages, as we experienced in the people of this island. It was- very common for them to send up into the ship several articles they brought off for barter; afterward they would come ini themselves, and make their bargains on the quarter-deck. 

In the early part of the nineteenth century, Christian missionaries went among the Hawaiians, and it was not long before the old pagan religions were overthrown, and the people readily embraced Christianity. Their ancient folk-lore and traditions suggest deep and fundamental beliefs of the Israelites of ages ago. One tradition tells of a young chief who was taken to the land of his fathers, but one day coming back from the clouds, he warned his people to wage war no longer, but to live in peace and to cleanse their thoughts and bodies by going into the river. Then they should know if they are clean. After giving the message, the young chief floated off "to the land of departed souls." 

It does our hearts good to see you, our good brothers and sisters from far-off Hawaii, and I believe that you will do a great work among your native people in having them see the restored Gospel of our Savior. 

The Prophet Jeremiah wrote on one occasion : 

Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls. 

We are all agreed, from what we have heard in the conference, that what we need today are simpler manners and purer ways of living. The only salvation for this nation is the putting away of idolatry, and the bringing about of the revival of faith in the true and living God. 

It is written in the 19th Chapter of I Kings : 

And, behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks before the Lord; but the Lord was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but the Lord was not in the earthquake: 

And after the earthquake a fire; but the Lord was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice. 

We are losing, in the world, the still small voice that every child of God is naturally blessed with. Today in the world's chaotic condition we are confronted with many problems, the greatest of which is how to teach the youth. The crying need of the hour is that youth be taught that life has a meaning, and a meaning for good. Life is nothing without the supreme faith in goodness and truth, inspired with a faith in Almighty God. 

The three institutions of civilization that are responsible for the education of the youth are the home, the school and the Church. The home must always be the main source of education for the youth. Count Tolstoi, the Russian writer, once wrote, "Where love is, God is also." In every home, love must abound, and the obtaining of the Spirit of God must be the first aim of parents and children. We sneer at times gone by. We speak unkindly of the good old Puritans and Quakers who came to America centuries ago to find religious freedom. There may have beenrnuch iron in the Puritan temper, but their homes had a foundation, and the virile virtues were in those homes. As for the schools, colleges, and universities of our land, I sometimes think that too much attention is given to facts and formulas at the expense of the greater fundamentals of truth. It was Henry Van Dyke who once said that we often learn facts, but miss the truth. After all, the fundamental of all knowledge is expressed in the Book of Moses, of the Pearl of Great Price. The prophet of old is led to say: 

And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof, even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words. 

For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. 

The Prophet Jeremiah must have referred to some very fundamental truths of life when he wrote : "Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths." He may have been speaking to the youth of his day and calling their attention to the moral and spiritual values that are to be first sought after in life. One thing is certain, he would emphasize the teachings of the divine leader Moses as found in the immortal Ten Commandments, which truths are as important today as they have ever been in human history. Think of the divine injunction : "Thou shalt have no other Gods before me." Are we as teachers substituting for the Father of us all, and his Only Begotten Son, teachings that are not leading us to God? I ask this question in all candor. Is the world coming to worship the god of ambition, the god of war, the god of gold? Children and youth today, as they have always been, are precious in the sight of God. Can they be led to anything of richer spiritual value than the proper observance of the Sabbath day, to keep it holy and sacred? The laws of ancient Israel taught that it is wrong to steal, wrong to bear false witness against our neighbor. Are not these truths the deep and underlying principles of living? They are. The youth of today needs them as much as any other time in all history. Such truths 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 61 

He at the root of all good government — both religiously and politically. 

Then there are the ethical teachings of Jesus Christ our Lord, as embodied in the Sermon on the Mount. The sayings of the Master rise to the greatest heights of all teachings : 

And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain; and when he was set, his disciples came unto him: 

And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying, 

Blessed are the poor in spirit: for their's is the kingdom of heaven. 

Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted. 

Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth. 

Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled. 

Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy. 

Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God. 

Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of 

God. 

. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for their's is the kingdom of heaven. 

Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and .shall &ay all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. 

Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: tor so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. 

The greatest sermon ever given is the Sermon on the Mount, and among the many things Jesus tells us is that we are to be pure in heart, then shall we see God; and not only see God, but we shall live and understand life in its beauty and in its true meaning. 

What the world needs is the purifying thought that we lay deeper foundations for learning than we have ever done before. I remember at Harvard College in one of the classes in philosophy the old philosopher, William James, said one morning: 

Neither laurels nor monuments, neither battleships nor public libraries, nor great newspapers nor universities can save us from degeneration if the inner mystery be lost. 

Are we losing the inner mystery, the inner mystery that tells the boy and girl that there are things belonging to the creations of God that they can only understand by faith in him? Paul gave us this admonition in his words when he said to the Philippians : 

Whatsoever _ things- are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely . . . think on these things. 

In that lovely story of Tom Brown's school days, which possibly you have read, you remember what old Squire Brown said when his son went up to college at Rugby: 

I do not care a straw for Greek particles, or the diagamma. If he will only turn out a brave, helpful, truth-telling Englishman, and a Christian, that's all I want. 

On the old library at Columbia University are these words chiselled above the main entrance: "Maintained and cherished from generation to generation for the advancement of the public good, and the glory of Almighty God." 

These words reminded me that years ago there were in the University of Utah and in the Brigham Young University some great educators, just as there are noble educators today in the same institutions, and the same may be said of the Agricultural College at Logan. I come to this question of teaching because we have had great men in this state as educators who understood the youth, and who taught that knowledge should be conducive to a knowledge of God and an understanding of greater faith in him and in life. John R. Park, who was, in a sense, the father of the University of Utah and Karl G. Maeser of the Brigham Young University directed the lives of the youth for years, and no greater teachers ever lived. It was Dr. Maeser who once said: "You can teach the multiplication table with the Spirit of God." There was William M. Stewart who understood the little child, and knew above all things his nature, and the beauty of his character and soul. There was George H. Brimhall, an ideal teacher. I could name many other men who knew the dreams of youth and who understood them. 

There have been great educators in all America. I think no greater educator ever lived than William James of Harvard, who used to say to us that after all knowledge is but opening up the great mystery of life, that we may know that something still greater lies beyond. 

There is a story told that a small company of boys had infringed the rules of the University when Dr. John R. Park was president. Realizing their misdemeanor they went to the office of the president and told him all about it. The face of the old gentleman and the scholar filled with an expression of deep pleasure at their honesty. The smile went from his mouth and his eyes filled with tears as he thanked the boys for their courtesy in coming to him. So all great teachers— and we are all teachers — every brother and sister in this congregation is a teacher — direct their students first to religious and moral principles, secondly to gentlemanly conduct, and the intellectual ability. The chief end of all teaching is to make the youth love the truth for truth's sake, and the principle of right because it is right. 

"We the truthful," was a noble saying of the Greek aristocracy, which remains to this day. As teachers we must go forth to teach. The Priesthood of God is a great band of teachers. You missionaries are teachers. We must bring the students to the ideal that there is such a thing as moral health "as beautiful and desirable as health of body; and that a sign of it is perfect truthfulness, sincerity, kindness, helpfulness, self-control, courage, and the fulfilment of duty." Then life's meaning will be clear and their days will be spent in joy and in peace. 

The good old days remain with us, for what was right once always remains right; what was the truth once always remains truth. We learn about Abraham Lincoln, of the battles that were fought during the Civil War, the things that were done in a political and social way; but let us direct our boys and girls in our history courses — in all of our work — to the great fundamental ideal of life and the men who exemplify it in our time. 

Abraham Lincoln issued a Thanksgiving Day proclamation, and in this he stressed his sublime faith in God. I read a part of this proclamation : 

Proclamation of a National Fast-Day, August 12, 1861 ABRAHAM LINCOLN 

. . . Whereas it is fit and becoming in all people at all times, to acknowledge and revere the supreme government of God; to bow in humble submission to his chastisements, to confess and deplore their sins and transgressions, in the full conviction that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; and to pray with all fervency and contrition for the pardon of their past offenses, and for a blessing upon their present and prospective action: 

And whereas when our own beloved country, once, by the blessing of God, united, prosperous, and happy, is now afflicted with faction and civil war, it is peculiarly fit for us to recognize the hand of God in this terrible visitation, and in sorrowful remembrance of our own faulits and crimes as- a nation and as individuals, to humble ourselves before him and to pray for his mercy — to pray that we be spared further punishment, though most justly deserved; that our arms may be blessed and made effectual for the reestablishment of law, order, and peace throughout the wide extent of our country; and that the inestimable boon of civil and religious liberty, earned under his guidance and blessing by the labors and blessings of our fathers may be restored in all its original excellence, 

I do earnestly recommend to all people, and especially to all ministers and teachers of religion, and all heads of families, to observe and keep that day . _ . . in all humility and with all religious solemnity, to the end that the united prayer of the nation may ascend to the Throne of Grace, and bring down plentiful blessings upon our country. 

Signed: ABRAHAM LINCOLN. 

America needs today a youth that is disciplined, who has self-respect and powers for productive service. The world needs a youth possessed of the highest standards of intellectual morality. We need teachers who are learned, and in whom there is a balance of faculties and a deep sympathy: men and women full of power and warm and true of heart, men of deep devotion and self-forgetfulness. Jesus emphasized the blessed truth that the pure in heart should see God. They shall comprehend all truth. The Ten Commandments, the Sermon on the Mount, with the underlying faith in his gift of salvation, are the greatest precepts for the youth of today to learn. And now for us all, let us be comforted in the beautiful words from Leviticus: 

If ye walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do themlhen will I give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit And your threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage shall reach unto the sowing time: and ye shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely. 

And I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid: and I will rid evil beasts out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land. 

May the Lord help us to understand these lovely and divine truths. May he give us the, light and power to help the youth to see them, this glorious youth, whose problems are many and whose questions are deep. May the spirit of the love of Christ abound in our hearts for all mankind, I ask in his name. Amen. 

An anthem, "Lord, What is Man ?" was sung by the Manti Choir, duet by V era Keller and Thera Lou Olson. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 

President of the Council of the Tzvelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I have been thrilled with the proceedings of this conference. The Lord bless President Grant and those brethren who have already spoken, for the good things they have said to us; and the Lord bless those who will follow for the good things that they will speak to us, because we know if they do speak it will be the truth. 

The Lord bless the Manti choir for the very fine singing they have contributed to this general conference. It is praiseworthy and most fitting. 

The Lord bless the small group of Hawaiians who have come a long distance to meet with us, who are listening attentively to what is being said. The Lord bless them also for their sweet singing. 

The Lord bless the Singing Mothers who have sung so beautifully for us. At times they might easily be mistaken for the Tabernacle Choir. The Lord bless them because they are not only good singers but they are "singing mothers." The Lord bless other mothers, if only they are mothers. And may the Lord bless! the "singing fathers," if they can be found. I am sure there are many of them among the Latter-day Saints. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF MOTHERHOOD AND FATHERHOOD 

The women of our faith are doing a wonderful work in the Relief Society and in the Young Ladies' organization. It is marvelous, the things that they are accomplishing, but let me tell you the greatest achievement, one of the greatest, at least, if not the greatest achievement that ever comes to a woman in this life is to become a mother in Israel. That- is a noble, a most sacred and great achievement. And no greater work ever comes to a father than to become a father in Israel. It is said that one mother rather disparaged her husband before their son Willie. Willie said to his mother. "Mother,  you will give me ten cents I will be good," and the mother said : "Now, Willie, why can't you be like your father. He isn't good for ten cents. He is good for nothing." As to the fathers, well, they had better hang around, because if there were no fathers there wouldn't be any mothers, and if there were no mothers there wouldn't be any fathers. The Lord in heaven arranged it so. 

THE MYSTERY AND PURPOSE OF LIFE 

We have heard some significant references at this conference to the mystery of life, and certainly there is a mystery and a purpose in life. But let me tell you, the great scientists of the world, the great philosophers of the world and the greatest teachers of the world have not as yet discovered the mystery of life. They are reaching out for it but they haven't yet found it. 

Now, it might be thought that I am a little presumptuous if I should say the Latter-day Saints have actually discovered the very purpose of life but I do say it and my assertion is true. "Well," says one, "how imay that have been possible? What is the purpose of life?" Let me point it out to you briefly, but before I do so I would like to read to you a few words by a writer who is reputed to be something of a philosopher. His name is Anatole France and this excerpt is taken from a work entitled : "Conversations with Anatole France," a French writer. 

OPINIONS OF A FRENCH WRITER 

"And what of the joys of the intellect?" said I. "Ah, the intellect again, always the intellect. But it is just that — the intellect, the mind — that gives us the measure of the nullity of others, and of ourselves. What joy have you in mind? The comf orting thought that we know not whence we come nor whither we are going, that life, which is a state of 'slavery, an insoluble enigma, is also the most pitiable, the most unstable and the most transient of all the things whereof we have cognizance? The bewildering thought that we inhabit aitiny drop in the great stream of the Milky Way which is certainly but an insignificant rivulet of the Cosmos, that we shall disappear in a moment and the whole human race with us, to be followed by the other planetary and stellar processions which, if they linger a little longer, will inevitably perish in their turn ?" 

WHEN THE ALMIGHTY SPEAKS 

My brethren and sisters, you cannot get one word of comfort from these words. It is a most discouraging and gloomy picture of life. But then on the other hand we know something of the purpose of life; especially is it so when the Almighty Father speaks through the scriptures and by revelation and gives us the word. The great men of the earth, if only they would turn to the scriptures and open their hearts and exercise faith in a spirit of humility and ask the Lord about the purpose of life, he would tell them, as he has told the Latter-day Saints. 

We have learned that in the life of man there are three estates, and that the first was our preexistent estate which was wholly spiritual; that the second estate is the spiritual and temporal, or mortal, combined; and that'the third estate is the glorification of the spiritual and the temporal through the resurrection. There you have it briefly. A careful inquiry into these three estates will discover the secret of life which has baffled humanity during long centuries of the past. 

THE FIRST ESTATE 

In the preexistent estate we lived and learned much, no doubt, and were therefore endowed with great intelligence, but it appears there was something lacking and that something was a mortal body. The body could be secured only by those who passed into the second estate, which is quite clearly described in general terms in the scriptures and revelations of God to men. In the Pearl of Great Price these significant words will be found: , (Book' of Abraham, Chapter 3, verses 24 to 26 inclusive.) 

And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; 

And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with these who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever. 

IN THE SECOND ESTATE A LIVING SOUL 

That man might properly be introduced into this second estate of his wonderful experience "God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and' let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over al \, e ?? h ' and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. (Genesis Chapter 1, Verse 26.) 

In the first estate man was a living spirit; in the second estate he became a living soul for there was added to his spirit a mortal body. By the combination of spirit and body, or in other words -spirit and element, man may attain to a fulness of joy The exact language of the revelation is found in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 93, verses 33, 34 and 35, as follows : 

For man is spirit The elements are eternal, and spirit and element insenarablv connected, receive a fulness of joy; cicmcm, inseparaDly 

And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea man is tfip t,h Pr m,i „t rv, i temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, <g t^t^^t^**™ 

It is evident that the second estate is a time for the testing of the souls of men wherein those who live righteous lives, obeying the commandments of God, will receive a fulness of joy that will come to them in the resurrection from the grave. 

THOSE WHO KEPT NOT THEIR FIRST ESTATE 

"And they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate" or shall not have mortal bodies. 

There was, a large number of that class of spirits who followed Lucifer in the great war of rebellion in heaven described in the scriptures, Book of Revelation, Chapter 12, verses 7 to 9 inclusive : 

And there was war in heaven; Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels, 

And prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven. 

And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world : he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. 

These wicked rebellious spirits were cast out of heaven into the earth and became the devil and his angels. Their punishment, we learn from the writings of Joseph Smith the Prophet, was that they were denied the privilege of having bodies, or in other words, they failed to keep their first estate and missed the great and important blessing of being added upon. Their punishment is great; their disappointment must have been keen. 

MORTALITY A BLESSED PRIVILEGE 

In what I have already said we begin to see the purpose of life. Were it not for mortality on the earth in this second estate we would have continued in spirit form as we were in our first estate. But now, we are told in the Book of Genesis, that man is in the image of God, is made like him with this difference, that God is a glorified being, a glorified man. I know there are some people in the world at large who might regard this statement as blasphemy, but it is the truth, nevertheless, and is published in the Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 6, Verse 57 : 

Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere.^ must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the meridian of time. 

By reason of these estates the human family is passing through, they may attain by righteousness, to exaltation and glory in the kingdom of God. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF MARRIAGE 

In connection with the experience gained upon the earth in mortality comes the glorious principle of marriage, which is of the utmost importance to our present and future welfare. It is highly essential that every young man and every young woman in the Church should look carefully into this matter with a prayerful spirit before taking upon himself or upon herself the responsibility of marriage. TWO KINDS OF MARRIAGE 

There are two kinds of marriage, the civil marriage and the Temple marriage. Is the civil marriage a good marriage ? Yes, it is a good marriage, a legal marriage. It is good as far as it goes. It is a bond however that has no force or virtue after death. 

The Temple marriage is different. When a couple is united by the ordinance of God's house they are married for time and all eternity, and thus is perpetuated the great principle of fatherhood and motherhood, as already mentioned. Oh, how, very important is this matter! Young men in Israel be careful, young women be careful. In seeking this blessing be sure to get the best there is. The best is what God offers, and not what is given by man. 

I testify to you, in all humility, that this is the Church of the Redeemer, and that Joseph Smith was his prophet; that Christ died for the sins of the world, that we might arise from this fallen condition that we are in; that we might be redeemed and brought back into the presence of God, in which event we will have solved the problem of life. 

God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER DON B. COLTON 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

While it is sometimes difficult, it is always an honor to represent one of the great missions of the Church. I carry that feeling this morning in speaking in behalf of the Eastern States Mission. You know it is one of the most populous missions in the Church and we have all kinds and classes of people living within that great mission. We see the rich and the poor and all grades— I was going to say— of humanity. It is therefore an inspiring thought that the Gospel of Jesus Christ does answer the problems of life for all classes of people. 

I have rejoiced in the words of this conference. I have rejoiced in the fine teachings and especially in the spirit of the conference, and feel as you I am sure feel that those who come with a spirit and desire to worship are greatly inspired and impressed 

Not long ago in one of the cities of the East a well informed and well educated man attended our services. At the close of the service he said : "You need not speak to me of your religion from the standpoint of the scriptures, I have been studying it long and I am sure it agrees with the teachings of the Savior as recorded m the Bible. I believe in the principles of the Gospel as you teach them, but I want to know, and I am seeking to find a religion that will answer some of the practical problems of life 1 want to know how we can meet this great inequality that exists in the economic world, where some are rich and some are poor Does the religion you teach answer that question?" 

I was glad to answer "yes." Though it may sound presump, God has revealed in this day the answer to the problems of life that are so distressing in this world today. I have thought somewhat to gather accurate statistics, and have found it somewhat difficult. But one government statistician wrote me a letter not long ago and said it was a safe estimate to say that a billion and a quarter dollars are spent in this country every year for tobacco, that that is the cost to the ultimate consumer. He said it was perhaps safe to say that an equal amount is spent for liquor. He would not venture an estimate on the cost of tea and coffee, but he did say to me that if all of the cost of the things that are forbidden in our Word of Wisdom could be accurately ascertained he was sure that it would exceed more than four billion dollars a year. That is the amount estimated now by the government as necessary to place on the payrolls 3,500,000 men. 

If we could save to the people of the United States and to this Church the amount of money that is expended for the things that are forbidden by the word of God we would go a long way toward solving the question of unemployment. Moreover, we hear a good deal said of the "share the wealth" programs of the world. Do you know that that is basic in the financial policy of this Church? Our financial laws are made upon ability to pay, and if we honestly paid even our tithing we would have more than sufficient to take care of the wants of the people, and there would not be great inequality in the wealth of the world. God has revealed a just and workable plan that would distribute properly, if the laws are lived, the wealth of the world. Indeed he has asked us to consecrate even the surplus of our property unto the work of the Lord. 

When I had explained these laws together with the law of Fast offerings, this man said: "Why don't you preach that to us? Human hearts are yearning today for a message that you say is inherent in vour Gospel." 

Then he said: "What of the crime, and the sin and misery 

in the world?" 

To that also we give an answer. It has been referred to here this morning. We believe that the basic unit of civilization is the home; that it should be commenced in the most sacred places in the world— homes of prayer, homes of love, homes of unity, homes that are united and cemented under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, and the children coming into the world under influences of that kind have a much better opportunity and better start in life. 

Our parents teach their children to live honorable and upright lives, for "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men. ... If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." 

In a home life of that kind children are started properly. 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sometimes it is true they depart therefrom, but the law of averages teaches us that children brought up under the influence of a Latter-day Saint home are much more apt to walk in the paths of righteousness throughout life than otherwise. And then as soon as they are old enough they attend our auxiliary organizations, our Sunday Schools, Primaries, Seminaries, Religion Classes and Mutual Improvement Associations— all these are helps in government, to save the souls of the children of men, to bring them to a higher and deeper appreciation of the religion of our Master, Jesus Christ. Therein Ave have a solution and answer to the question, How shall we improve the morals and avoid the sins of the world? 

The answer is, by starting the home life properly, by jrivme attention to the ideals of the home, and living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, with all these other helps in government, to brino- us nearer to the ideals of a perfect life. & 

Again my friend said: "Why don't you teach us that?" 

t u S ? ld : I' 1 . wlsh 1 could ' 1 could P^ture to you the life of a Latter-day Saint. I could picture to you the life of a mother in this Church, and I could give to you the hopes and ideals and ambitions that are implanted in the hearts of the boys and girls of this Church by reason of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, by pointing toward the great ideal of all-the life, and the light, and the way, even Jesus Christ." b 

. And last of all we teach them faith in a living God, faith in a just and merciful Father, that this life is but a preparation for 

o t& r s ' V 1 V* t0 i C r C ' and that under the inspiration of the Spirit of our Heavenly Father we shall go on to perfection. 

Blind unbelief is sure to err And scan his works in vain; God is his own interpreter, And he will make it plain. ' 

Chr^TrFi? tT so ^ nd . P^sumptuous, in the Gospel of Jesus Cnnst ln lts philosophy, is the answer to the problems of life 

Of J OS ner^ derSt00d f" ^ ? W ^ back to ^ paths 

of prosperity peace, love, and unity and a recognition of the 

great eternal Fatherhood of God. In their humble" way tte misTsZ'etntt ^t™ S i ateS , Mission are to^ake that 

message to the world, and m humility I add thit morning my 

osolv ofrTV^ 1 kn ° W this W °" k is of God > a » d ^philosophy of Jesus Christ answers well the problems of life Mav 

he give us all that testimony and lead us evei to his praise I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. P ' 

Manti Choir 7113 " 1 " W * A "' G ° d,; ' * SaCred anthem > was SU "S by the 


