Afternoon
05 04 1935

The second session of the Conference commenced at 2 o'clock, Friday afternoon, April 5. 

The Relief Society Singing Mothers furnished the music for this meeting. 

The congregation joined with the Relief Society Singing Mothers in singing the hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." 

Elder Richard C. May, President of the Minidoka Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

An anthem, "The heavens are telling," was sung by the Relief Society Singing Mothers. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I desire to speak on "Orthodoxy" or more definitely on the subject, "Being Orthodox." 

I am led to believe that this subject is timely and of some general importance by many expressions which have reached me, coming from both young and mature people in the Church, which seem to indicate that there is something of an aversion to being considered orthodox. Not infrequently does one hear it said, "Yes, I am a member of the Church. I think it is all right, but I don't pretend to be orthodox." 

TRUE DEFINITION OF ORTHODOXY 

The manner of making such a statement, or others like it, usually carries the implication that the one who takes this position regards being  as something of a stigma or blot on his intelligence. He seems to think that orthodoxy is opposed to broadmindedness and indicates contraction of view. From the technical definition of the word, of course, this interpretation is erroneous. Orthodox means, "correct or sound in doctrine; holding the commonly accepted faith." 

I am not, however, particularly concerned with the technical misinterpretation in the use of the term, — what interests me, and I believe it to be important, is the attitude on the part of members of our Church which prompts them to seemingly take some pride in the assertion that they do not hold to the "commonly accepted faith." 

CLEAR THINKING NECESSARY 

I can not help believing that much of this attitude results from misconception of Church doctrine and illogical thinking in consequence thereof. I feel sure that many who express skepticism are not really as, skeptical as their talk would indicate, and that some who think themselves skeptical could easily remove their doubt by a little clear thinking. There is something else that both parties need which I will mention later. 

Now what is requisite to be "correct and sound in the doctrine" of our Church ? To what must we subscribe ?! In answer to this question I might, with propriety, quote the thirteen Articles of our Faith, which have stood as our guide for such a long period of time and which are so comprehensive and enlightening. But I am not going to do this. 1 am going to try to simplify and condense the answer. The answer I propose is this : Accept Christ and Joseph Smith. I mean, of course to accept the Savior for what he said he was, and likewise to accept Joseph Smith for what he said he was. If we can really do this, our doctrine will be orthodox. 

INTELLIGENT BELIEF CONSISTENT 

One can not accept the Divine Sonship of Jesus Christ without acknowledging the Eternal Fatherhood of God — nor the Father and the Son as revealed, without the Holy Ghost. There is certainly no consistency in accepting Christ as Lord, without accepting the whole of his Gospel as divine. I have never been able to understand how intelligent, educated men could reconcile the logic or illogic of accepting the authenticity of that portion of the record of the Savior which sets forth his incomparable teachings and philosophy, and at the same time, deny the correctness of the same record which proclaims his Divine Sonship and Lordship. What justification is there for credence in a part of the record and not all of it; or believing some of the things the Master said and not all that he said? I admit that it may be easier, in that it requires less faith, to accept some parts, rather than other parts, but from the standpoint of the authenticity and validity of the record itself, which is admittedly the source from which we obtain our knowledge and information of the Christ, how can one part be true without all being true? To that question I have never been able to discover a satisfactory answer. 

Then too, the part of the record which the so-called higher critics and some of our skeptical friends would discredit, while accepting other parts, is the most important and surely the most vital thing connected with the Redeemer's work and message. 

TRUTH A REQUISITE 

Was he what he said he was? I think all thoughtful persons must agree that the significance of his Lordship is infinitely greater than the ethics of his teachings. Of course, it is easier to believe in the Golden Rule than in the virgin birth or the transfiguration. We can understand the one far better than the other. It takes faith to accept the things we do not understand. Perhaps on that very account, they are of more importance and lasting benefit to us, because they require and develop faith which is the very genius and essence of the Savior's life, work and mission. No student of the scriptures, I believe, will deny that. 

Perhaps it will not be too much of a digression from the theme to ask the question at this point : Why is it so difficult to accept things on faith ? I think I can suggest an answer. It is because we are so conceited. Men of the world are in the world only because they adopt the philosophy of the world which is the philosophy of self sufficiency. It is not a humble philosophy — it is highly egotistical. It makes men themselves the arbiters of all things. They look to no higher source than themselves for the solution of all questions. 

Such a philosophy is diametrically opposed to the philosophy of Christ which is that of faith. When men adopt his philosophy they are humble — they acknowledge an intelligence far superior to their own and they seek guidance and wisdom from that source. When they adopt the philosophy of faith, they come out of the world, for the world, as a term in theology is not a place but a condition or state of mind and feeling. It requires courage to come out of the world and adopt the philosophy of faith. Sometimes it subjects one to ridicule and the contempt of friends which are harder for most men to endure than physical pain; but because a thing is hard to do or hard to believe is no assurance that it is not right. 

NOT HARD TO HAVE FAITH 

I am one, however, who believes that it is not so hard for most people to have faith and accept spiritual realities if they will but let their minds and their native inclinations pursue their natural bent. I think that altogether too often we permit thinking complexes and sophisticated reasoning to warp our intuitive judgment and entrammel the spontaneous feelings and emotions of our souls. So, when I prescribe the acceptance of Christ as a condition of orthodoxy, I mean an acceptance without reservation — a whole souled, intelligent, joyous ac of him that proclaims him, Lord, Savior, Redeemer and Mediator with the Father and lays claim on his mercy, his grace and his love for all the finer things we know in life. What hope — what peace and satisfaction such a full acceptance of the Christ brings to the heart of man, only those who have received a testimony of Jesus will ever know. 

ACCEPTANCE OF JOSEPH SMITH 

Now the next thing is to accept Joseph Smith — to believe in him as a prophet and ordained servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. Many of the things which have been said about the Savior, apply with equal force to the Prophet. The record which he left is more full, more recent and far more susceptible of verification than the early Gospels. Many have assailed the record but no one has ever succeeded in discrediting it. Many thousands to whom the record has come have not believed it but the thousands who have believed have furnished in their lives and work verification and support which thoughtful observers can not ignore. 

The Prophet's own story requires faith for its acceptance as does the account of the Savior. It deals with unusual and supernatural experiences which relatively few have ever enjoyed but which no one has ever had the actual knowledge to deny. 

LAME ATTEMPTS 

I have known a few people and I have heard of others who attempt to explain the extraordinary manifestations to the Prophet in ways other than he accounted for them. I have always felt that such attempted explanations were lame, unwarranted and pure conjecture, and sometimes conspicuously anomalous because, while attempting to explain away the phenomena of the divine manifestations to the Prophet, an effort is made to uphold the validity of his teachings and doctrine. 

There are a few who assert that it is immaterial whether or not the Prophet's account of himself is true, and sufficient to know that the organization which he initiated and the doctrines he taught are salutary and helpful. Some go so far as to indicate that they would prefer to pass over the miraculous story of the Prophet Joseph and repose their faith and confidence in Brigham Young, his leadership and accomplishments. These are some of the views held by those who are counted unorthodox. 

_ The views certainly are not orthodox and I think they are not logical nor consistent. I lay it down as fundamental that the vitality and validity of the work of our Church stands or falls with the verity of Joseph Smith's own story. 

RIGHT OF SUCCESSION 

Wjhat would be the efficacy of our priesthood, had he not received the divine bestowal as he said? What of all the ordinances, the ceremonies, the work of our temples if the source is impugned? Brigham Young freely acknowledged that not only his authority but the doctrines which he taught and the genius of the organization which he carried forward all came to him from and through the Prophet. The man who stands at our head today is where he is only because he comes in rightful succession from the Prophet and exercises the authority handed down to him from that source. 

FUNDAMENTALS UNCHANGED 

It is true that the Church has developed some new methods and organizations since the days of the Prophet but there is nothing fundamentally essential in doctrine or organization which we have today that was not given to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I am sure it is not necessary to mention further reasons why it is absolutely necessary to accept the Prophet Joseph Smith, his testimony and his work as a condition to full fellowship in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; nor do I expect that I shall encounter any considerable disagreement with what I have heretofore said. I believe the conclusions which I have stated are not susceptible of successful contradiction. In fact they may seem so obvious as scarcely to warrant any discussion. 

INDIFFERENT AND CRITICAL MEMBERS 

There is another phase of this subject which is not so obvious and on which I wish to make a few suggestions. I believe tha\t there are many people in the Church, who, deep down in their hearts, have a conviction of the divinity of the Church and its work, but, for one reason and another, seldom, if ever, acknowledge this conviction, even to themselves. In many cases, such people have come from Latter-day Saint homes and have had early training in the organizations of the Church. Then they have become inactive and finally indifferent or critical. Most of this class still claim membership or at least admit membership but they acknowledge that they are not orthodox and seem rather proud of it. 

I wish I could help them analyze their own condition because I believe if they would take the trouble to do that, it would be the first step toward a new and happier life for them. I have a feeling that most of the class which I have just described are not entirely happy and contented with their hike warm, partial allegiance to the Church, especially at such times as they may seriously ponder the matter. They realize without my telling them that their position is inconsistent with any logical deduction they can make. They know that the challenge of the Gospel is such that it means everything to one who embraces it, if it means anything at all. If they are parents, they are often very pleased to have their children receive the benefits of Church training. They are concerned for the welfare of their children and they know that the influence of the Church is good. Why is it then, that they  not or can not call back into full force their testimony of the truth, enjoy the companionship of the Holy Spirit and rejoice in the associations of the Church ? 

I am not sure that I can answer this question for many, but I am sure that each can answer for himself, if he will but frankly look into his own life, feelings and conduct. I think I can promise to each that if he will scrutinize himself as critically as he does the authorities and the procedure of the Church he will discover the reasons which underly his own disaffection. This is not so easy to do and not nearly so interesting as it is to criticize others. One seldom has company when he is analyzing himself and the conversation he carries on with himself is never very scintillating. The parties to the conversation, — he and himself, know all the facts and they have to be so brutally frank that, sometimes it is really painful to listen in. But when the conversation centers about others with sympathetic company it isn't necessary to have more than a mere smattering of the facts to make a colorful, interesting story. 

DISPOSITION TO CRITICIZE 

Now I'm not complaining that the authorities and policies of the Church are subjected to criticism. If the criticism were constructive and if it could reach those who could remedy defects when they are shown, it might be very profitable. It is my desire, not so much to save the Church from criticism as to save the critics from themselves. I know without being told that the men who administer the affairs of the Church in both general and local capacity are men with human frailties and. imperfect wisdom and judgment. I know too that they are humble men and that they diligently and prayerfully seek to give to the service of their fellows the best that is within them. There may be a few exceptions but they are very rare, indeed. With such a disposition manifest in our leaders and officers, surely it is not going too far to ask /for forbearance of judgment and kindly, tolerant consideration and particularly a full investigation of the facts before adverse criticism is either entertained or uttered. I believe that if we could once and for all abandon the practice of long range, ill considered, intemperate criticism, thousands of people would save themselves, their faith and others; — and relatively few in this Church would regard themselves or be regarded as unorthodox. 

TRUE WORSHIP OVERCOMES CRITICISM 

Worship is an essential part of religion. Who can go to a place of worship and enjoy the sanctifying, refreshing_ influence which comes from prayer, songs of praise, communion with the Saints and the lovely spirit which pervades a reverential assembly, if his mind is filled with critical thoughts. In fact, when he is in such a condition he does not enjoy worship and he ceases to attend the meetings of the Church. It is surprising how rapidly disintegration of faith sets in. Skepticism and doubt follow and sometimes apostasy, but more often indifference. 

I wish I could say something to check those who are on the road to indifference, and I wish I could call those who have already gone far astray back to the faith and the fold of the Church. I recognize that my words, however deep my feelings may be, can do but little and that each must do the things that are necessary for himself. I do want to hold out encouragement, however. I can give positive assurance that everyone whose spiritual progress is being retarded by critical thoughts, doubt and skepticism can remove the obstacles if he but has the will to do it. I can likewise give assurance that anyone who will make this effort will be amply and richly rewarded all the days of his life. 

A PLEA TO THE INDIFFERENT 

We need the services of the able men and women in this Church who regard themselves as being unorthodox. Some of them are among the brightest and most capable people that we have in the Church and many are of excellent character. Not a few are in the professional and business world and have permitted their vocations to so completely occupy their time and attention that they have neglected their opportunities and duties in the Church,— in consequence of which, they find their affection to the great cause has waned and their faith has declined. 

Come back, you lawyers, doctors and men of affairs— we. need you and you need us. Your faith is not dead, it is but sleeping. You know that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and you know that Joseph Smith is a prophet. That knowledge was given to you to bring you joy and faith. It will condemn you and bring you misery if you do not heed it. I plead with you, my dear brethren and sisters, who are not in this conference today, who are seldom in any meeting of the Church if m any way my words shall reach you, come back to those who love you. You will find open arms to receive you. You are not ostracized because you have departed from the straight path of duty— you belon°to a Church which is the Church of Christ, with the Christian virtues of mercy, forgiveness and tolerance. Many of you have entered the new and everlasting covenant— that great compact with God, our Eternal father, as first party, and all of us, his children as second parties by virtue of which you are to receive blessings and joys that pass 'the understanding m return for keeping his commandments. Do not forfeit your rights— they are much too important to you and your loved ones. You can not afford to set an unworthy example— your children will see it— other men's children will be influenced by it— it will fill you with remorse to know that you have led one soul astray. 

. , 1 need not remind y° u of all that you should do, your hearts will guide you if you will but consult them. If you are not ashamed of the Gospel, criticism and doubt will leave you,— faith and love will take their place. You will bless humanity and God will bless you 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

As some of you know, I have been absent for a short time from the city, and I am very glad and happy to come back. I am glad that I came back "right end to," because I have been in doubt and a good deal of uncertainty about what they call life. 

I am not disposed to talk about death — to me it is a gruesome subject; I am willing to try to encourage the other fellow, but I cannot get much happiness out of it for myself. 

I stand before you Latter-day Saint people, not knowing why I should be fearful, or doubtful, or uncertain. In April — this conference time — I have been in the First Council of the Seventy for forty-two years, and I have stood in this Tabernacle from time to time during those long years and have failed in attending but very few conferences. 

You may think that what I am going to say is personal, but I am given to talking about personal things. Brother Claude Richards wrote a book in which he assembled together forty talks that I have made in this Tabernacle under the direction of the brethren of the Authorities. Of course, those talks were approved or they would not have been printed. I have been absent in California, and have had plenty of time to think. The brethren of the Authorities have been exceedingly lenient and kind to me, and when I get the blues — which I do occasionally, I become melancholy without much trouble — at such times I read this J. Golden book. If you could get as much faith and joy and hope and encouragement out of it as I did, it is worth $2.50. 

It is not because things are printed in it that I have said, that I make this statement, but I know just as well as I know the sun sets that there are in that book testimonies and things that I never could repeat. Under the influence of the Holy Spirit in talking to the people, God gave me the spirit of testimony. I have read those testimonies — there are forty of them, forty talks — and I challenge you to find one of them in which I did not get the spirit of testimony, the spirit of my office and calling as a witness for God. I ought to be happy and I am. 

I am verging on my eighty-second year. I have the same living testimony today that I had when I began this work. I have the same testimony that I had when I stood in Virginia proclaiming the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the people just fifty years ago. I am telling you good people I have had a full life of experience, having a wife and six children, with all life's joys, struggles, hardships and sacrifices. I am telling you plainly and frankly that the greatest joy, the greatest peace, and the greatest happiness I have ever had in my life have come when speaking under the spirit of testimony. I have felt that thrill throughout my being. It is a joy and happiness that cannot be expressed. 

I stand before you unafraid and just as humble as a child. I marvel, I wonder, I cannot understand why I have lived as long as I have. I am proud in representing the First Council of Seventy, in which Council I have been associated for forty-two years. I look back with joy and pride and thank the Lord from the bottom of my heart that I have been one so favored as to associate not only with the brethren of the First Council, but also with the Council of the Twelve and the Presidency of the Church. We have now — outside of Brother Rulon S. Wells, who is about the same age as myself, though perhaps much stronger physically — more vigorous men in the First Council than for some years. 

I hereby testify they are men well chosen; they are men I am proud to associate with; they are men who are worthy and capable; they are men who have the Gospel of Jesus Christ burning in their souls. All I desire, if I never speak again, is that they live up to the tradition of the Seventies. I am of the old school and declare that the revelations in Section 107 of the Doctrine and Covenants are just as clear, just as understandable, just as comprehensive as the noon-day sun as to the calling of the Seventy. There need be no contention regarding the matter; there need be no difference of opinion. It is fixed, it is settled, it is fastened, as to the calling of a Seventy. He is a special witness of the Lord, the bearer of the message, under the direction of the Twelve Apostles, and it is his duty and calling to go out into the world and preach the Gospel continuously. 

I have in my pocket now, yellow with age, the teachings of Jesus Christ to his Apostles and to the Seventies, and I know of no revelation that changes or annuls Christ's teachings one whit. I do not criticize nor find fault with the methods by which we preach the Gospel, but I know just as well as I know I live and breathe that if you have the faith God will provide the way. 

When we think we can preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ without sacrifice, without hardship, without persecution, then we have changed the whole plan. I used to tell our Elders in the South: "You let these Christian churches alone and if you do not you will bring on yourselves persecution. I am telling you Elders" — (and I told it to them in the woods where they would not forget it) — "if you will go out under the influence of the Holy Ghost and testify that God is the Father, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, you will get all the persecution you can stand." 

I am a living witness that this is true, for the devil hates that testimony, and he tried to destroy my father and others of the brethren when they opened that great mission in England. Everything in his power was done. When Heber C. Kimball returned to the Prophet he was alarmed and wondered if he had done anything that was wrong. The Prophet told him: "No. You were so close to the Father that there was only a thin veil between you and God, and whenever the Elders of Israel are to accomplish a great work, the devil gets in his power." 

I pray the Lord to bless you good people. I have been in California living among those people there; I attended two of their stake conferences, I partook of their spirit; they have the same spirit, the same love, the same kindness that we have here, and it repaid me for my trip to associate with those good people. I am telling you, in a burst of confidence that they do not want to come back, either; they like that country, and I do not blame them. 

May the Lord bless you and the brethren of the Authorities, whom 

I sustain as fully and completely as I know how. I pray for these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILFORD W. RICHARDS 

President of the North Central States Mission 

On the first day of November, 1831, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation. That revelation came to be Section one of the Doctrine, and Covenants. It stands as the Lord's preface to that great and wonderful book. I desire to read briefly from this section, beginning with verse two, as follows : 

For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is rio eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth. 

This represents the challenge to the present dispensation. We carry the glad tidings to God's children in all the earth. I am grateful to be in that field of service which has to do with the carrying of the voice of warning to the people of the world. I am grateful to be associated with the calling of the priesthood, that gives me the responsibility as well as the blessings and inspiration associated with the life of a missionary. 

I am happy to have followed, in the North Central States Mission, the work of President John G. Allred and President Arthur Welling. They were both able and courageous men, champions of truth. Elder Welling, my immediate predecessor, did a wonderful work in that mission, and has many friends. His testimony has been borne up and down those states and two Provinces of Canada, wherever opportunity was afforded. I am grateful for the spirit which he left there, for the companionship which he gave me, as I was introduced into that mission some nine months ago. 

The people have not forgotten the blessing and service which came to them through the association of Elder Melvin J. Ballard, on his trip through the mission in June and July of last year. They are inquiring when again they shall have the blessing and companionship of another member of the General Authorities of the Church. They send to you, my brethren of the General Authorities of the Church, their love, their devotion and their spirit of loyalty. They are grateful for membership in this Church, and have attempted to show that gratitude in the past year in many ways, one of which is marked more particularly by the payment of tithes, to the extent of an increase of fifty-five per cent oyer the year previous. They are rallying to support the truths of this dispensation, the ideals and ambitions of the standards of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

We have associated there with us some sixty missionaries, your sons and daughters, and they are doing a service of which we are proud, and of which you too, I am sure, are proud. They are reflecting the homes from which they came. They are reflecting the teachings they have received in the organizations of the Church, in the wards and stakes of Zion in which they have lived. They are going forward according to the commandments of the Lord in this dispensation, two by two, bearing their testimonies with fortitude and purpose, and are thinking always of the things which they may be able to accomplish to magnify their callings and to bring credit and joy to our Father in heaven and to the Church. 

We have in the North Central States Mission five full-term missionaries who are in other parts of the world, and one who has this day appeared preparatory to a missionary training course, that he too might go to the foreign land of Norway and bear his testimony in the land of his birth, among his own people. 

The work is progressing in the North Central States Mission. The Lord has been kind to us, and merciful, inspiring our missionaries to diligence, even a new diligence, we believe, in the service of the Church. They are finding many people who are interested in hearing the story of the Gospel, and are opening their homes, in many instances, to cottage meetings and to conversations. They are really interested in knowing that for which the Latter-day Saint missionary stands, and the cause which he represents. 

. In the northern part of North Dakota, one of our special missionaries, Brother Armin Hill, a teacher in one of the state schools there, has developed an interesting situation. He found friendship among the young people of a certain church. They invited him to assist them, which he has done using a good deal of our M. I. A. program. Just recently, through the illness of the minister of the church, Brother Hill has been appointed temporarily in charge of the congregation, with pretty much of a free hand to teach and do the things which he desires to do. 

We have had opportunity recently to go upon the grounds adjacent to the University of Minnesota, and there meet with a hundred or more young people, students of that university, at their invitation, to explain to them the background of faith and the principles of the Gospel of Tesus Christ. 

We are grateful for all of these opportunities, and see the hand of the Lord m the ministry of the missionaries in our mission. 

The State of Minnesota and some parts of the country in its vicinity have particularly impressed us as being a field where people are religious. 1 here are three hundred and twenty-five churches in the city of Minneapolis. They have a system of week-day religious education, which is interesting to us, in which our own children are able to participate. There is a state law in Minnesota which provides three hours of released  from the schools each week for the use of religious education. This has interested me, especially since I have been associated in this work at home. 

The Lord has opened the way for men and women to be happy, to serve him and each other, and to rejoice in the great privileges that have come in this dispensation, but our hearts must be, right. 

I am reminded of a little story, an incident rather, related by an author, Preston Bradley. He tells of a young child disturbing her father during the reading of his morning newspaper. He, turned to her, taking a piece of that paper upon which was a map of the world, torn in pieces, and said : "Now, my daughter, see if you) can put that together." She did so in such a brief period of time that he was surprised. So he questioned her, he said : "How could you do it?" She said-: "Why, Daddy, on the other side of the paper was a picture of a man. I put the man together and the world came out all right." 

Perhaps after all there is something of a challenge in that incident. At least, I have accepted it myself as a missionary. This good old world of ours, if we can put the men together properly it will come out all right. And so the missionaries of the North Central States Mission are attempting, in their humble way, to find their place among mankind, and so to inspire them with the privileges and opportunities of living the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, to the end that they and all of us may contribute to the happiness, and the simplification of these many complex problems in our social and political life of today. 

May God bless you, my brethren and sisters, especially you parents of missionaries, struggling in your efforts to maintain them there. We have many testimonies of the assistance of the Lord in connection with that work financially. May you not tire. May you be not discouraged. Your sons and daughters are doing a work that will fully justify every effort you can make for them in the cause of righteousness. 

I desire to bring to this conference, to you, my brethren and sisters, the love and appreciation of the missionaries and Saintsi of that mission, and to the Authorities of this Church, those who labor so diligently in this work. We have trust and confidence in them. I give it to you at this time as their message, asking God's blessing upon all. I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

An anthem. "Holy Redeemer," was sung by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, violin obligato by William Hardiman. 

ELDER LeGRAND RlICHARDS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, in having the privilege of representing the good people and the missionaries of the Southern States Mission. It is needless to say that I am proud to be honored of the Lord and my brethren to preside in that great mission of the Church. I have had a very delightful time while laboring there. I realize that the mission is accomplishing a great deal for the Church and for the people of the 

11 j been kd t0 sa ^ durin g m y missionary work in 

that land, that if this Church had made no other contribution to the great work of the Lord in the earth than its missionary system, it would be something that all the world might envy I realize that a great responsibility rests upon the Church in carrying on this missionary work. When the Prophet Joseph received the glorious revelations that came to him, he also received a great responsibility, for the message was to be carried into all the world. 

After the crucifixion of our Lord, when he tarried anions his disciples, he said that unto him was given all power in heaven and upon earth. And he said, "Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost; and lo I am with you always even unto the end. of the world." I want to bear testimony to you this day that every day in our mission there are evidences that the Savior of the world has not forgotten the promise thus made to his disciples. I realize that those unto whom he spoke were not privileged to tarry until the end of the world, but those who have followed after, with the same divine 

m^lwT A^V 1 ^ are receivi "& evidences of the wonderful manifestation of his blessing. Day by day, letters come to the Mission Office from misODeX^V % ^'testifying of how the Lord is 

?nd woJen ^ u - hem ' h ° W he is t0Uchin - the heart s ° f men f 3th£? ' m 16 15 f ermittln g them to be seen in dreams by faithful people before they come to their homes, which is evistnTrv J'' 6 V ' that thC Savi ° r ° f the Wodd » with his ml sionary servants. 

_ Si f er ^ehards and I visited a little woman a few weeks 

her- She It ft ^V?*^ of how the Gospel had come to hci . She said she had lost a son about 22 years of age and she was very much perturbed about it, because she was* a Baptist 

been banl^d 11 ^^T'? ° f baptism ' but her so » had ^ve nravin^ P tn ft T 1 V* 1 1 WaS m ^ bedroom on m J knees the? was v hone S ° me C °? fort and Some assurance that 

She said [ "T 11? r my f° n ' When a knock came a t the door." , * ' f arose from my knees and went to the door and there 

hand Ind l rSd I one of the sisters held in her 

nancl, and 1 read the words, 'Baptism for the dead' " She said 

abouTit^nd V JUSt PerS ° nS 1 am l00kin ^ fo^-tell me all the ChuVch a V1Slt ° r tW ° by thG mis ^onaries she joined 

I was in the city of Augusta, Georgia, a few months ago,  a good sister there told me this story : She said she had a friend in that city who was a member of the Church, and this friend said that her grandfather was the one man in the county in which he resided in former days who would receive our Mormon missionaries in his home. One day her cousin said to his grandfather, "Grandfather, the next time those Mormon missionaries come here if you receive them I will slap them in the face." And, she said, "True to his promise, the next time they came he did slap one of them but the Elder did not retaliate." She said, "That man's mind left him and he became an idiot, and he has been in the insane asylum ever since." 

I could stand here and relate to you for a long time the evidences that the Lord is with his missionaries guiding them in their work. I feel that it is a glorious privilege for our boys and girls to be engaged in this great work of the Master. I also want to bear testimony to you that it is improving their lives. A week ago last Monday, at a priesthood meeting at which a small group of missionaries were present, one missionary bore testimony that since his arrival in the field six months before, his father had started attending Sunday School and priesthood meeting, and he said that he had received a letter from his Bishop stating that the attendance at sacrament meeting had increased because heretofore they had not had a missionary out in the field for some time. Another young man arose and said that during the six months he had been there, his father had mastered the habit of using tobacco to which he had been addicted for forty years. I wish it were possible for every boy in this Church of proper age and proper conduct, to have the privilege of going into the mission field. As I stand before you today and realize that 30 years ago this month I left my home to go on my first mission, and realize what a contribution that was to me and my life, I thank the Lord for that great privilege. I would not want a son of mine to live through mortality without having the privilege of doing the thing that I did. I would like him to know the joy and the thrill that come when one is privileged to bear testimony of the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ to those who have not had the privilege of enjoying the blessings and the gifts of the Gospel. 

I know that the Lord is with his people. I know that the Lord is with the missionary work. I want to read to you just a few words in closing from the Prophet Joseph Smith — a vision that he saw in the Kirtland Temple January 21, 1836, the day upon which Father Smith was ordained a Patriarch. The Prophet Joseph saw in glorious vision his brother Alvin, David W. Patten and others, in the Celestial kingdom, and these are the words he records in the Church History : 

I saw the: Twelve Apostles of the Lamb, who are now upon the earth who hold the keys of this last ministry, in foreign lands-, standing together in a circle, much fatigued, with their clothes tattered and feet swollen, with their eyes cast downward, and Jesus standing in their midst, and they did not behold Him. The Savior looked upon them and wept. 

I am sure that as we read the account of how the early apostles went forth to preach the Gospel, we can visualize them as the Prophet Joseph did, with their clothes tattered and their feet swollen, and the Savior of the world was there, according to his promise — "Lo, I will be with you always, even unto the end of the world." 

He said further: 

I also beheld Elder M'Lellin in the South, standing upon a hill, surrounded by a vast multitude preaching to them, and a lame man standing before him supported by his crutches; he threw them down at his word and leaped as a hart, by the mighty power of God. Also, I saw Elder Brigham Young standing in a strange land, in the far south and west, in a desert place, upon a rock in the midst of about a dozen men of color, who appeared hostile. He was preaching to them in their own tongue, and the angel of God standing above his head, with a drawn sword in his hand, protected him, but he did not see it. 

I want to testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that when your boys and girls go out into the ministry of the Lord the power of the Almighty God goes with them. He is raising up friends unto them on every hand. He is breaking down prejudice. He is opening the doors of the honest, and truly, as he said to the Seventies when he sent them forth, "He that receiveth you, receiveth me, and he that rejecteth you rejecteth me." Is it not a glorious privilege for our youth to go forth so endowed by the powers of heaven, so commissioned, and with the right and authority to speak in the name of the Lord? 

I pray the Lord's choicest blessings to be with his people throughout the world. It seems to me that a new day is dawning; it seems almost as if the time were here when nations might be born into the Church over night. 

One of our missionaries sent this report a few days ago: He said he had had a long talk with a Methodist minister, and at the close of the conversation, the minister said, "My boy, you may have the very thing I have been looking for. I do not believe the teachings of my church, nor have I taught them to my people. I have told my congregation repeatedly that I believe that in this day the God of heaven would send forth a Church different from anything else we know of today." 

What a glorious privilege to be able to bear testimony that the God of heaven has done that very thing, and that we do not have the work of man. I testify to this; I know that God lives. I know that he hears and answers prayers. I know he is in this work. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God. I leave that testimony in his name, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, to be identified with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It doesn't seem very long since I bore my first testimony. It was at the time of my baptism, or when I was being confirmed. I had been reared in a Latter-day Saint home and had been taught to pray by a devoted mother. I was made to understand that we are children of our Heavenly Father. Then I was baptized, when eight years of age, and became a member of the Church. And by the way, I was baptized in old City Creek on the north side of this block. 

a child's faith and understanding 

At the fast meeting that was held after I had been confirmed a member of the Church a dear old auntie, who long since has gone home, asked me, "Don't you want to bear your testimony?" I had heard others bear their testimonies, but I had never thought of bearing mine. I arose to my feet and I was just as sure then that I belonged to the Church of the Lamb of God as I am today. I was only a child, and that brings to my attention the fact that the Lord has given to our people a commandment that we are to teach our children to pray and to walk uprightly before him. He has said that parents in Zion having children shall teach them the Gospel of Jesus Christ and faith in God, and see that they are baptized and have the hands of the servants of God laid upon their heads for the bestowal of the Holy Ghost when eight years of age. And if we as parents fail in this duty the sin will be upon our heads. 

There are many people who have believed that it is not possible for children to understand at eight, but I stand here today as a witness that I had that understanding as far as it was possible for me as a child to know. 

THOSE WHO DILIGENTLY SEEK HIM 

We are living in a time when the world needs faith. Men and women throughout the length and breadth of this earth lack faith and they certainly lack understanding. The Lord in his mercy has given that to us and in the very first section of the Doctrine and Covenants, referred to here today, he warns us of the things that are to happen. He tells us of the difficulties that will arise, and later places upon the membership of this Church the obligation to divide with our Father's children the assurance of the blessings of eternal life. 

There are many great church organizations in the world, many devout men and women living according to the will of our Heavenly Father as they understand it. Reference was made by the preceding speaker to the faithful pastor of a church who believed that the Lord would speak to the world and would raise up His Church. All men who will live up to the light that the Lord has offered to them and seek him in earnest prayer will have their hearts touched, their minds will be influenced, and opportunity will be offered to them to know that God has spoken again. 

THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST 

When the Savior was upon the earth he went to and fro among the people, not with a loud voice, making a great noise, but in humility he went about blessing the children of men. His disciples too visited among the people, teaching and blessing them. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of blessing, not a gospel of boasting, not a gospel of fault-finding and criticism, but a gospel of industry, purity, obedience, peace, love, chanty, kindness, faith and patience. Therefore, as members of his great Church we ought to be exemplars in this regard to all the world. 

TEACHING IN THE HOME 

I regret that there are among us some men and women who neglect their opportunities to live and teach the Gospel in their homes, and the result is that their children grow up without an assurance of the divine mission of Jesus Christ. They fail to observe the commandment that God gave to teach our children these things that are necessary. Fathers and mothers, teach your children as directed. What a joy it ought to be to you to teach your little children how to pray, to draw them near to our Heavenly Father, to let them feel the influence of his presence, to know that he can hear and answer prayer. What a joy it ought to be to the Latter-day Saints to gather around their own firesides and under the influence of family prayer call down the blessings of the Lord. 

THE TRUTH MADE MANIFEST 

The trouble with mankind today is that they are depending upon the wisdom of men. They are seeking the influence and association and direction of men who are teaching their own philosophies, and many of these philosophies are vain. The Lord offers to all of us opportunity to know his will, to know what our duty is in order that we may obtain eternal life. This is not a militant church to which we belong. This is a church that holds out peace to the world. It is not our duty to go into the world and find fault with others, neither to criticize men because they do not understand. But it is our privilege, in kindness and love, to go among them and divide with them the truth that the Lord has revealed in this latter day. 

How humble we ought to feel, not boastful; how grateful we ought to teel, not selfish, when we realize that from among the millions of God's children we have been gathered, and the truth has been made manifest unto us and we are made to understand the purpose of life, to realize where we came from, why we are here, and the opportunities that God Has prepared for us to go hence and enjoy eternal life in the celestial kingdom. Ought that not to cause us to feel humble? And surely the 

Spirit of God will be in our souls if in humility we desire to divide with our fellows the blessings of life. 

GREATER THAN SECULAR KNOWLEDGE 

A plea has been made by Brother Richards of the Southern States Mission that we send our sons and daughters into the mission field. We spend a very great deal of money giving them the opportunity for education in the secular institutions of the world. We feel it is a great privilege to have our boys and our girls graduate and receive a degree in the universities of the world, and it is. But I say to you that there is no university that I know of in the world that will give to the human family the knowledge that God lives, that will plant in the lives of the children of men an assurance of eternal life, unless it be the one that belongs to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This is not because good men and good women do not desire to know. They do not and can not teach the Gospel because they have not received it. But we have received it, and with that reception there comes to us a tremendous responsibility. 

BLESSINGS THROUGH MISSIONARY SERVICE 

It has been a joy to me to see men and women economize and plan in order that their children may go into the world. Within the last few weeks a young man from an outlying settlement left to go into the mission field, and his two sisters who are employed here in Salt Lake City are sending him part of their small salaries that he may enjoy the blessing of a mission. He is the first of a large family of children to go into the mission field to disseminate the truth, and yet he is a descendant of those who received the Gospel from the early Elders of this Church. I know the joy that will come into the hearts of . those two fine women who have faith to give their means to their brother in order that he ma)' serve the Lord in the field. They will receive the blessing that comes from teaching the Gospel, as far as it is possible to receive it without personal service. 

As I go to and fro in the mission field I see the development of these fine young men and women who are unselfishly serving, and realize that not only do they learn the language of the countries in which they labor, but they know that they have a gift from the Lord to disseminate a truth that the people may not obtain in any other way. 

ALL MUST HEAR THE GOSPEL 

We are living in the latter days, in the time when the Lord said that the world would be afflicted by pestilence and earthquakes, that the sea should heave itself beyond its bounds, that there should be thunderings and lightnings, and wars and rumors of wars. Surely the scriptures are being fulfilled, but before the earth shall be cleansed and purified and prepared for the second coming of our Lord, his Gospel must be proclaimed to all the nations of the earth. His sons and daughters must carry the message of life and salvation that means everything to those who are in darkness. 

Do we realize that every man is in the image of God and is a son of God, and every woman his daughter? No matter where they may be, they are his children, and he loves them and desires their salvation.' Surely as members of this Church we cannot sit idly by. We cannot receive the beneficent favor of our Heavenly Father that is bestowed upon us, the knowledge of eternal life, and selfishly retain it, thinking that we may be blessed thereby. It is not what we receive that enriches our lives, it is what we give. It is not the things that come to us without effort; it is that which results from work that rejoices our souls. 

THE PURPOSE OF THIS ASSEMBLAGE 

We are met in this marvelous tabernacle under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, not as an ordinary convention; we are .not assembled here to be taught by men the things that they have obtained in the schools of the. world, but we are here to wait upon our Father in heaven, your father and mine, the Father of our spirits, the Author of our being, the one who gives to us everything that we enjoy; and we are here to wait upon him knowing that he has promised us that if even two or three shall meet m his name he will be there, and that to bless them. 

Surely we have been blessed this day. The Spirit of God has been poured out upon us. My heart has been warmed and filled as I have looked out into this great audience to see men and women who have come trom the various parts of this great nation and some from other nations. 

I see now a group of our brothers and sisters from the far-off Hawaiian Islands who have come that long distance. Why ? In order that they may worship God at the headquarters of the Church, that they may partake of the inspiration of the Lord as it flows through his servants who may be called to teach. I feel from the bottom of my heart to say, God bless you, my brethren and sisters, for making this long pilgrimage; bless you all who have forsaken your homes temporarily and have come up to worship. You have not come for sight-seeing you have not come to partake of the influences that are found in the theatres and amusement halls of the world, but you have come up to worship. 

What a priceless privilege to worship our Father in heaven in the name of Jesus Christ, his Son! Ought we not to be grateful ? It seems to me that as I look into your eager, upturned faces and realize what the Lord has done for you and for me, there are no words of mine that can adequately express the feelings of our hearts as we are filled by that power that comes from him. 

I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that this is the work of our Heavenly Father, established by his beloved Son. 

ZrlLl T ,t 6 V n f gfeat C T hurch or ? aniz aitons and in all schools of learning truth is taught, yet I do know that all the truth that is possessed by all of them that is necessary in preparation for eternal life  the celestial kingdom is a part of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, our Lord, and has been bestowed upon us, if we have the desire to receive it. 

THE IMPORTANCE OF SACRED MUSIC 

We have listened to sweet voices that have entertained and entranced us. I think it is delightful to hear as we have a chorus of "Singing Mothers." And it is pleasing also to have a chorus of singing fathers in the priesthood quorums. I am grateful for a Church that teaches the joy and encourages the sweet influences that come from music. So important are the hymns of the Church that our Heavenly Father appointed the Prophet's wife Emma to select hymns that were appropriate for sacred services. We do have excellent hymns in this Church. Even our Primary children, beginning in their tender years, are taught not only to sing the songs of the world, but they are taught to sing the praises of our Heavenly Father and to give thanksgiving in the music that is prepared. What a comforting, uplifting influence there is in music. 

AN INCIDENT IN THE SOUTHERN STATES * 

Brother LeGrand Richards has spoken for the Southern States Mission. Many years ago, two humble Elders laboring in that mission were walking through the woods and finally came out into a clearing where nestled a humble cottage, the home of friends. Overlooking this clearing was a hill covered by large trees. It had been a warm day. When the Elders arrived, instead of sitting in the house they took their chairs out on the shady porch to visit with the family. They didn't know that they were being watched or that danger threatened. They were there as servants of the Lord. They had come through a section of the country that was unfriendly and having found a home where the family was friendly they were grateful to the Lord for it. 

They were asked to sing and they selected one of our hymns, "Do What is Right." You know the hymn. And as they sang it, even as they started to sing it, there arrived on the brow of the hill above them a mob of twenty horsemen. They had come there with the determination to drive those missionaries out. As they came to the top of the hill they heard those missionaries singing. The leader of the mob got off his horse. He looked down among those trees and saw the roof of the house. He could not see the Elders. They continued to sing. One by one the men got off their horses. Gradually they removed their hats, and when the last note had died away and the Elders had finished their singing the men mounted their horses and rode away, and the leader said to his companions, "Men who sing like that are not the kind of men we have been told they are." 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO DISSEMINATE THE TRUTH 

My brethren and sisters, this is God's work, established for the salvation and exaltation not of a few but for all men and all women who will accept it, preparing us for a place in the celestial kingdom, offering opportunity for all our Father's sons and daughters eventually to dwell with him. 

Now, knowing that and realizing the responsibility of disseminating that truth among the children of men, how anxious you ought to be, how anxious I ought to be that my own household be in order, that the members of that household be prepared, if they are called upon, to go to the uttermost corners of the earth and disseminate this truth, to the end that men and women may know of a surety that God lives and that we are all his children. 

Think of the difference between hope and knowledge; think of the difference between desire to know and positive assurance. Our Heavenly father has promised us that if we will receive the ordinances of his Holv House, if we will partake of the influences that come as a result of obedience to his Gospel, we may know, as we know that we live, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that his work is upon the earth and that we are preparing ourselves here for eternal happiness; or if we fail to take advantage of our opportunities, for eternal regret. 

IN OUR OWN COMMUNITIES 

Brethren and sisters, you who live in the organized stakes of Zion when you go home from this conference take with you the spirit that you find here If there be those who are careless, renew your efforts and encourage them to live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Inconvenience yourselves, if necessary, to bring those who are careless and indifferent into close contact with the worship of the Lord as carried out in our chapels and temples. Let us do this earnestly. 

The time is short. Not very many years remain for some of us in mortality If we are to do the work of the Lord we must be about our 1'ather s business. There isn't a man here, not a woman here but is called to labor, to do good m the world and to bless the communities in which we live. Oh, how happy we will be if we avail ourselves of our opportunities and serve our Heavenly Father by serving mankind. 

GRATEFUL FOR PRIVILEGES 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. I thank you for the comfort and satisfaction that you have given to me. I am grateful for the privilege I have of mingling with you in your homes and in the houses of worship throughout the land. 

President Grant, I am grateful to you and to my brethren here for the privilege that I have of associating with you, each and every one for he encouragement and the help that you give to me. God bless 'you brethren from the mission fields. You have a marvelous work to perform and our Heavenly Father will magnify you and bless vou in proportion to your faithfulness. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us all, that we may be worthy of our high cabling and the opportunities that he has offered to us as fathers <md_ mothers, as parents and children. Let us be what God would have  be and Zion will arise and shine and our Heavenly Father will multiply our opportunities and blessings. 

Not very long from now the summons will reach every one of us. Our earth life will be complete and we will stand on the other side of the Great Divide. Oh, how I pray that when that time comes we shall face our record unashamed and unafraid because we have magnified our callings and been worthy of our membership in this Church. 

That the Lord may add his blessing, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I have had the feeling today, somewhat, that I had many years ago; in fact, when I was a child I stood here in this building; then the experience of childish humility which comes from having made mistakes, overwhelmed me. 

Brother Evan Stephens had four boys who he thought could sing, and so he made a quartet. Those four boys were Heber Aldous, Horace Ensign, Zeb Jacobs and myself. He had told the other three that they should repeat the chorus, but he didn't tell me. So when the chorus was sung once I turned around and took my seat, and the other three were left standing. I felt so humiliated that that finished my aspirations in the line of vocal music. 

I am grateful and indeed happy for the privilege of being here and partaking of the spirit of this conference and the splendid influence which is here with us. I know that some of you have traveled many miles and made sacrifice to reach this place, and there keeps coming into my mind the thought of the old Jewish pilgrims who anciently went to their synagogues, a people who were beset with privations, misfortune, torment, all manner of humiliation, and as they went to their temples, they tried to divest themselves of those thoughts which tended to take their minds from the worship which they intended to perform. It is claimed that on the soles of their sandals, the soles of their shoes, these old Jews wrote the name of their enemy and in walking to their synagogue left the name and also the memory of that which had per-plexed them, in the dust, and so sat and worshiped with a clean heart and a free, untrammeled mind. 

We may do the same here. We may leave behind us those little besetting, annoying things that would take our minds from the important issues of this blessed conference and this great gathering, that we may do that which we have set out to do, worship God and his Son Jesus Christ; that we may worship that Christ who came from glory, came from the realms above, from the celestial courts, to be born here on earth in a manger amid humble, meek and lowly circumstances; that Christ who went forth and in his power and in his majesty healed the sick, protected the weak, befriended the helpless; that Christ who with just a word accomplished what no physician has yet accomplished. 

You recall the leper who came to him and said "If thou wilt thou canst make me clean." Christ said: "I will; be thou clean." Instantly the leper was healed, and went his way rejoicing. Thousands of institutions have been established in the world for the purpose of taking care of incurables; but one word from Christ, and there were no incurables— the Christ who left his message in word of mouth and in action; the Christ who, on that hill, the mount, has declared that unto us which shall ever live and 'ever ring in our ears, his Sermon on the Mount; the Christ who took the ordinary things of life, and around them wove truth, such wonderful, glorious truths that today they live. 

You think of the foxes and you think of Christ. You think even of the bird, a little gray sparrow, and you think of Christ. There comes to your mind this statement : "Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing?" Then, too, the lilies of the field, when we see them as we may be carelessly going our way, instinctively we think : "They toil not, neither do they spin." The Christ with whom even his enemies could find no fault, and having tried him, washed well their hands of him. Then through that great Jewish mob, there came one rushing to Pilate with a message. That message said : "Have thou nothing to do with that just man, for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him"— a message from Pilate's wife. 

And when, as he hung upon the cross, the one who ordered the nails driven into his feet and his hands, the one who gave his order to pierce his side with the sword, said : "Truly this man was the son of God." 

That is why we have come here today to worship Jesus Christ and his Father, our God. But beyond that there is just this that makes us a peculiar people : You will recall the angel's voice to the shepherds, and the encouraging words : "Fear not, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior which is Christ the Lord. How even the angels of God spoke concerning this man, Jesus Christ. 

You will remember the testimony of God at his baptism, as he arose from the water, the voice from heaven: "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." The whole world believes this, and the world accepts it gladly, and yet hesitates only when we boldly go the one step farther and say that in 1820 the same voice 

I ™* the .? at < fe!'. ran ^ in the ears of th e boy Joseph Smith, and the Father said: "This is my beloved Son. Hear Him." From the messages which he received there has arisen this great institution, this mighty work which has spread into every corner of the world. I he word has gone forth that over and beyond the Christian belief m God and his Son Jesus Christ, the Mormons believe that  God has appeared and Jesus Christ has spoken. Therein lies the strength of our faith. 

Let us continuously bear this message to all the world, in humility, in meekness, and in faith, relying upon the Lord, that he may bless us, that this work may grow, and spread, and increase; that the missionary effort which is being put forth in every nook and corner of this earth shall be prospered abundantly, even as I know it is being blessed in that far-away land of New Zealand, among that splendid race of men and women, those noble people, the Maoris, who are working daily and hourly as messengers of this restored Gospel of Jesus Christ, and also their brothers and sisters from Hawaii, these splendid souls whom Brother Smith has referred to, who not only faced the dangers of the sea but also of the land, that they might be here with us to worship God the Father and Jesus Christ, the Son, and to bear testimony of the divine mission of the prophet Joseph Smith. God bless them all. 

May God bless you, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It may be of interest to all of you to know that we have decided to organize a stake of Zion in the Hawaiian Islands. 

"Great is Jehovah," an anthem, was sung by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, Jessie Williams, soloist. 

Elder James Duckworth, President of the Blackfoot Stake, offered the closing prayer. 


