Morning
07 10 1932

The first session of the Conference was called to order by President Anthony iW. Ivins promptly at 10 o'clock, Friday morning, October ,7. 

Thousands of people from the Stakes and Missions of the Church had assembled and occupied the seats in the great auditorium and galleries of the tabernacle. 

The congregation joined in singing the hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

Elder Nicholas G. Smith, Patriarch, Salt Lake Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

A sacred duet, "My Task," was sung by Charles Martin and Myrtle Checketts. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

This is the first general conference of the Church, my brethren and sisters, so far as I remember, at which the President of the Church has not been present to direct the proceedings. You are all advised no doubt that President Grant is in Chicago at a hospital recovering from an operation to which he has recently subjected himself. 

PRESIDENT GRANT'S ILLNESS 

The question may be asked, and has been, why did the President of the Church go to Chicago for treatment when there is a Latter-daySaints hospital here in Salt Lake City, with efficient expert surgeons and doctors to give medical care to those who may be in need of it ? He went because the people who were consulted in regard to his condition, which was critical, admitted that there was no one here whom they felt could be trusted with the particular treatment to which it apparently became necessary for him to subject himself. So after careful consideration it was decided that he should go there for this treatment. 

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 

I have before me a telegram just received from him which I am sure you will agree with me demonstrates the wisdom and the necessity of the action which was taken. It is addressed to me to be delivered to this congregation of Latter-day Saints, and is as follows : 

"Extend to the Saints in conference my love and blessings. My gratitude to them for their faith exercised and prayers offered in my behalf. I have been greatly blessed. I feel sure conference will be profitable and enjoyable as they have always been. Regret not being with you. Earnestly praying the blessings of the Lord to attend the Saints both at home and abroad and also all honest people the world over, 

Affectionately, 

Heber J. Grant." 

The telegram received this morning from the President indicates his rapid recovery. The physicians, however, who have the case in charge consider it wise that he remain at the hospital until he is so far recovered there will be no danger at the time he shall leave it. 

GRATITUDE FOR IMPROVED CONDITION 

This is a great source of relief and gratitude to God our Father to his brethren associated with him, the presiding authorities of the Church; and I am sure this congregation of people and the Latter-day Saints wherever they may be participate in this expression of gratitude. 

We are here in this conference as usual to be informed in regard to the condition of the Church, the people who constitute its membership, and to receive from those who will be selected to address us instruction, admonition and exhortation as the Spirit of the Lord may prompt them to express themselves. 

CHURCH OUT OF DEBT First, let me say to you, notwithstanding the reports that are being industriously circulated by people who have been excommunicated from the Church because of their transgressions, but who now assume to dictate its affairs and instruct us in regard to the procedure that should be followed at this conference, to the effect that the Church is heavily involved in debt, that its property is mortgaged — I heard only yesterday that this block and all of;the buildings on it were under mortgage — I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that the Church is not in debt to anyone, not a penny. No one holds its notes. There is no mortgage on the property that belongs to it or that ever has belonged to it, unless it has passed into other hands and been mortgaged by them. It is true that in this time of depression the revenues of the Church have suffered just as yours have suffered, but thank the Lord, through your devotion to the law of tithing, there are funds sufficient to carry on, and we have no apprehension so far as the future is concerned. 

I am making this statement that you may not be disturbed regarding this particular report and many others similar to it which are only designed to embarrass the Church and to lead its members and others who are not members of the Church astray. 

PROGRESS IN THE MISSIONS 

The missions of the Church. It is true again that because of the financial condition of the people the number of missionaries who are engaged in carrying the message of the restored Gospel to the people of the world has been reduced. People have not the funds that they formerly had with which to maintain themselves or their sons or daughters in missionary work. But there are still a sufficient number of Elders In the field that reports show that the results are perhaps more favorable than they have been before for many years past. Converts are_ constantly being made; baptisms are being solemnized; the organizations of the Church are being maintained in the different missions, stakes and branches of the Church, probably in better condition today, from the point of view of organization and results accomplished, than they have ever been before. This is again a source of great satisfaction to the brethren who direct the Church. 

RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION 

The schools of the Church, like everything else that pertains to us, have of necessity been somewhat limited in their activities, but the fact remains that in the most prosperous period in the past of our Church school system instruction was given to 8,687 students, children of Latter-day Saints. These Church schools, numbers of them, have already been discontinued, and it is the policy of the Church to entirely discontinue the system as it formerly existed, substituting for it a system of instruction that meets far more people than ever before. According to the statistics which are before me, the seminary system of the Church during the past year — and they do not cover the latter part of this year, which will greatly increase this number — has given religious instruction to 30,862 Latter-day Saint children. The pupils who are in attendance at the high schools are registered in these seminaries. I shall not read all of the statistics before me, but a very large percentage of all the children eligible to registry are registered in these seminaries. 

We know it was a great disappointment to the people of the Church when the Church schools were discontinued. It was to us. We did so regretfully, but we do know that we are giving religious instruction now to nearly four times the number of children that we instructed in the Church schools when they were at their peak. So we believe again in the good result which is to come from this change. 

TEMPLE WORK 

The temples of the Church have never before been so busy as they are at present. The people, perhaps because so many are out of employment — that might have something to do with it, but not altogether — their minds are turned more towards the ordinance work which is performed in the temples for their progenitors, with the result — I haven't the figures before me — the general result has been reported to us, we get these figures monthly — temple work being accomplished is greater than ever before in the history of the Church. 

THE WORK OF THE LORD 

These particular items, my brethren and sisters, I am referring to because they are fundamental to the work of the Church. They are  which belong to it. They are sound, every one of them, just as the Church itself. It is the work of the Lord restored to the earth with a promise never before made to a people so far as we are aware, that its priesthood should continue, and that means that the Church itself shall persist until it shall ultimately triumph. 

This is a dispensation the greatest that was ever ushered in in the history of the world, because it comprehends all that has been before it and all that shall come after it. 

INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY 

May the Lord help us to magnify our callings, the responsibility which rests upon every member of the Church. For when we identify ourselves with it, when we enter into the waters of baptism, when the hands of those in authority are laid upon our heads, conferring upon us the keys of the holy priesthood, we enter into covenant with the Lord that we will discharge that responsibility, magnify it in our lives by example and by precept, every man bearing witness to his neighbor; and in that manner the Gospel will spread rapidly among the people of the world, who are at last coming — the honest thinking people of the world — to understand the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as it really is. 

God bless you, I pray, my brethren and sisters, help you and help me to magnify this important responsibility that is upon us, I ask through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, as President Ivins has already announced, we very much deplore the absence of President Grant from this conference, but we are glad to know that he Ss convalescing and rapidly recovering from his operation. I am sure it is the desire of the Church generally, that President Grant may he spared to preside over us for many years and that his days may not be numbered less. 

We also note the absence of Brother Ballard, one of our number, who has also undergone an operation which is often times considered a serious one, but in his case the operation was quite successful and he is rapidly recovering. 

Of course we are necessarily without the presence of tBrother Widtsoe who is in Europe, a long distance from us, and could not very well be here. But we have Senator Smoot with us, I am happy to say, at this conference. 

Let me say, brethren and sisters, that to stand before a great congregation of Latter-day Saints like this is a privilege and responsibility. I therefore ask for your sustaining support by the exercise of faith in what I shall say on this occasion. Purpose in life 

I am impressed now to read a few words from a well-known and prominent writer, and perhaps if I may have freedom of the Spirit I will make a few comments upon these words. 

"Many a philosopher has propounded the conundrum, 'What is the object of life? Why have we been placed upon this planet, to struggle along for a few years and then to die? Has a beneficent providence some scheme which we cannot fathom?' 

"This conundrum has not yet been answered." 

The writer is regarded as quite an intelligent man, and he has written a very great many good things. But it might be safely said to him that life is not a conundrum, that there is a 'ireal purpose in it; and if the writer had been in dose touch with the scriptures and the revelations of iGod that are recorded in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price, he would have discovered, as I have already said, that there is a purpose in life and that that purpose has been developed by the great Creator of the world and of the people of the world. 

Yes, but it might be said by him, perhaps : "I do not believe in the Bible, I do not believe in the Book of Mormon that you mention; I do not believe in the Doctrine and Covenants or the Pearl of Great Price." 

PREDICTIONS FULFILLED 

Well, the answer is : Perhaps you do not; but nevertheless whether you believe them or do not believe them they are in existence, we have them, and we have Learned from those books that holy men of old wrote and spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost. Many of the things that they said were written down, some of them were great predictions, and in the passage of time a large number of them have already been fulfilled to the very letter, although they were uttered hundreds and hundreds of years ago, and others will be fulfilled. This is pretty good evidence of their genuineness. 

And then it might be said in reference to" the revelations of God given in these latter-days to a mighty prophet whose name was Joseph Smith, that they have stood the test of one hundred years. They have been attacked upon many occasions by unbelievers but have never been overthrown. A number of the predictions recorded in these revelations have also been fulfilled, and that is about the best test that could be made with respect to the scriptures or the revelations from God. 

THE PRE- EXISTENT STATE 

This man, as I have already said, if he had been in strict accord with the word of the Lord, would have known that the children of men, including himself and all others, lived before in a pre-existent state in a place that is designated as heaven. When heaven is spoken of we naturally conclude that it is a place of peace and happiness, that those who dwell there are happy, that God himself, our Father, and his Son Jesus Christ and the holy apostles and prophets and Saints dwell there. That the society of such people is what constitutes heaven and makes for happiness. They dwell there, and we dwelt there, in the pre-existent state as spirits. If somebody were to ask what did we look like when we existed there as spirits, I should answer that we looked just like we look now, only we were spirits in the form of God. We were his children in the spirit and must necessarily have partaken of his likeness. Surely that is reasonable. 

It must have been a place of happiness because when rebellion arose in heaven it could not long survive and was cast out. We read in the book of Revelation, that there was war in heaven between Lucifer and his host of spirits and Michael and his host, and that Lucifer and his followers were overthrown and cast down. "Therefore, at that particular time happiness was restored and must have continued in heaven. 

SPIRITS NOT COMPLETE 

A time arrived, however, when these spirits were in need of something further, or in other words, it must have been known in that preexistent state that the spirits of men were not complete in their creation, that there was something lacking, something that should be added to them. Of course, I am speaking now strictly in accordance with Holy Writ. The time arrived when these spirits came forth upon the earth. But it was their coming that proved to be so interesting a matter. We read about it in the opening chapters of the Holy Bible, the Bible of the Christian world which is our Bible also. It is set forth in great clearness. 

God said : "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." And the record tells us that God did create man in his own image and after his likeness. He said, Let us do it, and the act of performance followed. A little farther on the matter is amplified, like my words are being amplified and made a little clearer by the radio, when we read that "God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul." 

LIVING SOULS 

 I say to you that that was an extraordinary thing, and it occurred at the very beginning in the experience of Adam and Eve. They became living souls and their children who followed them also became living souls. Now to be a living soul is a very different thing from being a living spirit. The breath of life referred to that was breathed into man, was in fact his spirit. This is made very clear in the revelations of God given to his people in both ancient as well as modern times. 

The difference is this : When the immortal spirit of a man secures and enters a mortal body, it can then be said, I take it, that his creation is complete. He is a living soul. That other thing, his body, so necessary to his present and future welfare, has been added to his spirit. , 

This is set forth in great plainness in section ninety-three of the Hook of Doctrine and Covenants, wherein the Lord says : 

"For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; 

"And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy." 

PURPOSE OF LIFE 

What a wonderful saying! It discloses the very purpose of life, namely, that man, a living soul, is capable of attaining to and experiencing a fulness of joy. That is the answer to the conundrum respecting "the purpose of life." In other words, man is placed in a position by this fulness and completeness of his creation that he can receive a fulness of joy. He does not necessarily have it unless he makes himself worthy of it by compliance with the laws of God. 

Now, the Lord doubtless had this matter in mind when he said, as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price : "This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." That is the special work in which God our Father is engaged, and I take it from a reading of the scriptures, and from reflection, that God cannot be engaged in a greater work than to bring to pass the salvation of souls, and it is in the principle of salvation that we are to find a fulness of joy. Somebody may say, perhaps this very writer may say, "What do you mean by salvation?" Well, it simply means that a man must first be saved from his weaknesses and imperfections, and secondly, that he must be saved from his sins and follies. 

HOW TO BE SAVED 

How can he be saved from them ? By forsaking his weakness and by repenting and forsaking his sins, after which he may get remission of his sins by and through an ordinance of the Gospel, viz., baptism. Possibly the writer heretofore mentioned might add, "Well, what do you mean by the Gospel?" 

We mean by the Gospel just what Paul said about it. He said: "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ; for it is the power of God unto salvation, to every one that believeth." The Savior said that those who rejected it and would not have the Gospel, would be damned, or, in other words, would come under very great condemnation. If you do not like the word damned use the word condemnation, because both words mean exactly the same thing, only one is a little more expressive than the other. And so we find that salvation is to come through obedience to the Gospel. 

THE DESTINY OF MAN 

Now there is another very wonderful thing in the scriptures if we shall go back to Adam, and it is contained in the Book of Mormon, II 

Nephi, second chapter, as I remember it, and that is this : "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy." 

So we come right back to this question of the purpose of life — "Men are, that they might have joy." We might say, God is that he might have joy, a fulness of joy, and so his Son Jesus Christ is that he might have a fulness of joy, and that would mean that God has a fulness of salvation, and that Jesus Christ has a fulness of salvation. They have attained to it. They have conquered. Jesus Christ has risen above his enemies. He has gone beyond. They have no power over him at all. He has all power, and is saved, and therefore, brethren and sisters, he must be in a condition or state of perfect joy. 

That is the destiny of man. But that destiny must be clearly understood by man and must be followed in order that he shall rise to exaltation and glory such as that which has been received by the Savior and his apostles of old and the Saints who have been resurrected who will enter into glory and exaltation. 

MUST BE BORN AGAIN 

How is that to come about ? Let me signify. We are told that the Savior revealed it, but he did it in a way that Nicodemus perhaps did not comprehend, and in a way that the Christian world today does not appear to comprehend. Jesus said, as recorded in the Gospel by St. John, 3rd chapter, that "except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God." That was a very confusing statement made to Nicodemus. He wondered about it. He wondered how a man could be born again. Must he go back and be born once more? The Savior saw his predicament, saw that he was ignorant of the matter, and said : "Nicodemus, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." If a man cannot enter the kingdom of God he cannot rise to a fulness of joy, never, worlds without end. 

He may get some joy, he may get great happiness from what he does do in righteousness, but to get a fulness he must be born again. It is an actual birth, just as we were born into the world to get these bodies, so we must be born into the kingdom of God — perhaps I should say born into the church and kingdom of God, I think perhaps they will be merged together sometime. The kingdom of God and the church of God are not very far apart. One cannot , get into the kingdom of God upon the principle of faith alone, or repentance alone, or receiving the Holy Ghost alone. He will have to be baptized, go down into the water, and come up out of the water, and have hands laid upon him for the gift of the Holy Ghost. That is the procedure that was followed by the apostles of Christ. That is the procedure of the Church today. It is the only way. 

Baptism, then, may be said to be the door that leads into the kingdom of God, or into the church and kingdom of God. How beautiful that is! There is an actuality about it, you can visualize it. I am not spiritualizing. There is an earthly work to do. And then when one gets into the kingdom of God there is a greater work to do because it is word upon word, line upon line, precept upon precept, that one must learn by experience after he conies into the Church and kingdom of God. A man is not saved by baptism altogether. The opportunity of salvation, the power to be saved, yes, it is there, but he must exercise that power and do the work that is necessary. 

WORLDLY THINGS TO PASS AWAY 

Now, in conclusion, let me say this to you, brethren and sisters of the Church: The man who expects to find a fulness of joy in the light and frivolous pleasures of the world or in matters pertaining strictly to the world will be sadly disappointed, because it is said that a man whose heart is wedded to the things of the world is carnally minded, and we are told in the scriptures that to be carnally minded, or altogether worldly minded, is death, but to be spiritually minded is life eternal. There it is, and we should remember that as Latter-day Saints we must not give ourselves wholly and completely to worldly things, loving them above everything else. Wle have to deal with them, and we need them, too, but we must be spiritually minded if we will attain to a fulness of joy. 

Now, this is what the Lord says about the matter in section one hundred thirty-two of the Doctrine and Covenants. Listen to this tremendous declaration of the Lord by revelation to Joseph Smith the Prophet. We wish the whole world could hear it. It might cause them generally to sit down and reflect upon life : 

"And everything that is in the world, whether it be ordained of men, by thrones, or principalities, or powers, or things of name, whatsoever they may be, that are not by me or by my word, saith the Lord, shall be thrown down, and shall not remain after men are dead, neither in nor after the resurrection, saith the Lord your God." 

We ought not to cling to those things that will pass away and never return. We should rather take hold of the things that are destined to remain. 

IMMORTAL THINGS 

This is what Henry Drummond says, which is pretty much to the point, and has some bearing upon what I have been saying : 

"There is a great deal in the world that is delightful and beautiful; there is a great deal in it that is great and engrossing; but it will not last. All that is in the world, the lust of the eye, thelust of the flesh, and the pride of life, are but for a little while. Love not the world, therefore. Nothing that it contains is worth the life and Iconsecration of an immortal soul. The immortal soul must give itself to something that is immortal. And the only immortal things are these : 

" 'Now abideth faith, hope, love; but the greatest of these is love'." 

That is a wonderful saying, is it not? There is mighty power in love, and you might say all power in faith. We could not succeed without both. 

THE RICHES OF THE WORLD 

Now some people, many people perhaps, some in the Church, think that this happiness I am speaking of, or fulness of joy, may be found in the riches of the world — in gold, silver, houses, lands, etc. Let me quote from a certain publication what is said respecting a very wealthy Russian nobleman : 

"No one who is not rich, attractive, very young, and the center of an admiring social circle, can have any idea how intolerably tedious riches, beauty, and popularity can be. Felix Felixovich had everything he could possibly want: he was master of the largest and imost valuable collection of precious stones in the world, of palaces and castles and enormous estates; he had accomplished the highest that a man of noble blood, a descendant of the Elstons could accomplish; he had won the hand of an imperial princess; his friend was the handsome universally admired Grand Duke Dimitri. And yet for him this state of perpetual happiness which hid nothing more in itself, which held out no promise of new experiences, which could  offer him no further secrets, attractions, or excitements, was one of intolerable boredom and emptiness. 

Like many other Russian aristocrats, Prince Felix did not avail himself of the possibility of filling his life with intellectual interests, and consequently he was tormented by the painful boredom of the absolutely rich and absolutely happy person, the man to whom nothing is forbidden, and to jwhom therefore, nothing any longer seems desirable. Inevitably, he began to feel his life of perpetual riches as a prison, from which there was no escape. His beautiful wife of imperial blood, his beautiful and elegant friend, the many adorers, male and female, and the handsome men and pretty women who flocked about him, were bound ultimately to seem like merciless warders, who 'kept him shut up in his prison of disconsolate [boredom. 

"The poor can hope for riches, the unloved for love, and the lowly for elevation; but for the man who like Felix Yusupov, is surrounded by enormous wealth, perpetual [happiness, and unending pleasure, there remains no other outlet from his spiritual prison but crime. As the ray of light coming through his grating, so to the young prince, crime seemed the only hope of freedom. To commit a crime and once more taste a new, still unknown excitement was a dream like the prisoner's dream )of freedom." 

In conclusion, brethren and sisters, I testify to you in all solemnity after fifty years of experience that I do know positively with a firm knowledge and an abiding faith that this is the Church of God and of his Son Jesus Christ, that Jesus was and is the Savior of the world, and that Joseph Smith was and is a true prophet of God. I have great pleasure and happiness in bearing this testimony on this occasion. The Lord bless you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters and friends, to be with you in this conference this morning. I rejoice in the divine power that actuates this great work. Notwithstanding the adverse conditions that prevail at the present time I am sure that we all have occasion to be grateful for health and life, for appreciation of the divinity of this work, and for the privileges and blessings that have been given to us. I expressed yesterday to President Ivins my feeling that, if he desired, I would be perfectly willing to forego being called upon to speak in this conference, so that he could have the opportunity to call some who are not ordinarily called upon. I realize that there are many men in the Church who have had experience and training, who are carrying responsibility throughout the various divisions of the Church, who could advise with us and address us upon matters that would be helpful and encouraging. 

CHURCH GROWTH AND ACTIVITY 

Nevertheless, I am happy to bear my testimony and to express to you my faith and assurance that this work is growing and will continue to grow and accomplish the great destiny that is before it. In this connection it may interest you to know that the Church has shown greater numerical growth throughout the United States during the past 15 years, from 1916 to 1931, in proportion to membership than any of the largest churches. The same is true of the increase in the number of congregations or wards. In Church activities of the priesthood and the members there is improvement steadily in evidence. Also, in social welfare and in matters of vital statistics, this work is making an enviable record. As was stated by President Ivins this morning, there has been a decrease in the tithes of the Church because of the very serious economic condition, but there has been an increase in the number of tithepayers, showing greater faith on the part of the people. I believe, however, that there is still opportunity for improvement in this respect. Our young people need to be taught and trained and encouraged to observe this principle, which is spiritual as well as economic, for their welfare and progress and faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Every boy and girl should be trained by their parents to pay tithing on whatever they may obtain in the way of earnings or gifts. They should be encouraged to try to earn regularly and to tithe such income. We are urging especially that every member of the Aaronic priesthood shall be taught the observance of this divine law. The decrease of tithes is due, as you will appreciate, to the fact that there has been much unemployment : and consequently those who have been unemployed have been unable to pay their tithes; and also very much by the low prices of commodities. 

FACTORS OF VITAL IMPORTANCE FOR BETTER CONDITIONS 

There are two economic factors at the present time in this community and throughout the nation, and I suppose throughout the world, that justify the greatest thought, attention and consideration and action on the part of those who have responsibility in government. They are of vital importance for the economic welfare of the people. One of these, which is more or less temporary, is the provision for emergency unemployment relief. That is being undertaken in a large measure throughout the nation by federal, state and local aid, and through various organizations. I wonder sometimes whether there is too much red tape attached to the obtaining of aid by those in need. Yet, of course, great care is necessary to see that those who need the aid  obtain it, and that those who* are able to carry on without that aid will do so. It is a very vital thing to prevent hunger, with consequent difficulty and trouble that are bound to ensue if people do not have the necessities of life. 

HIGHER COMMODITY PRICES 

The other factor that is important in order that we may obtain better conditions and the only permanent means is that we may obtain higher prices for the staple raw commodities. How we are going to bring that about, whether by an appropriate method of reducing the value of the dollar, or in some other manner raising the value of commodities, is a very vital and important question that concerns all mankind at the present time. 'When the condition prevails that prices on raw commodities rise, the people of this state as well as of adjoining states and of the nation at large will be able to meet their obligations more fully, and carry on. 

INDIVIDUALISM AND COOPERATION 

I appreciate the fact that this Church, in the midst of these adverse conditions, is meeting the test of its efficiency and its divinity most effectively. The Church involves, as I see it, two phases of human activity. One is individualism and the other is co-operation. That may sound like a paradox. We know that our salvation depends upon our individual efforts. Except we do certain things, live in accordance with certain principles, and accept and conform to certain ordinances of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, we cannot obtain the blessings, just as was referred to by President Clawson this morning relative to one of the Gospel ordinances. Salvation comes through observance of divine principles. So the individual can be saved only by his own acts. 

INDIVIDUAL EFFORT AND INITIATIVE NECESSARY 

At the same time the Gospel involves also co-operation and mutual helpfulness of all the members of the Church to produce results. No co-operative movement can be most successful except through individualism-^that is through the individual development and activity of all concerned. If you will study any co-operative movement that has ever failed, you will find that where it has failed it was due to the fact that every individual was not measuring up to the standard expected and required. Where the individual has not measured up in energy, whole-heartedness and unselfishness, the movement has been weakened. So today in this and in all communities throughout the nation it is expected that every individual will use all of his powers and faculties in every way to try to save himself financially, spiritually, and in every other respect. But it requires also that we shall endeavor to co-operate to the fullest extent possible. 

CO-OPERATIVE ACTION IN THE CHURCH 

For instance, throughout the Church 1 think there never has been such co-operation shown in helpfulness towards those in need as at the present time. The reports that come to us from all parts of the Church indicate that the presidencies of stakes and their associates, the bishoprics of wards, and those working under their direction, and the Relief Societies throughout the Church, are doing a tremendous work in the gathering of foodstuffs and taking care of the same for the benefit of those in need. Never was there, I think, such a spirit shown as at the present time of seeking to help those in need. Many of those who are in need are co-operating also in going out and helping to gather foodstuffs. They desire to work for what they get as far as it is possible to do so. There are, however, some who claim membership in the Church — and there are people outside of the Church, who feel that the world owes them a living and that others ought to do for them the things that they should do for themselves. There are those who do not take advantage of the present opportunities offered to obtain the necessities of life for themselves, strange as it may seem. 

ALL SHOULD USE THEIR ENERGIES 

There are ample food supplies throughout this country and generally within reasonable distance of those who need them, if they would but go out and gather the essentials and commodities which they need for their subsistence. They could get them almost for nothing and take care largely of themselves. I have not time to go into detail regarding these things, but call your attention to the fact that it is vitally important that everyone who is in distress and trouble should seek as far as possible to help himself. 

THE WORTHY AND THE UNWORTHY 

The Lord has made plain to us that those who are poor and are worthy, who are seeking to improve themselves, seeking to remedy their condition as far as possible, shall be blessed. But those "whose spirits are not contrite, whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, and who will not labor with their own hands" are subject to censure. They should use their own initiative and their own efforts. Likewise, those who are well-to-do who are not willing to impart of their means for the benefit of the poor, shall suffer, whereas the well-to-do who use their means effectively will receive blessings. 

STAKES ORGANIZED FOR SOCIAL WELFARE 

. I would like to report to you briefly just a slight indication of all that is being done throughout the Church for the care of those in need. In this city, where probably the distress is greater than in almost any other part of the Church, four of the stakes have established storehouses. They have been sending out as many as hundreds of men at a time to gather food supplies, with the understanding that those who work and gather supplies will obtain orders on the storehouse for the things they . It is a very remarkable thing the way it is being done in these stakes, and the same is true largely in other stakes in the Church, although I have not the figures before me. 

QUANTITIES OF SUPPLIES GATHERED 

For instance, hundreds of thousands of pounds of potatoes, onions, cabbage, tomatoes and other vegetables, and various fruits, have been gathered and stored or distributed to those who are in distress. The perishable supplies have been distributed promptly. Other things that are not perishable are being stored for those who will be in need this winter. There has been considerable dried fruit prepared. In these four stakes alone without regard to what is being done in the Relief Societies in the various wards thereof, about 44,000 bottles or cans of fruit have been put up by the storehouses for the benefit of those who are or will be in need. There have been about 12,000 pieces of clothing gathered which are being repaired and remodeled for the benefit of those who are in need.- Over four hundred pairs of shoes have been gathered; and wood and coal are being provided. It is a wonderful thing that is being done. The spirit of co-operation — the Spirit of true religion — is being manifested by busy men and women sacrificing their own time and labor for the benefit of those in need. I am sure that if those who are going to receive this help will appreciate it, and will manifest their resourcefulness and their initiative in trying to carry on they will be able to go forward and gain relief from the economic distress that prevails at the present time. 

CHILDREN OF ISRAEL TOLD TO GO FORWARD 

I am reminded of the time when the Israelites were being led out of Egypt under Moses. They had gotten out of the land of Egypt and away from the ruie of Pharaoh, and had reached the Red Sea when the Egyptians came after them. In the distance they saw the armies of the Egyptians pursuing them. They complained to Moses about the situation, saying in effect : "Why did you bring us into the desert here to be destroyed by the Egyptians, rather than to remain among them, and bear their tasks?" And Moses said: "Stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord." Then he said: "The Lord shall fight for you and ye shall hold your peace." Then the Lord said to Moses, "Wherefore criest thou unto me? Speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward." They were commanded not that they should "stand still," but that they should "go forward." We are told that a path was made through the Red Sea, and the children of Israel went forward promptly, and escaped the clutches of the Egyptians. 

APPLICATION TO PRESENT CONDITIONS 

In that experience it seems to me that there is a lesson for us today. We are surrounded by difficulties and troubles. We are pursued by conditions that are entirely unfavorable to us. Sometimes I think we feel that we ought to stand before the Lord and ask him for blessings. That is, of course, entirely proper and necessary. But I think also it is important for us that we should go forward with confidence and faith, using our initiative, developing our resourcefulness, employing every possible means to remedy the conditions which prevail around us, individually and collectively, with the assurance that the more we try to do for ourselves the more the Lord will help us, because we are using our own faculties to remedy our condition. Thus we show our faith by our works. 

GO FORWARD WITH COURAGE AND FAITH 

Conditions are now and have been such with very many of us, that our attitude has been much the same as that of the Israelites in their fear and distress. Certainly, under the prevailing status, there is much reason for worry and strain. Many are carrying obligations that can be met with difficulty, if at all. Products of the farms can scarcely be sold for sufficient amounts to meet the requirements of the farmers. It is a situation which merits the mutual consideration and helpfulness of all concerned. 

Yet, now is the time to "go forward." It is vitally necessary to employ all our faculties with resolution and initiative, to resist worry, to plan and work vigorously and systematically, to adjust our requirements to our resources, to cultivate increased faith in God, and to seek the guidance of the Holy Spirit, in order to face the present and the future with courage and determination. I am sure that if we will strive earnestly in this way, the way will be opened before us whereby we may carry on and have joy, satisfaction and peace. 

I pray that the Lord may bless us all, that we may go forward with faith in him, using every power that he has given to us and every faculty, to the end that we may glorify his name and help to build up his kingdom, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Elsie Cook sang a sacred solo, entitled "Rest in the Lord." 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I have withheld the statistics that I am now about to read to you until the Presiding Bishop made his report. 

TO RELIEVE DISTRESS 

These figures show what has been done by the Church during the nine months from September 30th, 1931 to June 30th, 1932, in order that the distress to which he has referred might be relieved. 

Ten Stakes of Salt Lake County, all within this valley, have contributed as follows : 

From Fast offerings, $34,026.86. 

From Relief Society donations, $28,470.56. 

From the tithes which you, my brethren and sisters, have paid into the storehouse of the Lord, $105,114.27. 

There has been disbursed by the ten stakes in Salt Lake valley for the relief of those in distress $177,437.70. 

There has been contributed by the people of the other stakes of the Church: 

In fast offerings, $76,071.76. 

Through the Relief Society, $58,000.59. 

From the tithes, $32,018.89. 

Total amount paid by the Church during this period from fast offerings alone, $1 10,098.62. 

If we all paid our fast offerings as we should there would be sufficient, I believe, to take care of those who are in actual need. 

There was received from the Relief Society $86,471.15. 

There was received from the tithes paid in the various stakes. $137,133.16. 

The total amount contributed during the past ten months from the tithes and offerings of the people to those who are in need is $361,242.79. It does not need comment to satisfy you, I am certain, that the members of the Church are doing their duty as far as attention to those who are in their communities who are in need is concerned. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I take it that we will all be relieved when I get through. I certainly got the surprise of my life this morning. I anticipated being in agony most of the conference. I desire you to know and feel that I am trying to tell the truth, which I find is a very difficult thing to do. It is not my intention to skate around on thin ice and keep you people in anxiety. I know as well as I know anything that a man cannot speak to the Latter-day Saint people — in fact he should not, if he can only determine the matter — except when he is under the influence of the Holy Ghost. I have never been able to determine when I am going to speak by the direction of the Holy Ghost and sometimes when I thought I had it some of the brethren did not think so. So it leaves me in doubt and uncertainty. 

I do not know why we should be fearful among our people, or anywhere else as |long as we make efforts to serve God and keep his commandments . 

I have been thinking about something for some time. I haven't got it in the form of ia speech. Men come to me occasionally, not very often, and shake me by the hand and say, "I am glad to shake hands with a good man." I never feel so "cheap" as when that happens, and I have always been thankful that they did not know me so well as I know myself. It is along that line that I would like to talk to you for a few minutes. 

What is a good man? That has been a big problem with me. I have had a good deal of business dealings with men who (claimed to be good men. They said they were good and they told me how good they were, and when they got through with me I did not have anything left. (Laughter.) Whenever a man comes to me now and tells me how honest he is, how good he is, I am not going to do business with him. 

I am going to read to you a little 'from the Book of Mormon. I 'remember an Apostle on one occasion — I had been interviewed regarding something I had preached — said to me, "Golden, why don't you read the Book of Mormon ?" 

I said : "I do |as much as you do." And that was true at that time. 

I have read the Book of Mormon. I have tried to understand it : I have tried to appreciate it; I have tried to believe it as my father believed it. There was no book that Heber C. Kimball read more and believed in more than he did the Book of Mormon. 

I find that a man can act good and talk good and look good and not do any good. That 'which I am going to read to you is from Moroni's writings in which he tells something about a good man, which his father had told him. I haven't the time to tell you about the goodness and greatness of Mormon and Moroni, but T have great love for those characters. I quote the following : 

"For I remember the word of God, which saith by their works ye shall know them; for if their works be good, then -they are good also. 

"For behold, God lhath said a man being evil cannot do that which is good; for if he offereth a gift, ior prayeth unto God, except he shall do 5t with real intent it profiteth him nothing." 

"For behold, it is not counted unto him for righteousness. 

"For Ibehold, if a man being evil giveth a gift, |he doeth it grudgingly : wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted evil before God. 

"And likewise also it is counted evil unto a man, if he shall pray and not with real intent of heart; yea, and it profiteth him nothing, for God receiveth none such. 

"Wherefore, a man being evil cannot do that which is good;" * * * 

I am glad he bears down on that. 

* * * neither will he give a good gift. 

"For behold, a bitter fountain cannot bring forth good water; neither can a good fountain bring forth bitter \vater; wherefore, a man being a servant of the devil cannot follow Christ; and if he follow Christ he cannot be a servant of the devil. 

"Wherefore, all things which jare good cometh of God; and that which is evil cometh of the devil; for the devil is an enemy unto God, and fighteth against him continually, and inviteth and enticeth to sin, and to do that which is evil continually. 

"But behold, that which is of God inviteth and enticeth to do good continually : wherefore, every thing which inviteth and enticeth to do good, and to love God, and to serve him, is inspired of God. 

"Wherefore, take heed, my beloved brethren, that ye do not judge that which is evil to be of God, or that which is good and of God to be of the devil. 

"For behold, my brethren, it is given unto you to judge, that ye may know good from evil; and the 'way to judge is as plain, that ye may know with a perfect knowledge, as the daylight is from the dark night." 

I desire now to call your attention to what Moroni said just prior  hiding the plates in the Hill Cumorah. It is just what we read in the Bible. I might go into this subject a little in detail, but time will not permit. I am not given to discussing things, to he arbitrary, but when I make a statement I want to do so hoping that you will think about it and get some good out of it. In this matter of choosing men — that is what brings this to my mind — I am (one of that number representing the First Council of the -Seventies. There are constant changes in our councils, brought about through changes in other work of the Church — men are taken out of our quorums to serve as high councilors, bishop's counselors, and for other purposes; and then the bishops of wards and presidencies of stakes recommend to us men to fill those vacancies. So we are all the time ordaining Seventies and setting apart presidents to keep these quorums intact as far as iwe can. All these men are recommended to us as good men, and the bishops believe that they are good men, and ,most of them are good men, but there are some of them [who have not proved to be very good. Some of these Elders who have been recommended to be Seventies, I do not know why they recommend them. : Out of the number some of them are very choice men, but other Elders that we ordain Seventies, it is the last time we see them, and then we are blamed for the condition of quorums. But of course the responsibility rests with us to labor with those men and make of them, through the blessings of the Lord, good men. 

Now this is the part I want to read, and I believe this. I may be of the old school, but I have heard it all pry life. I believe it in my heart and with my whole soul. If it is not true "then there is no truth, but we have been mistaken from our youth." We as a Church know this to be true: 

"And again, I exhort you, my brethren," — says Moroni, and this was about the last that he wrote — "that ye deny not the gifts of God, for they are many; and they come from the same God. And there are different ways that these gifts are administered; but it is the same God jwho worketh all in all; and they are given by the manifestations of the Spirit of God unto men, to profit them. 

"For behold, to one is given by the Spirit of God that he may teach the word of 'wisdom;" 

What a wonderful gift! 

"To another, that he may teach the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; 

"And to another, exceeding great faith; and to another, the gifts of healing by the same Spirit. 

"And again, to another, that he may work mighty miracles * * * 

"And again, to another, the beholding of angels and ministering spirits * * * 

"And 'all these gifts come by the spirit of Christ; and they come unto every man severally, according as he will. 

"And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that every good gift cometh of Christ." 

"And now, my beloved brethren, if this be the case that these things are true which I have spoken unto you, and God will show unto you, with power and great glory at the ilast day, that they are true, and if they are true has the day of miracles ceased? 

"Behold I say unto you, Nay." 

Says Moroni : 

"Wherefore, if these things have ceased, then has faith ceased also; and awful is the state of man * * * "But behold, my beloved brethren, I judge better things of you, for I judge that ye have faith in Christ because of your meekness; for if you have not faith in him then ye are not fit to be numbered among the people of this church." 

"And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. 

"And whatsoever thing is good is just and true; wherefore, nothing that is good denieth the Christ, 'but acknowledgeth that he is." 

Moroni exhorts us that we deny not the gifts of God, for they are many and they come from the same God, and there are different ways and they are given by the manifestations of the Spirit of God unto men to profit them. j 

Notwithstanding all these great gifts, no man, however great, can lead, guide and direct the Church of [Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints unless he is divinely authorized and appointed as the prophet, seer and revelator. 

"I exhort you to remember these things; for the time speedily cometh that ye shall know that I lie not, for ye shall see me at the bar of God; and the Lord God will say unto you : Did I not declare my words unto you, which were written by this man, like as one crying from the dead, yea, even as one speaking out of the dust?" 

Patriarchs tell me that prophecy is one of my gifts. It is only my gift through faith and through living up to the precepts of the Gospel of Christ. 

I have been told that I should prophesy. I want to say to you Latter-day Saints that to be a prophet of God all fear and all doubt have to leave your mind, and you then open your mouth and God gives you the words. But I have become so fearful about things I would be afraid to let it loose. I want ,to tell you there are |a lot of us in the same fix. Wie are afraid of what people will think and are doubtful about its fulfilment. 

When Heber C. Kimball prophesied that goods would be sold as cheap in the streets of 'Salt Lake as in New York, he himself turned to President Young land said : 

"Brother Young, I think I have made a mistake." 

Brother Young said : "Never mind, Heber. Let it go." 

Charles C. Rich, after the meeting, said : "Heber, I don't believe a word you said." 

Heber said: "Neither do I." (Laughter.) But he said: "God has spoken." And God had spoken. 

No wonder he was 'frightened, for the people were in the depths of poverty, a thousand miles away from nowhere. 

My testimony )to you is that those gifts and promises are the heritage of God's children. I am not a visionary man, I am not a dreamer. I sometimes wonder what my gift is. I have never seen an angel, but I have the assurance that comes to me and is burned in my heart .like a living fire by the power of the Holy Ghost, that God is the Father, that Jesus is the Christ. I believe with all my soul that Joseph Smith was a prophet and is a prophet of God, and God knows there is ample proof to substantiate it. I also believe that Heber J. Grant is a prophet of God, and whenever God gets ready to give him something  tell you I promise you in the name of the Lord you will get it, and you will get it straight, too. 

The Lord bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

Before concluding the services I desire to call your attention to a slight deviation that will be made in the ordinary proceeding on Sunday morning. Arrangements have been made that on each Sunday morning there will be a national broadcast of musical numbers from ithe Tabernacle. On next Sunday we therefore request that you be present a few minutes before ten o'clock, when this broadcast will begin, and you will be entertained by it during the first thirty minutes, which will include the regular proceedings of the conference in part, after which the regular conference program will be continued. 

I make this announcement at this time because it is possible that some of you may not be here tomorrow and we would like if possible to have you all present before ten o'clock, or not later than ten o'clock, on Sunday morning, for the reason that during this broadcast which goes over the world it is necessary that the strictest attention be observed and that there be as little confusion and noise as possible. 

The hymn, "High on the mountain top," was sung by the congregation. 

Elder Joseph R. Shepherd, Patriarch, Cache Stake, pronounced the benediction. 

The Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


