Afternoon
06 10 1923


The afternoon meeting was opened at 2 o'clock, October 6, 1923. President Heber J. Grant presided and announced that the choir and congregation would sing "Come, come, ye Saints." 

After the singing of the hymn, Elder Joseph R. Murdock, of the Wasatch stake of Zion. offered prayer. 

A solo, "Be thou faithful unto death," was ,sung by Elihu Call. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

I am very glad, my brethren and sisters, that we have the amplifiers installed, and I hope they are in working order, for I have such a cold and hoarseness that hut for these helps I fear .1 would not be able to make you all hear. I sincerely hope to be able to say something to you this afternoon which will be worthy of your hearing. 

A PHASE OF THE ANGEL MORONl'S MESSAGE. 

In the brief period of time which I have been invited to occupy this afternoon, I desire to speak upon that phase of the Angel Moroni's message to the boy Joseph Smith, which relates directly to the salvation for the dead, or as we commonly speak of it, genealogy and temple work. Genealogy and temple work go hand in hand. In both are seen the spirit of Elijah and the accomplishment of one would be impossible without the accomplishment of the other, that is to say, the temple work and salvation for our (dead, would be impossible of accomplishment without first having a knowledge, some genealogy, of our dead. I realize that there are many people who do not accept of the visitation of the Angel Moroni to the boy Joseph Smith as a truth, therefore I desire to read three verses from the Old Testament, which all good Christians claim to believe, and which bears upon this subject. 

SCRIPTURE "REARING ON THE SUBJECT. 

I will read the first, the fifth and the sixth verses of the fourth chapter of Malachi: 

"For, behold, the day cometh, that shall burn as an oven; and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly; shall be stubble; and the day that cometli shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that 'it shall leave them neither root nor branch. 

"Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord : 

"And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse." 

I doubt if there was any man living at the time of the visitation of the Angel Moroni to Joseph Smith who could properly interpret this passage of scripture. There was very little information among men upon the earth at that time in regard to this very important principle of the salvation for the dead, and the visitation of the Angel Moroni and his message were the first word in this dispensation in( regard to the matter. The angel, referring to this same subject, while addressing the boy Joseph said: 

"For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall burn as stubble; for they, that come shall burn them, saith the Lord of Hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch." 

"Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. 

"And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers; if it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." 

THE INTERPRETATION. 

An explanation of the meaning of these passages of scripture is given in the 128th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, and reads as follows: 

"It is sufficient to know, in this case, that the earth will be smitten with a curse unless there is a welding link of some kind or other between the fathers and the children, upon some subject or other — and behold what is that subj«ct? It is the baptism for the dead. For we without them cannot be made perfect; neither can they without us be made perfect. Neither can they nor we be made perfect without those who have died in the gospel also." 

It would seem from the quotation made by the angel to Joseph that the earth would be wasted at the coming of our Lord, if we do not do this important work, if the hearts of the children be not, in  dispensation, turned unto their fathers; which, interpreted by the Prophet Joseph means : if we do not consider our dead ancestors, those who have gone before, obtaining sufficient knowledge and genealogy concerning them that will enable us to go into the temples, builded for that purpose, and there perform this important work of baptism. But be it known, my brethren and sisters and friends, that not only is it necessary that our dead who have not had the opportunity in life of hearing and embracing the gospel shall have the opportunity of hearing it on the other side and shall have the privilege of baptism by proxy by their living friends, but it is necessary that every ordinance of the gospel that is necessary for the salvation of the living shall also be administered by proxy for the dead. 

Some will say they do not believe in this proxy business. To me, one may as well say that he does not believe in the atonement which was wrought out by our Lord and Savior for the redemption of the human family; for that is certainly a work of proxy. He becomes the Savior and Redeemer of mankind. We become the recipients of the blessings of the atonement, so far as being redeemed from our individual sins is concerned, only when we have accepted him as such, and when we have accepted of his mission as the Redeemer and Savior of the world. So men are authorized to act for the Lord by authority given them, and do for their dead kindred, a proxy work; thus they may become Saviors of men. So that with those for whom the work shall be done properly, as the Lord has revealed it through his servant, the Prophet Joseph, when they accept of the work done, it becomes efficacious for their salvation. 

RESPONSIBILITY UPON THE PERSON, THE CHURCH AND THE WORLD. 

With regard to this expression: if it were not so the whole earth would be smitten, would be utterly wasted at his coming, it seems to me that this refers not only to the individual members of the Church, but to the Church as a whole, and not only to us, but to the people of the world. Elijah came in fulfilment of the prediction that he would come before the great and glorious coming of our Lord and Savior, and he conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, in the Kirtland temple, on the third day of April, 1836. the keys of the dispensation of the turning of the hearts of the children to the fathers; and he told them on that occasion that by this they might know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord was nigh, even at our doors. Eighty-seven and onehalf years have passed since that time. We are that much nearer the great and dreadful day of the Lord, and his coming is assured. Is the earth going to be wasted at his coming? I firmly believe from my experience and observation, and from what history tells us, that there has never been a time since the visitation of the Angel Moroni to Joseph Smith, when there has been so much wickedness as now in the world and so much destruction of life and property, all fulfilling the predictions of the prophets, being signs of the time of the coming of our Lord and Savior. 

THE SPIRIT OF ELIJAH. 

When Elijah delivered his message, there went forth to the world a spirit, even the spirit of Elijah, which was seen in Great Britain, in the parliament of that great nation; for almost immediately, we learn from the history, they enacted laws making it obligatory upon the parish clerks and others in the subdivisions of the government of Great Britain that they keep correct records, records of births, records of deaths, records 'of marriages, etc., the very data that are required to enable us to perform the work for our dead in the temples of the Lord; and a place was designated for the safe keeping of these records as they became completed. In Great Britain, in other nations of Europe, and throughout the United States, from that time went forth a spirit and a desire among men to know of their kindred dead, such as had never been witnessed before, and genealogical societies were organized, and men and women of wealth and nobility have expended their fortunes and years of their time in searching" for the very information that we desire and need in order to discharge ourselves of the obligations resting upon us concerning the dead, and we have now accessible all through the country, libraries containing thousands and thousands of printed histories of families and ol branches and of counties and shires and parishes, and 1 think that the people of the world are doing their duty in this respect, perhaps as well as are the Latter-day Saints. We have builded temples at great cost and are maintaining them ar great expense, and there are but a few of us who have been very active in looking after our kindred dead. 

IMPORTANCE OF TEMPLE WORK. 

The importance of this work was stated emphatically by the Prophet Joseph when he said that the Lord has never laid upon this people a greater responsibility than that of looking after their dead, which means, inquiring after them, learning of them, building temples and redeeming them by administering unto them the saving ordinances of the gospel. 

The gospel is preached to the world; it is the poor of the world who are receiving the gospel. This work in the Church is being performed by the poor of the Church. Think it over, brethren and sisters, we have men of means, we have men who could well afford to inquire after their dead, make extended research, and could pay for proxy work in having that work done, and men, too, who are active in other religious lines of work, who seem never to have let this important question enter into their minds; who have never been active in obtaining genealogy and in doing temple work. My motive , in speaking these few words this afternoon, brethren and sisters, that I might inspire in the minds of some of my brethren and sisters who have been neglectful of this responsibility, a desire and a determination to take up this work, to learn where their responsibilities lie, and to discharge themselves faithfully of these responsibilities, while they have the opportunity. 

AN OPPORTUNITY TO WORK AT HOME. 

Time will not permit me to extend my remarks upon this subject, which is one of the most glorious and most important, and many examples of faithfulness on the part of our people are worthy of the emulation of the whole. I would that all could know the sacrifices which some are making in these temples, and in obtaining a genealogy for their dead. Those who cannot go abroad to preach the gospel, who are physically disqualified, men who are wrapped up in business and professions, so that they cannot answer the call, have an opportunity here at home to ido a work for which they are well adapted, where they can use their means to the very best advantage and accomplish just as great and glorious a work as if they were abroad in the world preaching the gospel. Will you do it, brethren and sisters? That is the question. Are we going to be as the world — hearers of the word and not doers of it, deceiving ourselves? T trust this will not be the case. God help us to discharge our duty faithfully, that the earth may not be wasted at his coming and that we may not be reproached when our life's work is ended, with having neglected our dead, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I feel very weak this afternoon, and I desire your assistance and the blessing of my heavenly Father that I may be able to say something that will be profitable to you. 

GRATITUDE AND THANKS EXPRESSED 

My soul is filled with a deep gratitude that I cannot express, for membership in this wonderful organization. I am thankful that my lot has been cast with this people, I am grateful that I was born of goodly parents, and that the environment of my life has been such that I have participated in the greatest blessings that the Lord has bestowed upon his children. While listening to the brethren who have addressed us, I have felt to pour out my soul in thanksgiving because of what we are enjoying. No other people upon the face of the earth have been honored as we have in having been given the know ledge of the gospel of our Lord. Think of belonging to a Church that has deposited with it the information and authority that is necessary for all humanity to possess before they can realize the purpose of their creation. I sometimes feel that we do not appreciate the Holy Bible, and what it contains, and these other scriptures, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price that have been referred to by our beloved President as letters from our heavenly Father. They may be so received, at least they are his advice and his counsel to all the children of men given to them that they may know how to take advantage of their opportunities, that their lives may not be spent in vain. One of the sorrowful things in life is to see a man or a woman laid away in Mother earth with a realization of the fact that they have refused the greater blessings that our Father offered to them, and have continued grasping at the bubble that has itself disappeared. When I think of the millions of God's children in the world, and realize how little they are striving for the things that are really worth while, I feel sad, but when I see tins body of people here today — representatives of the great Church that bears the name of the Redeemer — and realize that we who have accepted the gospel have been chosen, as it were, from among the multitude of our father's children to understand him and to know why we are here, my heart is filled with gratitude and praise to Him for his blessings unto us. 

We believe in a pre-existence. The Lord has taught us that in the Scriptures, but there are millions of those who profess belief in the Floly Bible who do not believe in, or at least do not understand, what pre-existence really means. They do not realize that we lived before we came here; they do not comprehend that this body has been given to us as a reward for faithfulness in the spirit world before we came here. They do not know that by partaking of certain ordinances prescribed by our heavenly Father, we, as husbands and wives, may be united for time and eternity and enjoy the companionship of our children for ever. How thankful we should be for that knowledge that has come to us. 

As I stand here now, realizing that from infancy until manhood I had the teaching of a loving father and a tender, sweet mother, and that I had explained to me what I should do in order to prepare for eternal life in the presence of our Father, I feel grateful indeed. 

If I were to think, as many of the people of the world think, that now my beloved parents are gone, they have passed out of my life forever and that I will never see them again, that would deprive me of one of the greatest joys that I have in life, the contemplation of meeting them again, and receiving their welcome and their affection, and of thanking them from the depths of a grateful heart. These are some of the blessings that appeal to me as coining through the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

THIS LIFE IS NOT THE END. 

I am thankful that there has been revealed to us and made plain in this latter-day that this life is not the end, that this is but a part of , and that if we take advantage of our privileges here, that this is but the stepping stone to greater and more desirable conditions. We are all of us passing rapidly to that time when we will be called hence. If we did not understand that there is a future life, if we did not realize that there is something more than the influence that we have received thus far, if there was not anything but the vanity and vexation of life for us to live for there are many, it seems to me, who would grow weary in the struggle that is to be made for existence here. But in the mercy of our heavenly Father he has bestowed upon us the most wonderful gifts that come to human kind. Think of the tenderness of our fathers and mothers, reared as we are under the nurture and admonition of the Lord; think of the homes of prayer wherein we have been taught that we must pray to our heavenly Father if we would be pleasing unto him. Think of the teachings that have come to us of honesty, of industry, of integrity, of sobriety, of purity, and cleanness of life. Think of the blessings that have come to us, inspiring in us charity for those who are less fortunate than ourselves. All the ideals and virtues that mankind has known, or will know, have been bestowed upon the members of this great Church. 

NO DOUBT AS TO THE OUTCOME 

We are not in doubt as to what the outcome will be. The Lord has not only said unto us, ''In my Father's house are many mansions," "I go to prepare a place for you," but in the day and age in which we live the Lord has described the very places lo which his children may hope to go. He has explained to us that there are various degrees of glory, has described to us certain requirements which must be complied with if we would enjoy those degrees of glory. The man who drinks with the drunken, and who lives an immoral life, and who gives himself up to evil things, should not hope to go into the celestial kingdom of our heavenly Father, for the Lord has said he cannot go there. But the people of the world do not understand that. There are those who profess Christianity, who believe that even the murderer who has imbrued his hands in the blood of his innocent victim may, by saying the words, "I believe in Jesus Christ," be ushered into the presence of the Redeemer of mankind. This is false doctrine and I am thankful that this people are not deceived by such teachings, but that on the contrary we are placed in a condition to know- how we may obtain the blessing of Celestial glory, and not be disappointed. 

SOME CHOICE BLESSINGS THAT WE ENJOY. 

I am glad that there is in this great organization a determination to sustain the laws of the land in which we live. I am grateful for this great government that our heavenly Father gave to us, for he has said that he raised up wise men to prepare for us the Constitution 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

of this great nation, and I am thankful that he lias given unto us the revelation that as long as the people of this land work righteousness, that he will he their God and their king, and that no other kings shall dwell upon this land. It is pleasing to know that this land has been consecrated to liberty, and that the way was prepared for the coming of the gospel in this great and wonderful nation. 

1 am thankful to know that all that is good and pure and holy, all thai is sweet and that is worth while in life, may be enjoyed by the members of this Church within the folds of the Church. There has not been withheld from us one single blessing that mankind may enjoy, because of our membership in this Church. ( )n the contrary, the Lord has taught us to be brothers and sisters in very deed, and. not only has he given to us the Old Testament scriptures and the NewTestament scriptures, but he has given to us the American volume of scripture that supplements the teachings of the divine mission of our Lord, and in our day has. revealed to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith the doctrines that are necessarv for us to observe in order that we may have the companionship of our wives and our children, our fathers and our mothers, throughout the ages of eternity. 

These, my brethren and sisters, are some of the choice blessings that the Lord has bestowed upon us in this day, and 1 wonder if we appreciate them. All that he has asked of us in return for the fulness of the earth, all that he has asked of us in return for the blessings of this life, all that he has asked us to do in order that we may enjoy eternal life in his celestial kingdom, is to follow the simple teachings of our Lord, that he has given to the children of men, that all men may follow if they will, and while doing it, peace of mind, contentment and happiness may be theirs. The gospel of Jesus Christ is not a difficult road to follow, it is the pathway of peace, and gives assurance of the blessings of the Lord when life's labor on earth is completed. The gospel of Jesus Christ does not reqire us to torment ourselves with physical pain. On the contrary it teaches us that we may so live that health and vigor and strength will be ours, and that we can avoid the pains and anguish that are the result of violation of our Father's laws. 

ARE WE WORTHY TO BE CALLED SAINTS? 

I am grateful for that wonderful Word of Wisdom, simple as it is, and as the Lord says, "adapted to the capacity of the weak or the weakest of all wdio are or can be called Saints." I pause to ask this great congregation, are we worthy to be called Saints ? All who hope to be called Saints should certainly be observers of the Word of Wisdom. And what does it mean to us? It gives us sweetness of life, it takes from us the poisonous vapors that many people breathe as the result of smoking tobacco. It avoids for us that nauseating condition that is the result of chewing tobacco. It preserves us. if we observe it, from the infirmities due to taking  our systems the narcotics contained in tea and coffee, and from the disatsrous effects of, liquor and hot and strong drink. Our heavenly Father, not only tells us what we should avoid, but tells us what we may use with profit. He has said to us that all grain, all wholesome herbs, the fruit of the vine etc., are good for man. Flesh of beast and fowls of the air; and these things he refers to we may use wlith prudence and thanksgiving; and, I want to emphasize with thanksgiving. 

THE LORD OF LORDS OUR TEACHER 

Brethren and sisters, you have had the greatest instructor that the world knows anything" about. You have had for your school master the King of kings, the Lord of lords, the. Creator of the heavens and the earth; who in his wonderful tenderness and consideration for us in this day, has sent his prophet into the world to explain to us, and to make clear to our minds the things that he gave to the world hundreds of years ago that have been misunderstood and have been misinterpreted very much to the detriment of our bather's children. But in our day he has renewed to us the truth, has given to us the blessed teachings that should qualify us to be men and women after his own heart, has held out to us the promise that if we will do the things that he advises our lives will be pure and holy, peace will be our portion here, and we shall dwell with him throughout the ages of eternity. What more could he give unto us, or, as has already been quoted by one of the brethren : "W hat more can he say than to you he has said, you who unto Jesus for refuge have fled?" 

THANKFUL FOR NOBLE MEN TO REPRESENT X'S IX Till'. NATION. 

I felt grateful today when one of the members of the House of Bepresentatives of the Congress of the United States, our great legislative bod}', stood here as a humble representative of the community in which he lives, as an Elder of the Church and testified of the truth, while at Washington he should radiate an influence for the uplift of every soul that he comes in contact with without be'ng contaminated with the evils that beset mankind. He is a legislator of the greatest nation on earth, but he is more, he is a representative of our heavenly Father, with authority to officiate in the ordinances of the gospel of our Lord for the blessing of mankind. I am grateful for him and his brethren wdio are there with him. I am thankful that by reason of faith and good works we see men rising from the ranks, year after year, to stand in high places in our government, not to tear it down, not to break in pieces the structures that have been reared by others, but to show where the better way lies, to say to the children of men who are crying out for a change, and who are not satisfied with conditions : Let us legislate that we may all live m peace in the land and that we all may enjoy the blessings of the Lord while we live upon the earth. LET US NOT CHANGE OUR BLESSINGS FOR FOOLISH ATTRACTIONS. 

My brethren and sisters, I am thankful for my membership in this Church. I am grateful to be permitted to have the companionship of my brethren and sisters. I prize my citizenship in this great nation, and from the depths of my soul I am thankful that my lot has been cast with you. This great government was established by our Father, this land was prepared by him, and the particular part of it that is inhabited by the Latter-day Saints has been beautified until the eyes of the world are turned towards us, because of the picturesqueness and the grandeur of the home that the Lord has prepared for us. He has blessed us with all this and with every comfort, with the loving companionship and 'association of wives and husbands and parents and children and the presidency of the Priesthood of outLord. Let us not be blinded by the cunning of the adversary to exchange any of these wonderful gifts for the foolishness that attracts mankind, for the pitfalls that have been prepared by the enemy of all righteousness. This is our Father's work, this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, it is the power of God unto salvation to ali those who believe and obey it, and I pray that we who are here this day, may return to our homes with renewed determination to be loyal and faithful to those things that are righteous, and that we will live to honor him who gives all we enjoy, and who offers us the blessings of eternal life, eternal progress, eternal increase in his celestial kingdom. May the Lord help us to merit his blessings, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

No person who has attended the sessions of this conference is more thankful to our heavenly Father than am I. I want you, brethren and sisters, to know that whenever one of the general conferences is held, and I am unable to attend, I feel greatly the loss of it. 1 constantly pray to my heavenly Father that, on account of conditions that prevent me from attending the conferences, I may partake of the same spirit that is manifested through all of the speakers when I have the privilege of reading the reports. 

APPRECIATION OF CONFERENCE AND THE SPEAKERS. 

In standing before you this day I crave the assistance of my heavenly Father in what I may say at this conference. I trust that I may have the same degree of his spirit that has been enjoyed by all the former speakers. I have never attended conference where the testimonies had such an effect upon me, beginning with that of the President of the Church and continuing with every speaker that followed him. My soul and spirit said : "Amen" to the many truths uttered, and to the testimonies borne. I have heard President Grant bear his testimony to his knowledge of this gospel many times. I have  him speak since he has been President of the Church, but never in my life have I been impressed with the power that he exercises, through the gift of God, as in his opening address at this conference. As President Penrose stood upon this stand, a servant who has declared the truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ for seventy-two years, I believe, even before any of the other General Authorities of the Church were born, and with the power that he exercised, granted to him by God; and the truths that were uttered rang through my soul, and I thanked God for such men. 

CONDITIONS IN THE CHRISTIAN WORLD 

Much has been said at this conference as to the conditions existing in the world, based upon the predictions of the prophets of the living God. It called to my attention the fact that on July 27, this year, Brother John A. Widtsoe and I were in Sweden, and at that time the great Baptist congress or conference of the Baptist churches in all the world was held there, and an account of the meetings held upon that day was cabled to the New York Times. I am going to take the time now to read from the New York Times of July 28. this year, a report of that particular meeting. It is dated, Stockholm, July 27: 

"The Christian church has no message today for a dying world. As a matter of fact, the Christian church is preaching many gospels, and the result is confusion and failure," said the Reverend Doctor Curtis Lee Laws, of Brooklyn, in addressing the Baptist World Alliance here today. "Audiences arc being rent asunder today," he said, "and those who have long been brethren are in warring camps contending, not only over non-essentials, but also over the very fundamental principles of Christianity. If this theological war is fought to a finish," he said, "at least the present generation will perish for lack of vision. Believing in the sincerity and high moral character of these theologians, I beg of them, in the name of Christ and perishing humanity, that they will quietly and lovingly gather about the table with God's book before them and let them settle every disputed question. That book is the ultimate ground for authority." 

A MESSAGE FOR THE WORLD 

I might add, my brethren and sisters, that there is a message in the world today for all its peoples. God has revealed to his servants the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It was given through his servants, as a message to the world, and humble as our missionaries may be in presenting that message to the world, dying, as the minister has already said, for want of a message, if it were heeded by the world today, existing conditions could not be as they are. It is true that there is a suffering" world, it is true that there are dissensions; among all the sects of the world, it was true when God spoke to the Prophet Joseph, calling his particular attention to it, and it will be true until the world accepts the message that God has given in this last dispensation of the fulness of time. Ridicule, my brethren and sisters, is not going to change that message, and the mere fact that someone says that in this enlightened age, the people of this dispensation, in this day of understanding and enlightenment, will never believe that the Angel Moroni appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that he did deliver the golden plates to him, just as the Prophet testified. 

THE PROBABILITY OF ITS TRUTH 

Mere ridicule of such a statement does not make it untrue. Is it any more difficult to believe that an angel from heaven did just as the Prophet Joseph stated, deliver those plates to him and usher in the gospel of Jesus Christ, as practically every prophet in every dispensation has predicted — is it any more difficult to believe that than for the world's Christian people to believe the Bible? Isn't it just as probable, if they want to use that word, as when Moses is credited with the power conferred upon him by God, to have the waters of the Red Sea divide and the people of Israel go across dry-shod, is there any more mystery about one than there is about the other? If God's power with Elijah could enable him to stand upon the banks of the Jordan and smite the waters of the river and cause them to divide hither and thither, and he cross over dry-shod, isn't it just as probable, even to a skeptic, that the truth, as delivered by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is as it occurred? There are too many recitals of incidents in the Bible that are much more miraculous than the fact that an angel from heaven showed to the boy prophet where the records were concealed. 

A TRIBUTE TO MOTHER 

Together with Brother Widtsoe 1 had the privilege of visiting Europe during the months of July and August. While thus upon a special mission, and by the assistance of Brother Widtsoe, I had the privilege of visiting the Scandinavian countries. I also took the time during my last visit to go there, primarily, I will say, to visit my mother's old home. While a young man 1 used to say to mother : "Some day we will go back to the old home." I left it too late, as so many things are put off until it is too late; for my mother died when she was sixty years old. But I made up my mind that sooner or later I would go to the old home and see some of my relatives there. 1 haven't the time today to express to you the feelings I had when I stood upon the very spot where she was born, and when I saw the old homestead as it was. When I went into the old cow-shed and opened the old door that she had opened perhaps hundreds and hundreds of times, when I looked upon the spring back of the house, that I had heard her speak of when I was a boy and, as I stood under the shade of that wonderful tree her mother had planted and which she used to tell me about; and as 1 saw conditions surrounding that homestead, I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, I thanked God from the bottom of my heart that the gospel of Jesus Christ reached my mother, and that she knew it was true, when she was but a girl. All opposition and all persecution on the part of her father and her mother and her loved ones never had one iota of influence upon her testimony that God lived and that Jesus is the Christ. 

A YOUNG CONVERT S TELLING TESTIMONY 

My cousins brought to me the old family Bible, and as I lifted the lid I saw a writing and at the bottom of the last page of it the name "Anna Kirstine Mauritz-datter." I could not read the writing, but I asked Brother Widtsoe to copy it as quickly as possible, then tell me what was in it. I desired to have it translated word for word. It was a message to her parents written on the day that she left home — the day she was driven from home by a loving father and mother who thought that she would not be gone very long, but that she would soon return and ask forgiveness, and deny that she knew that God lived and that Jesus is the Christ. She was only a girl, then, but I am going to take time now to read to this congregation, that letter, because it gives forth the spirit that makes women such as she. It is filled full of the spirit of our fathers and mothers who were willing to sacrifice all in this world for the gospel's sake; aye, it is the spirit of a missionary, teaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. This was written in her own hand-writing, and it was the last farewell of a girl who loved her country, who loved her father and mother, and who loved her. home, but who loved the gospel of Jesus Christ more : 

"A few words from your daughter Kirstine, Dear, tny parents : Pray God for courage to accept this great truth contained in this book and now restored, so that rejected knowledge may not be a testimony against you on God's great day to come. I pray God that on that great day we may be able to gather together in joy and happiness, and that we may then be crowned to God's glory, and that he may say to us all: 'Come now, my faithful children, you shall be rewarded for your labors.' This matter, and my desire that you may know the truth and accept it, have made me shed in secret many burning tears, and they have been increased when I have thought of the ungodliness of mankind. The years are speeding on, the day is approaching when all must listen to the Shepherd and render obedience to his will, or receive punishment. The great King is coming to reign and to rule. Sin and evil will be banished. May God grant that you may be among the worthy ones. My heart grows tender when I think of these things. God give that all mankind may repent. I shall pray to my heavenly Father that all who read these lines may comprehend the true purpose of his holy book, and may lay down the burden of sin. That which I have written is for all who may read these lines. I pray God to lead you into eternal lift. 

' Kirstine Maurits-datter, Drammen, Sept. 1, 1854." 

NOT ASHAMED ANYWHERE OF THE RESTORED GOSPEL OF CHRIST 

I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ; I am not ashamed of the testimony of the mother that gave me birth. I care not where I go upon the face of the earth, whether it be with kings, potentates, or any class of people in the world, I want them all to know that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I pray God that I may have strength to do those things that he wants me to do, to say those things that he wants me to say, to live in a way that he wants me to live, and bear a testimony of his truth and of his work, that will be worthy of a man who comes from a mother such as I had. 

THE BURDEN OF WAR THE RESULT OF THE BURDEN OF SIN 

Yes, the burden of sin today, the cause of the World war, and the resulting burdens of debt, are on the backs of the people of Europe, and if they are fortunate enough to live, and if there is peace in the world for another hundred years, they will not entirely remove the burdens that have been placed upon them as a result of the world war. 

Let me cite you a case: Take England, with her forty-five millions of people. I mean Great Britain and Ireland, not all of her colonies nor any of them. What do we find? Forty-five millions of people carrying a burden of over eight hundred dollars for every man, woman and child. We find the average tax imposed upon them equal to one hundred and two dollars every year, for every man, woman and child. We find that the costs of the last war, to England, were more than the maintaining of the British government for two hundred and twenty-six years, including all former wars. We find hardly a home in all England but what there came, through that war, the death of one or more of the family. We find unrest even there, and 1 want to say now to the good people here that I pray God that the time never will come when the English speaking peoples of the world will become enemies. I never want to see a conflict between England and America; for if it ever comes, just as surely as God lives, the English speaking peoples of the world will not thereafter control the destinies of the world. 

WORLD CAN BE SAVED ONLY BY A KNOWLEDGE OF GOD AND THE USE OF 

COMMON SENSE 

I have started, my brethren and sisters, upon a subject that will take too much time. I bear you my testimony that this is the work of God, and the only thing, it seems to me, that will save the world today is to acknowledge God and use good common sense. I hope and trust that the members of the Church will be even more willing to serve God than they have been in the past. Look to your homes, my brethren and sisters. See that the home is made the place where all in it will thank God for his many mercies, and are willing to acknowledge his hand in all things. May God bless not only our people here, but bless all the peoples of the world, and, as we often pray, hasten the day when Zion shall be redeemed, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

(President of the Central States Mission.) 

I do not know that I have ever attended a conference when I have felt more of the Spirit of the Lord and the power of testimony than in this conference; and I trust that I may enjoy a continuation of God's Holy Spirit and be led to say that which he would have me say at this time. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is growing and will continue to grow until it fills the earth. Daniel, a prophet of God, made such a prediction, and it will not fail for God's word has  failed. Men have failed but his word has never failed, neither has the word of his servants. Wicked men, for periods of time, have prevented his power from growing in the earth, but: when opportunity has come and when it has been expedient, he has restored it again. This power he gave unto Adam and it has been in the earth; whenever his authority has been in the earth in the different dispensations of the gospel. The strength of the Church, it has been said, does not lie in its numbers, or in its wealth, or even in its educational work, but it is vested in the principles of the gospel which the Lord our God has revealed. 

We are accounted a strange people and a peculiar people by some, and it is true, in a way, that we are. Our belief separates us from the rest of the world gathered together in the great churches of the day. As they meet to worship our Father, they are taught doctrines that are not in harmony with the gospel as the Lord gave it unto Adam, Noah, and Abraham and unto all who represented him in the earth before the Christ, and as he restored it in the dispensation of the fulness of times. Think of the millions of people called Christians 'who today are worshiping a Father without body or parts or passions and who sits on the top of a topless throne — something that really could not be; yet men and women enlightened by the theology of men and by the science of the earth believe that their Father and your Father and mine is without a body and without form. They believe also that they had their beginning here. Go where you may you will find few if any public speakers in any of the churches of the day who teach the ante-mortal state of man. They do not believe in preexistence. They believe that Christ existed before but that man had his beginning here. They believe that a man's life here is the end of his opportunity to work, that the Lord has provided a way for him and all he has to do is to acknowledge the Christ and be saved regardless of the life that he has lived. 

It is no wonder that mere boys and girls who are sent into the world, can "hold their own" with the great leading minds of the country who study the scripture for their guide. These missionaries have the truth, the power of truth. The fact that a man is on the right side and has the right to operate and to stand for the Redeemer of the world makes him strong. It is no wonder that boys in the missionary field can hold meetings night after night, occupying one and two hours at a time, preaching to the congregations of the world the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is not to be wondered at, when we know that they have the truth. 

The things that our missionaries accomplish are almost miracles. During the past summer, in the Central States Mission, two of our missionaries, and one of them with only a few months' experience, have held as many as ten meetings, night after night. The same congregation of people came again and again to hear them discuss the principles of revealed religion : that God who sits enthroned in yonder heavens is an immortal Being who has a body of flesh and bone and that we are his children, fashioned and made after him; that we lived before we came into this world; that we did not come here as a matter of chance but that we came here according to appointment; that some were leaders, some were followers, some were men of faith; that this time that is allotted unto men here in the great school called life is but preparatory for the future which surely must come to every son and everv daughter of our father in heaven: that to those who 1 have not had the privilege of receiving the gospel of the living God in mortality, .shall be given a chance in the hereafter. 

These are only a few of the things that God has revealed which make life of interest and worth while, which cause men and women to say to themselves : I believe the voice of that young man or that young woman; the logic appeals to me. I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that the world is filled with honorable men and honorable women, if we could only reach them. It takes time to change them, it is true, because they have lived believing they are right. They ought not to be condemned; God will not condemn them until he gives them a chance. That is, why we are here today. That is why this Church lives. That is why the work of (Joel will grow. Our father will give his children a chance. He gives- his missionaries opportunities. He is by their side. If the veil could only be lifted, we could see that his representatives are with them in the, earth. It is not the power of man they possess, but the power of the eternal God, because they are only acting in his name. They are his agents, his representatives sent into the world in this da)- to give the people a chance to be redeemed. 

The strength of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is vested in the truth which God has revealed. Men need only be willing to serve him, and by his power miracles are wrought from the pulpits. By his power miracles are wrought through the laying on of hands, through the speaking in tongues, through the logic given unto his children unto the convincing of the honest in heart that he lives and that the world is not without him, that his Priesthood is here in the earth, and that the authority to act in his name is here. 

May God give the Latter-day Saints the power to continue to educate their children, whom they hold in trust for him, so that the Lord may be able to use them for the glorifying of his name, through his Son who died that we might live, I pray in the name of Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

(President of the Southern States Mission.) 

When the president of the Church was speaking yesterday morning, the feelings of that vast congregation were such as were described by the two disciples who walked with Jesus after his re.»urrection. 

They said : "Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures?" And our hearts burned with the fire of the Spirit which has been rekindled and renewed by President Penrose and the rest of the speakers as we have listened to the message of life and salvation they have delivered. 

This Church, I boldly proclaim and devoutly believe, has blessed the United States of America and all the world by its existence and by the doctrines it has taught. It has given to this nation especially, and to the world a treasure-house of scripture. I refer to the sacred Nephite record, the Book of Mormon. Let us take from this treasurehouse one or two of the gems of truth. One of these gems is as follows : 

"And there was not any man who could do a miracle in the name of jesus, save he were cleansed every whit from his iniquity." (Ill Nephi 8:3.) 

Isn't this a clarion call to purity of life? The cleaner our lives, the purer our thoughts, the greater will be our power, by the prayer of faith, to heal those who are afflicted with bodily ills. It is the truth that the many mighty miracles that Jesus the Redeemer wrought was due to the fact that he lived so close to the Father, lived so perfectly the celestial laws of God, that unto him was given that superhuman power. 

Another truth: God said: "For my work is not yet finished; neither shall it be until the end of man, neither from that time hence forth and forever." 

"The works of God continue, and worlds and lives abound; improvement and progression have one eternal round." 

Over the portals of the prison house which God hath prepared for the sinners, the sectarian world has written this inscription: "Abandon hope all who enter here." But the Church ot Jesus Christ has written above the entrance : "Prisoners of hope;" for God's mercy endureth forever, and shall reach the penitent and repentant when wrongs have been fully expiated for, even to the uttermost farthing. 

Again, in the world today, who are denying the divinity of Jesus Christ, and also his resurrection? Some of the very people who have brazenly declared that this Church is not a Christian Church. Go to that splendid book of Mosiah and read the soul stirring testimony therein concerning the atonement of Jesus Christ, delivered by Abinadi, who sealed his testimony with his blood and suffered death by fire for daring to proclaim that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, and through his atonement came forgiveness of sins and a redemption from the grave. 

These are some of the gems from the treasure-house of scripture that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have given to the world; and I glory in and am thankful to God for the comfort and instruction in that book. It is true that many of the learned are denying the divinity of Jesus Christ. To he learned is good, says the Book of Mormon, if they hearken unto the counsels of God; when scholarship is made tributary to the truth of God, then blessed is he who uses his powers of learning in promulgating that truth. It was the common people who heard Jesus gladly. These ministers who arise in the pulpit and deny Christ's divinity and resurrection, are under the condemnation of the Redeemer who said : "That every idle word that men shalh speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment." The words which deny the divinity of the Redeemer are idle words and shall have to be accounted for in the day of the great jugment. 

I bear you my testimony that this gospel is true and of God. It is the power of God unto salvation, because through the gospel have come to light, life and immortality, and Jesus Christ hath abolished death and brought redemption from sin, death and the grave. I bear my humble testimony that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God; and that President Grant stands in the power and right of his calling as President of the Church : and oh, how blessed are we who listened to his inspiring teachings yesterday morning, when to every heart was brought home the great truth that he is favored of God and magnified in his calling as President of this Church and the leader of this great people. This testimony I bear in humility, in truth, and in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Presented the General Authorities and also the General Officers of the Church. They were sustained in their positions and callings, by the unanimous vote of the assembly, as follows : 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Charles W. Penrose, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Anthony W. Ivins, Second Counselor in the hirst Presidency. GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF TWELVE APOSTLES COUNCIL OF TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Reed Smoot 

Joseph Fielding Smith James E. Talmage Stephen L. Richards 

George Albert Smith George F. Richards 

Richard R. Lyman Melvin J. Ballard John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney David O. McKay 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors of the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and and Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

FIRST SEVEN PRESIDENTS OF SEVENTY 

Seymour B. Young Rulon S. Wells 

Brigtiam H. Roberts Joseph W. McMurrin 

Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Levi Edgar Young 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE-! N -TRUST 

Heber J. Grant, as Trnstee-in-Trust, for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. Wm. Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Charles W. Penrose David O. McKay 

Anthony W. Ivins John A. Widtsoe 

Willard Young Stephen L. Richards 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Arthur Winter, 

Sec. and Treas. 

COMMISSIONERS OF EDUCATION 

John A. Widtsoe Stephen L. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS 

Adam S. Bennion 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John C. Cutler Peter G. Johnston TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor Edward P. Kimball, and 

B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor Tracy Y. Cannon, Asst. Organists John J. McClellan, Organist George C. Smith, Sec. and Treas. 

And all the members of the Choir 

CLERK OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I wish to say that I have been very gratified indeed with our meetings here today. I feel that the Lord has abundantly blessed us in our gatherings and that we have had a rich outpouring of his Holy Spirit. 

I regret exceedingly that we have to limit our brethren to a very few minutes when they speak here. There is hardly one of the brethren who has stood upon his feet but what, I am sure, could edify this congregation for an hour or more if the opportunity were presented; but if you stop to think of the fact that there are twenty-six of the general authorities, and that we are anxious to hear from the mission presidents and from as many stake presidents as we possibly can, you will realize that we can only barely have testimonies borne by most of the brethren in these conference meetings. 

The congregation sang "High on the mountain top,' 5 and the closing prayer was offered by Elder Wallace Calder, president of the Uintah stake of Zion. 


