Morning
07 10 1923


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I regret to say that Brother Whitney's health is of such character that he has not been able to be with us during our conference, so far, and he feels that he cannot come this morning nor this afternoon. 1 am pleased to inform you, however, that his health has very greatly improved, during the past six months, and that he is again able occasionally, in fact nearly always, to meet with us once a week in the temple in the regular council meeting of the Presidency, the Apostles and the Patriarch. But considering the state of his nerves at the present time, he does not feel that it is wisdom to he here and mingle with a large crowd. lie is with us in spirit and we hope and pray that he may be here in vigor of body and mind six months from today. 

The choir sang, ''1 saw a mighty angel fly." 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 

Like Elder George F. Richards, I am very thankful this morning for these amplifiers, for, like him, I am suffering from a cold which somewhat affects my voice. 

TRUE AND FALSE EVOLUTION. 

A gentleman said to me some time ago: "Do vou believe in evolu'ion?" I said, "Yes sir, I do.'' And then I said, "You will remember that there are two views of this question of evolution, one bears upon true evolution and the other bears upon what I call false evolution." And I called his attention to the fact that the scriptures tell us — we find it in the first chapter of Genesis — that God created animals after their kind — that of man and that of animal — and it is set forth beautifully in these words : 

"And the evening and the morning were the fifth day. 

"And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind : and it was so. 

"And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and everything that creepeth upon the earth after his kind : and God saw that it was good. 

"And God said. Let us make man in our image, after our likeness;" [and we might add: after our kind], "and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. 

"So God created man in his own image," [and we might add: after his kind] "in the image of God created he him: male and female created he them." 

ONE KIND OF ANIMAL NEVER CHANGES INTO ANOTHER KIND. 

And so I remarked that following this test and this view set forth by the scriptures, one kind of animal never changes into another kind, that an elephant never changes into a man, because if he did there would be a tremendous reduction of avoirdupois, and as a matter of fact he does not. Neither is a mouse changed into a giraffe. But I did remark that animals might be improved after nieir kind and along their line, as we know to be the case. And then I added also,, that man may be improved along bis own line by education, by study and reflection and by worship of the God of heaven. 

TESTIFYING IN SONG AND SERMON THAT JOSEPH SMITH IS A PROPHET 

OF GOD. 

I was thrilled with the opening song this morning. It was wonderful that a great congregation of people, numbering thousands, should be testifying in song that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God; and mark you, they have been singing that song into their lives and into the hearts of their children for many years. I' have also rejoiced, oh, how much, in the testimonies of this congregation, in the remarks of our President and the brethren who have spoken. And let me remind you, brethren and sisters, that on Friday night there was a great body of men gathered in this tabernacle — nineteen hundred forty-five filled the auditorium of the tabernacle — and these men. these solemn, earnest, and determined men, consisting of the 

Presidency and other general authorities of the Church — high-priests, seventies, elders, bishops and members of the Lesser Priesthood — represented and stood for divine authority. Oh. how thankful I am that all of the authority of God pertaining to his work does not rest Upon the President of the Church, who is the prophet. He carries a great responsibility, let me tell you, in holding the keys, and by these keys this divine authority is distributed down through the Church, and rests upon all the male members of the Church. God is no respecter of persons, because this glorious authority and blessing even reaches to the women of the Church, for they will share and do share, in this divine authority through their husbands, which emphasizes most powerfully the great principle of marriage for time and marriage for eternity, because this divine authority not only comes tc us upon earth, but goes with us into eternity. 

CHURCH GOING FORWARD WITH INCREASING TEMPORAL AND SPIRITUAL 

POWER. 

Tt seems to me, brethren and sisters, after one hundred years, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in which is involved the kingdom of God, shows forth great strength in spirituality and increasing temporal power. If it were all spiritual, the Church would be top-heavy. If it were all temporal, the Church would be top-heavy; but the spiritual and the temporal are fitly joined together by a dividing line that is invisible — you cannot see it but you know it is there — the spiritual merges into the temporal, the temporal merges into the spiritual, and thus the Church of God is established and will be built up on the earth. 

And now you know, brethren and sisters, why we have to do temporal tilings as well as spiritual things. Some people find fault with this and they think the leaders of the Church ought not to be interested in temporal things. Weil, if they were not interested in temporal things the Church of God could not continue, would not be built up. So I rejoice in the temporal as well as in the spiritual. Think of the great things that have been accomplished already, spiritually and temporally. Look at these great temples of God that are temporal and material in part, but they represent to us great spiritual blessings, because I fancy we could not rise to glory and exaltation without the blessings imparted unto us in the temples of God . There you see the temporal and the spiritual fitly joined together. 

TESTIMONY. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I glory in these things. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know it throughout my whole being. My soul responds to this testimony, and I know and rejoice in the fact that whatever of Priesthood and authority I enjoy and am able to exercise have come down to me from the Lord through Joseph Smith the Prophet. Oh, how I do revere the memory of that man. I do not worship him. No, I do not worship him, but I reverence his good name, and I reverence the authority that he held and exercised, and I reverence the authority that is held by one of his successors, our present leader, President Heber J. Grant. I sustain him with all my heart as the prophet, seer and revelator and the president of the Church. Oh, how sweet to me is the knowlege that Jesus is the Christ, because if he was not the Christ, if his blood was not shed for the sins of the world, his Church would not be, and could not exist in the earth. This is the testimony I bear and the testimony that 1 leave with you. I pray God's blessing upon you, brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Eastern States 

(Mission.) 

Recalling the remarks of Elder Reed Smoot made yesterday, respecting the sacrifices and the burdens England incurred in the World War, I wish to say that I was very proud of England, the land of my birth, because I could not help but remember that England made those sacrifices, and took upon herself those great burdens of debt, not because of any iniquity on her part, but because she was determined that international obligations and treaties should be something more than mere "scraps of paper." Also I could not but remember that when she went to the side of Belgium and France, she did so in the interest of world-freedom, and against and to destroy the menace of autocracy, which endangered the freedom of t'.ie world. Also 1 could not help but remember that our own burdens in the same great war were made comparatively light because England's burden had been made so heavy. My heart was moved with great sympathy for England by these reflections, and I pray that, under the blessings <M Almighty God, she may be relieved of those great burdens assumed in this great cause of human freedom as against autocracy, something before a hundred years shall elapse. You will pardon me, but I thought it was due that this much at least should be said in the extension of what was said yesterday, since just at this particular junction our shores are being visited by England's great war Prime Minister, Mr. Lloyd George. T am sure, however, you will not expect me to say anything further upon this subject; but you will most likely expect me to make some reference, in the nature of a report, concerning the Eastern States mission, and our summer campaign in that mission. 

Our mission comprises the most densely populated territory within the United States. It extends from Maine to Maryland and West Virginia, ft is the industrial, commercial, financial, and manufacturing district preeminent of the United Sta'es. Its population is equal to the population of the whole of the United States, nearly, at the time  Church was organized. During- the last six months we have had a varying number of missionaries, from one hundred and thirty to one hundred and forty in the field. This force constitutes an irregular and here and there broken line of workers, extending through the twelve states that comprize the mission. You can well understand that our numbers are very insignificant for so great a field of labor. We have less than five thousand as a membership of our Church, in that great mass of people, a very little leaven indeed to leaven so large a lump of territory and of population. Yet 1 am happy to report that the workers of this thin, long line are extremely faithful and devoted to the work in which they are engaged. 

MISSION MOTTO 

( )ne of the mottoes by which they are guided in maintaining their spiri tial uplift is — 

"A mission in the Eastern States means absolute consecration of one's self to the service of God and fellozv men; with all light-mindedness, folly and sin eliminated.'' 

We recognize absolutely the great doctrine of the Christ, expressed in these terms: ''Without me ye can do nothing." And so, as a word of good cheer to each other to be spoken in moments of sensed weakness or hesitance, we say to each other :" Immanuel!" which, being Interpreted is, "God with us." And if God be with us, we shall not and cannot fail. 

These are principles that actuate your sons and daughters who are performing missionary work in the Eastern States. Our faith is in God; our trust is in him; we realize that he is the source of wisdom and of power, and that if he does not sustain this work; if he does not magnify it in the eyes of men. and does not give us the ability to set forth the great message that he has committed to his Church in the earth, then we can do nothing. 

the summer's campaign 

The outstanding feature of our work during the last six months has been the summer campaign, commenced on the 15th day of May, the ninety-fourth anniversary of the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood to the eanh, the first divine authority officially communicated to man in this dispensation of the fulness of times. There was a reconsecration of our missionaries in the Eastern States that day to the work of the Eord. We had abandoned our lodgings, the elders took in their small grips all their earthly possessions, a little clothing and a few books, in a way burned their bridges behind them, and went out trusting in God to open the way for food and raiment and lodging. I think very likely if I had not myself had some experience in this kind of work, and had not learned how God can and will open the doors of deliverance for his servants, supplement their efforts by his own powerful aid. 1 should not have dared to put your sons and daughters to this great test of faith and patience and endurance. But recalling the providences of God to me in the early days of my own missionary experience, I did not hesitate to put them to the test, and the result has been glorious. They were not left to themselves; God abundantly opened doors to them. While they went out seeking disciples, they themselves in many, many cases, found God. They also found disciples, and it is a matter that greatly encourages me that we found so many of God's disciples in the Eastern States mission. He has caused it to be written in one of his revelations that "whosoever receiveth God's servants, that clothes them or feeds them, or gives them money, the same is his disciple, and by Lhis we know God's disciples." (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 84:87-91). And we found many disciples. I kept in close touch with the development of this work. Through the kindness of one of the brethren in the mission, I had placed at my disposal an automobile. We found a chauffeur, among the elders, and so I visited many of the missionaries out in their fields of labor, where they were traveling, two and two. I joined with them in the rural meetings that they were holding, and witnessed their sublime effort at fulfilling the duties and obligations as servants of God, right in the field. So. throughout the summer I watched the development of this experiment of preaching the gospel, trusting in the Lord to open the way. 

THE CONFERENCE AT CUMORAH 

This summer campaign of four months was to culminate in the conference that we held at Cumorah, a fitting climax, I thought it would be, to the splendid labors of the missionaries in our Eastern States mission. I trust it turned out to be a great conference. There was one thing said about it in the Rochester Herald that I would like to put in the record of this conference, that it might have a permanent lodgment in the history of that event. It was written by no tyro of the press, but a man of comprehension, and I think also of deep feeling. It consists of but two brief paragraphs but the passage is of high value as an historical note. It is found in the Roclicstcr Herald of Sept. 22, 1923, and is as follows : 

"Unfolding like some graphic panorama pf the past, epic in implications am! dramatic in content, the story of an ancient civilization that peopled the plains and hills in this vicinity was the chief topic of discussion before the centennial conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today. Reaching so far back into the dim yesterdays of history, back to days more than 2,500 years ago, this story came with a strange emphasis in tite very places where its climaxes and denouements are supposed to have been reached. The narrative is the very basis of 'Mormon' theology and belief and 1 leads directly up to the x revelation given through Joseph Smith of the foundations of the 'Mormon' Church. 

"The speakers at the conference told the story with the simplicity and directness of a Norse saga. As point after point of drama of the lost tribes, of their rise to a great civilization and of their final downfall in the bitterness of war was related, those not conversant with the tale were gripped and fascinated by the strangeness of the recital, and when a speaker dramatically pointed to the earth and mentioned that upon the very spot where he stood' some of the epic events might have taken place, there was a decided thrill to being there." 

We tried to so arrange the program of the conference that we should live again in the places and near places where the chief events took place in which the Church of the Latter-day Saints had its origin  — we tried, I say, to live again, so far as we could in story and testimony and song, through the great epic events that resulted in the creation of this latter-day work. It is unnecessary for me to recount the visitation of angels and the revelations in which the work had its origin. You are familiar with them all. 

THE MESSAGES OF THE BOOK OF MORMON 

There is just one other thing, however — nay, perhaps two, that I want to call your attention to. The great outstanding thing in the Book of Mormon is the fact of the visit of the Redeemer to the inhabitants of this western world, and the message of life and salvation that he delivered here; the Church which he brought into existence, the divine authority which he established here in the western world. This is what makes the Book of Mormon of so much importance — it is a new witness for God and Christ and the truth of the gospel. These things being true, makes the advent of the Book of Mormon into the world the greatest literary event of the world since the writing of the Decalogue by the finger of God, and bringing it forth by the great Prophet Moses; or the collection and the publication of the testimony in the New Testament that Jesus is the Christ; that he is the resurrection and the life of men; the greatest event since the recording of the Sermon on the Mount, or the summary of the law by Christ : for the Book of Mormon is supplemental to all this, the necessary part to a consistent whole which manifests the mercy and the justice of God in providing these great things of the gospel for the men of the Western world, as well as to men in the Eastern world. 

The other thing referred to is this: The Book of Mormon contains a wonderful message to the great Gentile nation — the United States of America — whose rise and supremacy it predicts. If you go no further back than 1830, when the Book of Mormon was brought to the knowledge of the world, it remains one of the mightiest prophecies that is of record — this prophecy of the rise of a great Gentile nation, upon this land of America. Here and there also we catch glimpses of the fact that the inspired men whom God raised up to found this nation, and whom God also raised up to preserve it by their wise counsels — here and there, I say, we get glimpses of the fact that God has inspired their minds to understand the great principles upon which this nation of ours may maintain its pride of place in this Western world, and in the whole world. For instance, in his very last public address, made before the Historical Society of New York, in 1852, Daniel Webster said : 

"Let me say, gentlemen, that if we and our posterity shall be true to the Christian religion, if we and they shall live always in the fear of God, and shall respect his commandments, if we and they shall maintain just, moral sentiments and such righteous convictions of duty as shall contro! the heart and life, we may have the highest hopes of the future fortunes, ot our country; Dut if we and our posterity rej.ect religious instruction am" authority, violate the rules of eternal justice, trifle with the injunctions ot morality, and recklessly destroy the political constitution which holds us together, no man can tell how sudden a catastrophe may overwhelm us that shall bury all our glory in profound obscurity." 

And recently, in the Atlantic Monthly, for August of this year, one of the foremost statesmen in these modern times, in a very brief article, more widely read I think, and more largely commented upon, than any other utterance that has been made of late, said this, when treating of the subject: "The Road Away from Revolution." Mr. Wilson, Expresident of the United States, for it was he who wrote the article referred to, said : 

"The sum of the whole matter is this: that our civilization cannot survive materially unless it be redeemed spiritually. It can be saved only by becoming permeated with the spirit of Christ, and being made free and happy by the practices which spring out of that spirit. 

Only thus can the discontent be driven out, and all the shadows lifted from the road ahead." 

But before Mr. Webster made this utterance of warning', and long before 1 'resident Wilson uttered these sublime words of warning to the American Nation, the Rook of Mormon, ages ago, but brought forth into the world in 1830, contains this message from God in respect of all this spoken by Webster and by Mr. Wilson: — 

"Behold, this is a choice land, [referring to America] and whatsoever nation shall posses it shall be free from bondage and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the Cod of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the tilings which we have written." 

Such are the two great messages of the Hook of Mormon revealed now some hundred years ago, and they constitute the sublimest message ever delivered to the world, because the witnesses whose words are within the book, testify of the Christ and of the truth of the gospel, of the eternal life of man and his power to become indeed, not only the sons of God, but the glorified sons of God: and also because it gives to us a sublime message for the great Gentile nation of this land, telling them the conditions upon which they may continue to enjoy the favor and blessing of God, and maintain their place and power for good in the world. 

God has made his Church — this Church of Jesus Christ of Latterdav Saints — his herald to the world concerning these things. May the Lord make us equal to so great a mission, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang. "An angel from on high." solos by Sister Sarah Wood and J [yrum Christensen. This hymn was sung on the Hill Cumorah recently on the occasion of the hundredth anniversary of the visits of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith. On the present  only three of the verses were sung. President Heber J. Grant read the remainder of the words as follows: 

The time is now fulfilled, 

The long expected day; Let earth obedient yield, 

And darkness flee away; Remove the seals, be wide unfurled Its light and glory to the world. 

Lo, Israel filled with joy, 

Shall now be gathered home, Their wealth and power employ 

To build Jerusalem; While Zion shall arise and shine; And' fill the earth with truth divine. 

Words by Parley P. Pratt. 

ELDER SERGE F. BALLIF 

( Former President of the Swiss-German Mission.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I can assure you that my heart and soul have been touched to their very depths with the things we have heard during this conference. 

We are here assembled in answer to prayer one hundred years ago, when that boy prophet went into the woods and called upon God. I want to testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know beyond all question of doubt that God the Father and Jesus the Redeemer of the world appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith and spoke to him in distinct and clear tones in answer to his question: "Which of all the religions in the world is correct?" The answer came, without a doubt : "They are all wrong," and these words resound throughout the ends of the earth today — that all the other Christian denominations are wrong; they are founded upon a false foundation. 

I rejoiced in our first session of this splendid conference, when I heard our president relate the experiences of the past six months, when he told of his dedicating the temple at Cardston. He also related his attendance at a conference in Rotterdam. It was my pleasure to be in attendance at that conference, and at that time I said that I never before had felt the Spirit of the Lord in such power manifested as it was at that time. It was also my good pleasure to be called by the president to attend the conference at Bradford, in England, to which he has made reference, and there again we heard some wonderful testimonies which made an impression upon my soul, which never can be eradicated. I also had the pleasure of accompanying our president through Germany, through Norway, Sweden, and Denmark; and I also had the pleasure of once being in a room with him at one o'clock in the morning. He called me in, and he took a newspaper and read from it in the light of the midnight sun. And I have thought: O, what a joy it would have been to me could I have attended that service at Cardston — the dedication of that temple. We have heard that a number of the leading authorities of the Church were present and men from all parts of the Church gathered at that most wonderful gathering. There were the presidency, the prophet who holds the keys, the only man upon the earth who holds the keys and the powers to commune with God for the good and for the advancement of his people here upon the earth. Those keys were conferred upon him when he met there to dedicate that temple. There were not alone these men, living here in the flesh, but I have felt, deep down in my soul, that that great man, our prophet and president, Joseph F. Smith, the great leader Brigham Young, and the Prophet Joseph Smith were present in spirit. Why? Because they are not alone interested in the work of the living here upon the earth, but they know the conditions on the other side, they know that there are thousands who are waiting for the ordinances that will be performed in that sacred temple. The doors will be unlocked and they will be made free through its ordinances. It must have been a grand and glorious vision and sight to see. 

In ispeaking of the services to) which President Roberts has referred, this morning, at the Hill Cumorah, I thought when our president said that the prayer offered on that occasion was not recorded, that we are making history today for the unborn generations, and a servant of the Lord, under the inspiration of God, uttered a prayer inspired of Almighty God, and oh, what a joy it would be for generations to come to be able to read that divine instrument. I know, although I did not see the Angel Moroni when he appeared to the Prophet Joseph, that beyonjd all question of doubt, he did deliver those sacred records to the boy prophet, Joseph Smith. I received a testimony of this before I was born. My mother received the gospel in her native land, and when she passed through the shadows of death to bring me into this world she sealed upon me a testimony of the divinity of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in this great work. If the president will just permit me to do so, I would like to read something. In my meditation after the first session of the conference, these words came to me : 

O, stop and tell me, Red Man, Who are you, why you roam, And how you get your living; Have you no God, no home? 

With stature straight and portly, And decked in native pride, With feathers, paints and brooches, He willingly replied: 

"I once was pleasant Ephraim, 

When Jacob for me prayed; But oh, how blessings vanish, 

When man from God has strayed! 

O, my brethren and .sisters, those words resound in my soul! O, now unhappy, how unfortunate is man when he is left unto himself and the Spirit of God is withdrawn from him! 

"Before your nation knew us. 

Some thousand moons ago, Our fathers fell in darkness, 

And wandered to and fro. 

'"And long they lived by hunting 

Instead of works and arts, And so our race has dwindled 

To idle Indian hearts. 

''Yet hope within us lingers, 

As if the Spirit spoke, He'll come for your redemption, 

And break your Gentile yoke. 

"And all your captive brothers 

From every clime shall come, And quit their savage customs, To live with God at home. 

"Then joy will fill your bosoms, And blessings crown our days, 

To live in pure religion, 

And sing our Maker's praise." 

I want to say a word, my brethren and sisters, about the Swiss and German mission. I believe that it is one of the greatest missions in all the world. I believe that the blood of Israel is found in rich abundance in those lands. There are ninety millions of people in Germany, Austria, Hungary, Poland, and the borders of Russia. It has been my pleasure to travel over that land and. I want to say that God has touched the hearts of those people; he has prepared them; they have gone through the burning siege of persecution; they have suffered; and I want to say that the poor people in Germany today are suffering, they are going through an ordeal that few people in the world have gone through. The rich are growing richer; but the poor, honest people, many of them, I fear, will be hungering before another year passes by. I am in touch with President Tadje, of the Swiss and German mission, a good, faithful servant of the Lord. In that mission we have thirteen conferences, and he is visiting them. He has been in very poor health for a short time, but today his health is restored and he is traveling among those conferences and increasing the numbers, and the great thing that he needs today is help. The people are ready, they are waiting for the gospel. Oh, if we could just go through that land — the borders of Russia and all through that country! Those people are impregnated with the blood of Israel. They are waiting for the message, and we are living in the last dispensation, the dispensation of the fulness of times, when God has spoken, and he has called us, and our mission is to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, to warn the world and establish his ' kingdom here upon the earth. Oh, my brethren, let us help these people! They are hungering and thirsting, they are traveling from sea to sea and hunting for the word of God. 

I want to say just a few words about our missionaries. Those boys over there are working with all the might and strength and power they have. God qualifies and fits them for their mission. The Lord transforms them when they come into the mission field as humble elders, faithful and true to their covenants. 1 want to endorse the remarks of President Roberts. I know through exnerience, beyond the question of doubt, that the best way to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ is the way that our Maker, the lowly Master, without a place to lay his head, proclaimed his mission among his children I am convinced that if your sons will go into the mission field, depending upon God and not upon their pocket-books, 1 promise you that the Lord will come to them, he will come to their rescue : he will bless them and provide them with food and with every necessity of life. 

The other day I met a person here in the city and he said : "Well, it is a mighty nice thing to go out on a mission and draw a big salary and have a good time, like you have." 

I want to testify to you that this is not a Church with a hired ministry. I have been in the mission-field in 1890, 1904 and 1920. 1 have spent twelve years of my life in the mission field, and I never have received one penny of salary, not one penny. The Lord has blessed me. He has raised up friends to minister to my wants, and I want it understood, absolutely, so far as I know, .so far' as f am concerned, there is no paid ministry in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. But, on the contrary, when a man goes into the mission field depending upon the Lord, he will bless him and raise up friends and give him money and clothing, all that he needs. I know it, I demonstrated it in this last mission. We had many elders there who went from month to month, depending upon the Lord to take care of them. I hope Brother Stoff is here in this house — one of our missionaries who depended upon the Lord. At one time he was called to go several hundred miles. He hadn't a penny in his pocket, and he said : How can I go and attend that conference ? He did not ask me, but he went direct to the Lord, and the Lord knew his condition, and he prayed to him: "O Father, I am called to fill a mission; open the  for me." Two days passed 1 by and no answer came to his prayer. The third day he started out. He said : I am going if I have to walk. He met a man, as he left the building, who said : "Where are you going?" 

"I am going to a conference." 

He put his hand in his pocket and gave him. 1 think, two hundred marks. It was not very much, but it was more than enough to pay his way. How did that happen? Was that a chance? Was that luck? No, there is no such thing as chance and luck. The Lord sent that man in answer to his prayer and he administered to his wants and made it possible for him to go and attend that conference. Give the Lord a chance and he will bless his servants. This is his work, and! he has set his hand to accomplish it here in the earth. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

(Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the California Mission) 

I rejoice very much, my brethren and sisters, in the opportunity afforded me of being present in this great conference, and I have rejoiced, more than I expect to be able to tell, in the spirit of the coiv ference, and in the remarkable things that have been brought forth from the servants of the Lord by the power aqd inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. My heart was made glad, in the opening session, by the manifestation of the power of God, and the spirit of presidency and leadership that were so evident in the counsels and instructions that were imparted by President Heber J. Grant in his opening address. I surely felt in my soul that the Lord our God was present, that he was directing and guiding his work in keeping with the promises that have been made, both by the prophets of this dispensation, and by the prophets of the Lord from the very beginning of time. There has been sounding in my ears the declaration made, again and again, by the Lord of heaven in the revelations that were given to the prophet of this dispensation in the beginning of this work. You who are familiar with the book of Doctrine and Covenants know that many of those revelations commence with language something like this : "Behold, a marvelous and wonderful work is about to come forth among the children of men." I could not help but think, as I looked upon this vast congregation, how wonderfully the promise of the Lord has been fulfilled that was made through the mouth of his prophet, even before there was any Church organization. I take it that nowhere upon the face of the whole earth this Sabbath day is there such a gathering to worship God as we have here in this great tabernacle, to say nothing of the thousands who are gathered in other buildings upon this ground. It seems astounding to me that men who observe the ever increasing strength of this cause cannot discern the hand of God and his power in this work of the latter times. 

Many years ago, when I was laboring in the British mission, I attended upon one occasion a lecture that was delivered by Mr. Charles H. Bradlaugh. His lecture was entitled, "Is Christianity a persecuting religion?" And he told a most terrible story of the things that had been perpetrated in the name of religion. A young man in the congregation wanted to know from him if it was not an evidence of the power of God and the existence of God, that those early Christians in the meridian of time, notwithstanding the fact that the wisdom and strength of the nations were opposed to them, were preserved and made to prosper? I wondered what manner of answer could be made. [ thought in my own soul: ''Surely the history of those early Christians is an evidence of the protecting hand of God." I was very greatly surprised when that great intellectual giant made answer, for his answer was : "Young man, away out in the Western part of America there is a people whose history is more wonderful than anything that has ever been written of the early Christians. That people have not only been opposed by the nations of the world, but they have had to contend with the religious prejudices of all mankind, and in spite of all this opposition, the}' have made more wonderful advancement than was ever made by the early Christians. I speak of the 'Mormon' Church of Utah. Do you think their preservation is an evidence of the power of God ?" 

My brethren and sisters, I don't know what may have been in the minds of that company of men who heard that lecture, but in my own soul there was a very great degree of joy and satisfaction in the thought that when Mr. Bradlaugh, with all his intelligence, sought for a religious organization that would parallel the history of the early Christians, he had to go to my people and to my Church, and I was convinced that he singled out the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for the reason that they more completely di3 parallel the history of the early Christians than any other religious denomination upon the face of the earth. 

When I was on my last mission in Great Britain I picked up in one of the great cathedrals, a pamphlet which was headed : "Why I am a Roman Catholic." I think it would not be amiss right here to read a paragraph or two from that pamphlet. It was written by a Catholic priest : 

And again, when Luther, Calvin, Henry VIII, and their followers were starting in their mad career, either the true religion was then in the world or it was not. There isn't any room for argument in relation to that declaration. Of necessity the true religion was either in the world or it was not. If it was they committed grievous crimes in making new religions to oppose it. And if the scriptures be true, that statement is just as true as the first declaration, for we can read in the scriptures of divine truth the testimony of the Apostle Paul, that "though we, or an angel from heaven preach any other  unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed." 

So declared the ancient man of God as he was lit up by the inspiration and power of God. So that this priest was fully justified in making the statement that I have read, that if the true religion was in the world in the days of those reformers, the reformers committed a grievous sin in seeking lo establish other religions in opposition to the truth. 

If it was not, they were powerless to create it. It takes a Christ,, not a Luther, to create a Christianity. On either supposition, therefore, Protestantism is not the true religion of Jesus Christ. 

I believe in that doctrine. It matters not how earnest may have been the desire, or how anxious to do good on the part of the men that we speak of as the reformers, if the true religion had vanished from the earth, they did not have power to create it or restore it. Thank God, in the dispensation in which we live, we do not assume an authority without revelation, like the religions of the day. We are in harmony with the declaration that is made by this Catholic priest: that because of the absence from among men of the truth of God that was revealed for the salvation of the human family, it was necessary that the author of that religion who is the source of power and authority should restore it. The message of "Mormonism" is that in the dispensation in which we live the Lord our God, and his Son, our Redeemer, and holy angels, who formerly exercised authority as mortal men, have come to earth in their resurrected bodies and they have restored that lost authority. When the infidel could see the marvelous character of this work, when the Catholic priest could discern the fact that if the truth of God had been lost from the earth, it could only be restored by the Redeemer of the world, surely we who have received the restored gospel ought to comprehend that fact, and in our souls there should be that joy that passeth understanding. 

I am glad to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that this testimony and understanding is in the hearts of the men and women who have been assigned to labor as missionaries in the preaching of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, in the California mission, and notwithstanding the fact that they are young men and young women, that they have had but little experience, by the mysterious power of God there has come into their souls an absolute conviction that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and according to their strength and power and ability, they are delivering that message to the people in the California mission. God, in some mysterious way, touches the hearts of men and women, no matter how weak the instrument that delivers his word, and brings conviction to the souls of men, and they come out from the darkness that is in the world and from the religious nonsense that many are teaching, and receive gladly the truth of God that has been revealed. It has been revealed, men and women, the heavens have been opened, the Lord our God CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  made his appearance, divine authority has been conferred upon men. I would to God that we had the power to declare it in the ears of all who live, for it is the truth of God. May our Father in heaven so bless us that we may be true to the faith and work out our salvation, and so let our light shine before men that they will be led from darkness to the light that has thus been made manifest, and plant their feet in the path that has been revealed — for, as God Almighty lives, the truth has been revealed that will take men back into the presence of the Lord our God. May we all travel in that path faithfully all the days of our lives, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

(Patriarch of the Church.) 

I am very grateful indeed, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity to add my testimony to the glorious truths, and principles that have been treated in this conference. 

It was my privilege to attend the dedicatory services of the Alberta Temple, and I am very grateful for that sacred privilege. 

I have enjoyed the testimonies of my brethren concerning their visit at the Hill Cumorah. Kver since my early childhood, the story of Joseph the Prophet concerning his wonderful experiences lias been a very touching story in my life, and I can scarcely read it or bear it related without tears coming to my eyes. It was a most astounding declaration, for a boy seventeen years of age to make to his friends or his loved ones in a little family gathering, that his name had been named by heavenly messengers, and the statement made that his name should be had for good and ill in all the world, among all kindreds, tongues and peoples. Hundreds of us living bear the testimony from experience in the world, among all civilized nations, that this is a fact, for the name of Joseph Smith has been heard and is spoken of today for good and ill in all the vvorld among civilized nations thereof. 

Another very startling declaration made to that boy was that he was to be the instrument in the hands of the Lord in receiving that glorious message which had been foretold hundreds of years before, that in the last days the Lord would restore the keys and powers of the holy Priesthood at the hands of Elijah the Prophet. Some one was to be prepared to receive the keys. This youth declared to his father and his mother, his brothers and his friends that this message had been delivered unto him during the night of September 21, 1823. About twelve years later this glorious truth was fulfilled, for the Prophet and his associates declared that the Prophet Elijah came and delivered to them in the Kirtland temple these most glorious keys of power, and many have borne witness that these keys have been turned for the blessing of both the living and dead. 101 

I bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know from my brief experience in the Church, that these keys of power are in the Church today, and that not only those in the Church but hundreds out of the Church have been influenced by this glorious mission of Elijah, for their hearts are being turned toward their fathers, both living and dead. Genealogical organizations all over the world have been and are being organized. Great efforts have been put forth, and family circles, both in the Church and out of the Church, have been organized, records have been established and hundreds of people know not why they are making this great effort; but little by little, as time goes on, more of the representatives of the families hear the sound of the everlasting gospel and come out of the world, if they are not already out of it, and are privileged through the inspiration of the call of the Lord to go into these holy houses prepared for him, and dedicated to his name, for his purposes, that in the day of the Lord the great curse which was referred to by the Prophet Elijah should not come upon the earth, but that the families may be united in the bonds of a family circle forever and forever. I know, my brethren and sisters, that the keys of this great work are in the hands of the authorities of the Church today upon the earth, and I am very grateful, indeed, that I have been permitted to officiate for both living and dead in these sacred houses. 

My heart is full of the warmth of the truth concerning these blessings, and I pray that God will continue to bless us, that we may do our part when called to labor, whether at home or abroad, that his glorous blessings may come to all, that the families of the world, the great posterity of Adam and Eve may, in the due time of the Lord be enabled to find their own names and places in the fold of Christ. I pray, my brethren and sisters, that we may all find our places, that we may be able to stand in them and be found in them when the Lord's call comes to us. Whether the service required of us be small or great, may the Lord find us in our places and prepared to serve and labor to bring about his glorious purposes. 

May the Lord bless us in all our endeavors to do good in all the world, to know the truth, to defend it, and to live it, in our homes and in our labors wherever called to labor, that his blessings may be upon this great work and all who are engaged in it, from the President to the least and last one called, whether at home or abroad, is my prayer and blessing for us all in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The inspired hymn that Elder Ballif read was also one of the hymns sung at the conference at the Hill Cumorah. The author of it is William W. Phelps. 

David O.. McKay is absent from us, as you all know, he is performing an excellent work, presiding over the European mission and CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS  over the British mission, and is accomplishing a splendid labor. We hear from him frequently. He is thoroughly enjoying his work. 

The choir sang an anthem, "God is our refuge and strength. - ' Prayer was offered by Elder E. Frank Birch, president of the Tintic stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


