Morning
06 04 1926

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

The last congregational hymn that we sang brought to my mind great events in the life of our Redeemer and events dealing with the last week of his ministry when, after having partaken of the usual passover feast and before his departure for the Garden of Gethsemane, he instituted the Sacrament, which we call the Lord's Supper. "Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body." (Matthew 26:26.) And after each disciple had partaken of this bread, "He took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it; For this is my blood." (Matthew 26 :27, 28.) And he told them that as often as they should meet together they should do this in remembrance of him. Our Savior left no Church ritual, nor did he outline in detail the proceedings that his followers should adopt for their meetings. He gave them no sermon and no form of worship distinctive from that which they had been accustomed to in the synagogues; but he did leave that one definite thought: that as often as they should meet together they should partake of the bread and wine in remembrance of his body and blood and of his death and sufferings, and this they should do until he should come again. 

I wonder why it is that, with such definite instructions from our Lord and Master the day before he was crucified, these words have not so sunk into the hearts of Latter-day Saints that they should feel afraid to neglect the Sacramental service. I believe it is one of the most solemn occasions in the Church, the time when a Latter-day Saint sits in silence in a place of worship and partakes of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. 

It has been my privilege to visit several of the stakes of Zion recently and to see the marvelous development of the Priesthood work of the Church. I have listened to powerful testimonies of men and 

120 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

women concerning the authority of the holy Priesthood and the gifts and blessings that have come to those who hold it, through obedience to the gospel. I have listened to some wonderful singing by quorums of the Priesthood and other organizations — young men and boys. It has made me happy because I believe that in song we may worship the Lord, for he has said that the song of the righteous is a prayer unto him, and he will answer with blessings upon our heads. 

In one stake of Zion the presidency of the stake announced that they had decided to call upon every active and useful member holding the Melchizedek Priesthood to aid the bishoprics; each one of these persons to have assigned to him some neglectful or indifferent boy, over whom he will watch and teach the gospel and try to implant in his heart the love of the work of the Lord and a deeper appreciation for the blessings and opportunities that come to him. And he will be taken care of by this older and more experienced man until the boy can practically walk alone. 

What a wonderful possibility this thought opens to our minds. Take into consideration those who hold presiding positions in the stake alone and consider the bishoprics alone. If each of these brethren would take upon himself to be a brother's keeper to one of these indifferent boys for a year and see that these boys are trained and directed in the right manner, think of the good that would result. There are in the stakes of Zion 282 brethren holding the office of presidency; there are 94 stake clerks; there are 1 ,400 high councilors and alternates; 200 patriarchs; in the neighborhood of 1,500 holding offices as presidencies of councils of seventies; 500 quorums of elders, each quorum presided over by three men, making 1,500 men; then there are nearly 3,000 bishops and counselors. If each of these brethren made it his duty to take, charge of one wayward or neglectful boy, thousands of young men would be on the road to improved conditions and would be diverted from paths of waywardness and neglect to a better understanding and appreciation of the gospel. 

Tithing matters have been touched by our President, and incidentally by two or three other speakers. We have recently had a tithing settlement, and the tithes of the Church have materially increased. Crops in most districts have been bountiful, and some of our brethren have been blessed with larger incomes, as a result of the high prices obtaining for certain products. The Lord has blessed this land, and he has done so because it is occupied by his people. As we pay our tithes and offerings gladly and willingly, as a part of our service to the Lord, so will he bless this land. What was once a barren waste is now, a marvel to those who travel through this country. 

No doubt, during this tithing settlement that has recently passed, many of our brethren and sisters went happily and gladly to their bishoprics, who are common judges in Israel, and were pleased to tell these good men that they had fully observed the law of tithing. Every 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 121 

person is happy when he fulfils the law of the gospel. Others, no doubt, went to the tithing settlement feeling more or less consciencestricken, and made resolves for the future, that they would more diligently observe this important law and would try to pay their tithes and offerings in the season thereof. 

I appeal to my brethren and sisters not to leave the settlement of their tithing until the end of the year. I firmly believe in the idea of paying tithing each month. Every Latter-day Saint who earns something, whether he be old or young, rich or poor, should sit down with his conscience on or about the last day of the month and find out what the Lord has given him, and tithe it there and then. So many of our people get into the habit of leaving the payment of tithing until the end of the year, feeling that the next month they will be better off. The end of the year creeps along, settlement comes, and then instead of seeing how much we owe the Lord and paying it gladly, there is a tendency to see how little we can get off with and ease our consciences. 

Tithing is a fundamental principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ. To those who observe it fully there comes a deeper love of the gospel. It is just as essential to our growth and development in this Church as are repentance, baptism, or any other fundamental laws. It will develop in men and women a deeper devotion to the truth and greater willingness to serve their fellowmen; and, above all, it will increase their testimony of the gospel. 

I picked up an old Journal of Discourses a few days ago. It was forty years old. I opened it casually and found there a very fine discourse given in Provo, in 1855, by Brother Franklin D. Richards, in which he urged obedience to the principle of tithing. He said : "In the receipt which the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to me in Nauvoo, signed by himself and the tithing clerk, he stated that having paid my tithing in full to date, I was entitled to the benefits of the baptismal font, which had just been dedicated in the basement of the temple." So, evidently in those days it was understood that those who paid their tithing in full had the privilege of the House of the Lord. Twenty years later President Joseph F. Smith, from this very pulpit, spoke these words : 

"By the principle of tithing the loyalty of the people of this Church shall be put to the test. By this principle it shall be known who is for the kingdom of God and who is against it. By this principle it shall be seen whose hearts are set on doing the will of God and keeping his commandments, thereby sanctifying the land of Zion unto God; and who are opposed to this principle and have cut themselves off from the blessings of Zion. There is a great deal of importance connected with this principle, for by it it shall be known whether we are faithful or unfaithful. In this respect it is as essential as faith in God, as repentance of sin, as baptism for the remission of sin, or as the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost." 

After all, we are creatures of habits. The habits formed in our childhood stay with us throughout life. Every boy and girl, for this 

122 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

reason, should be taught the principle of tithing and should be urged to tithe all that comes to them, and fathers and mothers should see that their children have something to tithe. At one time I was out with Elder Stephen L. Richards, at a stake conference, and he expressed the thought that every member of the Church should see if the Lord has given him something, and if so, should tithe it in the month in which it was received. He recommended that fathers and mothers encourage boys and girls to tithe even their spending money, not because it has not already been tithed, but to develop the habit of paying tithes and offerings as children, so that when these children become grown the habit will have been formed. 

I am glad that I am a Latter-day Saint, thankful to my heavenly Father that I heard the gospel, thankful to be associated with my brethren and sisters in the work of the Lord. I have been blessed with a testimony that this is God's work; that it is the power of God unto salvation; that the holy Priesthood is the agency by which he operates in this Church through those who have received the gospel; and I pray that the Spirit of the Lord and the blessings of the gospel may be upon all of us, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES S. HYDE 

Recently returned President of the Netherlands Mission 

I am not entirely surprised, my brethren and sisters, at being called to this position, as a number of other returned mission presidents have already spoken. But notwithstanding the sense of responsibility which I feel in speaking here this morning, I am very pleased to be able to report to you the labors which have been performed in the Netherlands mission, and to tell you something of that wonderful little country. 

The country of Holland is about one fifth the size of the state of Utah, according to area, and has a population of between seven and a half and eight millions of people. The Church membership in Holland at the end of 1925 was 3270 souls. There were 63 missionaries laboring in that land at the end of the year, in four conferences and 18 organized branches. During the year they performed a most remarkable work, and while we had only 93 baptisms, they distributed more than 400,000 tracts, held 31,000 gospel conversations, and visited the homes of 6,513 people on re-visits. While this may not be a very large number compared with other missions, I feel that is is a remarkable work to be accomplished under the conditions which prevail in that land. I am very happy to report that the elders are united; that they sense the responsibility of missionary service, and are seeking to bear witness of the divinity of this latter-day work whenever occasion presents itself. 

I believe some of the best times I have spent in my life have 

ELDER CHARLES S. HYDE 123 

been in the missionary service, and especially on occasions where ordinances of the gospel have been performed. It has been my privilege to attend some very remarkable baptismal services, not only in Holland but in Belgium, which at one time was a part of the Netherlands mission; also in Switzerland, where I had the pleasure of attending conferences. I remember a very impressive baptismal service which was held in Lake Geneva during one of the sessions of the Lausanne conference, where a number of people were baptized in the lake upon a beautiful Sabbath morning, to begin the sessions of that wonderful conference. But! I believe the most remarkable baptismal service that I have yet been privileged to attend was one held in the month of February, 1924, in the city of Liege, at the time of the official organization of the French mission. There "were a number of candidates prepared for baptism and the service was scheduled to be held at ten o'clock on Sunday morning. It was a wintry day and snowing, cold and uninviting, and as we went to the baptismal place in the river I felt in my heart that it was a most uninviting day. Among others who were present were the elders of that conference, visiting brethren, myself, and the newly appointed president of the Netherlands mission, also President David O. McKay. As the elder who was to baptize descended into the water with his candidate, in the heavens a ray of light shone through, the clouds separated, it ceased snowing, and there just upon the spot where the elder stood with his candidate, a ray of light descended and shone upon those who were in the water, and remained there until all the candidates were baptized, and as the last person went up out of the water, that ray of light disappeared, and it began to snow again. To me it was a most remarkable manifestation of the divine approval of God upon that wonderful ceremony of baptism which was being performed by his authorized servants in the river. My heart was thrilled as I felt that God was smiling his approval upon that which was being done, and sanctifying to the people the ordinance which they were taking upon themselves, to keep his commandments and to walk in his ways. , 

The elders who are laboring in that mission have received of the Spirit. They are united, and they are seeking to do that which is required of them. If I had received no other witness throughout my missionary work than the attitude of the elders, it would have been a remarkable manifestation. The fact that these young men are cleansed and purified, sanctified to the work of the Lord, is a most remarkable thing. I have had them come into my office with their disappointments in seeking to learn that language and to accustom themselves to the habits of the people, and they have poured out their souls to me in tears, expressing their feeling of inability to do the work which they had been called to do, of their 

124 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

unpreparedness, being disappointed in that they had not fulfilled every responsibility at home which they had been privileged to do 'had they been so inclined. But after speaking with them, and praying with them, and counseling them, they felt to go onward and receive the spirit of the work. 

Just before leaving to come home one of our new elders came into the office, and in tears poured out to me his soul; told me of his life and all that he had done, and his desire to do right, but with the feeling of inability to do everything that missionary work imposed upon him. After counseling with him and having prayers with him in my office, he went out feeling encouraged, and the day I left I received a letter from him, and at the top of it he had written these words : "There is sunshine in my soul today." That spirit is the spirit which characterizes their work — sunshine in the soul, and a desire to preach repentance and to bear witness of the divinity of this gospel. We have sought to impress them with the fact that the Lord has made wonderful promises to his servants in the missionary field, that he would be with them and go before them, and prepare the way, that they might be able to accomplish that work.  , 

I desire toj call attention to his promise as made known in the 84th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, and we have relied upon this promise, and have seen the truthfulness of it. We have realized that the Lord really brings to pass his promises to those who seek to obey him. In speaking to the missionaries who had returned from the Eastern States in the year 1832, he made known these words: 

"Behold, I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come. 

"And who receiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up. 

"Whoso receiveth you receiveth me; and, the same will feed you and clothe you, and give you money. 

"And he who feeds you, or clothes you, or gives you money, shall in nowise lose, his reward. 

"And he that doeth not these things is not my disciple; by this ye may know my disciples." 

We have tested this word and found it to be true, for we have found in that land disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, men and women who have been and are willing to feed the elders and to clothe them and to give them money, and rejoice in this opportunity. In all of the organized branches of the Church in that mission where members of the Church reside the elders are fed, and in many instances clothed and given money by members of the Church; and last year, by practicing economy, we were able to reduce the average expense per missionary in the mission from $32.00 to $27.17; 

ELDER CHARLES S. HYDE 125 

with this added testimony that the elders who expended the least amount of money in the missionary services were doing the best work and producing the most results, for they were relying upon the Saints, partaking of their hospitality, leaving their blessings, and the Saints were in nowise losing their reward. And we were able to determine the disciples of Christ from those who were not bis disciples. Truly the Lord is going before his servants, is on their right hand and on their left hand, and is bearing them up, and his angels are round about them, and they are enjoying an influence that will sanctify their souls, if they continue faithful in the work. 

I believe I realize to a certain extent the feeling experienced by some of the Seventies in the time of Christ when they returned trom their missions, and with joy reported that even the evil spirits had been subjected unto them by the name of Christ. I have also had a similar experience, when even the evil spirits have been subject unto us through the name of Christ. We had one in the mission field afflicted with an evil spirit, and his body tormented and tortured by the possession of that evil spirit. I came into the room upon one occasion, and the evil spirit sprang upon me and seized me by the throat with a grip of iron, shutting off even my ability to speak and almost to breathe, while the elders stood round about, also my wife with a feeling of fear in her heart that the evil spirit would overcome me. He shouted with a voice that was most terrific. He declared himself to be the devil. "My name is Satan," he declared, "and I have more authority than you." And again tightening his grip upon my throat he declared, "I have more authority than you." I could not speak, but I looked the person in the eye, and releasing his grip and falling upon the bed, that same voice declared, "No, I have not more authority," and he hid his face in the pillow and was subject to the power of the Priesthood. Elder Kooyman, who was conference president, anointed him with oil, and with other elders I laid my hands upon him, and I began to confirm the anointing with oil. When I reached the point in prayer, that "in the name of Jesus Christ," I was going to say, "we rebuke the spirit," he sprang from the bed, and pleaded : "Do not use that name, do not use that name." We placed him upon the bed, and in the name of Jesus Christ I rebuked that spirit and commanded it to depart from him, and the person who was afflicted fell limp upon the bed and slept for hours, the first peaceful sleep he had enjoyed for several days. One of the greatest witnesses that have come into my life was upon this occasion. 

I had been taught by my father and mother that there is power in the Priesthood. I had been taught it in the Sunday school and in the elders' quorum. I doubted it not, I felt that there was power in that Priesthood, but this was the first occasion which had come 

126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

into my life where I had seen evil spirits subject to that power without even a word being spoken. I realize that those who are set apart and ordained to preside have authority to administer in the ordinances of the gospel and have power over unclean spirits. 

I might go on and relate to you many wonderful experiences, but the time will not permit. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that the opportunity came into my life, to enjoy the wonderful spirit of missionary work, to associate with the cleanest, most wholesome young men that can be found in the world anywhere, whose lives are clean, and whose habits are an example unto all the world, seeking to bring unto them the power whereby they may be saved. I thank the Lord for this Priesthood, the power whereby we may sanctify our lives unto the renewing of our bodies, and by enduring in faithfulness become the sons of Aaron and Moses, sons of the seed of Abraham and the Church of God, and of the elect of the kingdom. That we might sanctify ourselves by this Priesthood and continue faithful, and enjoy the Spirit of the Lord as long as we shall live, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the fellowship with you and for this privilege of meeting with you in conference, to be fed spiritually, for I have been fed and I rejoice in this fact. 

I have a testimony that God lives; he has been good to me and 1 have found him to be patient, kind and loving, and I sincerely pray that while I address you this morning he will bless me with the same spirit that has been present in our conference thus far. 

Many of our speakers have referred to the good work being accomplished by those who are sent into the mission field and to the wonderful growth and development of young men who are called to this service. It is a fact that the spiritual growth of our young men who go into the mission field is very rapid after they reach their field of labor, and we often refer to this development as a witness of the mercy and goodness of the Lord to those who serve him in faith. I have been wondering if, because of this fact, we neglect to a large degree our opportunities for development at home, looking forward to even a greater service than could be rendered in the mission field with proper preparation beforehand. 

For the last year it has been my good fortune and pleasure to labor with many young men who have been preparing to leave for the mission field. Occasionally this question is asked : Why did the Lord keep Joseph Smith waiting for seven years after giving him the first vision? And from the discussion of this question, I have wondered if many of us have not had this 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 127 

same thought in our minds. Let me refresh your minds by briefly calling your attention to the fact that after Joseph Smith went into the woods to pray and after he had received the wonderful manifestation — the appearance of the Father and the Son, at which time he was commanded not to join any church, but to return to his home and in due time information would be given to him — he waited three years, which seems to have been a time in which he was tried and ridiculed and tempted, but overcame all temptations, his faith in the Lord and determination to serve him increasing. When he had been sufficiently tried and had shown by his faith and his works a desire to carry out the instructions given him and to seek for greater light and knowledge, the Angel Moroni appeared to him, and for four years he was schooled under the direction of this heavenly personage; and finally the plates containing the record of the ancient inhabitants of the American continent were given to him and, little by little, translated, requiring much patience, study and effort upon the part of Joseph Smith. 

If we stop to reflect upon this incident and many others that could be called to our attention, we will see how God calls men to positions of great responsibility and provides for their preparation for such service. "Many are called but few are chosen.'' Is it not possible that many blessings are withheld from us because of our failure to earn those blessings through our faith and our works, in this day opportunity is given to us to prepare in our youth for the service of the Lord, and not only is the opportunity given, but we are commanded to prepare through the organizations provided for us, and known as the priesthood quorums. Isaiah tells us in the following passage when we are to begin to gain knowledge : 

"Whom shall he teach knowledge? and whom shall he make to understand doctrine? them that are weaned from the milk, and drawn from the breasts. 

"For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little." (Isaiah 28:9, 10.) 

We also read in Deuteronomy 32:1-4 the following: 

"Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak; and hear, O earth, the words of my mouth. 

"My doctrine shall drop as the rain, my speech shall distill as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and as the showers upon the grass : 

"Because I will publish the name of the Lord: ascribe ye greatness unto ou'r God. 

"He is the Rock, his work is perfect: for all his ways are judgment: a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right he is." 

I am wondering if some of us have overlooked this fact. Occasionally we hear expressions from members of the Church that would lead us to believe that we cannot expect young men to get the spirit of missionary work at home. Is this a real condition or an imaginary one? When we meet together to worship, we partake 

128 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

of the same spirit and manifestations that are found in the mission field, and many times to a greater degree. If we will study the matter we will find that this spirit and these manifestations come mainly to those who are serving in faith and who, through their labors, are entitled to these blessings. 

If our young men were given greater opportunity to give expression to their thoughts, and were taught to respond to the requirements of the priesthood and the responsibilities placed upon them in the quorums of the Aaronic Priesthood, and to perform the labors required of them in these organizations, laboring at all times in faith and for a purpose under the direction, encouragement and good-will of their parents, their brothers and sisters, ami associates, they would, in my opinion, go into the mission field with the same spirit that is developed so soon after they arrive ir the field. 

What is responsible for this rapid growth and development in the mission field? It is the responsibility which is placed upon them; it is the work required of them. 'They leave their homes for the mission field with a testimony of the gospel, but that testimony is not developed. They have looked forward for years to an opportunity to serve in the mission field, but as a rule have not been given opportunity to give expression to their thoughts or to discuss the knowledge they have received concerning the gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; but when they reach their fields of labor they humble themselves before |the Lord and seek the Lord in prayer, just as Joseph Smith sought him. They are touched by the influence of the holy Spirit and they respond to this power and influence. 

Now, what justification have we to feel that it is necessary for these young men to go into the mission field before they can develop this attitude toward the things pertaining to the gospel? There are many schools in which we may learn. Some are schools which look to the holy Spirit for light. Under this influence the spiritual growth is much more rapid than otherwise. We have an example of this in the life of Moses. We all know the story of his childhood, how he was taken to the home of Pharaoh, where he grew to manhood, learning from his mother, who was employed as a nurse to care for him, of the teachings of her people concerning God and the hereafter. Moses was far removed from the spirit and influence which comes through these teachings when in the midst of those who partake of this same influence. He learned of the teachings of the world from the masters of Egypt, who, while they had great learning, were not actuated by that influence which comes from above. So, while Moses had faith in God and the teachings of his mother, he had evidently not learned of the great power and could not appreciate fully the promises of the Lord to 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 129 

his children. An example of this is shown in the third and fourth chapters of Exodus. 

 Moses seemed curious when he saw the burning bush and he stopped to determine why the bush could burn and yet not be consumed; and God called him and told him of the afflictions of his people, saying: , .' 

"Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me : and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppress them. 

"Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt." (Exodus 3:9, 10.) 

Had Moses been trained under the proper influences, this no doubt would have been commandment enough for him, but listen to his reply : "Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt?" Even with the promise from the Lord to be with him, Moses questioned the power of God to give him strength to accomplish God's purposes. Even after several miracles had been performed by Moses as a sign to him of the power of God, he found excuses for not carrying out the Lord's instructions, and finally Moses said unto the Lord : 

"O my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant : but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue. 

"And the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth ? or who maketh the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? have not I the Lord? 

"Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say. 

"And he said, O my Lord, send, I pray thee, by the hand of him whom thou wilt send. 

"And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses, and he said, Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well. And also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee : and when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart." (Exodus 4:10-14.) 

Is it not possible that blessings were withheld from Moses and given to Aaron, blessings which Moses could have enjoyed had he obeyed the commandments of the Lord in faith? 

In the life of Enoch we have another striking example of how the Lord provides a means for the establishment of his work and the preparation of his servants for service in that great work. We are told that in the days of Enoch there was great wickedness upon the earth. In Moses 6:27, 31 and 32 we read the following: 

"And he heard a voice from heaven, saying: Enoch, my son, prophesy 

. unto this people, and say unto them — Repent, for thus saith the Lord : I am angry 

with this people, and my fierce anger is kindled against them; for their hearts 

have waxed hard, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes cannot see 

afar off; * * * * 

"And when Enoch had heard these words, he bowed himself to the earth, before the Lord, and spake before the Lord, saying : Why is it that I have found favor in thy sight, and am but a lad, and all the people hate me; for I am slow of speech; wherefore am I thy servant? 

"And the Lord said unto Enoch : Go forth and do as I have commanded 

130' GENERAL CONFERENCE 

thee, and no man shall pierce thee. Open thy mouth, and it shall be filled, and I will give thee utterance, for all flesh is in my hands, and I will do as seemeth me good." 

Unlike Moses, Enoch did not question the Lord, but he acknowledged his own [weakness and his lack of preparation and was willing to be guided by the Lord and prepared for the service required of him. We find that Enoch did not commence his preaching immediately, but was taken into the mountain wherej the Lord taught him, where he learned precept upon precept, line upon line, here a little and there a little, finally returning to his people, where he converted a city, and the city was not, for the Lord took it unto himself. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I mention these incidents because it seems to me that there, is something lacking, either in our belief,;in our training, or in our faith, when we say that young men cannot be prepared at home in the Church for service they render so well under the guiding influence of our heavenly Father in the mission field. How much better they could and would_ serve while in the mission field if they were thoroughly prepared before leaving. It is so easy to pass the responsibility to someone else, but it requires a real effort to face the responsibility placed upon one when he receives the Priesthood and to perform the labors required of those- who are called to such positions, who should labor in faith and humility, knowing and realizing that all things are possible to those who serve the Lord in faith, with a desire_to accomplish that which is required by him. Let us keep in mind the words contained in John 15:1-5: 

"I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman. 

"Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away; and every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. 

"Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. 

"Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me. 

"I am the vine, ye are the branches : He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit : for without me ye can do nothing." 

How many of us belong to that branch which beareth good fruit? How many of us are in danger of being cut off because of our inactivity, because of our failure to take advantage of every opportunity that comes to us for service in this great work? 

May we be numbered among the branches that bear fruit; may God purge us that we may bring forth more fruit; may we always abide in him and may his words abide in us, that we may eventually be glorified with that glory which he has promised to those who are faithful in all things. May God help us to see the way; may we be guided by his Spirit that we may go forward and accomplish that which is required of us, doing it in faith and 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 131 

humility, is my prayer, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A sacred solo, "Light of the world," was sung by Cyril Martin. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

The Apostle Paul, in the opening words of his epistle to the Hebrews, testified as follows: 

"God, who in sundry times and in divers manners spake in times past to the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son." 

And so we testify that in this generation the same God has spoken through his Son, and through the prophets unto us. Just as it was necessary to supplement the revelations of the Old Testament by the revelations of the New Testament, to which the Apostle Paul testifies, so was it necessary to supplement the revelations of both the Old Testament and the New Testament by the revelations to us in our generation. 

The history of this American volume of scripture, this modern volume of scripture, known to us as the Doctrine and Covenants, shows that the Prophet Joseph Smith and also his associates placed a high valuation upon the message, upon the doctrines given to us. Soon after the organization of the Church, indeed about three months afterwards, Joseph was concerned in getting the revelations together for the purpose of publication. In November, 1831, a conference was called at Hiram, Ohio, for the purpose of having these revelations sent down to Missouri and published at the printing office of the Church, then established at Independence, Missouri. On the afternoon of that day, November 1, 1831, there was given to the Prophet Joseph the revelation now embodied as the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants, known as the preface. It is so designated in the revelation. This revelation alone is very strong corroborative proof of the divinity of the work through the Prophet Joseph. 

Elder Whitney spoke of the Book of Mormon as being one of the strongest corroborative evidences of the divinity of the Master. And so as to the Doctrine and Covenants we may say that it is a very strong book of corroborative testimony in support of the divinity of this latter-day work. 

Dr. Eliot, the president emeritus of Harvard, has given us a volume of prefaces of the notable books of the world. Volume 39 of this five-and-one-half-foot library, as it is sometimes called, is a volume devoted entirely to prefaces — prefaces that are deemed worthy to live after the books themselves to which they are prefaces in some instances have lapsed into obsolescence. After considering the preface to the Doctrine and Covenants in the light of the literary standards of the world as to what a preface should be, and after comparing 

132 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

it with the outsanding prefaces of the books of all time, I discover it to be a very remarkable document. I have read it over scores of times, and the oftener I read it the more powerful and beautiful does the language seem to me. I am persuaded that the testimony in support of so-called "Mormonism" is not dependent upon any one single bit of evidence, but upon the cumulative effect of all the corroborative evidence we have in support of this divine latter-day cause. 

The brethren having in charge the bringing forth of the Doctrine and Covenants safeguarded it very carefully. It was not sufficient for Oliver Cowdery alone to take the manuscript from Ohio to Missouri, but by revelation a companion was designated as his assistant in carrying that message. Ex-Governor Harding, of Utah, a Palmyra boy, in an affidavit furnished for an anti-"Mormon" publication in the 50's gives us a very beautiful picture, to my mind, of the way Joseph and his associates safeguarded the precious manuscript of the Book of Mormon. He testifies that he saw Joseph, Oliver and Martin walking through the woods each day in the morning, with a "take," as the printer calls it, of manuscript to be delivered to Mr. Grandin, the printer of Palmyra, sufficient copy for the day; and the same three men again in the evening walking through the woods to receive back the precious manuscript which the printers during the day had placed in type. 

Some of the brethren felt that it was not such a very difficult thing to produce one of these revelations. They saw these revelations and realized that they were coming through the Prophet Joseph more or less in his language, and yet with wisdom above that of man, and a notion prevailed with some that it was not a very difficult thing to produce such revelations. Then the test was given of the Lord, ju^c as surely a test, although not so spectacular, as Elijah's contest with the priests of Baal. This is the language of the Lord in making that test : 

"And now I, the Lord, give unto you a testimony of the truth of these commandments which are lying before you. Your eyes have been upon  my servant, Joseph Smith, Jr., and his language you have known, and his imperfections you have known; and you have sought in your hearts knowledge that you might express beyond his language; this you also know. 

"Now, seek ye out of the Book of Commandments, even the least that is among them, and appoint him that is the most wise among you; 

"Or, if there be any among you that shall make one like unto it, then ye are justified in saying that ye do not know that they are true; 

"But if ye cannot make one like unto it, ye are under condemnation if ye do not bear record that they are true. 

"For ye know that there is no unrighteousness in them, and that which is righteous cometh down from above, from the Father of lights." (Doc. and Cov. 67:4-9.) 

And there was one wise man — Church history suggests that he was very wise in his own estimation — Brother McLellan, who was really foolish enough to undertake to produce something that would read somewhat like one of these revelations, and added to his knowledge the 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 133 

folly of attempting the impossible. Just as the great John Marshall, justly estimated the greatest jurist that the United States has ever had, failed upon a challenge by his preacher, to produce a parable comparable to one of the parables of our Lord and Master. 

There were many testimonies given in support of the divinity of the revelations. The first book published was known as the Book of Commandments, afterwards changed to its present title. The Presidency in the proposed issuance of that volume, testified thus : 

"We do not present this little volume with any other expectation than that we are to be called to answer to everything advanced, in that day when the secrets of all hearts will be revealed and the reward of every man's labor given unto him." 

Later the great body of the priesthood divided into departments, each with a spokesman, and strongly testified to the divinity of that book of revelations and to Joseph as a prophet. The following testimony was prepared and presented at a conference, November, 1831, it being intended to have it signed and printed in the Book of Commandments : 

"The testimony of the witnesses to the Book of the Lord's Commandments, which commandments he gave to his Church through Joseph Smith, Jr., who was appointed by the voice of the Church for this purpose : We therefore feel willing to bear testimony to all the wcrld of mankind, to every creature upon the face of all the earth, and upon the islands of the sea, that the Lord has borne record to our souls, through the Holy Ghost shed forth upon us, that these commandments were given by the inspiration of God and are profitable for all men, and are verily true. We give this testimony unto the world, the Lord being our helper; and it is through the grace of God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, that we are permitted to have this privilege of bearing this testimony unto the world, in which we rejoice exceedingly, praying the 1 Lord always that the children of men may be profited thereby." (History of the Church, Vol. I, page 226.) 

This testimony to the truth of the Book of Commandments was concurred in by the leaders and other elders present at the conference where it was presented. It may have been signed also. It was carried to Missouri, but owing to the fact that the printing press was destroyed by a mob before the Book of Commandments was all printed, the testimony does not appear in the part of it that was printed; but it was concurred in by all the leading brethren present at the conference, among them being Joseph Smith, Jr., Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, John Whitmer, Peter Whitmer, Jr., Sidney Rigdon, William E. McLellan, Orson Hyde, Luke Johnson, Lyman E. Johnson, and others. (See History of the Church, Vol. 1, page 222 and 226.) 

As we look for individual items of testimony, having as I say this cumulative effect of making a case beyond all controversy to those who are willing to listen to the truth, we have such evidence as was referred to by President Grant in his opening speech — the testimony of the great premier of England, Gladstone, a man disinterested and certainly competent to give that testimony. And the testimonies continue up 

134 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

to this time in support of the revelation to Joseph contained in section 101, Doctrine and Covenants, verse 80, to the effect that the constitution of this land was established by wise men raised up unto this very purpose — not only the view the great Gladstone had, but modern lawyers in convention assembled express similar views in reference to the inspiration of this great work. Honorable Michael J. Doyle, in the convention of the Commercial Law League of America, held July 13th, 1925, said: 

"It is not to be expected that any product of mere human brain can escape all criticism or will be an absolutely perfect document. But so far as human genius could reach, the testimony of the intervening years has established that never before in the history of man's endeavor to uplift man has there been presented to civilization or to humanity a document so inspiring of the rights of posterity and the rights of freedom, as the document which followed the Declaration of Independence on that hot Fourth of July, 1776. I agree with the many writers on the subject who say that we have much reason to believe that the brain of these men, sitting there in that solemn assembly, was touched by a divine spark when they gave to the world and to posterity that marvelous document." 

A federal judge who sometimes sits in our own city, Judge Page Morris, had this to say with reference to the Constitution not long ago : 

"The Constitution of the United States is the greatest document the world has ever known, and if it is riot divinely inspired it is nearer to it than any other human document I know of." 

The very manner of giving these revelations indicates that Joseph had divine assistance. Parley P. Pratt testified to the giving of these revelations, but time does not permit to read his testimony, but it was in substance to the effect that there was no interlining, no reviewing, no reading back, no corrections, but he simply dictated it, so that a person writing longhand could conveniently take it, and when his dictation was through the revelation was complete. 

My own testimony is that the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants are beyond the wisdom of man. That is true of the least revelation. Take, perhaps, the shortest, the second section, outlining all our great temple work in the turning of the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. That is above the wisdom of man, as also the 20th, 107th, 84th, and 124th, sections, the four great charters of the P/iesthood, or revelations on the Priesthood, which, by the way, the priesthood here assembled should be very familiar with, as many of them no doubt are, and other revelations, too numerous to mention, such as the 59th, the 93rd, 76th, 87th, 88th and 89th sections. Indeed any one of them is above the wisdom of the young man Joseph, and above the wisdom of any of his associates, and above the wisdom of the world today. That is my testimony, and I bear it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the first and third verses of the hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 135 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

Brethren and sisters : A solemn thought comes to me as I stand before you. It is this: The Lord said: "I give unto men weakness that they may be humble; and my grace is sufficient for all men that humble themselves before me; for if they humble themselves before me, and have faith in me, then will I make things become strong unto them." 

The Apostle Paul, by the inspiration of the Lord, declared : "But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us." 

There were those in Paul's day who made the statement that bis bodily presence was weak; but in that earthen vessel was the courageous spirit, the power of the Priesthood and the Holy Ghost that magnified the name of the Lord, and that preached Jesus Christ and him crucified to all the people who would listen to the apostle's message. 

We should look upon the manner of our redemption not only with respect and gratitude, but also with deep love and affection. In the body of the Babe of Bethlehem was the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the God of heaven, who came down to redeem his people. 

What was there in that young child to incite the murderous impulses in the heart of the wicked King Herod? The child appeared to mortal eyes much like other children, except to those whom God had given the light to see that the Son of Mary was God, the Savior. The evil power moved Herod to seek the life of the Only Begotten of the Father, because the promised Son was a revelation of God, the Redeemer of the world, who came to save mankind by his atoning blood. He was the Resurrection and the Life. 

When the Prophet Joseph Smith related to sectarian ministers the account of his glorious vision in which he beheld the Father and the Son, they laughed him to scorn and persecuted him. After accomplishing all the work God had given him to do, he sealed his testimony with his blood as a martyr for the Lord Jesus Christ. What was there in that boy to stir up hate and murder in the hearts of those who persecuted him and sought his life? The evil one revealed to them that here was a man who came to declare to the world that God lived, that Jesus was the Christ. Joseph Smith was a man sent from God to fill the earth with the knowledge of the Lord and to restore the true and everlasting gospel for the salvation of the children of men. 

The remark is sometimes heard among us that the world looks with more complacency upon a prophet than it did a generation 

136 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ago. This is not true, and those who entertain that idea are deceiving themselves. The same power that hated the Savior has always hated and will always hate the prophets he sends into the world. "If ye were of the world, the world would love his own : but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you." 

A few years ago, shortly after the World War, I had a conversation with a prominent minister. He was a great preacher of the gospel as he understood it. In manner he was courteous, and his questions indicated a tolerant spirit. At the close of our talk I said to him : "Doctor, do you not think that this great war and this terrible epidemic of influenza foreshadow some great event such as the second coming of the Son of God?" He replied: "I think so now, but if a man eight years ago had told us that this war and epidemic would come, we would have laughed him to scorn and then crucified him." I said : "Doctor, men did crucify just such a man." Then to relieve the deep astonishment depicted on the churchman's countenance, I told him the story of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the marvelous predictions that he made, by revelation from the Lord, of the Civil War, the World War and the desolating sickness and the overflowing scourge that should cover the land. 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that in earthen vessels ihere is power, there is a heavenly treasure. In the Prophet Joseph Smith there was a heavenly treasure, an immortal spirit, the power and calling of the holy Priesthood and the Holy Ghost by which he established the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all its beauty and power, divinely commissioned to preach the gospel to prepare the way for the second coming of the Lord. 

And I testify that in the missionaries, earthen vessels, the Holy Ghost dwells, and by this they know, by first-hand knowledge and not second-hand, that Jesus is the Christ. By that treasure and power they are preaching the restored gospel, reproving the world of sin, and God is blessing their labors. 

The President of the Church has the same treasure, the same power, keys, and authority that the Prophet Joseph Smith had, a'nd all the leaders of the Church, and the officers laboring under their direction have these treasures and the calling and authority that belong to the particular offices to which they have been appointed, to declare God's message to the people to whom they are sent and among whom they labor. This testimony I bear, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

A Lamanite brother from Washakie will now speak to us. His remarks will be interpreted by his bishop, Elder George M. Ward. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 137 

We have 150 members of the Church in Washakie. I understand that this Lamanite brother said he would like the opportunity of saying a few words here, and we are glad to have him do so. Brother Frank Warner, a brother of our Lamanite who is coming to the stand, filled a number of very fine missions among the Lamanites in different sections of the United States. 

YEAHGAH TIMBIMBOO 

My brethren and sisters : I am glad to meet here with you in conference. This is the first time in my life I have stood here and spoken to an audience. In my childhood I understood nothing of the services of this people. I had seen them going to Church. Not until I yielded obedience unto the word of God and accepted the ordinances of the gospel did I know what they were doing. Since I have accepted this gospel T have felt to be a friend to this people, and I have no desire to kill, or to do anything wrong that would displease the Spirit of the Lord. 

I believe the Lord is in existence. In my younger days I was sent with others to this country towards the west in search of a Great Spirit. But I have found that the Spirit of the Lord is among this people. While in search of that Great Spirit, the company of Indians traveled by foot day and night, and endured hardships, hunger and thirst. When we did reach our destination in the west, we found it was the elders of this Church, and we were baptized by those elders. Since I have been baptized and accepted this gospel I feel to live it to the best of my ability. And it encourages us one and all to live sacred lives before the Lord and keep his commandments, as we have been instructed during this conference. 

I look upon these men sitting here the same as I look upon our heavenly Father. I want to be obedient unto them and their teachings. Upon one occasion in my life I was very sick and my spirit left my body and went to my Creator, and the Creator would not accept my spirit, but it was sent back to my body. And now I testify that I am a living witness to this thing. I rejoice in the work that I have accomplished in this Church, the acceptance of the ordinances of the gospel, the performance of the same in my own behalf and the work that I have accomplished in behalf of my dead kindred. 

I ifeel that the earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof is his, and we are his children and are placed here to obey him. Everything that we receive from this earth in the shape of grain, I feel is a blessing from the Lord unto us, and that we should consider it such, and thank the Lord for these blessings. I want to encourage you to be faithful and serve the Lord and keep his commandments. You people have the advantage of me. You can read the word of God from the scriptures and can store it up in 

138 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

your minds and prepare yourselves to live it. I, being unable to read, have to get my instructions from my bishop and remember them, and whenever he calls upon me I depend upon the Lord to bless me with his Spirit to bring to my mind the things I should say. 1 am in this position this morning, called unexpectedly to stand here before you, and I have expressed the few things that I have spoken under the direction of the Spirit of the Lord. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I wish to say that the Latter-day Saints have undoubtedly spent more money and more time in endeavoring to educate and benefit the Lamanite people, whom we believe to be the descendants of the father Lehi, than any other people. The Church today, I believe, numbers among its converts in Hawaii over one-half the native population of that land. We are given the credit by leading officials in that land of having done more for the uplift, morally, intellectually and physically, and for the temporal benefit of the people of Hawaii than all other missionaries who have been in that land. And we have invested there at the present time in plantations considerably more than a million and a half dollars in money. 

We have assisted the Indians in Arizona and in different parts of Utah and Montana, and have done everything within our power for the benefit of this people, and we look forward to the day when hundreds and thousands of them will be abundantly blessed of the Lord, and when they shall eventually become a white and a delightsome people. 

As a closing number, the congregation sang "High on the mountain top;" and prayer was offered by Elder Thomas W. Johnson of the Beaver stake of Zion. 

The conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


