Overflow
04 04 1926

An overflow meeting of the conference was held in the Assembly Hall at 10 o'clock a. m., Sunday, April 4, 1926. 

Elder J. Golden Kimball, of the First Council of Seventy, presided. 

The combined choirs of Murray First ward and Mill Creek ward, of the Cottonwood stake, W. F. Robinson directing, Tracy Y. Cannon at the organ, provided the music. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Come, dearest Lord, descend and dwell." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Nicholas G. Smith, bishop of the Seventeenth ward, Salt Lake City. 

The choir sang, "In our Redeemer's name." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

As I approached the door of the Tabernacle this morning, though I had ample time if I could have gotten in, I was caught in a jam and I could not get one way or the other; and finally I heard my name announced by President Grant. I was to take charge of the meeting in the Assembly Hall. I did not take time to find out who was appointed with me; my difficulty was to get out. You know, sometimes you cannot get in and other times you cannot get out; that was my case his morning. So I rushed over here, but was somewhat disturbed, as it is a little unusual for me to preside over any of our general conference assemblies. Brethren and sisters, I do not know much, but what I do know, I know well; I am a well-trained soldier; I have been laboring in the Church under the direction of the general authorities for over 35 years; I have seen a whole council of the Twelve fill their missions and pass over, and still live, and I know from my missionary experience in the world and at home, that we are the servants of the living God; that we hold divine authority; that every member in this Church, from the least unto the greatest, is entitled to revelation and inspiration and the spirit of prophecy for his own guidance. If it is otherwise, the only answer we have is that since the Holy Ghost was conferred upon you by the laying on of hands, you have not had faith and kept the commandments of God. That is the inspiration that gives life to this Church, and as long as the members of this Church, together with the general authorities, are under the inspiration of Almighty God, there is no use of being non-plussed or overcome, for God will put it into our mouths what to do, what to say, and will guide and lead us into all truth. I thought I would like to say that to you good people. Several of the brethren named by President Heber J. Grant to speak at this meeting have failed to receive word of their appointment. Up until now only three of us have arrived. But we are here, and we are dependent upon the Lord to guide 

46 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and direct us. I would like to ask you good people if you are in the habit, in our assemblies and places of worship, of offering a few words of prayer in your heart for those who are to speak to us? Very few know just who is going to be appointed; and I am a believer that our people are very careless about those things and place the whole responsibility upon the speaker. My experience has been that there is a great responsibility resting upon the Saints, and that we need to call in the wanderings of our minds and centralize them upon God the Father and upon his Son Jesus Christ, in behalf of God's servants — not only to pray for them, but to ask God to give them inspiration, so that they will open their mouths and use the talent which the Lord God "has given every one of us, I am getting somewhat timid myself, because once in a while I make a mistake. But if God ever created a man, aside from the Savior, who has not made any mistakes, I would like to have him pointed out. We make mistakes, hence, when we speak in the name of the Lord and when we prophesy, we need the Spirit of God. 

I saw an old gentleman yesterday whom I met way down in Arizona, years and years ago, when our people were in poverty and were about to disorganize the stake, because everything had gone to pieces for the time being; and he said, "Brother Kimball, I want to call your attention to something that happened years ago. You were in the little one-horse town, as I called it then, with the presidency of the stake, and you were there alone representing the brethren of the Church." The presidency of the stake presented the name of a man to be bishop of that ward. I said to them, "That bishop will not remain long." "Well," they said, "Brother Kimball, whom would you choose?" "Well, if I were choosing, I would choose that fellow over there sitting on the end of the seat; he will make you a good bishop." But they put the first man in, and he did not hold out two years, and afterwards they put in the other man, whom I suggested, and he is one of the best bishops they have had. I merely speak of this to impress you that God can inspire his servants, and they can prophesy and it will come true. 

Now, brethren, pray in your hearts; you need not make any to-do about it, but ask the Lord to inspire his servants to say things that will answer the questions and doubts that are creeping into the hearts of God's people; for doubt and uncertainty is creeping into the hearts of a number of our people. I want to say to you, in the name of Israel's God, that if we do not live the right life and keep that light burning in our hearts as a living fire, so that you may know always that Jesus is the Christ, we may lose that knowledge on the morrow or during the year — if we are careless and indifferent. My father said before he died, and kept saying, "O the test, the test, the test; who will be able to stand?" He came, to his home on the Kimball block at the south door, where my mother lived, and where I was born, and said, "O the test, the test, the test; who will be able to stand?" It was but a very 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 47 

short time after repeating this statement that he was stricken with paralysis and never spoke a word afterward. My mother said, "Brother Kimball what is the test?" and he said, "I don'* know, but only those who know that Jesus is the Christ will be able stand." 

Now, brethren, you can judge yourselves. L>o not bother about me. Be concerned about yourselves, and I will get along the best way I can. If I do not make it, there is no reason why you should not; and if I can make it, anybody can make it. That is my personal idea. I do not know whether that is an encouragement to you or not. 

ELDER JAMES H. ROBINSON 

President of the South Davis Stake 

I feel very humble, my brethren and sisters, and very much dependent upon our heavenly Father. This is the first time in my life that I have been called upon to address the people of God in one of our general conferences, and I can assure you that, while I feel very grateful for this opportunity, I feel very humble and very dependent upon our heavenly Father. I realize most fully that we are engaged in the work of our Father, the Creator of the heavens and the earth, and the Father of our spirits; and I know, too, that to speak to his people, who have listened to the servants of the Lord and obeyed the promptings of the spirit, who have embraced the faith and are endeavoring to carry out the work of our Father upon the earth — to feed you people — a man must be inspired of our Father. This is his work, and we know and understand the things of God only through the Spirit of our Father. It is not the elegant words spoken by masters of the English language, or the learning of men that can send that prompting and that inspiration and conviction to the hearts of God's people. It can only be sent there through the inspiration of our Father. And while I know, too, that we as individuals are not permitted to have inspiration or revelation for the Church, I know by experience that we are entitled to that revelation and that inspiration for our own guidance, and to help us in the discharge of all the duties and responsibilities that rest upon us. And if we are not in communion with that spirit, it is because our receiving instrument is out of tune; for our Father in heaven will never neglect his people, will never fail to do his part; and if I am not receiving the inspiration of the Father, it is because of some act in my life or some neglect, or something, that has gotten the instrument God has given to me in his Spirit out of tune with the sending instrument of our Father. Our Father has told us, through the Prophet Brigham Young, that every spirit is born pure into the earth, and it becomes contaminated only as the spirit is subject to the tabernacle of flesh in which it is encased; for our tabernacles are earthy, and made up of the earth and are subject to death. And just as our spirits are overcome by the weaknesses of that body, are we out of harmony with our Father. 

48 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I know that this work is true; I know that the Prophet Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God; and I know that the Savior is the Son of God; and that this work has been established in the earth in these last days never again to be thrown down or given to another people. And I realize, too, that simply to be a member of this Church does not mean exaltation; for just as surely as the Lord has given us our free agency, just so surely must we exercise that agency in the right direction. Joining this Church and doing nothing in it will not bring us salvation or exaltation; for the Lord has given us the plan, and he has given us the knowledge that he lives and that this is his work, and then he has left us to work out our own salvation. And we have a mighty responsibility resting upon us as Latter-day Saints; for we not only have to live the gospel at home, but it is our mission to take it to every nation of the earth. And when we consider the few Latter-day Saints that there are, compared with the numerous hosts of the whole world, we can understand to a small degree the responsibility that this is. Wben the beloved John was cast upon the isle of Patmos and he was permitted to look down through the stream of time; when he saw that angel flying through the midst of heaven having the everlasting gospel to preach to all the inhabitants of the earth, he saw our day, and we are living in fulfilment of that revelation that was given to John the divine, for that angel has flown from the midst of heaven, and has delivered this message to the inhabitants of this earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith. We are carrying out that vision and that prediction that was made by our beloved prophet when he saw these things. 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that we may be able to live up to all of the duties, obligations and responsibilities that rest upon us. We sometimes speak of its being our duty to do the things in this Church that we are called upon to do, but I take it that it is more of a privilege. We ought to assume it as one of the highest privileges in our lives that we are permitted to hold the Priesthood of the Son of God, that we are permitted to act in the name of our Father in heaven and to be his ambassadors upon the earth to carry out his work. This is a privilege of which we ought to be proud and glad to receive and glad to carry out in our lives. I pray that we may be loyal and devoted to this cause, spending our energies and efforts and all that we have and are in helping to establish God's work in the earth, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH R. MURDOCK 

President of the Wasatch Stake 

My brethren and sisters: I certainly desire an interest in your faith and prayers, that the Spirit of the Lord may be with me 

ELDER JOSEPH R. MURDOCK 49 

during the few minutes that I may stand before you. Of myself, I have always felt a great timidity in speaking on the things pertaining to the kingdom of heaven in the presence of my brethren and sisters, feeling my natural weakness. It is not because I dislike to meet with them and listen to the remarks of my brethren and sisters, but rather it is a timid feeling about attempting to address them. It is easier for me to listen to good things than it is to say them. But I have a testimony of the truth just the same. I had a little witness of that this morning. In our meeting of Religion Class officers, in one of the buildings near the Bishops' Building, I was very much pleased with the remarks of a young lady, who told us of her experience in training the boys, impressing upon us the necessity of doing individual work with the boys and girls and not with the people as a whole so much. I have felt that the same thing may apply to our older brethren, to our men and women, who necessarily, it seems, have to be encouraged individually; and the great truths and principles of the gospel which we have embraced give us an opportunity from time to time to explain, expound, encourage, and build up one another in the great work in which we are engaged. 

She gave some very nice illustrations of her work, which time will not permit me to repeat further than to impress upon you, or those of you who were not present at that meeting in the Barrett Hall, that there is such a work going on in this Church as Religion Class work. I do not know how many of you have ever attended the Religion Class in the respective communities from which you have come, or how many of you encourage your boys and girls to attend, that they may get the spirit of this work early in life. I want to encourage you, if there are any who do not, that you take this up. It may seem to some to be the. least important work, but I want to tell you that it is not least in the Wasatch stake of Zion. More than 90% of our boys and girls who attend the district schools are attending Religion Class; and in .our seminary work, nearly that percentage of those in the high school attend our seminary and are instructed. And of that group, practically all of our missionaries from the Wasatch stake, numbering between twenty and thirty of the long-time missionaries, nearly 90%, are young men and young women who were in the seminary and were taught in the Religion Class. In the Religion Class the foundation was laid; they received their faith in the principles of the gospel, and such information as they should receive at the age when they attend. I do not know of any other work that has been of greater result and benefit in the A¥asatch stake than the Religion Class work and the seminaries. I want to endorse most heartily the Religion Classes and to encourage the brethren and sisters in the respective communities to uphold the teachers, to recognize their work. It would not be amiss to say a 

50 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

kindly word to those who are teaching your Religion Class in your respective wards and ask them how your boys and girls are getting along, whether they are truant or whether they are remaining for Religion Class. 

It was told to us today that some parents thought their children were attending Religion Class, and when they received the report, they found they were not there half the time. Whose boys and girls are they, and what are they worth to us? Without our boys and girls, it would seem to me that we have accomplished practically nothing in the world. If we have permitted them to slip away from us and lose faith in the gospel and in Jesus Christ, in this great latter-day work, I would like to know what we have accomplished! We have made a living; may have accumulated wealth, which we do not take with us; but those of our loved ones are of the treasures of this earth which, if they are saved in the kingdom of heaven, thieves will not steal from us, moth and rust will not corrupt. They are the most important of all the treasures and of all the work that we may accomplish in this life. So I want to endorse with my full heart and support the work of Religion Class and seminary. It is no fifth wheel. It came in the due time of the Lord, when we needed that kind of instruction, and it should be carried out, and no doubt is in other stakes, if I got the spirit of that meeting this morning. 

Another speaker, Brother Bennion, said he was reminded of a question that one of our noted authors, Elbert Hubbard, had proposed and answered. He asked, "Is a lady as good as a man?" and he answered, "She is, if she is." Our ladies are just as good as our men, if they do just as well in accomplishing the work to which they are assigned; and they have a most splendid opportunity in Religion Class work, because we have so many sisters who are school teachers. I am pleased to report that the school teachers in the Wasatch stake are not adverse to teaching Religion Class. 

Attending the meetings on this occasion reminds me very much of a meeting I attended, about fifty or sixty years ago as a boy upon this block. In a recent issue of the Improvement Era I read an article in which reference was made to the conversion, if you please, or the second conversion or bringing to these valleys, of Martin Harris, a witness to the Book of Mormon; how one of our elders found him in the world and brought encouraging words to him of the gospel and asked him why he left the Church. He said he did not leave the Church, but the Church left him, and I guess that was true. He remained in that country for a great many years, and finally through the encouraging words that were carried to him, he came to Zion. The thought occurs to me : How many are there of our brethren and sisters who are slack in their duties, probably negligent, doing nothing in the Church, as he had been doing for so many years, only bearing his testimony as one of the witnesses 

ELDER JOSEPH R. MURDOCK 51 

to the Book of Mormon? Are there any other men of his age who need an encouraging word? Are there any of us who are willing to give it? Are we interested in their salvation? Next to our own immediate families, I do not know of anybody we are going to encounter in the next world who will bring to us the joy and satisfaction that our friends will bring, and especially those who have given us encouraging words in this life and who have helped us to set aside the cares of this world and turn our attention unto the things of heaven. I was particularly impressed with his testimony which I read in the Era, because it was my great pleasure, as a boy about ten years of age, to sit and listen to the testimony of Martin Harris, that an angel of the Lord showed him the records from which the Book of Mormon was translated and declared to him that they were true and were translated by the gift and power of God. It was a great encouragment to me at the time I heard it. It has been a great encouragement to me from the time I heard it up to the present time that this man, Martin Harris, was alive and testified in my presence on these grounds. I cannot remember which building it was in. But he testified that the angel of the Lord appeared to him. 

Did' the angel of the Lord appear to him? Undoubtedly he did. It was his testimony, and the testimony of those of his associates, that the angel of the Lord appeared to them, which carries to me the most convincing evidence that Joseph Smith actually saw the Father and the Son. If Martin Harris saw an angel of the Lord, and the angel testified to him that this book was translated by the power of God, then it is not unreasonable to suppose that Joseph Smith actually saw the Father and the Son. And how important that is in this day of skepticism, when even the Christian world is denying that God is a personal being and that Jesus Christ is his Son, that faith might not depart entirely from the earth, but that there might be those who still believe in the divinity of the mission of Jesus Christ and that he was divine; that God truly created us in his image; that we are his offspring, and that Jesus Christ is our elder brother; and that as he is, we may become. 

To my mind it was a great encouragement to me as a boy, and I thank the Lord that I believed it, and that the Lord has given me a believing heart in the testimony of the brethren. I have never heard a brother speak from this stand, or any other in this Church, but my heart seemed to respond to the statements that he made and I believed them; and it has not hurt me. It has strengthened my faith in God and made life tolerable and desirable even in times of trouble. It has strengthened my faith that this life is not all of the mission which our Father in heaven has set for us. If God lives and Jesus Christ is the Son of God, 

52 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

he was truly resurrected, though the Christian world today do not generally accept it. 

I have listened to a most beautiful sermon — so far as words are concerned — in one of our picture shows here in Salt Lake. It was said that an able speaker was going to talk, and I attended to hear what he said. He told us nothing about the Father, because he did not know anything about him, his personality, nor even the image in which he is. He could not believe the Bible, that God created man in his own image. He told us nothing about Jesus Christ nor his resurrection, because he did not believe it himself, and he did not understand and did not know. But he made a most sympathetic appeal and a speech which brought tears to the eyes of many of those who were in the congregation, speaking of the great labors and work that had been accomplished in the great world war and of our great nation and its achievements. But he did not have the testimony that there ever was a resurrection, that Jesus Christ was resurrected from the dead. The world, even the Christian world — not as a whole, possibly, but individually — has denied that great accomplishment or work of our Father in heaven upon which, to my notion, all our hopes and faith are centered. If there be no resurrection, what will there be for us when we pass from this earth? Some may claim that we will still have an existence in the spirit world. "We will go back where we were before we came here," may be their argument, "as spirits, and be able to dwell on the top of a topless throne, or in the clouds of heaven; we will be retrogressive, going backwards instead of forward." But the Almighty intended that the spirit should be united with the body and assume the responsibilities of this life, which are many. We have all seen that we can take care of and accomplish the things in this life, learning of those things which we cannot learn so well in the eternal world, because the knowledge which we acquire in this world goes with us; and the memory of our first estate is taken from us, that we may be absolutely free to act, relying upon our owri agency and doing what is in our hearts and what we desire to do. And if our hearts are inclined unto righteousness and we love the works of God more than we love evil, we will become righteous; and if we overcome evil with good and serve God and keep his commandments, it will be largely through our own efforts and desire and love of the truth. So without the resurrection, it would be retrogression, going back into the spirit world whence we came — which may possibly be the lot of some — but I trust it will not be the lot of the Latter-day Saints. I trust that we will go on, having received our bodies again, and become as the Savior was after his resurrection, when he said, "Handle me, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as you see me have." He was handled, he was seen, after his resurrection, by many of his disciples, his apostles, and nearly five hundred on 

ELDER JOSEPH R. MURDOCK 53 

another occasion, in this life; and then again upon this continent, with a body such as we expect to receive in the eternal world, and not as a spirit without a body. 

May the Lord enable us to understand and appreciate the great blessings that we enjoy, and be able to grasp the encouraging things which he gives; the testimony of the prophets, of Joseph and Hyrum, and of those who have succeeded them in the presidency of the Church, in the visitation of those brethren and the testimony of the witnesses. And may faith grow in our hearts and a testimony of God and of his purposes; for it is impossible, says the prophet, for us to be saved in ignorance; we must grow and obtain understanding of the mind and of the purposes of the Lord and develop the mind which God has given us, which is the most wonderful part of the human soul. It is after the order of God, the eternal Father, and as no man can comprehend all that man can do or may do in their day, it appears to me that there are none of us who comprehend what we can do, how faithful we can be, how many testimonies of the gospel we may have and what may be our lot, even in this life, if we strive for it; or what shall be the blessings which God has in store for his faithful sons and daughters in the eternal world. May God enable us to strive and to continue to do his will and keep his commandments all the days of our lives, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, the risen Redeemer and our Savior. Amen. 

ELDER NEWELL K. YOUNG 

Of the L. D. S. University Faculty 

I feel very keenly my unworthiness and lack of preparation. Pray with me that I may be blessed to respond to the call of the servants of the Lord to say something about the resurrection of the Christ. 

First, I ,would tell you of the witnesses of that resurrection, the people to whom the Master appeared on that Sunday morning nearly 1900 years ago — for this is Easter Sunday, the anniversary of that great day. 

But may I say a word of preface, that I would rather speak of Jesus Christ and his life, his self-sacrifice, his love, his manliness, his divinity, and of his death and resurrection than of any other theme in all the world. His death was voluntary, he gave his life, laid it down of himself, declaring that plainly, as found in the tenth chapter of John, in the sermon of the Good Shepherd. He had the power and authority from the Father to lay his life down and take it up. No man took it from him. I believe that I can say without error that in the last fifteen years I have scarcely had a waking hour, day or night, that my mind and thought and my heart have not turned for at least a minute or two to him, and many days I spend hours and hours thinking of 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

him. In these fifteen years I have lain awake much at night with bodily pain, and my thought of him, my communion with him — not to him — his communion with me, and the touch of his presence and Spirit, have turned hundreds of nights of pain and restlessness into benedictions and blessings to be remembered forever with gratitude and joy. 

I should like first to speak of the facts or incidents connected with the resurrection, and then say something of its meaning and significance. 

The first to see Jesus resurrected was Mary Magdalene, with whom he spoke and to whom he revealed himself. In her joy, she hastened to embrace or take hold of him, and he said, "Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father." 

The second appearance was to a number of women, and as he spoke to them, he told them to tell his brethren that they should go into Galilee, and there they should see him. That ought to be a comfort to mothers and wives and women, that the first message of the risen Lord to his brethren was sent by these anxious, devoted, eager women, who were first to the tomb in memory and reverence of his pierced body. 

During that day he appeared to two of the disciples who were walking from Jerusalem to Emmaus, and walked with them and conversed with them without their beholding or understanding who he was. They were astonished when he asked them what it was they were talking about as he approached, what the thing was that was in their hearts; and they asked if he was a stranger in Jerusalem. They thought no man could have been there these last days without knowing, and told him of his own crucifixion and of his own burial in the tomb, and that certain women had been there with two of the brethren, who were Peter and John, and found the tomb empty. And then they said, "But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel." 

That same day he appeared to ten of the apostles in an upper room, talked to them, ministered to them, let them see the nail prints in his hands and feet. Thomas was not with them; he was away. Judas, of course, had gone. 

A week from that day he appeared to the eleven, including Thomas. In the mean time, Thomas had said, that he did not believe it. Thomas thought it was an illusion. Thomas thought their senses had deceived them. Thomas was a man who had to have, it seemed, the tangible evidence of the senses, and he said, "I shall not believe, except I see with my eyes and feel with my hands." When Jesus appeared, he said to Thomas, "Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side: and be not faithless, but believing." And Thomas came and did so and dropped on his knees and said, "My Lord and my God." Then Jesus said, "Thomas because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed; blessed are they 

ELDER NEWELL K. YO'UNG 55 

that have not seen, and yet have believed." He does not say, "more blessed," though I think perhaps they are. 

I am grateful with all my heart that it has been easy and natural for me to believe, but I do not want to be unsympathetic with men for whom it is not so easy. I want to have the patience that Jesus had and the willingness to give them all the evidence there may be. 

After that he appeared to seven disciples, five, at least, of whom were apostles, these being Peter, James, and John, and Thomas and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, at the Sea of Galilee, and ate with them. He had fish roasting on a fire of coals. They were fishing. That is the occasion on which he asked Peter three times if he loved him, and Peter answered, yes. And I do rejoice in the last time, when he almost seemed to question Peter's answer, that Peter could look him — the risen Christ, the Son of God in the face — and say, "You know I love you." Blessed is the man who can face those eyes that can see the secrets of the heart and yet say he loves or he believes! There were seven there. 

He visited Peter alone, the Apostle Paul tells us. No one knows what took place in that meeting. I believe we are warranted in believing that no meeting after his resurrection, peihaps, was more vital. 

We do know that his four brothers did not believe in him during his ministry, but he visited his brother James after the resurrection. That is also given to us by Paul. And James believed and later presided in the Church at Jerusalem, the Christian Church, Christ's Church, after his brother had departed, for many, many years, and is believed to be the author of the Epistle of James, a letter of advice and inspiration to the Hebrew Christians of that day. Here he wrote that piece of advice that sent our believing boy prophet into the woods to pray. This prayer opened the heavens for the Father and Son to come. 

At a later meeting he visited five hundred men in a mountain in Galilee, almost all of whom were living when the Apostle Paul bore his testimony. 

Some time after, he visited the eleven and some others, on the mountain, called Olivet, when he ascended in glory; and the witnesses from heaven said that as he ascended, in like manner should he come again. 

At a later time, he visited Paul and called him to the ministry and started him out upon that great mission of his. 

Then we must record the visit to the Nephites, when he came day after day. There is only time to mention this. 

And then his visit to our own prophet, in our time, with his gracious, humbling, chastening ministry to us; for I do not know how you men of Israel feel, but if there is one time when I do not want to speak in a loud voice, if there is one time when I am chastened and when I am sobered, and when I am humbled, it is when I center 

56 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

my consciousness on the fact that we are commissioned through the Priesthood to stand before him and for him in the midst of men. That is no testimony to bear lightly; that is no testimony to shout in thoughtlessness; it is a testimony full of awe, full of responsibility, and a testimony that should be borne in great reverence. 

There is not time to say the word or two I meant to say about the significance and meaning of the resurrection, except this, that for the last year of his mortal life, or nearly that, he was trying to get his apostles to understand that his mission was not to set up an earthly kingdom. He was not to be a Jewish Caesar and set up the Jews to rule the world as Rome had ruled it. They could not understand it. We have evidence and plenty of it. After his death, Peter said, "I go a fishing." And the others said, "We also go with you." The two on the way to Emmaus revealed it; "We trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel." When he was arrested, the brethren went to safety. He said, "Take me and let these go," and they went. They were in gloom; they were despondent; they had hoped it was the Christ; but to them the evidence that he was the Messiah was for him to establish a kingdom, with the Jews as kings. That is what they looked for; that is what their fathers had looked for; that is why they were so fearful, so despondent. But when he rose, when he came back to the Sea of Galilee, where Peter had gone to his nets — not for a day's vacation, not for an hour; if it had been that, he would not have fished all night. He went back to become a "fisher of fish, because he was disappointed and thought, with his brethren on the way to Emmaus, that he was not what they had hoped he should be. When he arose, when he visited them, it was far more to them than the sign that one shall rise from the dead. They believed in the resurrection. It was far more to them than to know that their Master lived; it gave them the testimony, borne witness to, and made secure, by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, that he was the very Christ, the Son of God. That was the great significance of it — not only that he lived but that he was what he had tried to get them to understand that he was; and borne testimony that he was. He was all they had hoped for, and a thousand times more, because he was Lord of life and King of kings, the Redeemer, the Savior, the Son of God, the Revelator of the Father. 

On this Easter morning I am glad to remember these things with you; somehow I feel that every Easter morning, early, out of doors if I could, just as the sun rose, I should like to meet with a band of responsive men and women and spend an hour or two hours in memory of his rising. For that is what it means to us — not only that there is no death; not only that the grave lost its victory and death has been robbed of its sting; but also that he was and is the Christ, the Son of God, the Redeemer and the Savior, and that we are his brethren, children of our Father. I plead that in our wanting to know our Father we may approach him as Father. That is the only way to 

ELDER NEWELL K. YOUNG 57 

know him. He is Father, and we are his children. I bear record here, in memory of my faithful mother, my father, my grandparents, my people — I bear record that I know that God lives and is our Father, caring for us, watching over us; that it is his work and his glory to bring to pass our immortality and eternal life, and that Jesus is the Christ, and we are commissioned to represent him, in helping in that work and that glory. May God help us to be true, I ask, and I leave with you my love, and pray our Father's love and blessing upon you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The combined choirs sang, "An angel from on high." 

ELDER ELIAS A. SMITH 

Of the High Council of Liberty Stake 

My brethren and sisters: If anyone ever needed the sustaining power of our heavenly Father, I do at the present moment. I have had no intimation whatsoever that I would be called upon to stand before you this morning and speak to you a few moments regarding those things which are dear to my heart and to your hearts. I thank my heavenly Father daily that I was born of parents who, in the early days of the Church, embraced the gospel and remained faithful and true to the end of their days. Brother Kimball says his father impressed upon his family the saying, "Are we able to stand the test?" Are we able to endure ? I think that is the vital question ^ith all of us. I take it for granted that everyone here has a testimony of the divinity of this work. We absolutely believe that the Prophet Joseph Smith, in answer to his prayer, was visited by the Father and by the Son, and that he ^conversed with them face to face; and that they made known unto him that he was to be the instrument in their hands in the re-establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ here upon earth. If there is any one of us who doubts that fact, he cannot in any manner believe in what is termed "Mormonism." That is the foundation stone of this Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith's declaration that the Father and the Son did appear unto him, and made known unto him just what they expected him to do in the establishment of his Church here upon the earth. Neither you nor I can save any one except ourselves. It is our duty while we live upon earth to obtain and retain a testimony of the divinity of our heavenly Father, and unless we do have that testimony, we are always in danger of slipping and falling by the wayside. The gospel, as I understand it, is a gospel that we must live day by day — not Sunday nor Monday, but every day of the week — seeking and striving to the best of our abilities to store up knowledge and get information and better our lives, and to assist others to live in a way and manner that they may obtain a testimony and better their lives. None of us can be independent of the other; each one of us is dependent upon our brethren and sisters to live in a way and manner that is acceptable to our 

58' GENERAL CONFERENCE 

heavenly Father. The biggest task I have on earth is to live in a manner that is satisfactory to me, and if I can do that, I know that I can satisfy my brethren and my sisters. 

As Brother Kimball says, I am a member of the Liberty stake High Council. In that way I am endeavoring to do my duty. I believe it is incumbent upon all of us when we are asked to do a thing to do it to the best of our ability, whatever that task may be. A great many of us say that' it is a task; possibly we should say, like Brother Robinson, that it is not only a task but a privilege to work in the Church in every way in which we are called. In doing that we get more out of it than any one else. We are the persons benefited, and receive added testimony to what we already have; as I know whenever I am called upon to do a duty and do it to the best of my ability, I am benefited; the Lord makes known to me his approval, if I have done it in a way that is acceptable to him. And I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that if we will perform our duties as members of this Church day by day, as the leaders of this Church expect us to do, living in a manner that those with whom we associate may say to one another, he is endeavoring to live his religion; he is endeavoring to be an honest, virtuous, truthful man; that we will get joy and satisfaction out of our labor. I pray my heavenly Father that he will bless me, that I may be able to live in that way and manner; and that he will bless you, and that each and every one of us may obtain a testimony of our Savior; that we may have,that testimony burning in our hearts; that we may be Latter-day Saints wherever we go, upholding and sustaining those who are called to preside over us and endeavoring to do, to the best of our ability, what the Lord would have us do. May this be our lot, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

It may be considered unfortunate that some of our brethren who were appointed by President Grant failed to learn of their appointment and have not put in an appearance. Only three of us, as we are informed, have arrived — President Robinson, President Murdock, and myself. We appreciate the fact that we hold the Melchizedek Priesthood, and believe that whenever we are appointed by those having authority, we are fully qualified to perform every duty and responsibility to which we have been appointed. I have had some experience, along with my brethren in the Church, and while I may not have accomplished everything that I was appointed to do to the very best advantage, I desire to say to you that I have never been appointed to do a single thing in this Church but that, when I got the spirit of my appointment, I was qualified and fitted to assume that responsibility. 

When I was an elder in the missionary field and was sent out in the woods — for that is about where we went in the years 1883-4; we 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 59 

did not go in cities, they were not a safe place to go; we went to the woods, among the poor people, and preached the gospel, and we were sent forth without purse and without scrip — all it cost me to fill a mission was to get to my field of labor. I paid for that myself, and it was up to me to get back home as best I could. That is about all the money I had, with enough to buy a few clothes, and I remember they were rather poor. At one time I was up in the Blue Ridge mountains of Virginia, in the winter, with a straw hat and a duster on. It was not very suitable; it was not very warm. We could not wear overcoats; could not carry them in that country. All we carried was an umbrella. We never were at a loss to know what to do, my companion and I, when we had the spirit of our calling. We heard that voice — not very often, not as often as we should have done, but we heard it — behind us saying, "This is the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right and when ye turn to the left." I stand before you as a witness for God that he never forsook us. I walked — and I am a very poor walker; I am not built for it — hundreds and hundreds of miles, and I never lay outdoors but twice, though I want to confess to you I hustled. There is nothing I dreaded worse than lying outside on the ground. I prayed, and my companion prayed, and then we got up and moved on. I guess we would have starved to death if we had kept praying and had not hustled; the Lord doesn't help people who do not hustle and move, after they pray, and do their duty. 

Brethren, I want to read to you. I do not read very often except to myself. When I find a good idea — which is not very often, for very few of us do — I write it down. When you get an idea, write it down. That is what the Prophet Joseph tried to teach this people. When the Lord gives you a sudden idea, write it down, and then watch it; and if it comes from God, through his Spirit, it is inspiration; and when it comes true, that is revelation. Try to remember that. I am not going to read anything to you that has come to me, but I am going to read to you something that I have tried to make work — though I am not making very great progress. I have written it down partly because I have a poor memory, like my father. The Prophet Joseph Smith told father, when he tried to teach him grammar, "Heber, if you don't repeat that, I'll whip you." Father said, "Well, brother Joseph, you will have to whip me; I can't repeat it." Joseph said, "I would just as leave whip a child as you." The quotations I am about to read are such that I might repeat them a million times, or a multimillion times and never live up to them, and I am afraid some of us Latter-day Saints read a good deal, but do not think and put it into our every day life: 

"He that seeketh the Lord early shall find him, and shall not be forsaken." 

No wonder we are trying to teach our children. Some of us did not seek the Lord until we became old. It is a mighty good thing to begin early. 

"The Lord 'is my shepherd." Do you believe that? "The Lord 

60  GENERAL CONFERENCE 

is my shepherd; I shall not want." Then why worry your head off for fear you will go to the poor house? But that is where some of you will go if you don't wake up. Because the Lord "tempers the wind to the shorn lamb." Haven't I just testified of that? In all my wanderings in the south, God led me to the doors of the honest in heart, and they fed me and gave me a place to lay my head. And that is what I am telling our elders, these young boys going on missions. I am trying, when I set them apart, to impress them that the Lord is their shepherd and they shall not want. One good mother stated that her son wrote her and said, "I have only $3, and if you do not send me some money I will be licking the paste off the signboards." And the mother came to me somewhat disturbed and said : "Brother Kimball, what shall I do?" I said, "Let him lick paste for a while; he will find the Lord, but he never will with his pocket full of money." I have repeatedly told the "Mormon" elders that they never found God yet with their pockets full of money. I do not say that you do not have to have the money, but you do not worry much when you know where you are going to sleep and where you are going to eat. I know mighty well that I would not worry the Lord if I had a $5 dollar bill in my pocket; I would go and get something to eat and have the agony over. I do not think the Lord respects a "Mormon" elder who will howl and whine around where he has money in his pocket and is hungry If he does, he ought to starve; that is my doctrine. 

"Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden." God knows that we have thousands in this Church who have labored and are weary. And there are thousands of people in this Church, mothers and old men, the best people God ever created, who never had a banquet or a chicken -dinner in their lives unless they cooked it themselves. No wonder they get weary — they are made to feel they are no longer wanted. "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." And that is the only place you can get real rest. 

"Cast your care upon him, for he careth for you." Can you believe that? That is what I am trying to believe — but I want to tell you I am having a hard time to believe what I read, and put it into practice. As I tell our missionaries, do not let doubt and fear creep into your hearts, for God never planted in one of his children a spirit of fear; it does not come from God; for when you have faith in God, yon have no fear, you have no doubt; you know. But you will have trials and be tested; "you will eat the bread of adversity and drink the water of affliction." That is the only thing that will keep you humble. You have to knock some "Mormons" down every little while to keep them in the Church. It is too bad, but we as Latter-day Saints cannot be prospered without some of us getting arrogant and proud and forgetting God. 

"I will strengthen thee," (I have quoted that over a thousand times) "yea, I will help thee, yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of righteousness." Do you believe that? 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 61 

"Take therefore no thought for the morrow : for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." I have heard hundreds and hundreds of elders say, that applied to the twelve apostles in the days of Jesus Christ and did not apply to a "Mormon" elder, out preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ! Think not of the morrow! I remember a story of two elders wandering in the South without purse or scrip, and they came to a corn crib, and one of the elders said, "We will sleep there tonight," and he called that faith! It was, but it was a poor faith. Those boys wandered around and around and got lost, and traveled in a circle; and when darkness set in there was the corn crib, and the elder said, "There, I told you we would sleep in the corn crib." The Lord fulfilled his word, and it served him right. It is where he expected to sleep. "As your faith is, so shall it be unto you." 

"As thy faith is" — I have it here, by the way — "so shall it be unto you." 

"I will fear no evil, for thou art with me." "There shall no evil happen to the just." You have read those things a thousand times, and so have I; and then we never think of them. We are a good deal like Coue. Have you ever read Coue's book ? When I was sick, I read it from lid to lid, and I went trotting around, saying : "Every day, in every way, I am getting better and better." Every morning when I got up I was worse and worse. What good did it do me? I did not believe it. But thousands of people, according to the story, have gotten over physical ailments — they call it mental — by repeating, "Every day and in every way, I am getting better and better." It did not do me a bit of good, because I did not make it work. And they say it only cures mental trouble. My experience is, my brethren and sisters, that a large per cent of our troubles are imaginary and not real. We get an imaginary trouble, and we cling to it like death, and won't let loose. So it is with scripture; of what use is it to continue to repeat these things if you do not believe them? 

Here is another. "The God that I worship says unto me, T am with you always — ' " I can find that in my blessing given to me by Elder Moses Thatcher. "Ask and it shall be given you, seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you." 

The Prophet Joseph Smith, when but a boy, read this : "If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering." Surely God reads our hearts; you cannot deceive God. You can deceive a bishop, sometimes, not all the time; you can deceive a president of a stake, not all the time; you may deceive the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, not all the time; but you cannot deceive God any of the time. And don't ever try it. His ways are not as man's ways; he is greater than sects or creeds or isms or fancies or the notions and caprices of men. 

Brethren and sisters, the time is up. I have only gotten started. 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Why don't you read these things and write them down, like our fathers and mothers did of old, and think about them, and make them work? And when you are sick, have faith and be healed. Christ never diagnosed a case in his life; Christ never asked a woman what was the matter; he never asked her what kind of a disease she had. I know as I know I live and breathe, although I may never feel its power, that when sick, authority has been vested in me, as I have seen people healed, not many, it is true, but some were healed as soon as I took my hands off their heads. Yet doctors have said that those diseases were incurable, but they have been healed nevertheless. They tell me that epileptic fits are incurable. I cannot cite you to many cases, but I can point you out a poor widow, who lived in the sagebrush, in Idaho, that came to me after a conference. The bishop of the ward, and I administered to that good old woman, and she never had a fit after. I can cite you to a poor old widow in the north country who had a cancer. She had fasted for three days, and came to the same conference, and something said to her, "That is the man." I do not think I amount to much, but we administered to that poor old widow, and God healed her. I have had splendid success with widows; especially, when they were in poverty! But I have never had any success with rich people. I do not know why. May be it is because they have little faith. 

May the Lord bless you. Think of God. How many of us think of God thirty minutes out of twenty- four hours? There is not one out of five hundred that actually thinks of God and his Son Jesus Christ thirty minutes a day. I do; but the first thing I know, my mind wanders off on something else. My brethren and sisters, God bless you and be with us and help this people, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choirs sang the anthem, "O grave, where is thy victory?" The benediction was pronounced by Elder John W. Walker, of the 

High Council of the Ensign stake; and the meeting was adjourned 

until 2 o'clock p. m. 


