Morning
04 04 1926

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

This is a very wonderful gathering of Latter-day Saints, the Tabernacle being crowded to overflowing. It is certainly an inspiring sight, and bears witness to the interest and devotion of the Latter-day Saints. I humbly pray that while I stand before you this morning I may be able to say something that shall in some small degree fulfil my share of this conference, and which you can take away with you and feel that you have received some benefit by leaving your homes, some of you from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, and from New York to San Francisco. 

CAUSE FOR REJOICING 

I rejoice in the growth of the work of God. I rejoice in the integrity and devotion and the willing self-sacrifice of the people. I am very thankful for all of the many blessings that have come to us as a people, from the time when that great pioneer, Brigham Young, and that wonderful band of men and women, one hundred and forty odd, first came to this valley. I am thankful for the blessings of the Lord that have attended the Saints, notwithstanding the drivings and the persecutions and the mobbings that they have had to endure during the 96 years since the organization of the Church. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 3 

It is generally expected that at the April conference of the Church something shall be given in the nature of statistics regarding the condition of the Church. Therefore, before making any special remarks, I shall give you a few items of interest. 

CHANGES IN OFFICERS, AND CHURCH STATISTICS 

Stake Presidents Honorably Released. 

Mark Austin, Fremont stake; Peter M. Hansen (deceased), Bear River stake; Nelson J. Hogan, Idaho stake; Heber C. Austin, Idaho Falls stake. 

New Stake Presidents 

George S. Romney, Fremont stake; Milton H. Welling, Bear River stake; J. Fred Corbett, Idaho stake; Frederick A. Caine, Idaho Falls stake. 

Mission Presidents Honorably Released 

Albert R. Peterson, Norwegian mission; John S. Hansen, Danish mission; Charles S. Hyde, Netherlands mission; Herbert B. Foulger, Tahitian mission (acting). 

Mission Presidents Appointed 

Martin Christopherson, Norwegian mission; Joseph L. Peterson, Danish mission; John P. Lillywhite, Netherlands mission; Alma G. Burton, Tahitian mission. 

STATISTICS 

There are at present: stakes of Zion, 94; wards, 909; independent branches, 76; missions, 26; branches in missions, 716, making atotal of 1701 wards and branches now in the Church. 

There were less than twenty stakes of Zion at the time I was chosen to be one of the twelve apostles of the Church, 43 years ago. 

Since our conference in 1925, 69 stake and ward meeting houses have been erected and 24 buildings in our missions, which makes a total of 93 structures during the year. 

We have not yet completed the Arizona temple, but the expenditures up to the 31st of December, 1925, on that building were $540,000. 

We rejoice in the wonderful growth of work in our temples. In the Salt Lake temple, I learn from brother Geo. F. Richards, we have had as high as 1800 people go through in a single day. Many companies go through there each day, laboring for the salvation of their dead. 

In our Church educational system we have enrolled: in Church schools, 4,184; in Seminaries, 10,341; in Religion Classes, 57,000; 

Total number receiving week-day religious education, 71,525. 

This says nothing of religious education that is being given to 59,000 women in our Relief Societies, 100,000 in our Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and a qu?iter of a million in our Sunday schools. And I am informed that the enrollment of our children in Primary Associations now reaches 100,000. 

There were ordinances performed in the temples for the living and the dead last year, 986,321. 

Number of people recommended to the temples, 55,695. 

We have somewhat more than 2,500 missionaries in the field at the present time. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

Following are the expenditures from the tithes of the Church for the year 1925: 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Stake and Ward Purposes 

There has been returned from the tithes to the stakes and wards lor building construction, maintenance and operation, $1,486,351.81. 

Education 

Expended for the construction, maintenance and operation of Church schools, $9,58,440.67. 

Temples 

Expended for the construction, maintenance and operation of temples, $319,415. 

Charities 

For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment, $172,352.74. 

Missions 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions, $769,926.79. 

Making a total, which has been taken from the tithes and returned by the trustee-in-trust for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities and for mission activities, of $3,706,397.01. 

Other Charities 

In addition to charities paid from the tithes, as before named, there has also been disbursed the fast offerings, other charities and assistance rendered by the Relief Society, in the sum of $442,868.07, which amount, added to the $172,262.74' paid from the tithes, makes the total charity assistance rendered by the Church, $615,130.81. 

There has been collected by the various wards of the Church and paid to missionaries to assist in their maintenance, $131,941.31. 

STATISTICS REGARDING THE GROWTH OF THE CHURCH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in the stakes and missions, 20,233. 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions, 14,390. 

Converts baptized and entered on the records of the stakes and missions, 6,373. 

SOCIAL STATISTICS. 

Birth rate, 32 per thousand; marriage rate, 15 per thousand; death rate, 6.7 per thousand. 

Divorces — There was one divorce in every 20 marriages. Average in the United States is one divorce in every seven marriages. 

Families owning their own homes, 73 per cent. 

OBEDIENCE TO LAW 

There is at the present time an agitation going on in the United States against the enforcement of prohibition. Straw votes are being taken which show that the overwhelming sentiment of those who have seen fit to vote on this straw ballot are in favor of the repeal or modification of the present law. 

There is also a wave of crime sweeping over the country. Perhaps there is nothing of greater importance, next to our spiritual growth, than a determination on the part of the Latter-day Saints to observe the laws of our country. I wish to quote from the immortal Lincoln : 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 5 

LINCOLN ON THE SUBJECT 

"Let every American, every lover of Liberty, every well wisher to his posterity, swear by the blood of the revolution never to violate in the least particular the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their violation by others. As the patriots of '76 did to the support of the Declaration of Independence, so to the support of the Constitution and laws let every American pledge his life, his property and his sacred honor. Let every man remember that to violate the law is to trample on the blood of his father, and to tear the charter of his own and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles in her lap; let it be taught in schools, in seminaries, and in colleges; let it be written in primers, in spelling books and almanacs; let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in legislative halls, enforced in courts of justice. In short, let it become the political religion of the nation." 

One of the Articles of our Faith declares that we believe in sustaining the law and supporting the rulers. So that not only should Latter-day Saints follow the advice of the immortal Lincoln, but they should follow the doctrines of the Church to which they belong. 

THEODORE ROOSEVELT 

Theodore Roosevelt has the following statements to make that would apply more or less to sustaining the law : 

"In character we must have virtue, morality, decency and square dealing as the foundation. 

"Any man who claims there can be liberty in spite of and against the law is claiming that anarchy is liberty . 

"We need strong bodies; more than that, we need strong minds, and finally we need what counts for more than body or mind — character." 

"The man who counts is the man who is decent and who makes himself felt as a force for decency." 

THE WORD OF WISDOM A REVELATION TO THE SAINTS 

The Latter-day Saints have a revelation from God regarding strong bodies. In that revelation it is recorded that tobacco is not good for the body. It is also recorded there that strong drinks are not to be taken internally, but are only for the washing of the body. We are told in this same revelation that hot drinks are not good for man. This revelation was given to the Latter-day Saints in 1833, only three years after the organization of the Church. Yet, there are many of the people who have never lived up to that revelation. But I am thankful that the great majority of the Latter-day Saints are observers of the Word of Wisdom — that tea, coffee, liquor and tobacco are let alone by the Latter-day Saints. 

I have read to you that we have seventeen hundred wards and branches in the Church. In each of the wards of the Church there is a bishop and two counselors and a ward clerk, and in each of the independent branches there is a president and two counselors. There are sometimes three presiding officers in the branches throughout the missions, and sometimes only one. But we have an army of men presiding amounting to four or five thousand, and every one of those men must 

6 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

pledge his honor that he will observe the Word of Wisdom. We have now ninety-four stakes, with a presidency of three men, and a stake clerk, and we have twelve high councilors in each of these stakes. In addition we have many alternate high councilors. It will average, I am sure, twenty men to the stake, So we have an army of two thousand there, and every one of these leading men must obey the Word of Wisdom. 

ON WOMEN AND SMOKING 

I read recently in a paper published in our city : 

"The woman smoker is the prominent professional and business woman in every community." I desire to broadcast all over the world that that statement is an absolute falsehood so far as the Latter-day Saints are concerned. Never in my life have I seen a Latter-day Saint woman or girl smoking a cigarette. This article states that last year there were 9,000,000,000 cigarettes smoked by the women of these United States, and that there were 7,000,000,000 cigarettes smoked by women the year before, an increase in round numbers of thirty per cent. The writer said that the woman smoker is "the prominent commercial and business woman in every community." I say : Leave out every Latter-day Saint community, because it is a falsehood. 

"She is the wife of your local physician." She is not the wife of any physician in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints so far as I know. "She is the wife of the town banker, the attorney. She is the president of your parent-teacher club, your literary club." These statements are reputed to have been made by Cynthia Grey. I would not be a bit surprised if Cynthia Grey is but a newspaper name, and it is one of the tobacco trusts who furnished the article. 

"In other words, it is stuff and nonsense, nowadays, to say that the women who smoke are scarlet ladies." We do not say that. So she has put that in to weaken the fight against this awful curse, cigarette smoking. 

"Does nicotine harm the woman any more than the man, if it harms either?" Nicotine harms every man, woman and child that uses tobacco, and we as Latter-day Saints have the word of the Lord God Almighty, the Creator of heaven and earth, to that effect, this lady (or perhaps man), to the contrary notwithstanding. 

"I am inclined to believe that even a woman smoker, quite firm in her conviction that she is doing the proper thing" [I do not believe that any woman smoker believes she is doing the proper thing] "would stop smoking, if any real authority could prove she was harming any possible future child of hers." The trained athletes of the nation are pretty good authorities on the harm to the physical body, and they are practically a unit that tobacco and liquor do harm the body. Some of the great baseball clubs of America, who have won championships, won't allow liquor or tobacco to be used by their men. 

The head of the New York Athletic club, one of the greatest in 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 7 

this country, announces that there is no prospect of success in the athletic line to the man who uses tobacco and liquor. 

"But medical savants, when pushed to the wall, seem not much alarmed." When they are not pushed to the wall, the great majority of them acknowledge the harmful influence of these things. 

"The president of the Association of Railway Chief Surgeons is quoted as saying 'Fags help men work out problems. Why not women?' " 

A whip helps a horse to go a little bit further, but it does not add any strength to the horse, and no narcotic or stimulant that creates an appetite for itself is good for man or woman. And thank the Lord we have his word to that effect. 

I will not take any more of your time reading from this article, for it is "rot." 

COMMENTS ON SUSTAINING THE LAW 

I meant after reading Lincoln's wonderful appeal to sustain the Constitution, to read the following: 

Gladstone said, speaking of the Constitution of the United States : "It is the greatest document of its kind that ever sprang from the mind of man." 

The faith of the Latter-day Saints and the teaching that I have had since I was a child at my mother's knee, as well as from this stand, is that the Constitution of our country was written by men inspired of the Lord God Almighty. Therefore we, as Latter-day Saints, more than any other people, ought to be supporters of the Constitution, and all constitutional law. 

I read a clipping from a great financial paper, as follows : 

" 'Pride goeth before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall.' is as true today as it was 2,500 years ago. The indications of surface conditions are not satisfactory. A crime wave is sweeping the country; hope is necessary to give a thrill in the movies; temperance and self-control have become a joke; observance and respect for law are considered old-fashioned; honest labor is looked upon as something to be avoided; too many are trying to get something for nothing and are going into debt for needless luxuries and harmful pleasures." 

LATTER-DAY SAINTS WARNED AGAINST DEBT AND WEALTH 

Right here let me warn the Latter-day Saints to buy automobiles and to buy the ordinary necessities of life when they have the money to buy them, and not to mortgage their future. I have heard of people over in England who regularly mortgage their Sunday clothes Monday morning and take them out of "hock" the next Saturday night. I want to say to you that those who discount their future, who run in debt for the ordinary necessities of life and for the luxuries of life, are laying burdens upon themselves that will come back with compound interest to cause them great trouble and humiliation. To quote again : 

"Nasty magazines are building up great circulations, while the colleges are closing up their chapels and opening up smoking rooms for the women students." 

Again let me say that that cannot be found in any of the Church 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

schools or seminaries. Once more, please leave out the Latter-day Saints. 

"I sincerely hope that these things are merely a phase and that the American people are still a God-fearing race. If not, these things are a tremendous indictment of schools and colleges as well as parents. Yes, America has every material blessing at the present time and if we will keep our feet on the ground, the present era of prosperity should continue for years. On the other hand, all wealth is a mere tool which can be used either to upbuild or to destroy. Everything depends on the motives, ambition and tastes of the people who have this tool in their hands." 

Wealth is leading to folly and almost to that which would be counted as sin. Pope says: 

"Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As, to be hated, needs but to be seen; But seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace." 

AVOID SERVING THE GOD OF FASHION 

I am ashamed, as I walk the streets of our cities, at the lack of modesty in the dresses, not only of our young people, but our mothers and even grandmothers. I will rejoice when there shall come over this land again an increased respect for the sacredness of the body and a willingness on the part of our good, pure, upright ladies to dress themselves in a more becoming manner. I shall rejoice when the Latter-day Saints shall endeavor to find out that thing which will bring to them and to their posterity peace and comfort of body and of mind. The Lord said that he was a jealous God, and that we should serve no other God before him. So we should not serve the god of fashion. When our Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations were organized they were organized under the title of the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Associations, and one of the purposes was retrenchment and more modesty in dressing; and I shall rejoice if the Lord will inspire the Latter-day Saints to set a better example in the future than they are setting at the present time. 

I want to announce that I shall be glad if we will quit giving notices to the papers of what is termed "teas" that are being held in our homes. I read of a "tea" being given in the home of President Heber J. Grant, and of the "tea" table being decorated. There is no tea table in the home of President Heber J. Grant. There has been no tea served either to our friends or visitors, in the home of Heber J. Grant. I would like us to change that name in our newspapers, at least so far as Latter-day Saints are concerned, and have it a "social gathering," or a lunch, or anything you have a mind to call it, and quit calling it a "tea" when every Latter-day Saint is asked by the Lord to leave tea, coffee and tobacco alone. 

PROMISE OF GOD TO OBSERVERS OF THE WORD OF WISDOM 

And for fear I forget it, I want to read to you one of the most marvelous and wonderful promises that God has made to every LatterPRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 9 

day Saint that keeps this Word of Wisdom. The Word of Wisdom was given, as stated, only three years after the Church was organized : 

"All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth; 

"And these hath God made for the use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger." 

It is being acknowledged by the great doctors today that an excessive use of meat is not good for humanity, and the Word of Wisdom teaches us that: 

"All grain is good for the food of man; as also the fruit of the vine; that which yieldeth fruit, whether in the ground or above the ground — 

"Nevertheless, wheat for man, and corn for the ox, and oats for the horses, and rye for the fowls and for swine, and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all useful animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain." 

Now listen, all ye Latter-day Saints, to the word of the Lord and the promise of the Creator of heaven and earth : 

"And all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow in their bones; 

"And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

"And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. 

"And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen." 

What a marvelous promise! And as there is no promise made by the Lord only upon the condition that we fulfil the law upon which that promise is predicated, the law of life and health to the Latterday Saints is to obey the Word of Wisdom. 

THE SUPPORT OF HOME INSTITUTIONS 

Generally at these conferences I have made just a few remarks about supporting our home institutions, I thought I would simply read what I said once before : 

"The support of home institutions is the main foundation of any state's prosperity. The support of home industries keeps money at home, furnishes employment, reduces cost and insures prosperity. If all the people of Utah and the other intermountain States would adopt the principle of buying the product of the factories of the Intermountain territory, most of our industrial problems would vanish. 

"From the earliest days the people of Utah have been taught to support home industries, and to keep money at home. Where the advice has been followed prosperity has resulted. Now, more than ever, the people of the Intermountain country should stand together and support the institutions which are assisting in the up-building of the territory." 

APPEAL TO FARMERS ON THE SUGAR INDUSTRY 

I want to say a word to the Latter-day Saints regarding the beet sugar industry. The credit of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter10 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

day Saints was utilized to the extent of something over $3,000,000 a few years ago in borrowing and loaning money to the sugar industry, to keep it from going into the hands of the receiver. This industry was established by the Church running in debt to secure the money to build the very first factory that was ever built in the United States of America with American machinery, for the manufacture of beet sugar, and the Church has always fostered the industry. 

I appeal to you farmers, every one of you, in all the various parts of Utah and Idaho, and in Canada now — wherever a sugar factory has been established — to support those factories by planting a goodly portion of suitable land in beets which may be manufactured into sugar. A great many of the farmers seem to feel that they are under no obligation whatever to support these factories, some of which have been built upon the earnest solicitation and upon the absolute pledge of the farmers that they would furnish so many thousand acres of beets for each factory. Several of these factories have had to remain idle. Why ? Because these pledges have not been fulfilled. 

Our Lord and Savior said: 

"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

"This is the first and great commandment. 

"And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." 

As one of your neighbors, who has labored diligently and invested all he had originally, and lost every dollar of it, in establishing this great industry, I appeal to you farmers to love me and others who established it. My personal stock amounts to very little, I could not sell it today for $500, but the Church has invested several million dollars in establishing and maintaining this industry for the benefit of the farmers. Therefore, I appeal to you to have no idle beet sugar factories in your communities; and by supporting these factories you will bring additional money into your communities, and will be fulfilling the second great commandment; to love your neighbors. 

WHAT THE CHURCH REQUESTS AS TO CARD PLAYING 

By the way, I hear that card playing is becoming very, very popular, and that the Church must be in favor of card-playing because the Church authorities never say anything against it. From the time I was a child and read the Juvenile Instructor, published for the benefit of the people, I have read nothing except condemnation of card-playing and the wasting of your time in doing something that brings no good, bodily, intellectually or in any way, and sometimes leads your children to become gamblers, because they become expert card-players. The Church as a Church requests its members not to play cards. I hope you understand me, and I want you to know that I am speaking for the Church when I ask the people to let cards alone. 

SUSTAIN THE DESERET NEWS 

Again I am speaking for the Church when I ask Latter-day 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 11 

Saints to sustain the newspaper published by the Church. I have gone into the homes of bishops and other leading families in this Church, and have failed to find The Deseret Evening News. We desire the support of The Deseret News because it is your paper. We are the Church and the Church owns The Deseret News, and if you make it a great financial success you will be sharing in that success because it is your paper. And I want to say to the Latter-day Saints that there have been a score or more of speeches published in The News in the past year, nearly every one of which to my mind was worth the price of The Deseret News. I called up an influential man the other day and asked if he had read one, two or three of those sermons. He said no. I want to tell you that a sermon by one of the greatest educational minds in Utah, (I doubt there is a superior one) Dr. Joseph F. Merrill, over the radio and subsequently enlarged upon from this stand, was published in The News. I would not take a fifty dollar bill for it if I could not get it again. 

We are here — for what? For the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we get it in The Deseret News. I will say to you that one of the finest sermons on Priesthood that I have listened to — (by the way, I did not listen to it," but I read it in The Neius) — was by one of the great lawyers of America, one of the international lawyers, a man honored by our country to be called to Washington in the great conference on disarmament, J. Reuben Clark. You did not read it if you do not take The News. It was a splendid talk. I want to say to you that the talks by Adam Bennion and by Milton Bennion are worth the price of The News for a year. I will have to stop talking about The News, or I won't get through with the other things I want to say. 

AUTHORITIES ABSENT FROM CONFERENCE 

There are absent today of the General Authorities, Elders Reed Smoot, James E. Talmage, and Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve. Elder Reed Smoot, as you all know, is a Senator from Utah, and thank the Lord for such a senator, a man who has gained for himself a national and an international reputation for his honesty, for his integrity, and for his great and wonderful ability, and he stands today at the head of the greatest committee in the senate of the United States. I remember when ex-President Taft was here he said, with that little chuckle of his that made us all laugh, "And to think that when he first came down to Washington nearly everybody tried to keep him out of the senate. Now I have come all the way to Utah to plead with the people to be sure and send him back again." 

Elder James E. Talmage is doing a wonderful and splendid work in the British Isles as president of the European mission. Elder Talmage, as you know, is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and the distinction of being a member of one of the greatest scientific societies in the world has enabled him to get favorable articles into 

12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the newspapers, in such a way as we have never been able to do before in the British Isles. 

Elder Melvin J. Ballard is opening a mission, as you all know, in South America, and is meeting with some success. 

Elder Brigham H. Roberts of the First Council of Seventy, has appointments in the East, and on account of the death of his wife and having to come here to her funeral, he has been excused from this conference. He is accomplishing a remarkable and wonderful labor in the Eastern States. 

Elder Rey L. Pratt of the First Council of Seventy is with Brother Ballard in South America. 

Elder Rulon S. Wells of the same council went to South America, as you all know, but on account of ill health had to return. 

Splendid missionary work is being done by all those who are engaged in the different missions in the United States and all over the world, for which we are grateful. 

CALLS FOR MISSIONARIES 

We have calls for missionaries from every quarter of the globe — more missionaries, more missionaries. The lady missionaries, we want it understood, are called to labor only in the United States. There are requests coming constantly that we send lady missionaries to other parts of the world, but we feel it is a mistake to send our sisters further away. 

A very remarkable and splendid work has been done by the short term missionaries that were sent out. We regret that the call came so late, and many of them have only been able to stay in the field three months, some of them four and some of them five months. We hope we can have more short-term missionaries, and that they will be able to spend the full six months in the mission field. Some of the accomplishments of these men have been very remarkable. Men of experience, men of testimony, and of undying faith in the gospel have brought many souls to a knowledge of the truth. Perhaps some of our school teachers during their vacations can volunteer and will be willing to do missionary work. 

AN EASTER GREETING 

This is Easter, and I wish to read to you a greeting that was published in The Deseret Evening News for Christmas and I believe it is equally as appropriate for Easter Sunday : 

Greetings from the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: 

As Christmas tide approaches our minds revert to that never to be forgotten night when shepherds who were watching their flocks on the hills of Judea were startled as the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and the angel of the Lord stood before them and said : "Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. 

"For unto you is born this day, in the City of David, a Savior which is Christ the Lord. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 13 

"And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." 

It was a night which was distinct from all other nights which had come and gone since the creation of the earth. 

The birth of Christ our Lord was more than an incident, it was an epoch in the history of the world to which prophets had looked forward, of which poets had sung, and in which angels joined their voices with mortals in praise to God. It was the day decreed and foreordained by our Father who is in heaven when he would manifest himself to his children, who are here upon earth, in the person of his Only Begotten Son. 

Whether or not the 25th day of December is the proper date of the birth of Christ, our Lord, matters little. We join with other Christian people in celebrating it as such and if we observe it in the true spirit of the Master, renewing the covenant which we have made that we are willing to take upon us his name, and keep the commandments which he has given, our offering will be accepted. 

He came that man might see and know God as he is, for he bore witness that whoever had seen him had seen the Father, for he was the express image of his person. 

He came to teach us the character of God, and by example and precept pointed out the path which, if we walk in it, will lead us back into his presence. He came to break the bands of death with which man was bound, and made possible the resurrection by which the grave is robbed of its victory and death of its sting. 

After his crucifixion and the death of the apostles whom he had chosen, who suffered martyrdom at the hands of those who were opposed to the truths which he taught, it appeared that his mission and ministry had been a failure; but as time passed, and the doctrines of Christianity became better understood, thoughtful men turned to him as their source of light and strength, thus preserving faith in his mission and ministry, with the result that Christianity became the dominant influence in the civilization and development of the world. 

As time passed dissensions occurred in the primitive church. The laws governing the church established by the Redeemer, were transgressed, the ordinances were changed, the everlasting covenant was broken. Men began to teach for doctrine their own commandments; a form of worship had been established which was called Christianity, but was without the power of God which characterized the primitive church. Spiritual darkness covered the earth and gross darkness the minds of the people. 

Then there came another epochal period in the history of the world. The time had arrived, fore-ordained by the Lord, and foretold by his prophets, when another gospel dispensation was to be ushered in, when the gospel of the kingdom was to be restored, and preached in all the world, as a witness unto all people before the end shall come. 

Again the heavens rejoiced, again heavenly beings communicated the will of the Father to his children who are here upon the earth, and men were made glad as the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times was ushered in. 

Joseph Smith was the agent through whom the Lord saw fit to begin the great latter-day work. To him the Father and Son appeared in heavenly vision, upon him the keys of the everlasting priesthood were conferred, with authority to transmit them to others, with the promise that the priesthood should never be taken from the earth again, until the purposes of the Father were accomplished. 

Under his direction the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized on the 6th day of April, 1830, and the command given to its members to bear the gospel message to all people, calling them to repentance and faith in Christ, the Only Begotten Son of God in the flesh, with the promise that who14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

soever should repent and obey would know, by the gift of the Holy Ghost, that the message which they brought was true. 

As the result of this message many thousands of people have been gathered out from the various nations where the gospel has been preached and brought to Zion, the place designated by the Lord as the gathering place of Latterday Israel. The desert has been made glad because of them, and has been converted into fruitful fields. Springs of living water have broken out to moisten the thirsty land, and cities have sprung up where before was only desolation and wilderness. Music and the voices of children are heard in the streets where silence had reigned supreme. 

It is the Lord our God, through his Only Begotten Son, who has done it. To him be the praise and glory forever. 

We exhort our brethren and sisters of the Church, wherever they may be, to remain steadfast in their faith. Hold fast to the word of the Lord, which is the iron rod that will lead us to the Tree of Life. 

To the people of the world we appeal to come unto Christ, through whom redemption cometh to all those who take upon them his name, and keep the commandments which he has given. We bear witness that the fulness of his gospel has been restored, that his Church is established, and will continue to spread until peace shall prevail among men, and his kingdom come and his will be done upon earth as it is d.one in heaven. O Lord, hasten that glorious day. 

HEBER J. GRANT, ANTHONY W. IVINS, CHARLES W. NIBLEY, 

First Presidency. 

God bless you. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

I sincerely desire, my brethren and sisters, during the few moments of time that I may occupy, that I may have the benefit of your faith, exercised in my behalf. I appreciate fully the responsibility which I assume, as I stand here professing to teach the doctrines of our Lord, Jesus Christ. 

THE ADVICE OF GAMALIEL 

The scripture which I am about to read I have often quoted before, but it appears so appropriate to the subject which I desire briefly to discuss that it will bear repetition. The apostles who had been chosen by our Lord had been imprisoned by those who were opposed to the doctrines which they taught, and had been arraigned before the Jewish high priests, by whom they were accused of violating the law. When opportunity was granted them to speak in their own behalf, Peter stood up and said : 

"The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree. 

"Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a Savior, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins. 

"And we are his witnesses" of these things; and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him. 

"When they heard that, they were cut to ,the heart, and took counsel to slay them, 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 15 

"Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space; and said unto them : 

"Ye men of Israel, take* heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men. * * * 

"For if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to nought: But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it." 

NORWAY DECIDES THE "MORMONS" ARE NOT CHRISTIANS 

During the past ninety-six years the restored gospel of Christ has been preached in both the old and the new world without serious governmental opposition, or objection on the part of the people at large. 

From the time of its introduction into the Scandinavian, and other countries of Europe, people who appear to have been prepared for the gospel before they heard it have joyfully accepted the message which the elders of the Church have carried to them, and the converts who have been gathered out from among those nations have become a pillar of strength to the Church. 

To our surprise and regret the friendly relations which have so long existed have recently become greatly disturbed, because of the fact that our missionaries have been refused admittance to Norway, where, before, they had enjoyed the privileges accorded to other religious organizations. Upon inquiry regarding the reason for this changed attitude we were informed that representatives of the Christian churches of the country, in convention assembled, had passed resolutions to the effect that the "Mormon" Church is not a Christian organization, and consequently we were not entitled to the privileges, and protection under the law which we have hitherto enjoyed. 

Our protest against this ruling was answered by the statement that the only means by which it could be modified would be for a conference of churches to assemble, and officially declare that the jury which, without having given us an opportunity to be heard in our own behalf, had decided that we were guilty, must meet and reverse the decision which they had rendered, a court before which we could expect no more of justice than was accorded the Redeemer of the world, when arraigned before the Jewish Sanhedrin. 

A CONVENTION OF CHURCHES IN THIS LAND DECLARES US UNCHRISTIAN 

From the published account of the proceedings of the general assembly of a convention of representatives of one of the great churches of our own country, held during the year just passed, I quote as follows : 

"The American Islam. Thus has the 'Mormon' area often been characterized. It is an apt figure of speech. Those who live and labor in the atmosphere of this Islam of America, know what it means to go up against a stone wall, with scarcely ever feeling it give a little. The 'Mormon' has, to date, been far more zealous to convert the Christian, than the Christian has to convert him." 

16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Islamism, as you are aware, is the religion of Mohammed. In one respect it is a good religion, for it at least teaches faith in, and service to a living God, the God of Abraham, but it does not recognize Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world, or as the Son of God. 

From the foregoing, my brethren and sisters, you will observe that the Church of which you are members is declared, both in the old world, and here in our own country, to be an un-Christian organization, and as a consequence you are declared to be not Christians. 

BOTH DECLARATIONS INEXCUSABLE AND UNTRUE 

Had statements such as those been made ninety-six years ago, soon after the organization of the Church, when means of obtaining information was limited, and the history and accomplishments of the Church were before it, and not behind, there might have been some reason for the exercise of charity towards the persons responsible for the publication of such statements to the people of the world, but now, after the lapse of nearly a century, after the doctrines of the Church have been expounded to the people of all civilized countries, after millions of publications setting forth the doctrines of the Church have been distributed, such statements can only be regarded as the result of either inexcusable ignorance or wilful desire to deceive the people, by statements which are known to be untrue. 

WHAT CONSTITUTES A CHRISTIAN? 

The situation suggests the question : What constitutes a Christian Church, a Christian community or individual, and by what rule, of tribunal is a question of such vital importance to be decided ? 

I suppose the general answer would be : A! Christian is one who professes faith in, and follows the teachings of Christ, and that a body of people, organized as a worshiping assembly, professing faith in the Redeemer, would be regarded as a Christian church. 

During the earliest history of the Primitive Church its members were not referred to as Christians, but as brethren, disciples or saints. It was at Antioch, as I remember, about ten years after the crucifixion, that the followers of the Redeemer were first called Christians, a name applied to them in derision, or contempt which they accepted very much as we have accepted the name "Mormon," because we accept the Book of Mormon as a divine revelation from the Lord. 

The first use of the word church, applied to the followers of Christ, so far as I am aware, was by the Redeemer himself when he declared to Peter that upon the rock of revelation he would build his Church, and that the gates of hell should not prevail against it, a very significant statement, a plain declaration that revelation is the foundation upon which the Church must rest. 

We are told that the apostles, as they traveled from place to place, 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. WINS 17 

preaching to the people, ordained elders in every church, and after commending the converted members to the Lord passed on to other fields. Thus the entire body of converts became known as the Church of Christ, he being declared to be its head, the Church being subject to him in all things. 

THE ANSWER GIVEN IN THE WORDS OF OUR LORD AND HIS DISCIPLES 

I know of no better authority on the question than the words of our Lord, and those of his disciples, who followed after him. 

Before an organization could be formed which could be designated as a church, it was necessary that converts be made to the divinity of the Redeemer, and the importance of the message which he brought to the people of the world. His doctrine, or as he taught, the doctrine of his Father who sent him, as he expounded it in his memorable sermon on the mount, teaches us the manner of life we should lead in order that we may be worthy to be called Christians. 

He taught us to overcome the evil habits of the world, its pride and selfishness, becoming humble in spirit, and promised that by so doing we should inherit the blessings of the earth. He taught us that we are to be peace-makers, if we are to become the children of God. That our example should be such that others seeing our good works, would be led to glorify the name of our Father who is in heaven. That, as we hope for mercy, we should be merciful. That we should not sit in judgment upon others, for by the judgment with which we judge, so shall we be judged. That we should not seek to exalt ourselves, for he who exalteth himself shall be abased. That we should be charitable, but admonishing us that if we give alms to be seen of men, for our own glory, it availeth us nothing. 

His entire doctrine was one which requires that men withdraw from the ambition, selfishness and strife of the world, and dedicate themselves to the service of the Lord, and their fellow men, and he covenanted that if they will do so the necessary temporal blessings shall be conferred upon them, as a reward for righteousness. 

He declared another doctrine of great importance in that remarkable discourse, that not all who say Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he who doeth the will of our Father who is in heaven. 

Therefore he said, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house upon a rock. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And he who heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man, who built his house upon sand, and the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell, for it was founded upon sand, and great was the fall of it. 

18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The acceptance of these first principles of the gospel were indispensable, but not sufficient to entitle one to be called a Christian. He must manifest his faith by accepting the ordinance of baptism, an ordinance which was administered to the Redeemer himself by John the Baptist, an ordinance without which our Lord declared a man cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. 

Nor was baptism alone sufficient. John declared that his baptism was with water for the remission of sin, but that one who would come after him would baptize with fire and the Holy Ghost. 

THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH DEFINED 

When Paul came to Ephesus he found certain disciples and asked if they had received the Holy Ghost. They answered we have not so much as heard that there be any Holy Ghost. Unto what then were you baptized, he asked, and they replied unto John's baptism. They were then baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus, and when Paul had laid his hands upon them they received the Holy Ghost. 

Those who believed, and subjected themselves to the administration of these simple first ordinances of the Church became Christians. They had manifested their faith in Christ, in his divinity, his death, and above all his resurrection from the grave by being buried in the water of baptism, in similitude of his death, and coming up from it with their sins washed away, born to newness of life, as he arose to newness of life, with his glorified, resurrected body. 

Then came the climax, when, by laying on of hands by those in authority the Holy Ghost was conferred upon the baptized believer : The Holy Ghost, which takes of the things of the Father and manifests them unto man, which bears witness of the Father and the Son, not in a voice audible to our ordinary sense of hearing, but at the same time more potent and convincing than any words the human voice can utter; the Holy Ghost which leads us into all truth and is an unfailing source of strength, wisdom and knowledge so long as we permit ourselves to be guided by its unerring counsels. 

Such a person became a Christian, and an association of such people became a Christian church. 

That a church may be brought into existence and endure it must be properly organized, with officers to preside over it and direct the conduct of its affairs, and these our Lord provided through the Twelve Apostles whom he chose, and the quorums of the lesser priesthood with their helps in government, an organization complete in every detail, conferring upon the men chosen the keys of authority which belong to the priesthood, and which authorize them to act in the direction of the affairs of the Church. 

That any group of persons may associate themselves together as a worshiping assembly, and call themselves a church is conceded, and they are at liberty to choose any name they may desire by which their organization shall be known. For all the good which such an organPRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IV INS 19 

ization may accomplish the Lord will give them credit, and they will be rewarded for their efforts to establish faith in the hearts of people, I believe far beyond their expectations, for everything that is good, and persuadeth men to do good, cometh from God. The Latter-day Saints wish all people who are thus striving God-speed. 

CALAMITIES THAT FOLLOWED 

After the crucifixion of the Redeemer, and the death of the apostles whom he had chosen, all of whom suffered violent death because of their faith, with the exception of John the Revelator, many different religious sects came into existence, numbers of them professing Christianity, but teaching doctrines at variance with those taught by the Redeemer and his disciples. 

Prior to his crucifixion, our Lord plainly outlined to his disciples that the time was approaching when he would be offered up, when he would leave them, but promised that at a future time he would return and consummate the work which he had commenced. Upon one occasion, as he sat on the Mount of Olives, his disciples came to him and asked when these things should be, and what would be the sign of his coming and of the end of the world. 

The Redeemer outlined the conditions which would prevail at the time when he would come in glory, in the clouds of heaven, with such detail and accuracy that one who lives at the present time may read as he runs, and know that he lives in the day to which Christ referred. Read the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth chapters of the Gospel according to St. Matthew, my brethren and sisters, if you desire to know more of the tremendous importance of the dispensation in which you live. 

Upon this occasion he said to his disciples : "Take heed that no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many." For there shall be false Christs and false prophets, who if it were possible would deceive the very elect. And they shall deliver you up to be afflicted, and you shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake, and, most important ' of all, this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world, as a witness unto all people, and then shall the end come. 

The Prophet Isaiah says: "Behold the Lord maketh the earth empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants thereof. The land shall be utterly emptied and spoiled." 

THE REASON FOR APOSTASY AND CALAMITIES 

Why are these dire calamities decreed? The prophet makes the reason clear, it is because both priest and people have transgressed the law of the Lord, changed the ordinances of his Church and broken the everlasting covenant. Our Lord gave us the key by which we may know the voice of the good Shepherd when this time of confusion and 

20 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

distress is upon us. When his disciples asked him whither they should go, or look, he replied : "Wheresoever the carcase is there will the eagles be gathered together," and, wherever the true Church of Christ is, there will the fruits of his gospel be manifested in the lives of the people. 

WHY THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS IS A CHRISTIAN CHURCH 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a Christian Church in the fullest sense of the word, the declarations of the so-called Christian churches of the world to the contrary notwithstanding. In its establishment and accomplishments the words of the Redeemer, and the declarations of the prophets who lived before and after him are fulfilled. In justification of this declaration permit me to make the following statement, briefly, because a subject of such tremendous importance can only be touched upon in one brief discourse. 

BRIEF STORY OF THE FOUNDING OF THE CHURCH 

One hundred seven years ago, Joseph Smith, at the time in his fifteenth year, lived with his parents at Manchester, in the state of New York. While a great religious revival was being held in the neighborhood he found himself in doubt as to which of the contending sects he should join, for there was great rivalry among them in their efforts to secure converts. 

Profoundly religious he had never conceived the idea that all were wrong, neither could he believe that all were right, because of the great difference in doctrine and organization which existed. Familiar with the scriptures he knew that the Lord had promised wisdom to all who lacked it, if they would go to him in faith, and believing that the question which he was not able to decide would be answered by the Lord, he retired to the woods and engaged in earnest prayer. 

While thus occupied a vision was unfolded in which he saw two glorious personages, whose brightness and glory, he says, defied all description. One of these personages, pointing to the other, said: "This is my beloved Son, hear him." 

The Person referred to told Joseph that he should join none of the existing churches, that all were wrong, that they drew near him with their lips, but their hearts were removed far from him, and they taught for doctrine the commandments of men. 

Nothing of importance occurred in the life of Joseph Smith, except that he was persecuted and ridiculed because he maintained that he had seen this vision, until three years later, when, while engaged in prayer in his bed room, Joseph says that a light began to appear, which increased in brilliancy until the room was brighter than at noon-day, when a personage appeared at his bedside, clothed in a robe of exquisite whiteness. 

This personage said that he was a messenger sent from the 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY IV. IVINS 21 

presence of God, and that his name was Moroni, that the Lord had a great work for Joseph to do, and that his name should be known for both good and evil among all nations, that among some it would be held in honor, and among others in reproach. He also told him that there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, containing the history of the ancient inhabitants of this continent, and that it also contained the fulness of the everlasting gospel, as it was delivered by the Savior to them, and that there was also deposited the Urim and Thummim, by means of which the characters engraven on the plates could be translated. This was the Book of Mormon, which was later delivered to Joseph Smith, translated by him and first published to the world in 1830. 

While engaged in the work of translation, assisted by Oliver Cowdery, Joseph observed the importance which attached to the ordinance of baptism, and desiring greater light he and Oliver went to a secluded spot, on the bank of the Susquehanna River, and engaged in prayer. While thus occupied they bear witness that a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light, and laying his hands upon their heads said : "Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness." 

This messenger told them that he was John the Baptist, that he acted under instruction from Peter, James and John. That the Aaronic Priesthood, which he had conferred had not the power to lay on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, but that the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood would be later conferred upon them. This latter priesthood was conferred upon Joseph and Oliver at a later date under the hands of Peter, James and John, who ordained them to the Apostleship, and committed to them the keys of the kingdom, and of the Gospel Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. 

It is upon this authority that the Church assumes to speak and act in the name of the Lord. 

THE CHURCH NOT A FACTION, BUT THE RESTORED CHURCH OF CHRIST 

The Church is not a protestant faction which has broken away from the mother church, or from any other religious body. It is the Church of Christ, our Lord, restored to earth as he and the prophets declared it should be, restored for the purpose of gathering the outcasts of Israel, that the way may be prepared for the coming of the Redeemer of the world, and the consummation of the purposes of the Lord, in so far as they pertain to the present generation of mankind, who occupy the small portion of the universe, which we call the world. 

WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT, SAY OBJECTORS 

Yes, says the objector, if this story were true your authority would 

22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

be sufficient, but we do not believe it. We do not believe that Joseph Smith, in vision, saw and communed with the Father and Son. We do not believe that heavenly messengers visited him, nor that the keys of the Priesthood were conferred upon him by John the Baptist, nor by Peter, James and John. These men died more than a thousand years ago, and the dead do not return to visit the living. Visions and the visitation of angels have long since been done away with, there are no such things in the age in which we live, Joseph Smith was either a visionary dreamer, and these imaginings were the result of a disordered mind, or else he was a wilful impostor. 

Neither did the people believe the words of the Redeemer of the world. They declared him to be an impostor, a disturber of the peace, that he was guilty of sedition, and was a blasphemer, because he declared himself to be the Son of God, and it was upon these and other similar charges that he was condemned to death upon the cross. The people did riot believe that Moses and Elias appeared to Peter, James and John, at the time of the transfiguration of the Redeemer, they had long been dead, and could not return. 

Nor did they believe Paul when he declared to King Agrippa and Festus, that as he journeyed toward Damascus, at noon day a light brighter than the sun descended from heaven which caused him, and those who were with him to fall to the earth. That a voice called to him declaring that it was Jesus of Nazareth who spoke, telling him to arise, and stand upon his feet, and said: "I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness" to the people, especially to the Gentiles, "to open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of satan unto God." The Redeemer had been crucified, declared dead, and Festus, who could not understand how he could appear to anyone, cried out: "Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad." But Paul answered, "I am not mad, most noble Festus; but speak forth the words of truth and soberness." 

WE BEAR WITNESS OF THE RESTORATION 

So do we in soberness and truth bear witness to the people of the world today, to king and subject, to patrician and plebeian, to rich and poor, to Christian and heathen; that Joseph Smith was divinely called to be the instrument in the hands of the Lord in the restoration of the gospel of Christ; that the keys of the Priesthood were conferred upon him as has been stated, and have come down through his successors to the present. Another thing to which we bear witness is that all men may know the truth of the testimony which we bear by asking the Lord for it in faith. It is not by the words of men that you have been converted, my brethren and sisters, but by the gift of the Holy Ghost, which has borne witness of the truth of these things, and this great congregation of people would arise and testify to the truth of what I say if requested to do so. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 23 

WHAT WE BELIEVE 

We believe in the immaculate conception of the Virgin Mary, and that the Child born at Bethlehem of Judea was in very deed the Son of God, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh. That he is our advocate with the Father, the medium through which we reach the throne of grace. 

The foundation of the Church is laid in God the Eternal Father, his Son Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost, which constitute the Godhead. No person can become a member of the Church until he has taken upon him the name of Christ, and entered into the covenant that he is willing to serve him, and keep the commandments which he has given, to the best of his ability. He must accept the ordinance of baptism, which is administered in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost, in other words he must accept Christ as the Redeemer of the world, without reservation. 

The members of the Church meet together once each week and partake of the sacrament in remembrance of the body and blood of our Lord. Every ordinance of the Church, every act performed, is administered in the name of Christ. 

BUT WHAT ABOUT THE BOOK OF MORMON, SAY OBJECTORS 

But, says the objector, you accept the Book of Mormon as a revelation from God, thus bringing a new iBible into use when there can be but one Bible, and this we cannot accept. Even if such a record were to be brought forth, would the Lord undertake to accomplish it through the medium of an unlearned young man, when we have many profound scholars among us? 

Our reply to that objection is, he did choose Joseph Smith to 

accomplish it, and that should be sufficient answer. It is the same 

question asked regarding the Redeemer: "Is not this the carpenter's Son? 

 is not his mother called Mary?" and are not his brothers and sisters all 

with us, whence hath this man all of these things? 

Why do Christian people reject the Book of Mormon? It is the strongest corroborative evidence of the truth of the Bible, and the divine mission of the Redeemer that exists in the world, and should be welcomed by all Christian people. It is of special value to America, and particularly to the people of the United States. It is the Holy Scripture of the American continent, and it outlines the establishment and destiny of our nation, asserting that our government was established by inspiration from the God of the land, whom it declares is Jesus Christ, and warns us that if we turn from him, and cease longer to recognize and serve him, his protection will be withdrawn, and the great promises which he made in regard to our destiny will be of no effect. 

ALL THE "MORMONS" ASK IS PERMISSION TO BELIEVE AS THEY CHOOSE 

The Latter-day Saints recognize and appreciate the great work accomplished by the Christian churches of the world since the Reforma24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

tion, in breaking down kingcraft, and priestcraft, thus preparing the way for the establishment of free government, freedom of worship, and the coming of our Lord Jesus. 

When brought before the Jewish high priests, Peter speaking for the Twelve declared that God had sent his Son to bring salvation to Israel. Hearing this truth they took council to slay them. 

So it is with us today. The world says if you will renounce this fable regarding visions and heavenly visitations to Joseph Smith, we will accept you as Christian people. Like Peter and Paul we answer : This we can never do, because it is the truth, and the experiences of the past teach us that it is dangerous to ignore the truth. 

All that we ask is to be permitted to believe as we choose, and we grant all men this privilege. We ask the people of the world to rely upon the words of Gamaliel, which have been quoted, for the;v are as true today as they were when uttered. If this work is of men it will come to naught, but if it is of God you cannot overthrow it. Like the primitive church, being defamed we entreat, being ridiculed we revile not; being persecuted we patiently submit, knowing that error must eventually yield to truth, and that time is the friend of innocence. We submit our cause to the Lord, our God, to whom be glory and praise and honor, through Jesus Christ, his Son. Amen. 

The choir sang an anthem, "O blessed be the Lord," with music by B. Cecil Gates, and the solo by Delores Seal. 

Closing prayer was offered by Elder Joseph B. Keeler, of Provo. The conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


