Morning
05 04 1926

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

I think perhaps the greatest contribution that I could hope to make to this conference would be in the brevity of my remarks, and I hope that I may be able, in a few minutes, to make a few suggestions which may be of some worth. 

THE PRIESTHOOD AND THE HOME OUTSTANDING ESSENTIALS 

If I were asked what thing I regard as being most essential to the progress of the Church and the well-being of its members, I think that I would answer by mentioning two things : First, the Priesthood, and then the home. I have long felt that these two great institutions lie at the very basis of our work and its advancement. 

THE PRIESTHOOD AN AGENCY OF SERVICE TO MANKIND 

We have during the past three months been holding Priesthood conventions in connection with the quarterly conferences of the Church. I have been delighted to see the emphasis placed upon this work, and I am hopeful that it may result in a higher and keener appreciation for the great power which comes from God and which is so liberally bestowed upon the men and the boys of our Church. I have construed that power and interpreted it largely in terms of service. I don't believe that the Priesthood has been bestowed upon men merely for their own aggrandizement. I look upon this power as an agency for service to mankind. I have characterized it as the perfect plan of service. I believe that it will not greatly profit any man to hold the power of the Priesthood unless he uses that power for the benefit of his fellows. Indeed, I have come to think that the holding of the power may conduce to his condemnation rather than his exaltation, if he is indifferent to it and fails to utilize it for the advancement of God's work. So . I think that no more worthy enterprise can be fostered and carried forward by our presiding officers in the Church than to give to our boys 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and men, and indeed to the whole membership of the Church, a better comprehension, a higher regard, for the holy power which God in his goodness has given to us. 

PRIESTHOOD TO BE USED IN THE ADMINISTRATION OF HOME 

This power is to be used, not alone in presiding over the organizations of the Church, and not alone in the administration of the sacred ordinances of the gospel; it is to be used in the administration of our homes. Every man who bears it ought by possession of the power to be a better husband and father. By virtue of the power he is entitled to be regarded with respect and deference, and I most heartily commend the teaching of our children to respect and regard the power of the Priesthood, presiding over the home, as a basis for the inculcation of the great virtue of reverence which was stressed in this building last evening. There ought to be a difference between homes presided over by the power of the Priesthood and those homes which are not. Men who bear the Priesthood ought to.be better neighbors; they ought to be better citizens, indeed in every way they ought to be superior men. If there is no distinction between the men who have received this holy power and those who have not, then I think we may well look to ourselves to find our deficiencies. The very holding of this power charges every man who is blessed with it to live more nearly a godlike life, for he holds a portion of Godhood itself. I commend to my brethren and sisters the emphasis of this power with the young boys who have recently received it. It should be taught to them that because these powers are widely distributed they are not cheap. 

NO ORGANIZATION A SUBTITUTE FOR HOME 

I said the second great institution I would stress is that of the home. I am well aware that this institution receives very considerable attention at our hands, and that few meetings pass in which it does not have mention. My suggestion is that we so concentrate our study, our attention and our effort upon this institution that we maKe it more effective than it has been in giving the virtues of true righteousness and purity of life to our children. I am very sympathetic with the attention and emphasis placed upon our auxiliary associations, but I am thoroughly persuaded that not any one of these organizations, or all put together, can be substituted for our homes in the culture of manhood and womanhood. The homes are the very nurseries from which spring the most worthy products of the Church, the State and the Nation. They need more direct attention, and parents, by virtue of their very parenthood, are charged with a responsibility second to no other responsibility ever coming to them in their lives, the responsibility to return in purity the lives entrusted to their care. God grant that we may so safeguard this sacred and immortal institution, that it may achieve its great mission in the lives of men and of women, and God grant that, with the Priesthood, these two fundamental institutions may bring into the lives of 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 83 

Latter-day Saints a great appreciation for the blessings of the gospel and a determination and resolution to keep the commandments which he has given to his children, I ask humbly, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

I, also, have had opportunity to visit the stakes of Zion where we have recently held the Priesthood conventions and conferences, with the membership of the Church, and I think of all the quarterly conferences that we hold with the stakes of Zion I have enjoyed most the work of the Priesthood. I have been greatly pleased, as well as many of the parents of the Church, to see the young men of Zion stand up and in a public place declare their appreciation for the power of God that has been given unto them. With my brother who has just spoken, I, too, am impressed with the thought that it is a wonderful sensation to discover in ourselves a power which comes from above, and the only way to discover that power, is to use it, when it is given to us. It sometimes takes a little courage on the part of young men in the Church, as well as some of the elderly men also, to go forward and use their powers Which the Lord has given them, but unless we do use and magnify them I am impressed that they will be of little or no value to us. It is a wonderful sensation to witness in yourselves the power of God, the power to do and say things that are beyond your own physical and mental strength. I heard a very splendid lecture the other evening by one of our educators and doctors in speaking of some of the gifted men of the nation, in their efforts to bring to light the truth. He said that it was probably their imagination which places them in the lead in bringing to the world the things which they were permitted to do; but I have been willing, to grant just a little further blessing to these men, because, I believe that they are possessed of a power that is just a little beyond their imagination, even though it may be keen and brilliant, because I believe that our Father in heaven inspires men who are honest in heart and who are seeking after truth, and that he blesses them with gifts that make men more powerful and useful than those of ordinary intelligence, or brilliant imagination. It occurs to me that the joy which comes to men through using their gifts, is somewhat comparable to the feeling that impresses men when they are moved upon by the power of God while functioning in his work, even under the influence of the Holy Spirit, by the power of the holy Priesthood. In my mind one of the greatest blessings that can come to a man, is to function in the holy Priesthood, to fulfil his duty in assisting to bring about the purposes of the Lord in the earth. 

The gospel of Jesus Christ, we understand, is for all people who will obey its teachings, who will hearken and who will study and practice the laws of truth which have been taught to the world, and in spite of 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

that the Master himself taught his disciples, and in one particular passage of the scripture were these statements : 

"Enter ye in the straight gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat, because straight is the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, but few there be that find it." 

When men and women take advantage of their opportunities to use the light and knowledge which comes to them, then they enjoy the blessings, because the Lord has been merciful unto them, those who obey his commandments, he has remembered with the power that has strengthened them against doubt and discouragement and against the thwarts of the adversary to place barriers in their pathway, until just in my brief experience in the work of the Lord I have discovered, to my great satisfaction, that those who are willing to seek and to learn and to take advantage of their opportunities, are the ones to whom the Lord is very merciful, and whom he will strengthen against the temptations of the adversary to place barriers in their pathway; until I believe it is possible for a greater number of the children of men to receive important powers and blessings which God has in store for them than are enjoying them at the present day. The Lord has been kind in establishing his work in the earth where men. and women have taken advantage of their opportunities and have in a way cultivated their talents and have prepared themselves to teach God's truth, which is his gospel, which has been revealed to the earth in its plainness, in its fulness, in our own language, it has been taught in nearly all the languages of the world; so I have been constrained to believe that the Lord has been very kind to his children. It is my humble desire to express the wish that all who desire to teach the truth may have occasion to do so, by taking advantage of their opportunities to further cultivate their gifts and talents in preparation to stand upon the towers of Zion as watchmen, as teachers, as defenders of God's work in all of its departments, for I want to testify, my brethren and sisters, that this is a day when the Lord has required of you and me that we be prepared to defend his work, to teach it by precept and by example, wherever it may be our lot to labor. I pray that the spirit of defendership may be upon us all, that the spirit to avoid the conditions of the world, the spirit to live so that we may walk in that narrow way which leadeth to life instead of the easy, forgetful, disobedient way, perhaps, that leadeth through that broad gate to the way of destruction; and in humility, as a servant of the Lord, I leave in this conference, and in the Church today, with the leaders thereof, and with the membership thereof, the blessings of the Lord, that the spirit of discernment, that the spirit of teachership, the spirit of true defense may be in our hearts, and with us all in our homes and in our work, both in temporal and spiritual affairs, in the name of Jesus Christ Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRlN 85 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRlN 

Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the California Mission 

It is certainly a very great privilege, my brethren and sisters, to be permitted to take part in this great conference of the Church. I trust that the few moments that I occupy this position I may be led to say such things as shall be in keeping with the occasion and that may be of some benefit and advantage to those who are gathered together. 

I am very glad to be able to report the California mission as being, from my viewpoint, in good condition. We have had a larger number of missionaries in the field during the past Winter than we have ever had during any previous period in the history of the mission. This larger number is accounted for owing to the fact that a good many short-term missionaries were sent to California. A large number of the short-term men who have been assigned to California have been men quite well advanced in age, two or three of them being just under eighty years of age. They have all manifested a splendid spirit and have been very anxious to magnify their callings as preachers of the gospel. Their spirit has been stronger in some instances than their physical organism, and a number of these elders have already been released on account of failing health. Those who have been released were not quite able to stand up to the stress of missionary work. I am very sorry to say that one of these brethren, Brother Thomas Wilson of the Woodruff stake, after returning home suffered for a considerable period of time and then passed on to the great beyond. Elder Wilson was a good and faithful man. We appreciate the splendid work that has been accomplished by the short-term missionaries. Short-term missionaries will be made welcome again in California. While I have no thought that it is my prerogative to indicate what should be done regarding this class of missionaries, I take it from some expressions that I have heard from some of these brethren that they could just as well as not have been in the mission field earlier in the season if they had received notification, and this certainly would be a very great advantage to missionary work. If short-term missionaries could be notified so as to leave their homes, probably not later than the month of October, they could give more time in the field and thus make their services more valuable. They could render service during the winter months and still return in time to take up their farming operations'. I think the great majority of these short-term missionaries who have been assigned to California have been men who have been engaged in agricultural pursuits. Many of them have already been released to return home in order that they might give attention to the planting of spring crops, and the balance of these short-term men I suppose will be home within a month or two from the present time. They have brought a splendid influence into the mission. They are men of faith and confidence, they have set a good example before the people and 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

have had wonderful testimonies to bear in relation to the great work that the Lord our God has planted among the children of men. 

We also have an excellent body of young men and women; and while I suppose every mission president is anxious to have some men of experience in the mission field to lead the way, to preside over conferences, to instruct and teach younger men and women, personally I feel, the longer I labor as a missionary, that our Father in heaven made no mistake when, through his servants from the very beginning, he called very youthful men to go abroad to represent him in the preaching of the gospel. It is perfectly marvelous to note the change that takes place with these missionaries. Last Saturday night I had the pleasure of meeting quite a body of California missionaries in their missionary reunion, and I was proud of that company of young men and women. Just a short time ago I met every one of these young people in the mission field when they first reported for missionary labor, and almost invariably I met trembling boys and trembling girls. They hardly knew, as a rule, whether they had any testimony concerning the divinity of the work of our God, or not. In fact it has not been an unusual thing to hear some of these missionaries say that they did not have a testimony, they believed in the work of God, they had faith that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and they were anxious to come to the knowledge which they had heard their parents and bishops and presidents talk about in their home communities. These young people that I met in the reunion were a different class of young men and women altogether from the young men and women I met as Aey came into the mission field. They were no longer trembling. They were no longer in any doubtful mood concerning the work of God. They were full of conviction. Instead of striking hands with trembling boys in a good many instances, I found myself shaking hands with bishops in the Church of Christ, with bishop's counselors, and with stake superintendents of Mutual Improvement organizations, and Sunday school organizations, and it was evident from the words that fell from their lips, in the brief conversations I was able to hold with them, that they were in very deed ministers of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that they had burning in their souls the same testimony, the same knowledge, the same understanding, that were in possession of their fathers and mothers. 

I said in our Mutual Improvement General Board meeting the other night, when there was a little discussion regarding testimony, that I heard one of our bright, well-educated young missionaries say that he had attended one of our Church schools for four years until he graduated from that school, and then attended the Brigham Young University for four years until he graduated from that institution of learning, and he made this wonderful statement : "I have come to understand my relationship toward my Father in heaven, the nature and importance of the Priesthood of Almighty God that has been conferred upon me, and the duty I owe to my fellowmen, better in the three 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 87 

months that I have been laboring here as a missionary than during all those years when I was attending school and taking regular theological lessons." Then he added: "And I had good teachers, too." 

I hope there will not be any thought in the mind of any educator who may be in this great congregation, that I do not entertain a proper appreciation for education. I would to God that I had more education myself. I am proud of the men in our midst who have passed through great institutions of learning in our own land and in other lands, and who have had conferred upon them degrees of honor, because of their educational attainments, and yet I do hold that in giving actual service in the preaching of the gospel, in coming in contact with individuals who question one in relation to the principles that have been revealed of God, there comes by the power of God, and the inspiration and revelation of the Spirit of the Lord, an understanding regarding the purposes of God, the greatness and power and necessity of his work, that cannot be obtained from books, and that cannot be put into the hearts of men by teachers, let them labor ever so well and faithfully. I do not understand that there is any way of coming to a comprehension of the purposes of God other than by having the companionship of the Spirit of the Lord. If we come to understand the truth, as one of the old apostles taught, it must be by the revelation of God. So taught the apostle Paul to the Galatians. There is no other way. 

I am greatly comforted when I hear testimonies such as I have referred to; and missionaries bear many such testimonies. I heard one of our college-bred men, Elder Louis E. Rowe, who is at present in charge of the Sunday school and Mutual Improvement work in the California mission, make the statement not long ago that he would not exchange the information and understanding that had come into his soul as a result of his missionary labors for all the college training that he had ever received, or ever expected to receive. With, I hope, a due appreciation for the declaration that came from the Prophet Joseph Smith that, "The glory of God is intelligence," I myself entertain the thought that there does come by the power of God and by the mysterious revelation of the holy Spirit, a knowledge, concerning the purposes of Almighty God that is superior to anything that any man living has ever obtained or ever will obtain while the world stands, from any institution of learning. 

Our Father in heaven has established this work. Men in the world do not believe it. We have been sent out to bear testimony that God has set his hand to accomplish a marvelous work and a wonder. Yesterday when I looked over this great congregation I wondered what can be in the minds of men and women not of our faith when they come into this tabernacle and see it crowded to its utmost capacity with Latter-day Saint men. Latter-day Saint congregations are not made up chiefly of women, as is the case in many of the churches of the 

88 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

world. Our meetings are crowded with men, men of hard sense, men who know something about the battle of life; yet they leave their affairs and come from long distances that they may be in this general conference. 

As I looked over the tremendous gathering yesterday morning there came into my mind the promise that was made by one of the prophets, Isaiah, when he said : 

"And it shall come to £ass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths : for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 

Another prophet, Jeremiah, made this declaration: 

"Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord; for I am married unto you; and I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion : And I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding." 

I have had some experience as a missionary in many of the nations of the world. In my missionary work I have been brought in contact with many thousands of Latter-day Saints who have been converted to the truth of the great message that missionaries are attempting to deliver to the peoples of the earth, and I know that they have not come up to Zion for gold or for silver or for perishable things. 

I call to mind, now, that many years ago, when I was a boy missionary in Scotland, in conversation with a good sister in that country she made this statement to me: "I would to God that the way might be opened up that I might go to Zion with my children. It would not matter to me," said that good mother, "though I was sure to lay down my life on the journey, if I could only have in my soul the knowledge that my children would be taken to the land of Zion, and that they would be brought up under the care and teaching of the servants of God." I know that men and women who have gathered from afar, to this land, designated by the Lord our God for the gathering of his people, are actually fulfiling the promise that was made by the holy prophets, that they are coming to the land of Zion with the thought uppermost in their minds, that they may learn more perfectly of the ways of God; that they may receive more completely of the blessings that our Father in heaven has to give to his servants and his handmaidens who are willing to keep his commandments. 

I would like to ask the strangers who are present in this congregation : Where else in all the world can a people be found who have been gathered from all nations like this people, or where else among the religions of the world can teachers be found who believe in the promises of the prophets such as I have mentioned? Men at 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 89 

large are not looking for any such fulfilment of the promises of God. The Latter-day Saints alone teach and believe in such promises as are made by Isaiah, Jeremiah and other prophets pertaining to the last days. 

I rejoice in my ministry, my brethren and sisters. I can not conceive of any line of employment, that any human being can have, more desirable or that produces greater joy in the human heart than that which is found by men and women who are engaged in calling repentance to the inhabitants of the earth and in teaching to them the precious truths that have been revealed for the salvation of the human family. I feel grateful to my brethren of the presiding authorities of the Church for the opportunities they have given me to labor in the ministry, to labor at the present time in the great state of California. I feel grateful to them for the kind words they have spoken to me, for the encouragement they have given me and my companions, and I have a strong desire in my soul to perform the duties that rest upon me to the best of my ability, and to be found always crying repentance among the people and bearing witness to the truth as it has been revealed. It is true there are not any great numbers that pay attention to the testimony borne by "the missionaries. In the California mission, during the year just passed away, there were about seven hundred sixty baptisms. A large number of these baptisms were the children of Latter-day Saints who reside within the confines of the mission, but we rejoice when we take into consideration the declaration of our Father in heaven that if one labors for a life time and saves but one soul, how great will be his joy with that soul in the kingdom of God. Then if we put that measure of importance and value upon the souls of men, wonderful things are following the ministry of these missionaries, not only in California, but in all the missions throughout the world, for I take it that few as the baptisms may be, they are far in excess of one soul to each man and woman who has been called to labor as a missionary. 

Then there is another great responsibility that rests upon the missionaries. It is not to be gauged by the number of souls that we lead down into the waters of baptism. It has always been the decree of God and his manner of working with the inhabitants of the earth, to send forth his servants to warn mankind and bear witness concerning the judgments of the Almighty that are to overtake the inhabitants of the earth, and those judgments have not ceased, as the Lord God liveth. . All that he has promised by the mouths of his holy prophets in due time shall be brought to pass; and upon the shoulders of these men who have been called to labor as missionaries there rests a responsibility to warn the people and testify as widely as possible that the heavens have been opened, that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ have come to earth, that holy angels have been sent by the command and appointment of God, and these holy messengers have 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

conferred upon the heads of mortal men authority of the holy Priesthood, the power to speak legally in the name of God. That authority is here, it is with the missionaries; they feel it. No wonder they say there has come to them a knowledge and comprehension concerning the purposes of God which they have never been able to obtain in institutions of learning, but they found it by revelation in the service of God. I bear witness to this truth. I rejoice in it. I know that God lives, I know that Joseph Smith, the man chosen to introduce this great work of the latter days, was called and ordained to the authority of the Priesthood by the commandment of Almighty God. The Lord's Spirit has so testified to me and, whether my fellowman entertains the thought that I am radical or otherwise, God being my witness, I know that this is his work, and that it cannot be destroyed. It has been planted to remain. That is the promise of God. Overturn it if you ran! Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in the testimonies that have been borne, and the instructions given in this great conference. I realize that all of you who have come together have come for the purpose of receiving the word of the Lord and instruction from his servants, and I, with you, have listened with great interest and appreciation to the instructions that have been given to us by the Presidency and those of the authorities who have already spoken. I desire to live in accordance with these instructions, and, so far as I have^ power, to help with you, to carry them out in our lives for the advancement of this great work in which we are engaged. I appreciate the fact that in endeavoring to speak to you this morning I am under a great responsibility, and that unless I can enjoy the influence of the Spirit of the Lord and your confidence and attention, I shall not be able to speak in such a way as shall be edifying and profitable to you who are present. 

I have rejoiced greatly, and have been delighted with the opportunity that has come to me to visit in the various stakes of Zion. It has been a joy to attend the conferences that have been held, and to partake of the fine spirit that is manifest among the presidencies of stakes, the bishoprics of wards, and the sisters — the women who are engaged in the various activities which are common to them in the various stakes of Zion — and to feel the spirit generally that is manifested in these stakes. I have been edified, strengthened and encouraged in the appreciation of the fine manhood and womanhood that is in evidence among the officers and members throughout the Church. 

I rejoice in the fact that this Church will have been organized ninety-six years tomorrow. I have been led to reflect upon some 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 91 

of the things that have happened on that date. It is believed, I think, that on or about this date, somewhat like nineteen hundred twentysix years ago, our Savior was born, and that about thirty-three years later, on or about this same date, he was resurrected from the dead; that yesterday, the day that is celebrated by the Christian world generally as the day of his resurrection, conforms very closely to the day which we celebrate as the anniversary of the organization of the Church. There are other events that have occurred on this same date, April 6, that are of importance in addition to this great event which we celebrate — that of the organization of the Church. I am reminded that on April 6, T909, Admiral Peary reached the North Pole. What connection that may have with the gospel or with the attitude of the Church, I leave for your consideration. I am reminded also that on April 6, 1917, war was declared by the United States against Germany and Austria, which nations were engaged at that time in a war against the welfare of humanity. This nation entered into that conflict with unselfish purposes, and with the desire in mind to promote liberty and right living. As Latter-day Saints, we surely appreciate the fact that the entry of the United States into that war was in conformity with predictions that have been made in the past with regard to conflicts which should prevail, and also the part which this nation should take in the promotion of liberty among mankind. 

I was impressed greatly with statements made by President Grant in his opening remarks yesterday morning with regard to the blessings which have attended the people of the Lord in coming to this land, and I would like to read to you a few of the words of Isaiah relative to this matter. In the 35th chapter of Isaiah we read as follows: 

"The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose. * * * 

"Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees. 

"Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not: behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompense; he will come and save you. 

"Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. 

"Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb sing: for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert. 

"And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water. * * * 

"And an highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called The way of holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it; but it shall be for those: the wayfaring men, though fools, shall not err therein. * * * 

"And the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away." 

We are witnesses, my brethren and sisters, to the fulfilment of this prophecy. It has been brought to pass in this generation in the coming of the people of the Lord to this community, and the building up of this land. We are enjoying the blessings that have followed the ac92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ceptance of the trials and sacrifice which they made in coming here. What was the cause of their coming, or by what means were they able to endure? They developed the spirit of obedience and willingness to do that which the Lord desired of them, whereby they were prepared to submit their own desires and feelings for the welfare of this work, and the accomplishment of God's purposes, with an appreciation of the .fact that his word and his will had been declared unto them by those who were the leaders of his people. 

I would like to stress for a moment the importance of this spirit of obedience. The Lord has given to us a knowledge and an appreciation of the responsibilities of the principles and the ordinances which conform to his house, and to the building up of his kingdom. He desires of every one of us who accept of these things that we shall accept of them willingly and that we shall endeavor to observe them. We have heard from our President in regard to the principle of the Word of Wisdom, a principle and a revelation that has been before this people for all these many years, so plain that the wayfaring man need not err with regard to the truth and the divinity of the principle and the assurance of blessings which follow the observance of this principle. Let me call your attention in this connection to the statement made in one of the opening paragraphs of the Word of Wisdom, with regard to the efforts which are being made and which will be made by wicked men conspiring for the purpose of defeating the welfare of the children of men, for which reason, among others, the Lord has made plain this revelation. I am sure that every one of us appreciates the fact, if we will but consider for a moment, that there are influences at work in the world today which are endeavoring to mislead and to deceive the people of the world with regard to those things which the Lord has declared are not good for man, such as tobacco and strong drink, and other things which he has declared are not for our welfare. Many men in the world are endeavoring in a deceitful way to make these harmful things appear attractive. We read the advertisements of these things which are narcotic in their nature, and we can perceive very clearly that such advertisements are worded and designed in order to deceive those who are not familiar with the dangers which attend the use of these drugs and narcotics. The Lord expects of us that we shall observe these things. As he has given this commandment, we should be ready to obey it, and should do so willingly. There should be no trial, as I see it, to the Latter-day Saints to observe the principle of the Word of Wisdom, even though it may mean that we have to resist the temptation or the desire for any of these things. If we will cultivate the spirit of obedience and humility, there is no reason at all why every one of us cannot observe and live in conformity with the principles which the Lord has declared in that revelation, the Word of Wisdom. 

In like manner, there is a principle and a law that has been given 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 93 

far our development which .will enable us to overcome our selfishness and enable us to cultivate charity and consideration for our fellowmen, for the welfare of mankind everywhere. We heard read yesterday a statement of the expenditures that have been made by the Church from the tithes for the welfare of the people, and I want to say to you that which you know for yourselves, that these tithes are expended solely for the welfare of the people of the Lord, for the advancement of his purposes in the earth, for the promotion of the welfare of mankind, for the bringing of the gospel to all men everywhere, and for these purposes only; and the tithes are expended with the greatest wisdom and judgment, under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. 

The Lord has given to us this commandment, which we should observe, that one-tenth of all of our increase should be given to him annually. Surely every Latter-day Saint can ibe taught this principle, and can learn to observe it in conformity with that spirit, that not less than one-tenth of all that we earn, not less than one-tenth of all our increase, shall be given to him for the advancement of his work. When the people of the Lord came to this land, they took it up as their own, and yet I am sure they did it with an appreciation that they were doing so as stewards; that, while they claimed the land, they realized the fact that the earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof. In like manner, every one of us ought to cultivate that spirit, and the appreciation of the fact that we are only stewards here and we have what we enjoy of material things for the time being only. We cannot take any of the earthly possessions when we go from here. We can only take with us the things that we have developed in the way of faith, righteousness and good works. So we surely ought to use our means and administer our affairs here with the appreciation in our hearts that what we have received is of the Lord, and that he will bless and prosper us in larger measure as we show our appreciation to him for his blessings unto us. 

There are, also, other things, my brethren and sisters, that we need to learn to observe and to obey more fully. In the matter of the observance of the Sabbath day, the Lord has declared to us how we should observe that day. Many people question at times how we should observe it, or what it is that might be considered as breaking the Sabbath. Surely anything that interferes with the spirit of peace conformable to the Sabbath is breaking the Sabbath. There should be nothing that interferes with our worship or that causes our minds to be diverted, nor any act of ours that causes our minds to de detracted from the spirit of that day; but in all of our acts upon that day we should exercise and devote our minds and thoughts to those things that shall help us to grow in faith, in righteousness and in good works. 

The Latter-day Saints have received the promise of a blessing, that if they will observe the principle of fasting and give for the benefit of those who are in need — the fast donations — they shall be 

94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

prospered and blessed and grow in faith; and righteousness. Our fast every month ought to be in the spirit and with the purpose of obtaining some particular blessing that we .need, which will enable us to gain spiritual strength and power. As we live and strive in this way we shall cultivate increased strength and capacity, we shall be blessed physically and cultivate more of the spirit of charity and good will for our fellowmen. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the truth of the gospel. I rejoice in the confidence of my brethren and the confidence which you have in me, and pray that I may be worthy of it. I know that this restored gospel is true. It has been an assurance to me all my life. I was brought up in the Church, of goodly parents who trained me in the spirit of the gospel, and I have learned to know for myself the divinity of this work, to know that this Church which is named the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is in very deed and absolutely his Church. Of all the churches of the world, it is the Church of Jesus Christ. It is founded upon the foundation of apostles and prophets, with Jesus Christ as the chief cornerstone. It has been established under his immediate direction and by revelation from him. It will endure and carry out the purposes which the Lord has in view for the accomplishment of righteousness, truth and liberty in the earth, and the preparation for the coming of the Son of man to reign in righteousness here. May we, every one of us, do our part to advance the purposes of God and to help to bring these things to pass, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang with spirit the old familiar hymn by Elder Charles W. Penrose, "O ye mountains high." 

ELDER LLOYD O. IVIE 

Former President of the Japan Mission 

I am sure, my brethren and sisters, that I have never in my life had a surprise quite like this. It was something that I had never expected. I really have never felt it would be possible within my lifetime to be called to speak to an audience of this size, though I have spoken to audiences in our stake assemblies. I do feel that this is a place where, above all, we should be able to receive the blessings of the Spirit of the Lord. I have felt that Spirit whenever I have come to conference, here in f Salt Lake. I have always felt it here, perhaps, as much or more than at any other place. 

I was given an opportunity as a missionary to labor among the Japanese people. I am sure that I enjoyed the time that I labored in that land. I have had faith in that people. I know there are many good among them. I realize that in America anything concerning the Japanese is spoken of with considerable prejudice, due perhaps to 

ELDER LLOYD 0. IVIE 95 

political and other reasons. But in my association with them as a missionary, I have found much good among them, and have learned to love and respect them in very deed. I really think and feel that the Japanese people are worth while. 

Our coming to Japan was, perhaps, the first contact of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints with other than Christian religions, with other people than those of Christian belief, the so-called Christian denominations of the world. It is our first contact, we might say, with Buddhism, a religion and philosophy which is so much different from our own; and I have found that in this we have a new work, a different problem to solve, and it is one that is going to tax the ingenuity and faith of our missionaries and of our people before that problem shall be entirely solved. At any rate, that is the way it has always seemed to me. We, cannot go before those people and preach to them the gospel by quoting passages of scripture, and say that this is true or that is true, because it says so in the Bible. We must convince them with reason. But, of course, as Latter-day Saints, we know and understand that truth is reason, and that there is no other way by which we can receive knowledge and understanding except by study and by the Spirit of the Lord, and that we must reason these things out for ourselves. That is one of the strong points, I think, of the Latterday Saints. We are not confined to what is said in any book of scripture, though it is true those books are the foundation of our religion. They make us what we are historically; but, at the same time, we as Latter-day Saints feel that we have individual testimonies, each and every one of us, concerning the gospel, because we have reasoned it out for ourselves, and such is the way that we must work. As Latter-day Saints, that is the way we must obtain our testimony, if we feel that we are strong enough to stand against those various doctrines that spring up against the work of the Lord throughout the world. I think that it is a good thing for us all to gain a testimony, not only by faith and prayer, but by reason and by study, until we can understand that these things are true, even though the scriptural books were taken away from us. I think that is one thing that we should all say as Latter-day Saints, that we could stand on the testimony we possess, even though, through some freak of nature, or otherwise, the very books by which we have been taught were taken away from us. We stand upon that. That is going to be the problem in my mind when our Church fully solves the methods, the correct methods, of doing missionary work among this people who believe in Buddhism. I believe that there will be a great work done among that people. Of course, we don't understand the origin of the Japanese. We don't understand entirely, that is of a surety, whence they came, though many opinions have been given, and much has been studied on the subject. 

While I was in that country I had an opportunity to study in company with a native man, who used to come to the Book of Mormon 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

classes. He was interested in the Book of Mormon from the viewpoint of his getting knowledge of early races; from the viewpoint of learning of the origin of the races. That was what he was studying, as a lad. He was a government employee, but as a hobby he had collected a large library. By the way, his library was destroyed in the great earthquake, and immediately thereafter he came back to the Church and bought a copy of the Book of Mormon, saying that it was the first book that he had purchased to begin his new library since the old one had been destroyed; and he had studied these problems and felt that the Japanese people had perhaps come from somewhere around Asia Minor, perhaps from Greece or from Egypt or in that district somewhere, and he had maps that he had collected showing something to that effect. It is probable that such might be the case. At any rate, it is my firm belief and opinion that there is the blood of Israel among that people. I believe that some day, although the time may not be fully ripe, that blood will show itself in greater good works in the land. 

I want to bear my testimony that the restored gospel is true. I know this with all my being. The only problem in my life is to live worthy of those things which we know and understand are true and correct. I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with us all, that we may seek continually to keep his laws and commandments, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Our concluding speaker will be President Alonzo A. Hinckley. I thought -the Saints would be pleased to hear from one of our shortterm missionaries who has had experience in the field. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 

President of the Deseret Stake, and one of the Short-term Missionaries 

My brethren and sisters, I beg of you that you will sustain me by your united faith and prayers, that my spirit may be calm, and that the Lord may be able to use me in his own way for the few minutes that I shall stand before you. I certainly do appreciate the opportunity of being with you and worshiping with you during the sessions of this conference. It is only a matter of a few days since I wrote home to my folks and said to them that this would be the first conference that I had missed in a number of years; but that I hoped that they, in their attendance here, would receive that reward of the Spirit of this work that comes to us when we are associated with the authorities of this Church, who speak in the name of the Lord by divine authority. 

I have been privileged the last few months to be in the missionary field, under the direction of President Charles A. Callis, in the Southern States mission. I was assigned to the Florida conference. Not being acquainted with the other conferences of the Southern States, I am 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 97 

prone to believe, from the short experience that I had in Florida, that perhaps the Florida conference is one of the choicest conferences of the Southern States. I bring to you the greetings of the Saints in Florida, and I can speak of them as Saints. The majority of those who are members of the Church are devoted in their service to the Lord. I have felt that it is one of the greatest opportunities that has come into my life to be privileged to become renewed in the spirit of proclamation, even the proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ; to feel the missionary spirit; to feel the spirit of testimony; to be associated with youngmen in the Florida conference. I believe that ten short-term missionaries were appointed to labor in that conference. Choice as they are; splendid as are their influence, the spirit they manifest and the testimony which they bear, yet, the greatest impression came to me with the wonderful work that is being done by young men. Those young men seemed as dear to me, almost, as my blood kindred — true, clean, wholesome, sweet, living so that the Lord could speak through them; living so that he did speak through them, speaking in the power and demonstration of the Spirit of the Lord. They are accomplishing a great and a mighty work. It has been a joy to me to sleep with them, to talk with them, to pray with them, to feel their spirits. I cannot conceive of anything that could bring, and that does bring, in my belief, greater strength to the Church than for young men, clean in mind and clean in body, to discover really what this work is and what the power of the Priesthood is. It was like a renewal; in fact, it brought me back immediately to the experiences of years gone by. I speak of Florida frequently as of Holland. I don't know why it should be, after a lapse of twenty-five years, that when I speak I should mix the names of Holland and Florida, only for the same spirit of testimony which is discovered. 

I do not know what particular good I was able to accomplish for any other than for myself, but it was worth more than it cost me in time and in money just to have the feeling and the experience. 

A week ago yesterday, Brother Worley asked me if I would perform a ceremony of baptism, and it was my privilege to walk out into the clear waters of one of the streams. Six people were led out into those waters to make covenant with the Lord. I had one of the real experiences of my life. I baptized three children that were children of members and one man and two of his children. It seemed just like other experiences that I have had in the Church as I baptized those children; but when I put that man a little deeper into the water and when I raised my hand to high heaven and called him by name, I realized who I was, just a weak man, and then when I spoke the words : -"Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ," my soul thrilled, and I felt, perhaps as I have never felt before, what it meant to be able to say: "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost." When that man was buried in the water and he came forth, and after 

98 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the confirmation, he gathered me into his arms — a larger man than I am, having heard the gospel for seventeen years of his life and never having been brought, as he said, to a full understanding of what he had lost, what he was permitting to pass by; then to have two of his children go down with him into the waters of baptism; and as he closed me in his arms he said : "Oh, my brother, now do not forget me after all these days, when I accept the truth with an honest heart." He had laid away his tobacco, he had understood fully what it meant to part with one-tenth of his income annually, he said : "Remember me and my little family, that I shall have the faith, the support and the prayers of the Saints and of you, that I shall be true henceforth and forever." 

I do remember them! I do pray for them, because out in this world of unbelief, in this period when men doubt the divinity of Jesus Christ, to find an honest soul who, through repentance and through baptism, has his sins washed away and who, through the laying on of hands, does receive the gift of the Holy Ghost and testifies of a surety that he knows that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God; that he who was dead now lives and lives forevermore, and has established his Church and commissioned men to proclaim this everlasting gospel and to testify of him, of the establishment of the Church, and to point the way of salvation to those who will hear and believe, the privilege is choice, the blessing is great to have the opportunity to go and deliver this message. I thank the Lord for the opportunity. I pray that it shall be appreciated. I do not believe that it needs men as old as I am or older; it needs vigor; it needs strength; it needs testimony; it needs those who are prepared to offer sacrifices. From the beginning I have seen those who have come in. I call to mind one brother when he came in, one of the short-term missionaries, who said : "I am ready to go back. I have not been able to do much. I have given what I had, all the strength that is in me, but I have not had much strength." I believe that it is worth the strength, the physical strength, the ability, the time and all that any man can give, to go out and renew his spirit, and cry repentance; testify of the divinity of this work, and receive a renewal of his testimony, a renewal of the desire to bring souls unto God. When I think of Brother Roscoe H. Paramore, I shall remember him forever; I shall think of him as one in whom the promise may possibly be fulfilled. I did not bring him the gospel first; oh no! I have said that he has heard it for seventeen years, but he has joined the Church. I expect, if I am true, and if he is true, which I believe he will be, to have joy with him forevermore, for it is the promise of the Lord. 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, of the divinity of this work. It is of the Lord. The greatest manifestations, I have said, is in these young men standing up. I think of one of them. The Saints told me when he came out he had not had much experience. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 99 

Some of the elders told me of him. When I went down into his field, I said: "My brother, do you have any honest investigators in this section who are listening to your testimony?" He said: "Come with me, my brother, and visit some of them. I believe they are honest." At the close of a meeting, we went to the home of one investigator. When I came away, one investigator stood up, and as he grasped my hand he said : "Brother Hinckley, you will not take this elder away from me, you are not going to replace him, are your" "Why not?" "Oh, he has brought us the truth. As he has come into our home, opened the scriptures, reasoned with us, and borne testimony of the gospel, he has brought more joy into our home than any man who has ever visited us. Leave him here with us." I walked out and I said to one of the elders. "Have you ever worked with this elder before?" "Yes, Brother Hinckley, when he first came out here I stood with him on the streets. He had not had much experience. As he stood on the street, his hands trembled so that he could hardly read a hymn that they were going to sing." Yet he stood there, notwithstanding his weakness, notwithstanding his fear; and he said, "As I watched his knees tremble and listened, to his weak words, I thought, 'oh, that he had had some training before he came here.' " That was an elder's testimony regarding this weak elder. Sure he was weak, but what has he done ? He has followed the instructions of President Callis; he has risen early in the morning and in the early morning hours, after prayer, he has read the scriptures; he has prayed with his companions; he has studied diligently for two years; and after two years of prayer, two years of study, two years of testimony, as I said to my folks, speaking of him yesterday, he is sweet and clean, and, excepting perhaps one elder, there is not another that will be missed as he will be missed when the servants of God say : "Honorably released to return home." He has gone into the homes, knowing the truth, testifying of it, living it, exemplifying it every day; and before he comes home I feel certain that the Lord will permit him, even while there, to see the fruits of his labors, for I believe that the man who grasped me by the hand, saying "Take him not away, for he has come to us with a message that has brought more joy into our home than any other message that has been given unto us," will become a member of the Church. What is he waiting for? Because that same brother said: "Not yet; clean, free from tobacco, free from liquor, understanding that the gospel is a gospel for which you shall sacrifice; and then when you accept it, you shail receive the Holy Ghost, which shall lead you into all truth forever." God grant that he may be permitted to see the fruits; God grant that we may exemplify in our lives our testimony of the divinity of this work, henceforth and forever, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

President 'Heber J. Grant announced that the congregation would sing the hymn, "Though deepening trials throng your way," music 

100 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

of which was written by Elder George Careless, now eighty-seven years of age and present on the stand. 

After singing by the congregation, Elder John B. Beckstrand, president of the Millard stake of Zion, offered the closing prayer; and the conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


