Afternoon
06 04 1926


ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters: It is a thrilling, yes, an almost overpowering experience, to stand before a great congregation such as is assembled here, and endeavor to preach to them the word of God. We have had some very wonderful meetings during the past three days, and now we have come to the last session of the conference. These general conferences recur at regular periods; nevertheless, they always come with a freshness and variety of instruction that is very delightful. 

It is not expected of me to present to you any new doctrine. I have no 1 new doctrine to offer, and if there were any such to be given to the Church, it would be the duty and privilege of the President of the Church to announce it, he being the man who holds the keys. This is a principle that ought to be well understood by the Latter-day Saints. 

WE ARE DECIDEDLY A CHRISTIAN CHURCH 

President Ivins in his remarks yesterday alluded to the fact that the "Mormon" Church is sometimes referred to in the world as being an un-Christian church, that we are not a Christian people. If I remember correctly, and perhaps President Ivins mentioned the fact that in 1893, at the great parliament of religions, the "Mormon" Church was denied admission because it was regarded as not being a Christian church. Now it appears to me that with the facts which are readily at hand and within reach of any investigator, it is easily seen that we are decidedly a Christian church. Ours is the only Church that bears the name of the Savior. It is called the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, and that alone, if we are sincere in our belief, and we are, is sufficient proof that we are Christians. 

OUR STANDARD TEXTS 

I have here on the stand the standard works of the Church — the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. These are the works that will be found upon almost every pulpit in the Church, in all our places of worship and in the temples also as well as in the homes of the Saints. Let us pause for a moment and as briefly as possible consider these wonderful books. What is the Bible? The Bible is a book of scripture that contains the word of God as transmitted to his people on the eastern hemisphere; and not only a book of scripture, but a book of historical character, because it deals with the purposes of God and his providences in the journeyings and travels of his people. It covers a period from Adam down to Christ and his Apostles. Somebody might say, "Is that the only Bible you have in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ?" The answer is, Yes, that is the only Bible we have. We have other books of scripture, but they are not known and not referred to under that title. 

THE HOLY BIBLE 

I am free to state on this occasion, in the midst of this great congre140 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

gation, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints accepts the Bible for what it purports to be. We hold it in reverence, and to us it is a holy book; and a couplet that is very often used in connection with the Bible is very pleasing to us, namely: "Holy Bible, book Divine, precious treasure thou art mine." The Bible sets forth in clearness the gospel of Jesus Christ. That is perhaps its main value. I speak of this because the gospel involves principles that are everlasting in their character. They always existed, and they will always exist. For that reason these principles of salvation are applicable to all times and all nations throughout the world. It must be apparent to anyone who studies the Bible that there were certain commandments given therein, very important and sacred commandments, which do not apply to us. This cannot be said, however, of the Ten Commandments. They are of a general character and their application is general, and, as stated here by one of the speakers, the Ten Commandments form a basis for all law. If they were local commandments they would not apply to us, and would, perhaps, have no particular value in guiding our movements. That fact alone naturally suggests that the Church of God, whenever it is upon the earth, is in need of direct revelation. People require the word of God that is suited to their day and time. The Bible represents very great authority, but it does not impart any authority. Here is a distinction that should always be borne in mind. 

THE BOOK OF MORMON 

The Book of Mormon is also a record of scripture. We prize it very highly. We study it and search it, for we claim it to be the word of God. It was written by the hand of Mormon, who was a prophet among the people of the western hemisphere, or America, as it is now known. He was a great prophet among the people in the day in which he wrote. The Book of Mormon had its beginning about 600 years before Christ, and its ending about 420 years after Christ, covering a period of about 1,000 years. Surely anyone who will give the Book of Mormon a careful study will be driven to the conclusion, if he is sincere-minded, that wonderful things were accomplished during that period. The people of the Book of Mormon were called Nephites, after one of their first prophets. Nephi was the son of Lehi, who was the founder of the nation, and surely it was a great nation. The Nephites themselves as a people passed away about 1,400 years ago; nevertheless, they have some representatives still upon the earth. The Lamanite who stood here this morning and bore his testimony, and a very wonderful testimony it was, is a descendant of Lehi through one of his sons who was called Laman, who was a brother of Nephi. The descendants of these men are called Lamanites, otherwise known as American Indians. So we had a Lamanite here to speak to us this morning, and he bore a faithful testimony. It was very wonderful to hear him. He spoke in his own language and it was interpreted by the Bishop of his ward. 

Now the principal value of the Book of Mjormon, as a standard work of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, lies in the fact 

ELDER RUDGER CLAW SON 141 

that it contains an account of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is set forth in very great clearness. It is learned through this sacred record that the Savior after his crucifixion visited the people of Nephi. It is not to be wondered at that he visited them, because the Nephites were of Israel, being descendants of Jacob, and could properly be called a branch of the house of Israel. Since the Savior deigned to appear to his own people after his resurrection at Jerusalem, is it to be wondered at that he visited this branch of the house of Israel ? Well, the account says that he did visit them, and the record further tells us that he organized his Church among them, and strange to say — and yet I ought not to use that expression — gave to his Church in this land twelve apostles. He also gave to the Church such other officers of the priesthood as were given to the Church in his day. He ordained high priests, seventies and elders, priests, teachers and deacons. The Church of the Nephites, corresponded exactly in every detail with the Church of Christ in the land of Palestine. 

Now I tell you, brethren and sisters, there is something very beautiful in a comparison of this kind, something that is faith-promoting, something that is very enlightening. 

In addition to the plan of redemption, or, the everlasting gospel, that was given to the Nephites, we have in the Book of Mormon a brief history of their travels and of the ministry of their prophets. It is a book that is published to the world. If anybody should ask me : "Well, isn't it a Bible, isn't it your Bible?" I would answer, "No. It is our Book of Mormon. 'We do not call it the Bible. There is only one book which has that title. This is the Book of Mormon." If they should say, "Well it is a book of scriptures, isn't it?" We answer: "Surely j£ is, and we put it forth as such." 

THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS 

Coming down to our own day we form a distinct and separate people from those great nations that have gone before; namely: the Israelites of the eastern hemisphere and the Nephites of the western hemisphere. We have received the gospel of Jesus Christ in this day and time, and it came to us direct from heaven. We did not get it from any other church or denomination under heaven. We have another book of scripture that is very precious indeed. It has been referred to, as have been these other books in this conference. It is the Doctrine and Covenants, which contains seventy-two to seventy-six revelations, given to the people of our day through the Prophet Joseph Smith and is declared to be, the word of the Lord to his Church. Strange to say, and yet I must not use the word "strange," the book of Doctrine and Covenants in its doctrines corresponds exactly with the teachings of the Book of Mormon, and corresponds exactly with the teachings of the Bible. I am, therefore, justified in saying that the Latter-day Saints have three powerful witnesses of the truth of the gospel. 

142 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

HOW THE BOOK OF MORMON BEARS UPON THE SUBJECT 

Now, in conclusion, permit me to read just a few words from the Book of Mormon which have a bearing upon this topic, and are very instructive. Nephi, the (Prophet to whom I have referred, II Nephi 28 and 29, uses language somewhat like this : 

"Yea, wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men, and denieth the power of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost! 

"Yea, wo be unto him that saith : We have received and we need no more! 

"And in fine, wo be unto all those who tremble, and are angry because of the truth of God! For behold, he that is built upon the rock receiveth it with gladness; and he that is built upon a sandy foundation trembleth lest he shall fall. 

"Wo be unto him that shall say: We have received the word of God, and we need no more of the word of God, for we have enough! 

"For behold, thus saith the Lord God : I will give unto the children of men line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little; and blessed are those who harken unto my precepts, and lend an ear unto my counsel, for they shall learn wisdom; for unto him that receiveth I will give more; and from them that shall say, We have enough, from them shall be taken away even that which they have." 

And again briefly : 

"And because my words shall hiss forth — many of the gentiles shall say: A Bible! A Bible! We have got a Bible and there cannot be any more Bible. 

"But thus saith the Lord God: O fools, they shall have a Bible; and it shall proceed forth from the Jews, mine ancient covenant people. And what thank they the Jews for the Bible which they receive from them? Yea, what do the Gentiles mean? Do they remember the travel^ and the labors, and the pains of the Jews, and their diligence unto me, in bringing forth salvation unto the gentiles? 

"O ye Gentiles, have ye remembered the Jews, mine ancient covenant people? Nay; but ye have cursed them, and have hated them, and have not sought to recover them. But behold, I will return all these things upon your own heads, for I the Lord have not forgotten my people. 

"Thou fool, that shall say: A Bible, we have got a Bible, and we need no more Bible. Have ye obtained a Bible save it were by the Jews? 

"Know ye not that there are more nations than one? Know ye not that I, the Lord your God, have created all men, and that I remember those who are upon the isles of the sea; and that I rule in the heavens above and in the earth beneath; and I bring forth my word unto the children of men, yea, even upon all the nations of the earth? 

"Wherefore murmur ye, because that ye shall receive more of my word? Know ye not that the testimony of two nations is a witness unto you that I am God, that I remember one nation like unto another? Wherefore, I speak the same words unto one nation like unto another. And when the two nations shall run together the testimony of the two nations shall run together also." 

God bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 143 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Time is very precious today, as it is always, and I desire most earnestly that the few moments I occupy will be profitable to this vast congregation. 

A MARVELOUS AGE 

We are living in a marvelous age, in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. All the other dispensations that have gone before are culminating in this one. The Lord tells us in the Book of Mormon, to which President Clawson has just referred, that at the time of the coming forth jof that book, he would commence his work among all the nations, and it is remarkable that since the publication of the Book of Mormon more important discoveries and inventions have been presented to mankind than in all the ages that have gone before. Science has developed many wonderful Ihings. Labor-saving devices have made our work much easier than before. Electricity, which has been in the world from the beginning, has been recently discovered and has been so controlled that it is used to light our homes, to propel our street cars and railway trains, and to operate machinery of all kinds. This was unknown one hundred years ago. As a matter of fact, nobody can tell what it is today; but it is one of the powers in this universe that is controlled by our Father in heaven. It would seem that everything one can imagine has been provided for our comfort in this age. We have the accumulated information of the ages, 2nd surely we ought to be inclined to take advantage of that information in order that we might enjoy our lives here and be prepared to enjoy them eternally. In our great institutions of learning men are devoting their entire time to research. There is a disposition on the part of man to find out everything that is mysterious, and the result has been that intelligent men have had their minds operated on by the Spirit of our heavenly Father, and many of the conveniences to which I have referred have been the result. In the science of medicine, newly discovered anaesthetics have been a boon to suffering humanity, and by their use the surgeon has been able to perform wonderful operations. Toxins have been prepared that have a tendency to prevent disease, and to stop its spread. Opportunity is given us to know what happens in all parts of the world each day through the great newspapers and magazines that are published. Everything that you can think of in the way of comfort and information has been presented to this dispensation. Unfortunately, notwithstanding these blessings, there is a tendency to worship the gift and to forget the Giver. 

THE WISDOM, OF IMAN TAUGHT 

We have in our public schools and in our universities, men and women who are trained, their minds are lighted up by the teachings of men, and it is remarkable to what a degree the business of life 

144 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

has been brought to the attention of the human family; but most of our schools operate as a result of the wisdom of man sand exclude God, the source of all truth. We spend millions of dollars in the education of the hand and of the mind, and we exclude from many of these institutions all knowledge of our heavenly Father, who gave to us the hand and the mind. In fact, there has been an effort made by some educators to create in the minds of pupils under their watchcare a contempt for the fact that the world we live in is controlled by our Father in heaven. 

In section 93 of the Doctrine and Covenants I find this reference : 

"Light and truth forsake that evil one. 

"Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God. 

"And that wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men, and because of the tradition of their fathers. 

"But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth." 

ADDITIONAL LIGHT AND TRUTH TO BE TAUGHT 

So my brethren and sisters, while we can have our children educated in the arts and sciences as taught by men, there still remains a commandment of our heavenly Father that we shall supplement those teachings and that our children shall be reared in light and truth. I find in this same section a reference that is made to one of the men of that time. It says : 

"Verily, I say unto you, * * * you have continued under this condemnation; 

"You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the' cause of your affliction." 

Now the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints realizes the importance of teaching children the things of God, and has given to us our auxiliary organizations. Our heavenly Father inspired the organization of the Relief Society, the Sabbath School, the Mutual Improvement Associations, the Primary, the Religion Class. The inspiration of the Lord gave to us our Church schools and our seminaries. All these are intended to supplement the teachings of men, and to bring our children under an influence that shall assist them, while they remain here in the earth to prepare for eternal life. These have been wonderfully beneficial. Then we are instructed, even in our recreation, to teach our boys and our girls that in their pastime they should recognize our heavenly Father; and in our day the various stakes and wards of Zion are asked to give special attention to recreation, in order that the things that induce our young people to follow after the foolishness of the world may be neutralized by keeping them in an influence that will incline them to righteousness and inspire them to do 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 145 

those things and live such lives as shall make them worthy to be called sons and daughters of our heavenly Father. 

We find in section 68 (of the Doctrine and Covenants something that we often hear quoted, but I am going to read it because it has application to these things I refer to : 

PARENTS ,TO TEACH CHILDREN THE THINGS OF GOD 

"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. 

"For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. 

"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands. 

"And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." 

There is more of this same section that perhaps you are all familiar with, but the point that I had in mind, and what I am about to say I am exceedingly anxious that it should sink into the mind of every parent in Zion, and that is, that while the Lord has provided all these wonderful educational institutions, while science has contributed so much for our comfort and our blessing, while the Church has prepared places to which we may send our children to be taught the gospel of Christ, that does not relieve you or me of the responsibility and the obligation that is laid upon us by our heavenly Father to teach our own children. And the Lord says, wherein we fail to do that, even at the tender age of eight, that the sin will be upon our heads. President Joseph F. Smith was inspired to give unto us the wise counsel to be more with our children. Notwithstanding the many things that occupy our time — the business of life, theatres, parties, socials, automobiles, pleasure resorts, the canyons and lakes — all these things that we may enjoy in moderation; notwithstanding the pursuit of life whereby we gain a livelihood, that prophet of the Lord gave to us this advice : That we should so arrange our time that one evening each week would find the Latter-day Saints in their own homes, associated with their own children, and there teach them the things that the Lord has decreed that they should know. It is not sufficient that my children are taught faith, repentance and baptism, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the holy Ghost in the auxiliary organizations. My Father in heaven has commanded that I should do that myself. I have read to you that the Lord told one man that the cause of his distress was that he had not taught his children light and truth. There is anguish in some of the homes of the Latter-day Saints today because we have neglected our opportunity, and we have failed to teach our children as we should. If the home evening could only be a fact among the Latter-day 

146 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saints, if during one evening a week we would live with our own, under the influence of the spirit of the Lord, at our own firesides surrounded by those whom the Lord has given unto us, and told us, particularly, that we should instruct them, how many happy homes there would be where today there is sorrow and discord and distress. Fathers and mothers would elicit from their children that respect that is due to parents who are model parents, and who have in their hearts a desire to teach their loved ones. We are told in Luke that there would be a time when men would be choked with the cares and the riches and the pleasures of life. I have in my mind, as I stand here even now, men and women that I love, whose very spirituality is being choked by these very things, and the adversary is leading them along that easy pathway of pleasure and they are nelecting their duty as parents and as members of the Church of Jesus Christ. 

THE DUTY WE OWE TO OUR CHILDREN 

It was said by one of the speakers that your commission, you men of Israel, is from God .the eternal Father. The holy Priesthood has been conferred upon us, and if we exercise it as we should, as we have a right to do in our homes, when we shut out the world;:nd the things of the outside, and under the power of prayer and thanksgiving we give to our sons and daughters those rich truths that the Lord has deposited with us for our welfare and for theirs, a genuine development of faith will follow. I hope that it will be possible for us to return, if we have departed from that adyice. Gather our children around us and let our homes be the abiding place of the Spirit of the Lord. If we will do our part, we may know and be sure that our heavenly Father will do his. Let us avail ourselves of all the information that it is possible to obtain in the world; it will rise with us in the! resurrection. I am grateful for the great men and women who give their lives for the education of the human family, and I am grateful to God that he has given to us in this latter day a knowledge that the wisdom of man is not sufficient, but it takes the wisdom of our heavenly Father to prepare us for eternal life in his celestial kingdom. Are you satisfied with the thought that your children will go to the terrestrial or the telestial kingdom ? Are you satisfied that you shall inherit either of these lesser kingdoms? It is that you might enjoy the celestial kingdom that the Priesthood of the living God has been conferred upon men in this day. It is that we might gain the celestial glory that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been given to the children of men. Now in the midst of confusion, excitement and all the pleasures of life, let us not lose sight of the Pearl of Great Price, the power of God unto salvation, and let us not lose sight of the duty that we owe these boys and girls who are created in the image of God. He is the Father of their spirits, 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 147 

and he will hold us responsible for the teaching that they receive. I hope and pray that we will so teach them that when the end shall come we can receive from him that blessing, "Well done, good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of thy Lord," and that we may have our loved ones with us eternally, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A soprano solo, "Beautiful Zion for me," was sung' by Lily Shipp Burton. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

"Beautiful Zion For Me," was written by Brother Charles W. Penrose upon the spur of the moment when bidding good-bye to Brigham Young, Jr., who had presided over the European mission, and who was about to sail for home. Brother Penrose remarked, "Oh, Brigham, beautiful Zion for me! I wish I were going with you." Then he asked Brother Brigham Young, Jr., "Do you know the tune, 'Beautiful Isle of the Sea?'" And he said, "Yes." "All right, I will write you a hymn to that tune that you can sing on the ocean." And President Penrose wrote this hymn. i 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

On occasions of this character there is an obligation resting upon each member of the Church present, perhaps the greatest responsibility is upon those who are called upon to instruct the people. 

PRAYER IS OF GREAT BENEFIT 

We all have need of the help jour Lord so generously gives, when sought after in the way that he has appointed. Our singers need help that they may have control of their voices, that they may have the spirit of these hymns and songs which are sung, that the song may be as a prayer unto the Lord, that it may be an acceptable feature of our worship, and be answered with blessings upon our heads, and that they may be able, not only to be heard, but to be understood. The individuals who pray need help that they may be able to voice the sentiments and feelings of the members of the congregation, for they are not offering an individual prayer, but a prayer for the whole people, expressive of their thoughts and feelings. The speaker needs that help which the Saints can give by their prayers of faith. The Lord has said that the prayers of a righteous man availeth much with the Lord. This being the case, the prayer, silent and secret though it be, of many faithful men and women is sure to avail more with the Lord, and if we all do our duty in the spirit of worship when we come together on such occasions, our worship will not only be approved of the Lord, but will be sanctified to our blessing and salvation. 

THE SPIRIT OF GOD, THE SOUL OF THE CHURCH 

The Apostle Paul in an epistle to the Corinthians made com148 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

parison of the Church and the offices thereof with the human body, and made the declaration that one member could not say to another : "I have no need of thee," for all the members are necessary. Notwithstanding the perfection of this organism of man which God has created, there is something within, that is the spirit, that if it were lacking this body would be as the dust of the earth, there would be no virtue in it. And so it is with the Church of Christ and the officers therein. But for the Spirit of God, which is the very soul of the Church, of our religion, of "Mormonism," it would be powerless to accomplish its destiny in the earth. There is in this thing called "Mormonism" a spirit, a spiritual life, and I fear that many of us have not found it. I fear that we are too mechanical in our prayers, in our worship, and in our service of God. When this spirit is upon us we feel the truth and see the beauty of the gospel which we have received. Our souls are lighted up by it and we have the spirit of testimony and a knowledge of the truth. It is the spirit of revelation, it is the spirit by which the Church and kingdom of God has been set up and by which the work has been conducted up to the present time. We can have this spirit with us and have its manifestation if we will live for it, my brethren and sisters. We must make these tabernacles of ours, which are the temples of God, fit to receive the Holy Ghost that he may dwell within us, that we may be inspired by him in that which we have to do in life, to see aright, to feel aright, and to act aright,' that our administrations and our lives may be acceptable unto God. We cannot do this work assigned to us, we cannot live our religion acceptably to the Lord without his help. 

THE SPIRIT COMES TO THOSE WHO ARE WILLING 

If we obtain his help it must be through his holy Spirit, and if we would have that Spirit we must live for it holy lives, being altogether worthy in the sight of the Lord, then we must have a willing spirit, willing to receive that which the Lord has to give us, willing to give that which the Lord desires at our hands, whether it be our time, our talents, our means, or our lives, we must have that willingness of spirit that we will place all upon the altar to be used by the Lord for the accomplishment of his purposes, the saving of the souls of his children. We must recognize that authority which the Lord has placed here in the earth, in his Church, for he has said : "Whether it be by my own mouth, or by the mouth of my servant, it is the same." So, when a call is made upon us by those who are in authority, we should regard it as a call from the Lord, and never refuse to accept that call, no matter what of sacrifice it may entail. We should receive these things with grateful hearts, having that faith and trust in God that it will mean to us honor and glory in the life to come which it certainly will if we magnify these callings and the work which is assigned to us. We are here to learn what the will of God is concerning us and to do his will, walking in the footsteps of our Savior, even in the light as 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 149 

he was in the light, that we may receive a fulfilment of the promise that we shall have fellowship one with another in his kingdom, and that the blood of Jesus Christ shall cleanse us from all sins. 

PRAISE THE LORD IN PRAYER FOR OPPORTUNITY AND BLESSINGS 

I have been greatly edified and blessed in this conference. I have enjoyed the inspiring songs, so beautifully rendered, and particularly the song, "Beautiful Zion for me." My soul went out in rejoicing and thanksgiving before the Lord that my lot is cast with the Latter-day Saints in Zion, that I have membership in the Church and kingdom of God here upon the earth, that I have the fellowship of the Saints, their love and confidence and association, that I have a portion of the authority of the Lord and have been honored with the privilege to minister for him in this great ministry in the earth, for his sustaining hand and power have been with me in my ministry, notwithstanding my weaknesses and personal inability. May the name of the Lord be praised forever. 

My attendance at the meetings of this conference have had the effect of bringing me to appreciate, it seems to me, more than ever before, the blessings of the Lord unto me and unto his people. I love the Latter-day Saints. I desire to see the blessings of God poured out upon them, the blessings of heaven and the blessings of earth, and I desire to see this people faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord and in doing his will. Brethren and sisters, if we appreciate the great blessings that have come to us through the gospel, let us never forget our obligation to render thanksgiving to our Father in Heaven for them, in the name of Jesus Christ. Morning and night is not too often. It was not too often when I was a child at my mother's knee. I have never felt less the need of prayer than at that time. As obligations have come to me, and as I have been made to appreciate more the blessings of the Lord, I have felt more the need of prayer, and I have constantly, and fervently prayed unto him in praise and thanksgiving, and, realizing my dependence and my weakness, I have pleaded with him for mercy, forgiveness and for spiritual guidance. The Lord has been very good to me, and I feel sure you feel the same, brethren and sisters, that he has been good to you. 

OTHER WAYS THAN PRAYER TO MANIFEST APPRECIATION 

Now let me say, it is not sufficient that we pray to the Lord often in thanksgiving for the blessings. There are other ways in which we can manifest our appreciation, if we appreciate what the Lord has done for us, we will love him and the greater our appreciation of these blessings the greater will be our love, and the Lord has said: "If ye love me, keep my commandments," and thereby does he know whether we love him, if we keep his commandments. He has said : "If a man love me, he will keep my word." He has given us his word through 

150 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

his servants. President Heber J. Grant has referred to the Word of Wisdom as the word of God, which it is. Now the Lord says : "If ye love me, keep my commandments. If a man love me, he will keep my word." Some people say : "But the Word of Wisdom is not a commandment." If the Lord has commanded that I love him with all my heart, with all my soul, with all my might, and then has said that if I love him I will keep his word, therein is a commandment to me that I keep the Word of Wisdom. Regard it as you will, to me it is sufficient to know that it is the mind and will of God. That is what we are here for, my brethren and sisters, to learn his mind and will and then with his help to do it at whatever cost it may entail. 

TESTIMONY 

I know that this is God's work, I am thankful for it, I know that President Heber J. Grant is the mouthpiece of God unto this people at this time, and I know that he has the inspiration of his calling. I know that this work is progressing as it has under administrations of the Church which have gone before, and I know there will be no dearth of interest on the part of the Latter-day Saints in helping to carry on this work. I am assured of its triumph. I have no fear of future embarrassment, of being found in a mistaken condition. I know, and thank God for this testimony, that this is his work, that he is at the helm, and that it will triumph. This is my testimony which I bear to you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have a half hour left and there is some business to be attended to, namely, the presenting of the Authorities, and I would like to make a few closing remarks. I do not know that it would hurt the Latter-day Saints if we were to overrun the time fifteen or twenty minutes. I would like to hear from all our mission presidents that have not spoken, and I will ask them to watch that clock and to bear us a testimony of from three to five minutes. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission ' 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be in attendance at this conference; and, had I been left to my own desires I would have preferred that my time be given to President Grant. I appreciate the gospel and the knowledge that has come to me through my ministry, and the privilege I have had of laboring in the ministry, bearing my testimony to the children of men; that the work of God as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith in our day is true. In my travels I have found faith among the children of men, and have become acquainted with many men and women who have obeyed the gospel of 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BEN N ION 151 

Jesus Christ as taught by the elders of the Church who have labored in the Central States mission during my appointment as president of that mission. 

Inasmuch as I have had many hundreds of young men and women laboring under my direction as president of that mission, I have been able to observe that the youth of Zion are growing stronger, and that they are not weaker than they were 20 years ago. I know that the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are growing in faith and that the youth of Zion are not losing their faith, but that they are holding their own, notwithstanding the increased temptations that surround young people, compared with the temptations of 20 years ago. 

Considering the fact that our young men and young women continue to show improvement in faith and in preparedness, is it not evident, then, that the membership of the Church of God in the earth is growing in strength and in power? For if we could notice a decline, it would be undoubtedly because of the training of the youth of Zion, and inasmuch as the youth of Zion do show an increase in faith and in general preparedness for preaching the gospel, we cannot but conclude that the affairs of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are well administered, and that the work of the Lord is growing and increasing in power and in strength in the earth, and that the children who are given to parents in Zion will be able to continue to carry in honor the gospel message to the children of men until the Lord shajl come. 

I know that the Lord lives and that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God and that he received the authority to act in the name of God; that he was divinely appointed and qommissioned to establish the Church, and that the gospel through him might be preached in all the world. I bear testimony that the Priesthood of the Son of God is in the aarth, and that the presiding brethren, with Heber J. Grant at the head, are divinely appointed men to act in the name of God, for the furthering of his work here in the earth. That the Priesthood shall remain in the earth until the Son of man comes to rule and reign; and I bear this testimony in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

President of the Northern States Mission 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ that I have received; of the truth of this great work that has been established in the latter days; and of the divinity of the Prophet Joseph Smith. We often say that we are very grateful for our parentage, and for the blessings that have come to us through that parentage. Sometimes I wonder just what I have received through my parents and grandparents. In thinking over the matter, I feel that I have received one good thing, among the many 

152 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

other blessings, and that is a love for the Prophet Joseph Smith whom God raised up in these latter days to establish his work upon the earth. Grandfather loved Joseph Smith and was willing to give his life for him. He stood by his side. I am grateful for the blessing that lias come to me in the testimony that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God; that I can love him, in a measure at least, in the way that grandfather loved this man of God. I have heard my grandmother, Elizabeth Taylor, testify regarding the Prophet Joseph Smith. I have also heard my wife's grandmother, Rachel Grant, testify of him. I have heard many other men and women who have personally known the prophet testify to the divine calling of Joseph Smith. We are not so very far away from this Prophet of God, and the testimony concerning him is very close to us. It is not necessary to reach back through the ages, or through the thousands of years, to find testimony and to find faith in regard to this great work and this great man, a prophet, raised up in these the latter days. 

I hope that, as members of the Church, we will do our part; that our boys and our girls will accept the testimony of the splendid men and women we have among us, and particularly of those who can testify to the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. May God bless us and help us to live a life of usefulness and of righteousness upon the earth; and show him, by the things that we do, that we truly love him and are willing to give service and perform the labors which God would have us perform upon the earth. I bear testimony as to the truth of this work, and of the divine mission of the Prophet Toseph Smith, and of Jesus Christ the beloved Son of God. 'Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM S. YOUNG 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

These tabloid sermons remind me of a line from Shakespeare: "One woe doth tread upon another's heels, so fast they follow." 

But I will not detain you long, brethren and sisters. I am grateful to have the privilege of representing and making a brief report of the Northwestern States mission. It is a glorious work to which a few selected brethren have been called, and I am very grateful that I have been one of the selected few; not because I merit the distinction, because I have had to rest upon the mercy of God and the kindness of my brethren. It is a wonderful and glorious experience to be associated with your sons and daughters. They are the elect of the earth, and I plead for them that, on their return to their homes, their presidents of stakes, their bishops of wards, will extend to them the hand of helpfulness, that they shall be cared for and provided a place in which they may continue the excellent work they have performed in the mission. They are acquiring such knowledge as does not come to men and women in educational institutions, but I desire to make a plea that we encourage them to greater educational efforts. We are 

ELDER BRIGHAM S. YOUNG 153 

meeting a class of men and women in the world that requires and calls for the very best of intellectual attainment, and the better equipped our boys and girls are to meet these higher intellectuals, the more good they can do. They can reach people whom men and women of less educational attainment cannot successfully reach; and I look forward in hope to the time when young men and women we shall send out into the world will be the peers, educationally, of any other men and women in the world. The destiny of this people and this cause is that it shall be the greatest educational factor in all the world; and to the testimonies that have been borne here this day, and other days, I wish to add mine. Re?son has convinced me; the laws of experience, as they have been and are being applied in human attainment, as well as the authority of the scripture, teach, proclaim and testify to me, that this is the work of God. As the gospel of Jesus Christ has come forth from the crucible it has been adorned and is in the radiance of the divine. God is with good. He is with truth. He is with this people; and if we wish to do our full duty to him, we can best do it by proclaiming to the world in the lives we live that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, to which I testify in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 

President of the Canadian Mission 

I believe that I appreciate, to the fullest, the great responsibility that rests upon one, when one is called upon to bear witness of the gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. I have come to the conclusion that there is no greater work in all this world than to be engaged in proclaiming and teaching the gospel of our Lord and Master to the nations of the earth. I am glad, beyond my power to say, that I have been chosen and sent into the world to be associated with young men and women, in declaring this divine truth to those with whom we come in contact from day to day. I am glad to be a member of this great and mighty Church, and that there is burning within my heart a testimony concerning the divinity of this great latter-day work. 

In the country in which it has been my privilege to labor, there are some of the finest people with whom one would care to meet. They are, as a rule, intelligent and law-abiding people. They are people who know the value of law, in that they execute it to bring about better order for all those who reside within their borders. As an example : the other day, while riding in one of the street cars of the city of Toronto, there hung from the roof of the car this sign, "The Toronto Traction Company, since September 1, 1921, has traveled one hundred twenty-two million miles; these cars have carried one billion two hundred twenty-five million people, and during that length of time there has not been one fatal accident." I make mention of this for the simple reason, to bring out the fact, that they do business on a conservative basis, and that there is cooperation on the part of all, in protecting the population of the country. This conservatism is shown, 

154  GENERAL CONFERENCE 

not only in their business life, but also in their social and spiritual life. 

My brethren and sisters, to me this latter-day work is worth my life. In the silent hours of my life, when I have the opportunity, and that is often, I reflect upon that great vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he saw God, the eternal Father, and his Son Jesus Christ and heard the voice of God introducing his Son. I think that is one of the greatest events in the history of human life. Indeed, there is no other event recorded, that equals it. It is true that we read in the scriptures that Stephen saw the Son of God sitting on the right hand of God; but nowhere do we find that both God the Father and the Son have appeared at the same) time to mortal man. This event, wherein God introduced his Son to this young prophet, clearly indicates the character and magnitude of this great latter-day woik. Indeed it was so important that it required the introduction of it into the world in this great and last dispensation by both the Father and the Son. I thank God, my eternal Father, that I have been counted worthy to bear this testimony, not only upon his occasion, but upon the many occasions that have come to me during my life. May God bless us to the extent that we may appreciate more fully, our relationship to him, and praise him for the testimonies that all of us enjoy, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN G. ALLRED 

President of the Northcentml States Mission 

One of the ancient prophets who had his mind centered upon this great latter-day work used words somewhat like these : 

"Stay yourselves, and wonder; cry ye out, and cry: they are drunken, but not with wine; they stagger, but not with strong drink. 

"For the Lord hath poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep, and hath closed your eyes : the prophets and, your rulers, the seers hath he covered. 

"And the vision of all is become unto you as the words of a book that is sealed, which men deliver to one fthat is learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee: and he saith, I cannot; for it is sealed: 

"And the book is delivered to him that is not learned, saying, Read this I pray thee; and he saith, I am not learned. 

"Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men: 

"Therefore, behold I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people." 

Not long ago a letter fell into my hands that was written in this city, in the year 1876. That letter, written by one of our enemies, said: 

"Brigham Young is fast trotting toward the grave, and in a short time he will be laid beneath the sod and with him will come the death of 'Mormonism.' " 

The following year, 1877, Brigham Young died, but "Mormonism" 

ELDER JOHN G. ALLRED 155 

did not die, and our answer to the world is : "Mormonism" will never die, for it is the work of God, and will be consummated in the coming of Jesus Christ the Lord, who shall come to reign as Lord of lords and King of kings. The young men of Israel are today filled with the same faith that filled the breasts of their fathers, who adopted this work and who have so successfully carried it on; and it will never wane for the lack of faith on the part of the young men and women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I bear witness to you today that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God and that he has been followed by men who are his legal successors, endowed with the keys of the Priesthood of God, with the authority to speak today, not a thousands years ago, but now. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, that power is in the earth today, in these valleys of the mountains, in the Church of God, as it was established, and I bear witness to these truths, testifying that I know as I know that I live, that this work is of God, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER KENNETH HAYMORE 

Acting President of the Mexican Mission 

I am very pleased to be here this afternoon, my brethren and sisters, to give a brief report of the work of the Mexican mission. 1 know that the work we are doing in Mexico is indeed the work of the Lord, and that it is not the work of any man. The missionaries, numbering seventy-four or seventy-five, are doing a splendid work there. They are taking the gospel to the descendants of a people who formerly had a thorough knowledge of the gospel. It has already been stated here this afternoon that the people of this continent, the natives of the continent, at one time enjoyed the knowledge of the gospel, but just as an apostasy was brought about on the other continent, so also there was an apostasy upon this continent; but now, thanks to our heavenly Father, he has restored his gospel to the earth. These people are receiving again its teachings, they are coming into a knowledge of their fathers, and are learning that they are indeed of the blood of Israel. They are learning the laws and ordinances of the gospel, and I am happy to say that some of them, at least, are accepting the gospel, and are showing by their lives that they know that they indeed have the truth. We are having success in Mexico in spite of a few disadvantages. We hope that within a short time our missionaries may labor in that country unhindered. In the United States we also have a work going on among the Mexican people with great success. 

I shall not attempt to give any further report, but I do wish to testify that the missionaries are working hard; that they are happy, and that they are safe. I don't believe that they are in any danger in Mexico. They are treated courteously in all cases. I 

156 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

testify to you this afternoon that, I know that this is not the work of any man. I know it is not the work of President Grant, nor is it the work of President Pratt, with reference to the Mexican mission, but that it is indeed the work of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. This is my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

My brethren and sisters: The significant and reassuring fact about this conference is that we are growing in a testimony of the truth of the work of almighty God. There is something substantial and unimpeachable about these meetings, for they indicate that we as a people are growingjn grace and spiritual power, and that some day we will emerge into our highest selves, and vindicate by our spiritual lives the supreme ideals for which we stand. We appreciate the fact that we are citizens of the United States. This government under which we live was brought into being by the highest concepts of the finest types of men. When Christopher Columbus landed on American soil in October, 1892, he uttered a prayer which is significant and prophetic. From the Latin I give it to you in translation : 

"O, Lord God, eternal and omnipotent, by thy sacred word, the heaven, the earth, and the sea, thou hast created. Blessed and glorified be thy name, praise be thy majesty, which has been made worthy through thy humble servant, that thy sacred name be recognized and proclaimed in this other part of the world." 

We are told in a book of holy scriptures, namely, the Book of Mormon, that a man, chosen from among the Gentiles should discover this continent and the remnant of the people of Israel. This was Christopher Columbus, and we are further told that others would follow him, and that this land should be dedicated to the highest principles of liberty. When the Pilgrim Fathers landed on Plymouth Rock they drew up a compact which was fundamental to the Constitution of the United States. This compact in part reads : 

"In ye name of God, Amen. We whose names are written, the loyall subjects of our dread soveraigne Lord, King lames, by ye grace of God, of Great Britaine, France, & Ireland, King, defender of ye faith, &c, haveing undertaken, for ye glorie of God, and advancements of ye Christian faith, and honour of our king & countrie, a voyage to plant ye first colonie in ye Northerne parts of Viriginia, d,oe by these presents solemnly & mutualy, in ye presence of God, and one of another, covenant & combine ourselves together into a civil body politick, for our better ordering & preservation & furtherance of ye ends aforesaid : and by vertue hereof 'oenacte, constitute, and frame such just & equall lawes, ordinances, actes, constitutions, & offices, from time to time, as shall be thought most meete. * * * " 

We Latter-day Saints believe in the sacredness of the Mayflower compact, and we hold very reverently in our hearts the Constitution of the United States. This document is the greatest expression of 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 157 

government that has come forth in all history, and its principles, if lived up to, will change the political and civic life of the world. The beautiful thing about the American government is that it is an expression of the lives of the people, and if the people live magnanimous and Christian-like lives, so will our Government become greater and greater. There are problems today to be solved, and I consider that the greatest ills of society are: first, the unprecedented challenge of authority and disrespect for law; secondly, hatred between man and man; and thirdly, the excessive search for pleasure as the aim of life. I believe that we people should be the greatest lovers of the law of any people living, for just law expresses our ideals and concepts of life. We should dedicate our lives to the highest political and civic truths and we should grow in the abiding thought that man is made in the image of God; that the Christian virtues are the highest codes of ethics; and that immortality and the establishment of God's kingdom on the earth are illuminated because of the restored Priesthood which we hold. With such ideals we will be able to contribute more to the solution of the problems of the world than any other people. I pray that we may not only see the problems of human society that lie before us, but that we will be able to meet them with a potency that comes as a result of the deepest faith in almighty God and his purposes. May we not sing: 

"Higher yet and higher, Out of clouds in night, Nearer yet and nearer, Rising to the light." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and the General Officers of the Church as follows, being sustained in their offices and callings by the unanimous vote of the conference : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

158 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PKESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. MicMurrin Rey L. Pratt 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Tenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney Adam S. Bennion 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS 

Adam S. Bennion 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John C. Cutler 

Peter G. Johnston 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Tracy Y. Cannon Frank W. Asper 

George C. Smith, Secretary 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 159 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Clarissa S. Williams, President Jennie B. Knight, First Counselor Louise Y. Robison, Second Counselor % 

with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Gen'l Supt. George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Gen'l Supt. with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Supt. Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Supt. with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Martha H. Tingey, President Ruth May Fox, First Counselor Lucy Grant Cannon, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, President Sadie G. Pack, First Counselor Isabelle S. Ross, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Brother Junius F. Wells has handed to me the following memorandum that I feel sure will be of interest : 

PRESIDING AUTHORITIES 

"There have been sustained since the Church was organized, seven presidents, 19 counselors in the First Presidency, 54 apostles, 5 presiding 

160 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

patriarchs, 34 of the First Council of Seventy, and 14 of the Presiding Bishopric. A total of 133 besides the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon." 

A FEW WORDS ON DEBT 

Apropos of my remarks to the effect that we should not run in debt or mortgage our future, I will read a poem that has been handed to me, written by Stoddard King: 

SAID THE PIEMAN 

A study of pie salesmanship will be made by the National Pie Bakers Association. — News item. 

"The story of Simon called Simple 

Is one everybody has read; It is sweet, it is sad,, and it tells of a lad 

Who wasn't quite right in the head. When he sought to buy pie of the pieman, 

Poor Simon was hopeful but rash, For he childishly thought that a pie could be bought 

Without any transfer of cash. 

"But we mustn't speak harshly of Simon, 

Who was simply ahead of his time —  Today he could buy a whole carload of pie 

By merely investing a dime. The up-to-date salesman would land him —  

Or, rather more likely, his wife —  By letting him pay a few cents right away 

And installments the rest of his life. 

"It's the way they sell pins and pianos, 

And paintings, potatoes and pants — For a few dollars down you can buy the whole town — . 

As a prospect you haven't a chance. The fact that you're broke doesn't matter, 

Your only escape is to die — And as long as they take all the money you make, 

You might as well spend it for pie!" 

U. S. COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

I am pleased to state that sitting on the stand Sunday, at the opening session of our conference, was the Commissioner of Education of the United States of America, Honorable John J. Tigert, and he expressed himself as very well pleased with our wonderful gathering. 

PASSING OF PRESIDENT THOMAS P. COTTAM 

Since our last conference one of the most faithful and diligent of all workers in the Church, for many years a counselor in the presidency of the St. George stake, and subsequently the president of the St. George temple, Brother Thomas P. Cottam, has passed away. He was one of the noblemen of the earth, one of the most faithful, loyal, true, upright Latter-day Saints that it has ever fallen to my lot to know. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 161 

EVANGELINE BOOTH ON PROHIBITION 

I had intended to read something here from Evangeline Booth, Commander of the Salvation Army in this country, but, like the congressmen, I will beg leave to have it put in my speech when it is printed in the Conference Pamphlet, or when it appears in the Deseret News. It was published in the Literary Digest of March 20, 1926: 

"Park benches are emptied of their drunken derelicts, and the men who used to make their wives and children the victims of their thirst and besotted rage have sobered up and returned to work to feed their families. And that one fact, believes Evangeline Booth, Commander of the Salvation Army in the United States, is the most convincing argument in favor of prohibition and against the return of the saloon. She is sure, however, that the Eighteenth Amendment is so firmly entrenched in public favor that it will never be repealed, and equally sure that it can be enforced. Such drinking as is indulged in now, she asserts, is a fad of the idle rich which will die out, or else society — society, that is, with the big 'S'— will be turned upside down and furnish rum wastrels for the Salvation Army to salvage. Miss Booth's utterance is no careless statement of fact and possibility, for there is no more seasoned worker among the submerged tenth than she, none among the world's greatest moral clean-up organizations more familiar with the sodden aspects of drunkenness and debauchery and their devastating influence on the home. It was while convalescing from an attack of appendicitis that she issued her statement on prohibition, which is quoted in part by the New York Times as follows : 

" After all these years of hard fighting to protect the home, emancipate the neglected children and wipe from our national escutcheon the disgrace of the evils arising from drink, it is good to find that the people of America have come to a correct judgment concerning the drink evil. It is unthinkable that the country will ever return to the deadly saloon system and a resumption of liquor vending. 

" 'Surely it will be conceded that the Salvation Army knows something about the evils of strong drink. From the day my father founded the organization in England to combat the degradation and vice that are inevitable consequences of liquor drinking, the Salvation Army has held rigidly to its purpose, and feels that it had a great deal to do with the enactment of prohibition in America. 

" 'It is an illogical thing to say that because a new law has not worked like magic it is best to cast it aside and return to the original state of vice which, because of its awfulness, prompted the enactment of that law. Such a thing would make civilization march backward. It is rather the duty of the citizen, the State and the Government to find ways ana means to make the law work out its unquestioned benefits to humanity. It can be done. It is being done. 

" 'Enemies of the Volstead Law waste their time when they try to tell organizations like the Salvation Army that national prohibition will not work. Vast changes have come about, and to undo them would be to strike a blow at every fireside and every industry in this country. . 

" 'Why try to tell the Salvation Army that the park benches are crowded with drunken men, as they were before prohibition when we used to gather them in on Thanksgiving Day, for example, and fight to salvage them? They are gone. The benches still remain, but the occupants are not drunk any more; they are climbing upward to better things while the public rushes by all unheeding. Why try to tell us that workingmen spend their wages before their families can get the money for food, and that men beat their wives and children as in the old days ? It simply is not the case. 

" 'If the idle rich persist in making a sport of the prohibition law, the day 

162 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

may come when the boulevardiers, vastly in the minority, will have to be salvaged out of their attractive places for secret drinking and rescued, if possible, by the Salvation Army, just as the poor saloon victim used to be. In that event the sober and progressive working classes will automatically become the aristocrats, and society, so-called, will be turned upside down in its system of organization. 

" 'In other words, drinking and flouting the prohibition law are a fad and will die out' " 

In testimony of Miss Booth's experience and of her fitness to pass judgment on prohibition, Arthur J. Davis, State Superintendent of the Anti-Saloon League of New York, says, as he is quoted in the same paper : 

"She led her band of Salvationists against the drink evil in the United States and consistently opposed the saloon while she salvaged its wrecks and bound up the wounds of its victims. Evangeline Booth has been knocked down by drunkards and so badly injured that she spent months in hospitals. In the early days of her work in New York slums Salvationists were murdered by drunkards. She, therefore, knows what she is talking about when she attacks the illegal liquor traffic and upholds prohibition. For seventy years her organization has fought the saloon and she knows the advantages of its banishment." 

A study was made in Munich by a professor in which it was discovered that in that great beer-drinking city seventy-two out of every one hundred babies that were born there were unsound. The same professor visited prohibition Maine and found that 71.5 per cent of the babies there were born sound. There have been born to me twelve babies and forty-four grandchildren, all of whom were sound, and I am convinced that among the Latter-day Saints who are observing the Word of Wisdom not more than one to two per cent of the babies are born unsound. And yet, I quoted from an article published in one of our local newspapers that if any woman believed that tobacco would injure her child she would not be guilty of using it. 

ON MOVING FROM PLACE TO PLACE 

I would like to appeal to the Latter-day Saints who are thinking of moving from one place to another, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south (I believe that four hundred miles north of Lethbridge is the farthest north, or the closest to the north pole, any Latter-day Saint has gone), that before moving they do some consulting with or writing to the presidents of stakes and others in the section where they contemplate going, and ascertain if they can identify themselves with some of the regular organizations of the Church; instead of going beyond the bounds of the Church, and then writing and asking us to please send some missionaries to hunt them up; that they really do belong to the Church, but that they have gotten so far away everybody seems to have forgotten them. Move where you cannot be forgotten and where there is an organized stake or ward of the Church. There is plenty of opportunity in the organized stakes of Zion for those who want to change their location here in Utah and in Idaho and in Canada. 

CHURCH AUTHORITIES 163 

ON SMOKING CIGARETTES 

There are two items which I had intended to quote here this afternoon, but I shall not do so; instead, as before stated, I will adopt the system of the congressmen, and beg leave to print. 

I quote a statement which profoundly impressed me, from Mr. Henry Ford's pamphlet: 

" 'Several of my young acquaintances are in their graves who gave promise of making happy and useful citizens,' declares Luther Burbank, the wizard of the plant and vegetable kingdom whose experiments have caused the civilized world to wonder, and whose experiments have benefited the civilized world by millions upon millions, in increase of prosperity, by the increase in the various things that he has done in improvement in flowers and in seeds and in fruits and in the redemption of the cactus in Arizona, taking the thorns; he is in very deed the wizard of the agricultural world and one of the benefactors of mankind. He says : 'And there is no question whatever that cigarettes alone were the cause of their destruction.' No boy living would commence the use of cigarettes if he knew what a useless, soulless, worthless thing they wouid make of him." 

I quote from David Starr Jordan, President Emeritus of the Stanford University: 

"The boy who smokes cigarettes need not be anxious about his future. He has none." 

BENEDICTION ' 

I rejoice beyond measure in the rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord during our conference, from the first session until the present time; and, insofar as God has endowed me with ability and power and his Priesthood, I bless the people. I bless each and every soul who has taken part in this conference, in singing, in praying and in speaking, and I bear witness to you that they have spoken under the inspiration of the living God, and that they are entitled to the blessings of God. I bless the people of the Latter-day Saints who have come here and listened so patiently and in such great numbers' to the testimonies which have been borne. May God's choicest blessings attend all Israel, and the honest the world over, and I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "For the strength of the hills we bless thee;" and the benediction was pronounced by Fred A. Caine, president of the Idaho Falls stake of Zion. 

The conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing, assisted by B. Cecil Gates; accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Edward P. Kimball, Tracy Y. Cannon, Alexander Schreiner and Frank W. Asper. Stenographic reports were made in the Tabernacle by Frank W. Otterstrom, assisted by Joseph Anderson; in the Assembly Hall by Frederick G. Barker. 

edward h. Anderson, Clerk of Conference. 

INDEX 

Authorities Present 1 

Allred, Elder John G 154 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 150 

Bluth, Elder John V 63 

Callis, Elder Charles A 135 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 90 

Clawson, President Rudger 139 

We Are Decidedly a Christian Church, 139 — Our Standard Texts, 139— The Holy Bible, 139— The Book of Mormon, 140— The Doctrine and Covenants, 141 — How the Book of Mormon Bears on the Subject, 142. 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Cause For Rejoicing, 2 — Changes in Officers and Church Statistics, 3 — Obedience to Law, 4 — Lincoln on the Subject, 5 — Theodore Roosevelt, 5 — The .Word of Wisdom a Revelation to the Saints, 5 — On Women and Smoking, 6 — Comments on Sustaining the Law, 7 — Latter-day Saints Warned Against Debt and Wealth, 7 — Avoid Serving the God of Fashion, 8 — Promise of God to Observers of the Word of Wisdom, 8 — The Support of Home Institutions, 9 — Appeal to Farmers on the Sugar Industry, 9 — What the Church Requests as to Card Playing, 10 — Sustain the Deseret News, 10 — Authorities Absent From Conference, 11 — Calls For Missionaries, 12 — An Easter Greeting, 12. 

Grant, President Heber J 44 

Grant, President Heber J 96 

Grant, President Heber J 118 

Grant, President Heber J 136 

Grant, President Heber J 138 

Grant, President Heber J 147 

Grant, President Heber J 150 

Grant, President Heber J 157 

General Authorities Sustained, 157 — Presiding Authorities, 159 — A Few Words On Debt, 160 — U. S. Commissioner of Education, 160 — Passing of President Thomas P. Cottam, 160 — Evangeline Booth on Prohibition, 161 — Moving From Place to Place, 162 — On Smoking Cigarettes, 163 — Benediction, 163. 

Hansen, Elder John S Ill 

Hart, Elder Charles H 131 

Haymore, Elder Kenneth 155 

Hinckley, Elder Alonzo A 96 

Hyde, Elder Charles S 122 

Ivie, Elder Lloyd 94 

Ivins, President Anthony W 14 

The Advice of Gamaliel, 14 — Norway Decides the "Mormons" are not Christians, 15 — A Convention of Churches in this Land Declares Us Un-Christian, 15 — Both Declarations Inexcusable and Untrue, 

166 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

16 — -What Constitutes a Christian, 16 — The Answer Given in the Words of our Lord and His Disciples, 17 — The Christian Church Defined, 18 — Calamities That Followed, 19 — The Reason For Apostasy and Calamities, 19 — Why the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is a Christian Church, 20 — Brief Story of the Founding of the Church, 20 — The Church Not a Faction, But the Restored Church of Christ, 21— We Do Not Believe It, Say Objectors, 21— We Bear Witness of the Restoration, 22— What We Believe, 23 — But What About The Book of Mormon, Say Objectors, 23— All the "Mormons" Ask Is Permission to Believe as They Choose, 23. 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 45 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 58 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 100 

The Ancient Prophet's Specification, 100 — A Few Events Showing Joseph Smith Divinely Guided, 100 — Temple Building, 100 — In Independence, 101, — In Far West, 101 — In Illinois, 102 — The Historic Journey, 103 — The Temple in Salt Lake City, 104— The Specifications of the Ancient Prophet Fulfilled, 104. 

McKay, Elder David 36 

The Greatest of all Miracles, 36 — The Reality of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ, 37 — Witnesses to the Resurrection, 38: — The Great and Comforting Message, 38 — A Latter-day Witness, 39 — Other Corroborative Witnesses, 39 — Where the L. D. S. Church Stands on the Question, 39 — An Appeal to the Youth of the Church, 39. 

McKay, Elder Thomas E 71 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 85 

Murdock, Elder Joseph R 48 

Nibley, President Charles W 24 

Christ's Resurrection, 24 — Double Assurance of the Risen Lord, 25 — Principles and Doctrines the Same as Christ Taught, 25 — The Same Doctrine, 26— The Work Is Done Without Pay, 26— The Most Important Thing For the World to Know, 27 — The Church Built Upon The Rock of Revelation, 27 — For a testimony, Go to the Lord, 28 — The Spirit of Sacrifice is the Spirit of this Work, 29 — The Spirit of Sacrifice, 30— May the Lord Glorify His Work, 30. 

Peterson, Elder Albert R 115 

Peterson, Elder Hugo D. E 105 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr 153 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 81 

The Priesthocd and the Home Outstanding Essentials, 81 — The Priesthood an Agency of Service to Mankind, 81 — Priesthood to be Used in the Administration of Home, 82 — No Organization a Substitute for Home, 82. 

Richards, Elder George F 147 

Prayer is of Great Benefit, 147 — The Spirit of God, the Soul of the Church, 147 — The Spirit Comes to Those Who Are Willing, 148 — Praise the Lord in Prayer for Opportunity and Blessings, 149 — Other Ways Than Prayer to Manifest Appreciation, 149 — Testimony, 150. 

Richards, Elder Wm. H 67 

Robinson, Elder James H 47 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 40 

Christ the First Fruits of the Resurrection, 40 — Why the ResurrecINDEX 167 

tion, 41 — Existence in Mortality Most Important, 42 — Man's Resurrection Assured, 43. 

Smith, Elder George Albert 143 

A Marvelous Age, 143— The Wisdom of Man Taught, 143 — Additional Light and Truth to be Taught, 144 — Parents to Teach Children the Things of God, 145 — The Duty We Owe to our Children, 146. 

Smith, Elder Elias A 57 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 83 

Smith, Elder David A 126 

Taylor, Elder John H 151 

Timbimboo, Yeagah (Lamanite) 137 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 73 

Wells, Elder John .119 

White, Elder Joseph B 70 

Whitney, Elder Orson F 30 

Fundamentalists vs. Modernists, 31 — Natural Supernaturalism, 32 — Miracles, The Fruits of Faith, 32 — When Morning Stars Sang Together, 33 — Abraham and Pre-Existence, 33 — Bishop Spalding and the Speaker, 33 — A Grammatical Error, 34— The Creation Two-Fold, 35 — Purposes of Earth Life, 35 — Carlyle Answered, 36. 

Widtsoe, Elder John A. 107 

Importance of the Body, d08 — A Strong Body Permits Spiritual Strength, 108— Two Laws of Health, 108— The Word of Wisdom a Binding Law, 109 — The Warning of the Word of Wisdom, 109 — What to Eat, 110 — Modern Knowledge Conforms to the Word of Wisdom, 110 — We Should Use All Knowledge, 111 — An Example of the Importance of Correct Foods, 111 — Conclusion, 111. 

Young, Elder Newell K 53 

Young, Elder Brigham S 152 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 156 



WHENCE THIS GOSPEL WE TEACH? Read: 

"Restoration of the Gospel 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE 

"This book prepared by Elder Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, dealing with the important subject of the Restoration of the everlasting Gospel, should be read and its contents carefully considered by those who are seeking after truth. It treats the Restoration clearly, and places before the people many things that have not been generally considered heretofore. It will be a means of strengthening the faith of the youth of Israel and will impart information that is invaluable. May the spirit of truth accompany the work and rest upon all those who diligently read it with a desire to learn of and profit by the Restoration of the 

Gospel!" 

Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 

PRICE $1.00 POSTPAID 

MiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiimiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiii iiiiimiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

A HELPFUL BOOK IN THESE TIMES OF CONTROVERSY 

Science and Belief in God 

By FREDERICK J, PACK 

A discussion of Certain Phases of Science and Their Bearing Upon Belief in the Supreme Being. 

$2.50 POSTPAID 

iiiiiituiiirtiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiMitiMiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiitiutiiiiMr l in n t limn n intiiiiii iiiitjiuiiiiiiiii 

Articles of Faith 

By JAMES E. TALMAGE 

A consideration of the principal doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

This book will be helpful to all who desire a clear and concrete |: exposition of the beliefs and attitudes of the Mormons. 

Deseret Book Company 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 

uu i » i »n»nm»»»t»»»»»»» ii » i i i i»»»» i »» > »»»»:»»»»»»»»»»»»ni»»»» m»m 



Discourses of Brigham Young 

This Great Book Should be in Every Home Library 

No Latter-day Saint home library is complete without the unique volume, "Discourses of Brigham Young." Thousands still living were thrilled with the inspired wisdom of the great colonizer. They heard the words fall from his lips that were a comfort and a guide to them in their daily living. 

Those same words, now in print, can help and inspire the new generations. The youth should be encouraged to read this great book. It will help them to know Brigham Young as they have never known him before. They can appraise his doctrine, not by tradition or garbled account, but by the perusal of sermons accurately transcribed. 

"Discourses of Brigham Young" will be sent to any address for $2.50 postpaid. Special price to members of Priesthood Quorums — $2.00 postpaid. Orders will be filled mail C. O. D. at $2.00 each, if desired. 

ItlllllllllllllllltllllMUIIIIIIflllllllllllllllllllllltllltllllllllltllllltillllltlllllltlllllltlllllUiilllllillHIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllltllllllllllllllinilfllll 

WHAT DID JOSEPH SMITH KNOW ABOUT SCIENCE? Read: 

Joseph Smith as Scientis 

By JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

"In the life of every person, who receives a higher education, in or out of schools, there is a time when there seems to be opposition between science and religion; between man-made and God-made knowledge. The struggle for reconciliation between the contending forces is not an easy one. It cuts deep into the soul and usually leaves scars that ache while life endures. There are thousands of young people in the Church today, and hundreds of thousands throughout the world, who are struggling to set themselves right with the God above and the world about them. It is for these young people, primarily, that this book has been written." 

Deseret Book Company 

The Home of Worth While Books 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 







