10
Afternoon
06 04 1901
Elder George Teasdale
43
34-38

None

None

The world seems to prefer falsehood to truth — The testimony of Jesus — Necessity for moral courage — The law of tithing — The Saints a loyal people. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly at this Conference in the testimony of my brethren, and I have thought, What are the people of the world thinking of? Have they eyes, but see not; ears, but hear not; and hearts, but understand not? I wonder why it is that the inhabitants of the earth prefer falsehood to light and truth. I remember that, in England, they had a play at one of the theaters, called "The Danites" — a most infamous thing, calculated to prejudice the minds of the people against the unpopular Latter-day Saints. I noticed the other day that in the refined, aristocratic city of Boston they are enjoying a play termed "The Mormon Wife." Is anybody justified in rejecting the truth because of the scandals circulated against the Latter-day Saints? I understand that all men and women are their own agents; and I do not know a worse degree of slavery than to be afraid to think for yourself and speak what you believe. I wonder how many of this congregation would be present today if the Latter-day Saints had been moral cowards. But they are men and women who desire to think for themselves. Many were raised in the pop religions of the day, and came out of them and took up the cross of Christ, by obeying the doctrine of Christ as taught in His Church. They turned from the worship of the unknown God to the worship of the true and living God. They acknowledged the atonement of Christ, repented of their sins, were buried with Christ in baptism, thereby obtaining the efficacy of the sanctifying power of the precious blood of Christ, and received the Holy Ghost, through the laying on of hands. 

Every Conference where the Twelve Apostles have been they have borne their testimony that they know Joseph Smith was a true Prophet sent of God. How do they know it? Because they have accepted the doctrine of the Savior, taught by His authority. We bear testimony that the authority of God is restored to the earth. The Priesthood of Melchisedek, after the order of the Son of God, and the Priesthood after the order of Aaron have been restored; and the Gospel is being preached in all the world for a witness, by divine authority. The word of the Lord is unto all people, Repent and be baptized, and obey the Gospel, worship the living and the true God, and you shall have a living witness that He lives, and that Jesus is the Christ. That was the message which came unto me years ago. I accepted it. I sought the Lord, and He answered me; and from the day I obeyed this Gospel down to the present time I have had a living witness concerning the truth of this work. 

Now, what is the use of being an idolater? What is the use of being led by priestcraft and false tradition? What will be the outcome of all such, when men have the opportunity to obey the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, to become the children of the Father by adoption, and to be taught of Him? Our beloved brother, John W. Taylor, this morning spoke of the necessity of revelation. Why, "the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God." "Neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal Him." "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ," said the ancient Apostle, "for it is the power of God unto salvation. * * For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith." If it were essential for Peter to have a revelation from Almighty God to know that Jesus was the Christ, is it not essential that every man and woman should have the same opportunity, we all being the children of God, and He being no respecter of persons? I often wonder what excuse men and women will give the Almighty when they pass behind the vail, who have lived in the midst of the Latter-day Saints, who have heard the doctrine of Christ as taught by the Latter-day Saints, and have seen the temples of God, in which the ordinances of the Gospel are performed for the living and the dead by the authority of God and the power of an everlasting priesthood. My friends, what excuse are you going to give to the Almighty? His ears are open to your cry, as they have been to ours, if you are honest and desire to know the truth. The Lord has said, Look unto me. What is to hinder you from doing so? "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." Is it possible that you have no faith in the living and true God, your Creator, and in the principle of revelation? If so, it is a bad condition to be in. That is my private opinion, publicly expressed. I am afraid it is like I once heard a gentleman say in Virginia. We had been preaching the Gospel and bearing a faithful testimony to the people, under the power and influence of the Holy Spirit; and at the close a gentleman said, "There is no doubt that these men have the scriptures on their side, but it would never do to belong to them, for they are so dreadfully unpopular." But what excuse will you give to the Lord for not receiving the message of the Gospel that we declare unto you? Will you say that you were moral cowards? 

We want no cowards in our band 
Who will their colors fly; 
We call for valiant-hearted men, 
Who are not afraid to die. 

Do you not sing that? Are they not your sentiments? If not, how came you to be Latter-day Saints? When I heard this Gospel it was threatenings, threatenings all the time. I was told what calamities would come upon me, and maybe death, if I associated with these unpopular people. Thank God for the courage He gave me to embrace the Gospel, contrary to the counsel of all my friends! Why, our Master was unpopular. He was an innovator, because He told the truth; and we are innovators, because we tell the truth. Our testimony is true, and those who accept the Gospel at our hands bear witness that it is true, because they receive the recompense of reward. No man ever embraced the Gospel of Christ with a broken heart and contrite spirit, and lived its principles, who was disappointed or found fault with it; but the closer he lived to its principles the more of the power of God he had. 

Now, our beloved brother, George Q. Cannon, is lying sick unto death perhaps. He is an object lesson to the nations. He has traveled extensively. He took these glad tidings of great joy to the house of Israel in the Sandwich Islands. He went down "below all things." Then he has represented the people in the halls of Congress. And no man or woman could ever say of George Q. Cannon that he was anything but a gentleman. Take all our leaders — President Joseph Smith. President Brigham Young, President John Taylor, President Wilford Woodruff, President Lorenzo Snow — and they are the highest type of intelligence; men who have known no fear. God has given them a testimony, and that testimony is before the world. Because the people are unpopular is no excuse for not embracing the Gospel. The Lord Jesus Christ said, "In me ye shall have peace; but in the world, tribulation." We have had plenty of tribulation; but the Lord has sustained us through it all the time. I know He has sustained me in my weakness, and has made me strong when I have been weak. He has come to my aid and enabled me to discharge my duty. So with my brethren. I remember, in 1868, when I was called upon a mission to the British Isles, I had an impression that I would never return. I remember speaking to President Heber C. Kimball. He made some remark to me, and said, “Boy, do you hear that?" I said, "Yes, sir." "Well," he said, " I want you to remember it, for you will not see me again." That confirmed the impression I had, (I never thought of him dying), and the agony I passed through when I left my wife and three children to go on that mission, no man knows, except he has gone through it himself; but by the grace of God I was enabled to say, "It does not matter to me whether I ever come back or not; the Lord has called me on this mission, and by His grace I am going to fulfill it." I never could have done it only by the grace of God, and to Him be all the glory. In other circumstances and at other times, when my life has been in danger, He has sustained me so that I did not flinch. Glory be to Him, not to His weak, unworthy servant! 

These are evidences to me that it is the Lord's work, and no man-made system. It is the "Marvelous work and a wonder" that is being performed by our Father in heaven. All glory to His holy name that we have the privilege of being associated with it! I am thankful beyond expression. Our leaders are just men, upright and honest men. They are devoted to the establishment of the righteousness of God upon the earth. They are natural gentlemen and gentlewomen, who have the spirit of this work, and who labor for the accomplishment of the purposes of the Almighty, that His righteousness may be established upon the earth. O my beloved brethren and sisters, how much we owe to our Father in heaven, that in our lowly condition He brought us to these glorious vales of the mountains, as predicted by the Psalmist: 

"O that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! 

"Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom He hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy; 

"And gathered them out of the lands from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south." 

Just think of it! that we should live to fulfil that, and to be associated with this "marvelous work and a wonder." Then there are so many opportunities given unto us to assist in this work. There is plenty of room for all, male and female, who desire to labor for the glory of God. But the Lord has said that those who assist in this work should be full of love, having faith, hope and charity, being temperate in all things, trusting in the Lord, and doing good. 

I have noticed that since we have been more faithful in the payment of our tithes and offerings the Spirit of the Lord has increased in the hearts of the people. This is a very light thing that He requires of us — one in ten. I sometimes ask a little boy, if his father should give him ten apples and then ask for one-tenth to be returned to him, how many would he give. Why one, he says. Then do you mean to tell me that grown people do not know what a tenth means? "Of all that thou shalt give me," said Jacob of old, "I will surely give the tenth unto thee." Are we doing it? If we are not, what is our justification? The Lord requires it of the widow as of the millionaire. He requires of His people one-tenth of all that He blesses them with, and also that they should be considerate to the widow and the fatherless. "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." We have nothing to do with the world, except to preach the Gospel to them. When you desire to pattern after the world and come under their influence and dominion, you are on the wrong side. "Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues." Do we want to be plagued? Do we want to be consumed with the brightness of the coming of the Son of God? The Lord hath said that those who are tithed shall not be burned at His coming. Those that rob Him in tithes and offerings shall become as ashes under his feet. Do you want to be in that condition? 

I would like to encourage all men to be kind to themselves, and to worship the living and true God. Come out of your broken cisterns, that hold no water; cease your idolatrous practices and the worship of an imaginary God, without body, parts or passions; and come to the light of the glorious Gospel of the Son of God. We have done this, and I tell you it is glorious. There is nothing under the heavens more valuable than the fellowship of the Spirit of God. Do you not want it? Humble yourselves before the Lord. "Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness; for they shall be filled." The Lord has made it possible for us to assist in the establishment of His righteousness upon the earth, and to enjoy the pure happiness there is in the practice of righteousness. There is nothing that gives greater happiness than the doing of the will of God. And who is to judge us? Who can tell whether we have these principles or whether we have not? Only those who embrace them; only those who hear the word of God and do it. That is the only way in which you can obtain a testimony. I am frequently asked why it is that tourists and visitors to this city cannot go into the temple of the Lord; for they are so curious to know what is done there. Why, you can all obtain admission into that temple. How? By obeying the Gospel, worshipping the living and true God and being worthy, through keeping His commandments, to enter there. What is it you do there? We perform ordinances for the living and the dead, we learn the ways of the Lord. It is all summed up in the covenant we made when we went down into the waters of baptism, that we would serve God and keep His commandments. That covenant covers all our after life. Then we should be what we profess. I say to our friends, Repent, and obey the Gospel; for Jesus Christ became the author of eternal salvation to all that obey him. It is decreed in the heaven of heavens that you must be born again. You must be born of water and of the Spirit, and you must be adopted into the Church of Christ by His authority. This is not difficult to understand, if you want to understand it. I knew a man who was engaged in the Liverpool office of the Church for twenty or thirty years, but never embraced the Gospel. He would talk about it, but never seemed to sense the necessity of doing the will of the Father. Well, I suppose there are reasons why some people reject the Gospel, and why others accept it. But those who accept it certainly have the advantage, to the glory of God our eternal Father. We love Him. We are not hypocrites. "We do not teach false doctrine. We do not beguile the people. At the same time we sustain our government, though we have been accused of not doing this. I think when a people are willing to give up one of the highest and most holy of their principles at the dictation of the government, it bears a testimony that cannot be impeached. More than that, when the government wanted our boys to help them defend or subdue, they were on hand. We believe in the government; we believe in the Constitution. Our lawyers, if they want to be loyal to God, should stand by that Constitution. Let this be a State that is under the blessing of Cod, and a firm supporter of the Constitution, that we may be an example to all people in justice, truth, righteousness, and the protection of life and property. The Lord did not inspire the fathers that wrote the Constitution for nothing. He knew that He was going to establish His Church upon this land. Had the inhabitants of this land stood by that Constitution, the nation today would be much more prosperous than it is. The Lord has said that those who love Him and keep His commandments shall prosper, and it is the same with nations as with individuals. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I praise the Lord that I have the privilege of being with you, an Elder in the Church, having a living testimony concerning this work. I love my associates. We know the value of President Snow. Ten years he presided over the quorum of Apostles. He schooled us, and made us better men through his glorious administration. If you Latter-day Saints will listen to the voice of the Lord, I will promise you, in the name of my Master, that you shall prosper in the land, your enemies shall never overcome you, and you shall be able to establish the righteousness of God in the earth, to the glory of the Father, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
