14
Morning
07 04 1901
Elder Edward H. Snow
138
50-51

None

None 

My brethern and sisters, I appreciate very much the privilege which President Snow has offorded me of addressing you at this conference for a few moments. I have greatly enjoyed the spirit of the conference, and perhaps can appreciate more than the great majority of you the opportunity of once more associating with Latter-day Saints and partaking of the feeling of fraternity and unity which is so characteristic of the Saints of God wherever they may be. 

I have been reflecting upon the great fundamental truths which Apostle Lyman has just been expounding to the saints. I am afraid that we hear them so often that their true import and great significance to us is somewhat blunted; but I desire to testify, that it is these great truths and a living faith in them that make of Mormonism the great, potent factor which it is in the religious world today. As a silent force the truths of the Gospel are permeating society and finding an abiding place in the hearts of many honest people. The freedom of intelligent obedience to law to order, to progress, is something that is startling to the world; and as they begin to comprehend that we are not a race of slaves, but a free, highminded and noble people, who fear God only and honor the priesthood and those who hold it, their regard for us as a people increases. To my mind, the Latter-day Saints ought to strive for this freedom We ought to live above the law; to enjoy its benefits and blessings, and not be enslaved to any law of the Gospel, but to render to it an intelligent obedience, testing it for ourselves by practicing it; for the day is coming when the civilization of the world, with all its allurements and fascinations, will be upon us, and we must be able to resist it. We must be able to let radiate from our souls the principles of the Gospel, and instead of being overcome, overcome ourselves, and our environments, and be a living well of water, so to speak, springing up unto everlasting life, impressing all those with whom we come in contact that we do verily know, and we are living exponents of, the fundamental truths of the Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Then we will be individually a force for good, and as a unit of the great aggregation composing this Church, will reflect these truths. In this way we will become missionaries in very deed. The Elders of Israel who go forth into the world are, by way of contrast, as a light upon a hill; but when they return the stimulus to action is removed, and they become lost, as it were, in the great body of the Church. Bishops and Presidents of Stakes can do much to alleviate this condition that is so much complained of, if they will keep these young men "in the harness," and let them know that they are not lost sight of, and that their mission is not ended. I desire to testify that the Eastern States mission has produced young men who are capable of good work. There they have been made considerable of; they have been placed in position; and when they return, if their services are not sought after by the local authorities, they sometimes become indifferent, and results that are to be deplored follow. 

I pray God's blessing upon all Israel, and especially upon the youth, that they may not prove a disappointment to their noble sires who have done so much to establish the work and make possible the progress that characterizes the Church today. Amen. 

