20
Overflow
07 04 1901
Elder Elias S. Kimball
280
58

None

None

Brothers and sisters, about the first thing that I want to say is this, that I was startled when Brother Taylor walked down the aisle and called me to the stand. I want to say further that I was obedient to the call and I am now obedient to the voice of Brother Grant, in standing before you to bear my testimony to the truth of this Gospel. I always want to be obedient to the counsel of the servants of the Lord and always to be willing to listen to the voice of the Spirit of God. I want to be humble, I want to be meek, I want to be lowly in heart; and I want to be saved. 

I testify that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, that it has been revealed in the latter-days by God, the Eternal Father, through His Spirit, or directly, to the Prophet Joseph Smith. His Church has been organized with Apostles, prophets, pastors, evangelists, pastors and teachers and with other officers. There are in the Church the gifts and blessings that have been spoken of in the scriptures, and they are true, and calculated for the blessing and salvation of the human family; and I am willing to labor with the rest of the people in making sacrifices that will be necessary for the redemption of the human family. I pray God to bless us and to bless the people, and to make them realize who they are, that they are not what some of us sometimes think we are, "the blue blood." When I think of the origin of our people, think of Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, my father, and all of the early leaders of our people, where they came from, I am led to reflect upon the story related by our Savior in the parable of the great feast. When he sent out his servants to invite the rich and the wealthy to partake of the feast they would not come; but when he sent out his servants again to the highways and byways, then the poor and the unlearned and the lowly among men came and partook of the feast. Our people are of that class. I believe they are from the class of people who are honest and virtuous and who, with all their imperfections, desire to serve God and keep His commandments. 

My heart is full of blessings for our people, I desire to see them prosper and grow and increase in the earth and to be willing to make such sacrifices as will be necessary on their part to build up the kingdom of God and carry the Gospel to the nations of the earth, that the honest in heart among all people may have the same great blessings and privileges that we now enjoy and all that the Lord has in store for His people. I feel to bless you, my brothers and sisters, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
