22
Overflow
07 04 1901
Elder J. Golden Kimball
14
61-62

None

None

You have listened to the testimony and the preaching of the Apostles and Prophets of this Church during this conference; but, as Scripture puts it, “Are all Apostles, are all Prophets, are all Evangelists, Pastors or Teachers?" I bear my testimony that I thank the Lord that, notwithstanding the fact that I recognize that the Apostles have gifts, powers, appointments and labors that it is beyond our prerogatives and rights to infringe upon, I thank God, the Eternal Father, that we have young men, honored of the Lord, that they can preach and testify just as well as Apostles and Prophets. I desire to say to the rising generation, You do not have to be Apostles, you do not have to be Presidents of Stakes, nor Bishops to enjoy the gifts and blessings pertaining to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I say to you that some of you — and I may be among that number—place too much stress upon the positions that men hold in the Church, and we fancy in our weakness that we cannot be saved, that we cannot serve God, that we cannot be faithful and true and enjoy revelation from God, unless we have high office in the Church. There is danger in exalted position, and where "much is given much is required." The poorest man in all Israel, though he may carry a hod and be dressed like a pauper, is entitled to revelation from God, and he is entitled to lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover through the prayer of faith. I realize a great object lesson has been set us by Apostle Grant. I have watched this matter carefully, and I am able to testify that out of it will come great good, that no great advancement has ever taken place except as a result of faithful and persevering effort. I will say that many of the young men that have gone east and spent fortunes to learn to sing came back to this country unappreciated, and some of them would be in penury were it not for their relatives; for our people are not as appreciative as they ought to be, or at least they have not been. I admire our young people that have learned to sing the songs of Zion. I stood on that street in Los Angeles, referred to by Brother Nye, and listened to our young men preach. It was the first time in all my labors I had ever heard an Elder preach upon the streets. And when I asked two Elders why they did not commence, they said, "We are unable to begin our meeting until the other Elders come, for we cannot sing." No meetings can be held in California upon the streets unless the Elders can sing. It is, in fact, the key to the situation. Lots of men can sing that are mighty poor preachers. 

Judgment comes with age, as a rule, not always. We young men that have responsibilities placed upon us oftentimes have a great deal of courage, but may lack judgment. The point I want to get at is this: we must have some very brave and courageous men. Apostle Grant with the assistants that will go with him, may open up a mission in Japan. Some Apostle may be sent to Russia, to open the door in that great nation, and it may be the privilege of some of us to go and get killed after the doors are opened. The Gospel will never be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue and people without lives being lost, nor without your eating "the bread of adversity and drinking the water of affliction." And we may not all be successful, but when a man is willing to lay down his life, and takes his life in his hands and labors for the kingdom of God, he can do no more. He might make mistakes, and he might err in judgment. David, that boy as he was, went out and killed Goliath. If he had not all Israel would have pointed the finger of scorn at David. Dewey succeeded; but had Dewey failed, he would have been in ignominy and disgrace before the American people. So I wonder if it is only the man that succeeds that gets the praise. I have heard or read of a man that went to the World's Parliament of Religions. He did not succeed, because they would not hear him. I read of another man that went to Congress, and it took 7,000,000 signatures to get rid of him. And I tell you that great good will come out of it. I admire courage and bravery as well as judgment and wisdom. We have to have brave men and courageous men, and we young men have to learn, and the only way we can learn is by trying, like Brother Grant. My heart swelled within me when I heard him sing today. My heart swelled with joy when I heard him sing at President Snow's birthday party, for I knew he sang with the Spirit of God; and the Lord will answer his prayers for he has an object in view. And I know what that object is. and it is a righteous object. 

As long as a man has a righteous object he has a right to make an effort; and if he makes any mistakes, it is my duty to reach out to him my hand, even the hand of charity. And if you Latter-day Saints do not do it, and some of us young men fail because of your severe criticisms and your unkind statements, God will hold you responsible. We have seen men handled because they waded into mysteries, and, of course, it was proper and right when they waded into mysteries and preached false doctrines that they should be handled. I can see the righteousness of it, but I wonder if any man has ever been handled in the kingdom of God for not knowing anything. I am in favor of some of them being handled right away. I pray the Lord to bless you. Amen.
