15
Morning
07 04 1901
Elder Louis A. Kelsch 
278
51-52

None

None  

My heart rejoices this morning in having the privilege of standing before you, my brethren and sisters, and bearing testimony of the great work which our Father in heaven has established upon the earth. I thank Him from the bottom of my heart that He has permitted me to be associated with you, and that I have been counted worthy to receive the Gospel of Jesus Christ in these the last days. I thank Him for the Holy Priesthood which He has given unto me, and that I have had the privilege of going forth among the children of men and declaring unto them this great and glorious message which God has again restored to the earth. I thank Him for the knowledge of this work which He has given me; for I can testify unto you truthfully that I do know that this work is of God, and not of man. Every man who has not sinned too much can find out this truth for himself. Our Master, the Savior, has said that he that will do the will of His Father shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or of man. So I can say, my brethren and sisters, that every man and woman can know for themselves in these last days whether Joseph Smith was a Prophet or not. I know that he was from the abundance of evidence and testimonies which I have received during the time of my ministry among the nations of the earth. I rejoice exceedingly in having the privilege of being numbered among the humble servants of God who have been sent forth and are being sent forth to the nations of the earth. I desire to do my duty, to serve God and to keep His commandments all the days of my life; and I can do it with His help. 

I am pleased to report to you that the Northern States mission is in a very prosperous condition at the present time. Your sons who are laboring with us are humble; they are men of God; they are seeking to do His will; their labors are being blessed and made fruitful; and at the present time it looks as if this season will be more prosperous than any other season, notwithstanding the number of the Elders has been greatly reduced. I thank my Heavenly Father that, notwithstanding I have spent a few years in the Northern States mission, I now have the privilege of accompanying my brethren who have been called to Japan. I consider it a great honor. I am by no means tired of the work. I rejoice in it. I want to increase in knowledge and wisdom. All of us should seek for knowledge, and to have it increased within us, that we may be strengthened in our faith and prepared for the great changes that will come upon us. We must learn, my brethren and sisters, to be obedient unto God the Eternal Father and His Son Jesus Christ. We must learn to be one, even as He and the Father are one. Jesus prayed, "Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are." "Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word; that they all may be one." Now, we believe the words of Jesus, and also the words of His Apostles who were with Him in His ministry. We also believe in the words of the servants of God who have been raised up in these last days; for they are just as true and faithful. We are commanded to live by every word that proceedeth from the mouths of the servants of God, and I believe in them. I intend, with the help of the Lord, to keep every commandment which God has given. May the Lord bless us in our endeavors to spread righteousness in the earth, and may we have power to save men and women, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
