12
Second Overflow
04 10 1914
Elder Joseph E. Robinson. 
79
57-59

None

None

(President of California Mission.) 

I bring you greetings, my brethren and sisters and friends, from the California mission, and am happy to tell you that everything is propitious there for the work of the Lord, your fathers and husbands, your sons and brothers are doing good service in the Master's cause.  
  
With the brethren who have preceded me, I appreciate, as I know every Latter-day Saint does, the fact that they are members of the Church of Christ, and citizens of Zion. Our songs and most of the talk this day has been in praise of the fact, or stating the fact, that this is the land of Zion, the land of peace. You who are familiar with holy writ know that this land has been hidden away from the ken of man, a choice and a chosen land for Joseph and his seed, who was separated from his brethren; and that the Gentiles who should come to this land, and acknowledge Christ as king and Lord, should be great in the eyes of the Omnipotent One, and that He would care for them and provide for them. He would fight their battles. All who would come up against Zion, white or black, bond or free, should perish, and those who would seek to set up a kingdom here should have their schemes brought to naught, and should signally fail; even those who should strive from afar to set up kings upon this land should likewise perish. This land, if the testimony of the greatest of our scientists be true, was hoary with age when Egypt was in her swaddling bands: First of the continents to thrust its head above the waters, and first to pierce the sky with its mountains, was this glad land of America.  
  
Just now, almost within the confines of the City of the Angels, in California, is the greatest archaeololical find known to modern times. Bones are being disinterred there that, in the mind of the scientist and paleontologist, have determined the fact that here on this western hemisphere life began, both that of the beast of the field, the fowl of the air and of human kind. Elephants of huge and ponderous size, camels, horses, tigers, lions (greater than any known to modern times, and estimated to be 250,000 years old), the greatest bear known to history, the greatest wolf, the greatest bird of prey, have all been disinterred in the oil pits of Lake La Brea, on the western confines or city limits of Los Angeles. The skeleton of a woman head downward, also supposed to be at least ten thousand years old, was found there. Whether she was thrown headlong into the pit of tar by angry spouse or a disgruntled lover, or whether she fell in while plaiting her hair before the lake as a mirror, is not known. But these things have gone to determine in the minds of men that America was the home of the human race, and the home where God first set His creatures free. From this land, Maya tradition tells us, as told by Le Plongeon, in his "Queen Moo" civilization was taken to Egypt. This was possibly by Egyptus — as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, and the riddle is thus solved where Egypt and Egyptions obtained their civilization, and the wondrous knowledge of astronomy, of surveying, of agriculture, of medicine, etc., it came from America, the land from whence Noah sailed when he with his family embarked in the ark, when the waters of the great deep were broken up and the lands both of the old and the new world, so called, were inundated. This hidden land of Joseph, seen only in transient vision, perchance, sometimes, as by Isaiah, when he looked across the sands of Sahara, beyond the gates of the Mediterranean Sea, and cried out : ''Woe! to the land shadowing with wings, which is beyond the rivers of Ethiopia;" and beheld that there should be gathered the elect of God's people in the last days, that there should His house be set up, and here should men learn of His ways and walk in His paths, as has been stated today, that "the law should go forth of Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." If we needed evidence of the fulfillment of that part of this prophecy, we only need look at what is done today by the great nations striving for supremacy yet appealing to America for recognition, each one pleading to America to acknowledge the integrity and honor of their purpose in war, and to defend them through public opinion. We find again a testimony in the Monroe doctrine, which determined the policy of the states of America, that there should be no intervention come from abroad, that this land in its autonomy and integrity should be preserved by the government of the United States, founded under God and His inspiration for the establishment of liberty and conserving the rights of men, "nobly defended by the blood of our fathers," and prayed for in the revelation prayer given to the Prophet Joseph Smith for the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, that "it should stand for ever."  
  
A vindication of the promise that I quoted from the Book of Mormon relative to kings is found in the history, most melancholy, indeed, of Maximilian, one time a prince of Austria, who sought to set himself up as Emperor of Mexico. You know his sad fate (executed at the hands of the native forces of Mexico) perchance better than you do the fate of his loving and charming wife, Carlotta, who after all her vicissitudes of fortune which vainly seeking to bolster up the kingdom of her husband by European powers, is still an inmate of an insane asylum. Louis Napoleon, who refused to withdraw his troops, when England and Spain did upon the protest of the United States. At that time this country was unable to use its forces against those armies for the reason that we were engaged in a fratricidal war, foretold by the Prophet Joseph Smith many years before it came about, and from which time war should be poured out upon all nations. 'Twas then our country received its baptism of fire. At that time those two nations withdrew their forces. France persisted against our protest. What became of Louis III who sought to establish a king here? He became an exile to England, where he died, and his only son, Prince Bonaparte enlisted in a British regiment was ambushed and killed by the Zulus in South Africa.  
  
Again in the house of Portugal. John VI, went to Rio Janeiro with his court and set up his son as emperor of Brazil, from which country he governed Portugal. In the early part of the 19th century, he returned to Portugal in a mad effort to overcome conditions there and establish his house firmly in that land but died broken-hearted. Dom Pedro, of Brazil, found his reign a tempestuous one, and abdicated in favor of his own son, who afterwards himself was glad to flee the land, when a republic was instituted. Portugal has seen, or we have seen, the fulfillment of God's promises relative to the fate of the house of John — the assassination of Don Carlos and his brother and the exile of his brother, Manuelo, who now is a refugee in England, without a country and without a home that he can claim as his own. The same condition obtained when Antone Creile would have set up a kingdom in Chile, and made his daughter the "richest woman of Europe." Put to death, in an uprising of the denizens of that state, he perished, and his daughter, broken-hearted, withdrew herself from the courts that she had graced with her smiles and her riches, and retired to Copenhagen, and three years ago, died in penury and was buried in the Potter's field. God has kept His promise relative to this land of Zion. And as I recognize that the Lord has kept the other promises He has made, we may read the signs of the times and know that the Lord will fight the battles of this land just so long as the people of this loved country of ours shall acknowledge Christ as Lord and He shall be their king.  
  
It was the note of John Hay, Secretary of State, that determined the outcome of the Russo-Japanese war before it was fought. He declared for the integrity of China and her autonomy, the withdrawal of the Russian forces and that the ports of that empire should be open to the commerce of the world. It staggered the diplomats of the world for a brief instant, the Kaiser of Germany and the King of England, objected, but it was not long, three days at the farthest, I think, until they themselves repeated the Haynote, and declared it for their policy, which is again, an example of the "law going forth from Zion" and having a radical and vital force in the affairs of the nations of the earth.  
  
We have exercised a protectorate over some of the islands of the Pacific, as well as bringing Hawaii into Zion, as mentioned by Brother Woolley. We have exercised a protectorate over some of the West India islands, and the beneficient influence of this country, guaranteed by the constitution framed by our fathers, under the inspiration of God, must be recognized by the great nations of the earth. Verily, saith the Lord, as it written in the scriptures that shall be published by the people in this land of Joseph, the law they have of God shall find place in the hearts of men, they shall acknowledge the Christ as their king, they shall bow their knee and pay homage to Him, and His words shall go forth in power among the nations of men until all shall know the Lord, and "there shall be no need for one man to ask another, Knowest thou the Lord ? but every man shall know Him from the greatest unto the least." Then men, having become sickened with war and bloodshed, and famine, and rapine and plunder, shall turn themselves away from it, and learn the arts of peace, of industry, and walk in the ways of righteousness, and the millennium shall have dawned, and Christ shall have begun His reign for ever with His Saints. God hasten the day, I ask it, in Christ's name. Amen. 
