13
Outdoor
04 10 1914
Elder Benjamin Goddard. 
63
60-61

None

None

(Sup't Bureau of Information.) 

Brethren and Sisters: We are very glad to welcome you all to this meeting. We realize that you may feel tired before the close, but the brethren who will address you are interesting speakers, and I bespeak for them your faith and prayers. There may be a little confusion while people are passing by, but I am quite sure that most of you will be satisfied to stay to the end of the service, at least we hope so.  
  
I will refer very briefly to one or two items that may interest you. First, I direct your attention to the sterling character of the "Mormon" people, in contrast with prevailing views in some parts of the civilized world. I introduced to you, for the opening prayer, Elder William Jex,  patriarch of the Church, from Nebo Stake. I desire to say that he is in very deed, a patriarch. We compliment him upon this sacred calling. We commend all Israel for their desire to raise families of children that shall be an honor unto God's cause.  
  
Brother Jex and his good wife, now in their declining years, have been exceedingly blessed. Here is their family photo (showing it) and I venture to say that there are few communities outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that can produce an equal record. This aged patriarch and his wife have a posterity of over two hundred souls, and all are good faithful members of the Church, and a credit to any community; and mark you, this is a monogamous family.  
  
It is well to be familiar with such a record, at a time, especially, when there appears a desire on the part of some women to limit the size of their families. We commend all such people as Patriarch Jex and his wife for God has elected that spirits shall come from the eternal world and, when they come through such a lineage, they are fortunate indeed.  
  
I desire also to read to you the last hymn sung by the choir, as we observe that many of you do not have hymn books. Probably some of you did not hear the words distinctly and they are too good to pass by lightly, especially in view of the conditions now prevailing abroad, and that have been referred to so often during this conference. The sentiments will appeal strongly to all Latter-day Saints, for the verses breathe the spirit of prophecy, and contain a sermon well worth consideration.  
  
The words of the hymn, which the choir sang so sweetly, are as follows:  
  
"Behold the Mountain of the Lord  
  
In latter-days shall rise, On mountain tops, above the hills,  
  
And draw the wond'ring eyes.  
  
To this the joyful nations round, All tribes and tongues, shall flow:  
  
"Up to the hill of God," they'll say And to His house, we'll go."  
  
The rays that shine from Zion's hill  
  
Shall lighten every land; The King who reigns in Salem's towers  
  
Shall all the world, command.  
  
Among the nations He shall judge, His judgments truth shall guide,  
  
His sceptre shall protect the just; And quell the sinner's pride.  
  
No strife shall rage, nor hostile feuds  
  
Disturb those peaceful years; To plowshares men shall beat their swords,  
  
To pruning-hooks their spears.  
  
No longer host, encountering host, Shall crowds of slain deplore;  
  
They'll hang the trumpet in the hall And study war no more.  
  
Come, then, O house of Jacob, come,  
  
To worship at His shrine, And, walking in the light of God,  
  
With holy beauties shine.  
  
I think you will join in the prayers that have been offered this day, that God will hasten the time when these prophecies shall be truly fulfilled, and I commend these thoughts to you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
