16
Outdoor
04 10 1914
Elder German E. Ellsworth 
55
72-75

None

None

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am thankful for the privilege of associating with you this afternoon upon this Temple block. I am thankful for the association of men and women whose hearts are drawn towards God and to the restored truth, that will save and redeem His children. I am thankful for my parentage, and for the privilege of coming to earth in this day and time, the best time that has ever been in the history of the world, when so many wonderful things have been revealed for the blessing and comfort of mankind. I am thankful for citizenship in this glorious country, that has been made up from the best hood of all nations. I am thankful that my parents were among those who came in response to the voice of the good shepherd, "one of a city and two of a family," to this goodly land, a land of peace, the land of Joseph.  
  
You who have had your patriarchal blessings have been told that you are of the lineage of Joseph, through Ephraim or Manassah, and that you have been gathered to this goodly land, under the guiding influence of the divine will, to escape the judgments of God which are to overtake the wicked in the last days. You have also been told that, because of your former faithfulness, present willingness to obey the voice of truth, that light and faith has been given you which would lead you to keep the commandments of the Lord and be prepared not only to withstand those things which God has said would be visited upon those who did not believe in Him, but prepare yon to return to your heavenly home and there dwell with the righteous.  
  
I rejoice with the righteous that early in my life, a testimony of the Lord Jesus came to me, and with that testimony knowledge, that I was a son of God, destined to go back and dwell with Him if I lived right in this life. My heart swells within me, to see the hundreds of young men with whom I have labored come to this knowledge, and to see them realize who they are and what their mission is in the earth. I can tell you that it is a glorious thing for a young man to understand early in life, that he has been placed upon the earth to perform a great mission, and to realize what his blessings will be for keeping the commandments of the Lord. Salvation is the blessing promised as a reward for a well spent life, but I hold that if there was an eternal reward the blessings that come to the man here in this life for being honest, truthful, and virtuous is more than worth the effort. Every one of you will agree with me that honesty livings its own reward, that truthfulness brings its reward, that a virtuous and honorable life among your fellowmen will bring peace of mind, that makes of earth a heaven. But in addition to the earthly rewards, we are firm in the knowledge that heavenly and eternal blessings are added for keeping the commandments of God and living righteously on this earth. We are promised, that we shall go back and dwell with all other men and women who have lived honest and upright lives. "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him; but God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the Spirit searcheth all things, vea, the deep things of God."  
  
From the history of the world we learn what a glorious thing it is to understand who you are, and why you are here upon the earth. The Lord, from the beginning of this world's history, has opened the eyes of young men, in various ages, and revealed to them their mission, and they have become great leaders among the children of our Father.  
  
You remember the Prophets David, Samuel, Daniel, Joseph Smith, and many others who have been selected by our Father as leaders. They were selected and notified early in their youth, or young manhood. Even the Savior of men, at twelve years of age, understood that He must be "about His Father's business." and that understanding at that early time in His life helped Him for the great mission that rested upon His shoulders. So close was He to the Father that, after the temptation, angels were sent who ministered to Him and strengthened Him. Latter-day Saints have learned, early in their lives, who they are, and why they are in the earth, and everyone of you understand well the question the Lord put to Job, when He said: "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?" Likewise the statement to Jeremiah wherein the Lord sanctified and ordained him a prophet before he was born.  
  
Through the Spirit of the Lord our eyes have been opened as to who we are, and as to our missions in the earth, and, knowing that, we ought to be the best people in the world. We ought to be a light to all people, and so filled with love that we would be like a healing balm to the nations. Our love and devotion to the work of the Lord, and our willingness to go to the ends of the earth, have proven we do love the Lord, and love our fellowmen; through us all nations of the earth have been enabled to hear His voice, and many have gathered to Zion for safety.  
  
I rejoice in the testimony of Brother Ballard concerning the Latter-day Saints, that in all their mobbings and whippings and drivings, that they did not retaliate in kind but trusted in the Lord to fight their battles for them. My mind goes back to the time when the army was coming to Utah, coming with the same spirit that inspired the organized mobs of Missouri and Illinois. We did not meet them in Echo canyon with intention of shedding their blood, but to detain them till proper representation could be sent to the government. The fundamental thing pertaining to our mission in Echo canyon was to shed no blood, to do everything we could to keep the United States soldiers in the mountains all winter. We did not want the blood of our fellowmen upon us. I believe we have proven, at least in a small degree, that we can turn the other cheek when smitten, on the one, and we hope to be strong enough, as a people and nation, at this hour to extend the olive branch of peace.  
  
My mind also goes back to Joseph who was taken by his brethren and put into the pit, but afterward drawn out and sold into Egypt. How he withstood temptations and bore in patience his imprisonment brought upon him for turning aside the wiles of a wicked woman. Joseph, the son of Jacob, was one man that proved himself worthy of his birth and parentage, and worthy to be the savior of his father's house, both temporal and spiritual. Notwithstanding their mistreatment of him, and their great injustice, when they came to Joseph he opened his arms and received his brethren with a love beyond the power of words to describe, and in the goodness of his heart forgave them, showing especial interest in Simeon who was the arch enemy against him in selling him into Egypt. My blood tingled with the spirit manifested in the thought of Joseph meeting his brethren, and his desire to gather to his bosom his brother Benjamin, whose mother had died since Joseph had been in Egypt. I recall the wonderful picture of Joseph forgiving his brethren, and how they came and bowed down before him, in fulfillment of his boyhood dream.  
  
We are the sons of Joseph, through Ephraim or Manasseh. We are living in the land of Joseph, a land of peace and promise to all who will keep the commandments of the Lord, and not oppress their brothers. It seems that the eyes of the nations of the world are turned toward this land, and commissioners from all the war-stricken countries are being sent to represent favorably their nation before this government, as if the Lord had set us to be peacemakers among the nations. Even more shall it be in spiritual things. The honest in heart of the world shall come bending to the land of Joseph, that they may learn the ways of the Lord, and walk in His paths, for "out of Zion shall go forth the Law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem."  
  
I pray that God will help us to prove ourselves worthy, that we might be ready to open our arms to the world and save them as Joseph saved his brethren.  
  
God bless the Latter-day Saints. I love them. I love their missionary sons, and I am happy in laboring with them, in seeing their growth and development, seeing their eyes opened, their hearts touched, and their tongues loosened to bear witness to the world concerning God and Christ, and their mission upon the earth. May God grant us peace, and all other blessings, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
