19
Morning
05 10 1914
Elder George F. Richards. 
28
81-82

None

Peace and happiness result of keeping God's laws — Church leaders made sorrowful when members sin.  
  
In referring to my own feelings this morning, my brethren and sisters, I can say that I have been very happy in my associations with you and others in attending the various sessions of this conference, and in worshiping the Lord in this capacity. Without boasting, I confess my love for the Lord, for His work and for His people, and I hope my love extends to all men, for this is something I desire to cultivate. I desire and constantly pray for an increase of knowledge of the Lord and of the Gospel, for an increased appreciation and love for the same. I know that one having a knowledge of the truth of this work experiences great happiness and satisfaction, when faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord, and in the discharge of religious duties, and that he experiences pain and self reproach when violating the commandments of the Lord and in committing sin. My conscience condemns me when I do that which is wrong, and thus rob myself of that peace, happiness and hope I might have by answering strictly the requirements of conscience.  
  
I have had much satisfaction in seeing the faithfulness of men and women of the Church who have been called to labor as presiding officers in various positions, general and local. Their devotion has been a splendid example and inspiration to me; and because I have the work of the Lord at heart and desire its triumph, I am not jealous of those who have greater ability, and who are able to accomplish more than I for the cause, but rather take pride in their accomplishments and feel a common interest with them in the success of the work.  
  
It is a cause for pride that we have in the Church men and women who would stand in the front ranks of intelligent men and women of the world. Who are willing to give, and are giving to this work the best efforts of their lives. I rejoice that the Lord rewards all such with the bestowal of the Holy Spirit and a testimony of the Truth. The comfort that comes to all men and women who are devoting themselves in righteousness to the services of the Lord, and for the good of their fellowmen is inestimable. They receive that peace, joy and hope that cannot be purchased with the wealth of the world.  
  
I have had occasion at times to sorrow for the sins of others, but I thank the Lord I have been able to forget, for I do not think I could be happy if I had to retain always the feelings I sometimes have when I go among the people, and it is revealed to me by presiding authorities that certain evils exist among our people. Revelations are sometimes made that fill my heart with sorrow because of the wrongdoings of some members of the Church, and also because the Church is affected thereby. When we disgrace ourselves we, to an extent, disgrace the Church, and both must suffer. I know that men and women who have committed sin reap the fruits of their sowing. I am just as sure that the penalty will be paid in sorrow for all wrong doing, as I am sure that good deeds will be justly rewarded. I am sure the sins of this people are a great sorrow to the President of this Church, because of his responsibility as President and his love for the people. We could not do better by way of sustaining him and lightening his load of anxiety than by being faithful, consistent Latter-day Saints. Those who love the people, sorrow for their sins and rejoice in their righteousness.  
  
We read in the Book of Mormon (Mosiah 3:7), a prediction of the coming of the Lord in the meridian of time, and how he would suffer for the sins of the people: "For behold blood cometh from every pore so great shall be his anguish for the wickedness and abominations of his people." It was in the Garden of Gethsemane that this prophecy was fulfilled. Our Father in heaven and His Son, the Savior, sorrow for the sins we commit and rejoice in our righteousness. To obey the Lord is a pleasing way of serving Him.  
  
I want to ask the Latter-day Saints to support and sustain the President of this Church and his counselors, and the General Authorities, also those who preside over stakes and wards of Zion by avoiding sin, and being faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord, also by laboring faithfully and diligently when called upon for the good of the Church, and by so doing find peace and salvation, and glorify our Father in heaven.  
  
May the Lord add his blessings, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
