21
Morning
05 10 1914
Prest. Charles W. Penrose. 
25
85-86

None

Benefit to Sundays Schools of the presence of the Priesthood — Excessive number of meetings — Priesthood classes may be held at such times as most convenient — No need to have organizations outside of the Church — All our energies needed within the Church of Christ.  
  
Before we adjourn for the afternoon session, I have a very few words to say to our brethren, the presidents of stakes, the bishops and their counselors, and the brethren acting in the priesthood, particularly, and the subject will to some extent bear upon the whole congregation.  
  
I made a few remarks at the close of the splendid session of the Sunday School conference last evening in regard to the labors of the priesthood in the Sunday Schools. We used to have, generally, in the different wards of the stakes of Zion, priesthood meetings on Monday evenings. In many of the wards that has been changed, to holding priesthood classes on Sunday mornings, and I learn that in consequence of that in some places, the Sunday Schools are denuded, so to speak, of the influence and power and authority and presence of men holding the priesthood, men of experience. We have so many meetings to attend, particularly on Sunday, that instead of being a day of rest it becomes to some a day of toil.  
  
Now, it is not obligatory upon all the wards and stakes of Zion to make this change. If they find it better to have the priesthood meetings held on Monday evenings they are at liberty so to do, so far as the Presidency of the Church are concerned. What we want is to have the greatest good come to the greatest number; and it is advisable that, so far as possible, the men who hold the Holy Priesthood, particularly men in authority, will by their presence and their influence and their teachings, aid in the glorious work of teaching our young people — children and the teachers of the children, the things of God. So, it is advisable as far as possible, to have the brethren of the priesthood, if they hold their meeting on Sunday morning as classes in the priesthood, to remain and attend the Sunday Schools. But if they can't do both, they can make their arrangements, if they so desire, to have their priesthood meetings as before on Monday evenings. This is not obligatory upon all the brethren because of the change that has taken place in some of the wards. In some wards it works well; in others it does not work so well. Do that which is best, brethren, and all will be right.  
  
Now, in regard to having so many meetings, we are told by a great number of our brethren that about every night in the week they have some duty to perform, either as teachers or attending priesthood meetings or class meetings or some other meetings connected with the wards of the Church in which they reside. I would say then if that is the case, confine your time and your talents and your labor and work to the institutions of the Church. There is no need to go outside into other organizations established for other than Church purposes. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contains within its organization all that is needed for the labors of our brethren in the priesthood, and for our sisters in their auxiliary societies, for the benefit of the Saints, for their uplifting, for their enlightenment, for their progress, for the consolidation of their energies in any direction. So, brethren, the advice of the Presidency is to you, do not be entangled with orders, or societies, or outside and extra organizations that are being attempted or set up, but bring your energies together inside the Church, its quorums, its organizations of every kind, and you will have plenty to do. May God bless you and help you to do it. Amen. 
