29
Afternoon
06 10 1914
Elder Rulon S. Wells. 
44
115-116

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I too, am a man of peace. I believe in peace and love to walk in the paths of peace. If there is anything that is contrary to my nature, it is to be in the midst of strife. I desire peace in my home, peace in my country, peace in my own soul. But notwithstanding my native love for peace I find myself continually involved in war, in what may be termed a universal war. Across the waters a great war is being waged in which many nations are engaged; in this struggle, to which I allude all nations are involved, indeed, every human being has a part.  
  
It is the war again sin, against weakness and imperfection. It is God's battle for the right against the powers of evil which are everywhere arrayed against Him. It is a sanguinary war. Many there be who fall upon this battlefied, and when they thus die they are dead indeed, and well may those who love them shed tears of sorrow. Some are only slightly wounded and others are wounded mortally. The Lord has provided His Red Cross Society — the ministry of His Church, and supplied it with a healing balm — the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and it should be applied to all alike for all have been wounded and need his healing balm. None have escaped the darts of the adversary but all may be healed by the application of this remedy — even the dead may be brought to life again.  
  
Then let us fight on for the cause of truth; let us labor for the salvation of human souls, that all may be delivered from this enemy, the arch enemy of God, the adversary of the souls of the children of men. Let us march on under the capacity of our Redeemer; let us march under His banner, on to victory, for eventually victory will be perched upon His banner, and every foe shall be overcome. This is a battle to the bitter end; this is a battle that means the utter rout of the enemy.  
  
My brethren and sisters, you and I are engaged in this struggle; we are fighting under the banner of Christ; we are endeavoring to bring comfort and relief to those that are wounded and to those that have fallen upon the battlefield. Let us, be untiring in our efforts, then, to save the souls of our fellow men, of our brethren and sisters throughout the world, until peace be restored and established in all the world. Let us draw night unto the Lord that we may have power and strength; for the sword of truth is the weapon with which we fight: it is a two-edged sword that cuts in both directions; let us learn how to wield it, and let none lay down his arms, but let us fight valiantly on until we have achieved a glorious victory. Amen. 
