31
Afternoon
06 10 1914
Elder Charles H. Hart. 
11
121-126

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

During the early part of the excellent reign of Hezekian, king of Judah, he failed in some particular to stand to the covenants of the fathers, and he was prevailed against by the Assyrian; under King Shalmaneser. Later, this great young ruler realized his mistake, and as the Assyrians came against him again, under their then king, Sennecherib, Hezekiah sent word to them:  
  
"I have offended; return to me: that which, thou puttest on me will I bear. And the king of Assyria appointed unto Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold. And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of the Lord, and in the treasures of the king's house. At that time did Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple of the Lord, and from the pillars which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria."  
  
The king was not only willing to arbitrate, but he was willing that his enemy should be the arbiter. Then, when he had placed himself right, he became the recipient of divine aid against the enemy by the angel of the Lord, as recounted by the poet Byron.  
  
The principle of arbitration is a plant of very slow growth; like the century plant, its periods of flowering are far between. The historian Xenophon tells us that Cyrus was willing to arbitrate interstate questions, and submitted to an Indian king one such question with Assyria. Thucydides the Greek, declares that ''it is wicked to proceed against him as a wrong doer who is ready, to refer the question to an arbitrator." That declaration, I might say inspired declaration, (for it was certainly a very great principle advanced in those early centuries B. C.) has been often quoted with approval, and yet it bears fruit slowly. Hugo Grotius, the great writer on international law in the fore part of the seventeenth century, declares in favor of that great doctrine, and states that it should be especially observed by Christians and by Christian nations. Grotius may fairly be called the father of international law. As an evidence of appreciation of him, our government instructed jts representative to place upon his grave a silver wreath, properly inscribed. This was done July 4, 1899, and appropriate words of appreciation were uttered by an eloquent representative of the government of the United States.  
  
Greece, in her early history, had her amphictionic council, seeking to mitigate the horrors of war, and by agreement to curtail them; and the representatives of the twelve tribes of Hellas comprising that subcouncil, were under oath to observe those rules. King Henry the IV of France made some effort at interstate arbitration. William Penn declared in favor of it, and our own government has successfully practiced it. The United States and Great Britain successfully arbitrated some of the serious questions growing out of the Civil War; and we have what is called the Treaty of Washington, and the Award of Geneva, in 1871. In 1890 the government of the United States declared in favor of International arbitration; and Great Britain some three years afterward passed a resolution in approval of the doctrine advanced by the government of the United States upon this principle.  
  
Some are inclined to make light of the great work of the Hague Peace Conference, called by the Czar of Russia. It came from a source then not expected, but he set forth clearly the reason and the necessity for such a call, and the opening there was very propitious. The Minister of State of the Netherlands called attention to some of their allegorical paintings in the building in which they met, particularly one, the figure of peace entering the room to close the door of the temple of Janus, and he trusted that this picture would be typical of the work of the convention. Although all the nations seemed to realize the terrible burden they were placing upon their people in the ever increasing military and naval armaments, and the ever increasing war budgets, yet they were unable to come to any agreement with reference to limitation of armaments, or a curtailment of their war budgets; but they did a splendid thing in establishing a permanent court of arbitration — not enforced arbitration, but a tribunal to which the nations might voluntarily go with confidence. All the signatory nations — and they were all who had representatives at the Czar's court at the time this rescript was sent forth, all joined in establishing this court, and each was privileged to appoint in equal numbers, members of that court to serve for a definite period, and to appoint their successors. When the misunderstandings occurred between Great Britain and France and some other nations with Venezuela they did not think it was beneath their dignity nor that their honor would be in any wise affected by submitting to arbitration their differences with little Venezuela; and we had the beautiful spectacle of twelve of the great nations interested in that arbitration, selecting from the Hague court representatives of Austria and of Russia to form the tribunal which passed upon that case, which they did with a good deal of satisfaction.  
  
Great military men have spoken strenuously against the horrors of war. Napoleon said it was the "business of barbarism," and Napoleon should know, for he had led into Russia six hundred thousand men and brought only twenty thousand of them back. It is estimated that in the Napoleonic wars four million men lost their lives. Wellington said, "Take my word for it, if you had ever seen but one day of war, you would pray Almighty God that you might never see such a thing again." Germany has a maxim that "a great war leaves a country with three armies — an army of cripples, an army of mourners, and an army of thieves." In 1865, General Sherman said in reference to war:  
  
"I confess without shame that I am sick and tired of war. Its glory is all moonshine. Even success, the most brilliant, is over dead and mangled bodies, the anguish and lamentations of distant families, appealing to me for missing sons, husbands and fathers. It is only those who have never heard a shot, nor the shrieks and groans of wounded friend or foe who cry aloud for more blood, more vengeance, more desolation."  
  
The best authorities on war seemed to think, until a few months ago, that we had reached a time when the great nations of the world would be in war no more. Doctor David Starr Jordan, a real authority on questions of peace and war, wrote in 1912, in his instructive work entitled, "War and Waste," under a chapter headed, "The Great War of Europe:"  
  
"What shall we say of the great war of Europe, ever threatening, ever impending and which never comes. We shall say that it will never come. Humanly speaking, it is impossible, not in the physical sense, of course, for with weak, restless and Godless men nothing evil is impossible, It may be, of course, that some half-crazed Arch-Duke or some harassed minister of state shall half knowing, give the signal for Europe's conflagration. * * * The tinder is well dried and laid in such a way as to make the worst of this common catastrophy. All Europe cherishes is ready for the burning."  
  
After quoting statistics to show a European war, with Italy and Romania included, would cost about $50,000,000.00 per day, Dr. Jordan adds:  
  
"The bankers will not find the money for such a fight, the industries of Europe will not and statesmen cannot. No matter whatever the bluster or apparent provocation it comes to the same thing at the end. There will be no general war until the masters direct the fighters to fight. The masters have much to gain, but vastly more to lose and their signal will not be given."  
  
But Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the Lord, said that war would be poured out upon all nations, and that Great Britain should call upon other nations — and she is doing it now, calling, perchance upon even little Portugal. In this instance the wisdom of men is placed in juxtaposition with the foresight of the Prophet. I think, with Brother Roberts, that while upon the surface it appears to be a discouraging circumstance that the great nations of Europe are now engaged in such a deady conflict, that it is but the fore-runner of a better peace, that it is but the dark hour before the dawn.  
  
In reading an article, by a woman, in the present number of the Century, I thought that the giving of suffrage to the women would help also in this question of securing arbitration, peaceful arbitration to take the place of the arbitrament of arms. She points out that women know the history and the value of human flesh, that no woman would think lightly of the taking of human life. She writes:  
  
"In viewing a battlefield a woman will say: 'So many mother's sons; so many young bodies brought into the world to lie there; so many months of weariness and pain while bones and muscles were shaped within; so many hours of anguish and struggle that birth might be; so many baby mouths drawing life at women's breasts. All this that man might lie with glazed eye-balls and swollen faces and fixed, blue, unclosed mouths and great limbs tossed. This that an acre of ground might be manured with human flesh, that next year's grass, or poppies, or karoo bushes may spring up greener and redder where they have lain, or that the sand of the plains may have a glint of white bones;' and we cry: without an inexorable cause this must not be. No woman who is a woman says of a human being, 'It is nothing.'  
  
* * * She knows the history of human flesh. She knows its cost.  
  
* * * The thought would never come to that woman, 'cast in men's bodies. Settle the thing so.' "  
  
That was a very strong document addressed by the suffragists in protest against this war, respecting mothers of those who will lose their sons in the deadly conflict.  
  
The press dispatches gave us recently an account of a French mother who lost four sons in the present war but expressed regret that she had not other sons to lose in the same cause. I think there is another side to that picture. I think that Elizabeth Barrett Browning in that beautiful poem entitled "Mother and Poet," gives us a glimpse of the other side, a glimpse of the struggle between the motherlove and the love for country. Her lines are suggested by the Italian warfare after news from Gaeta in 1861, and in part are as follows:  
  
Dead! one of them shot by the sea in the east,  
  
And one of them shot in the west by the sea.  
 
Dead! both my boys! When you sit at the feast  
 
And are wanting a great song for Italy free,  
  
Let none look at me!  
  
Yet I was a poetess only last year,  
 
And good at my art, for a woman, men said.  
  
But this woman, this, who is agonized here,  
  
The east sea and west sea rhyme on in her head  
  
Forever instead.  
  
What art can a woman be good at? Oh vain!  
  
What art is she good at, but hurting her breast  
 
With the milk-teeth of babes, and a smile at the pain?  
 
Ah, boys, how you hurt! you were strong as you pressed,  
 
And I proud, by that test.  
  
What art's for a woman? To hold on her knees  
 
Both darlings! to feel all their arms round her throat  
 
Cling, strangle a little! To sew by degrees,  
  
And broider the long clothes and neat little coat!  
  
To dream and to dote.  
  
To teach them * * * It strings there. I made them indeed  
 
Speak plain the word "country." I taught them, no doubt,  
 
That a country's a thing men should die for at. need.  
 
I prated of liberty, rights, and about The tyrant turned put.  
  
And when their eyes flashed * * * "O my beautiful eyes!"  
 
I exulted! nay, let them go forth at the wheels  
 
Of the guns, and denied not. But then the surprise,  
 
When one sits quite alone! Then one weeps, then one kneels! — God! how the house feels. 
  
Then follow verses descriptive of letters received from her soldier sons, and the manner of receiving news of the death of first one and then the other of her boys. As the crowd cheered in the streets of Turin she fell at their feet. Susbtitute the name of one or the other of the nations now contending, and we can imagine to some extent the feelings of some of the mothers, numbered now by the million, whose sons have either been recently slain or wounded or are now on the firing line. The poet continues:  
  
O Christ of the seven wounds, who look'dst through the dark  
 
To the face of Thy mother! consider, I pray,  
 
How we common mothers stand desolate, mark,  
 
Whose sons, not being Christs, die with eyes turned away. And no last word to say!  
  
Both boys dead! but that's out of nature. We all  
 
Have been patriots, yet each house must always keep one.  
  
'Twere imbecile, hewing out roads to a wall.  
  
And, when Italy's made, for what end is it done If we have not a son?  
  
Ah, ah, ah! when Gaeta's taken, what then?  
  
When the fair wicked queen sits no more at her sport  
 
Of the fire-balls of death crashing souls out of men?  
 
When your guns of Cavalli with final retort Have cut the game short, —  
  
When Venice and Rome keep their new jubilee,  
 
When your flag takes all heaven for its white, gren, and red,  
 
When you have your country from mountain to sea.  
 
When King Victor has Italy s crown on his head, (And I have my dead),   
  
What then? Do not mock me. Ah, ring your bells low,  
  
And burn your lights faintly. My country is there,  
 
Above the star pricked by the last peak of snow:  
 
My Italy's there — with my brave civic pair, To disfranchise despair.  
  
Forgive me. Some women bear children in strength,  
 
And bite back the cry of their pain in self-scorn.  
 
But the birth-pangs of nations will wring us at length  
 
Into wail such as this! — and we sit on forlorn When the man-child is born.  
  
Dead! — one of them shot by the sea in the west!  
 
And one of them shot in the east by the sea!  
 
Both! both my boys! — if in keeping the feast  
  
You want a great song for your Italy free, Let none look at me!  
  
We had an able talk from Doctor. Talmage at the Sunday School meeting on the "foundations of peace." So we might consider the "foundations of war." Militarism is one of the corner stones in the foundations of war. Israel Zangwill gives us these strong lines:  
  
"To safeguard peace, we must prepare for war.  
  
I know that maxim — it was forged in hell."  
  
Of course there must be an adequate police force for each nation, but it is inexcusable to let the debt for armaments and standing armies run into what has been called the "endless procession of ciphers." or for a nation to enter noon the "procession toward the abyss." It is folly to have a peace that is a "peace of force" which may be transmuted at any time into a peace of bankruptcy of exhaustion. But a peace resting upon that foundation which has been explained by the brethren during this conference will be what has been called "the old peace with velvet-sandalled feet;" and may that time come, the time foreseen by Isaiah and by Micah when the swords should be beaten into plow-shares and the spears into pruning hooks. I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
