9
Second Overflow
04 10 1914
Elder Robert D. Young. 
113
49-51

None

None

(President of Sevier Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I can truly say that I never was more thankful to my Heavenly Father for the standing that I have at the present time in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I feel that my fellowship with you is worth more to me than anything else that I can think of. I have enjoyed very much the remarks of President Keeler, and his timely instructions.  
  
In our meeting in the Tabernacle this morning, every soul seemed to breathe a hearty response to all that was said by our beloved Prophet and President, and the prayer that was uttered by President Penrose, and commented upon by President Lund, showing to us the great efficacy of prayer. I was called back for a moment to remembrance of my labors in the mission field, in Australia. The people had suffered in that country from a great drought, until it seemed as though it was threatening them with starvation. They called together all the ministers of that country, particularly in Oueensland,to a meeting in Brisbane, inviting all other ministers except the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The question was asked of some of them why they did not extend an invitation to the elders of the "Mormon" Church, and they said that they were praying for rain, and they were in hopes that they would secure it, and for fear that the Lord would be displeased they left the "Mormons" out. But they did not get rain, to amount to anything, for nearly a year after that, until the ground became parched, dusty and barren, hardly a spear of grass to be seen. I felt so glad, so thankful, that the President of our great country was more thoughtful of all the churches, and had faith in the efficacy of prayer, and required this day to be set apart as a day of prayer for peace. I think it is a very appropriate day; and I presume that the Latter-day Saints as a whole would agree with me in this matter.  
  
As I said, I feel grateful that I am identified with this Church, that I have a standing in this Church. I have never seen in all my travels or in all my associations with men, a place where I need be ashamed of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; but rather I have gained favor when I have, as Latter-day Saints should, borne testimony to the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith. It reminds me of some words of the poet that were quoted by one of our elders:  
 
"However the battle is ended,  
  
Though proudly the victories come, With fluttering flags and prancing steeds  
  
And the echoing roll of drum, Still truth proclaims the motto,  
  
In letters of living light, No question is ever settled  
  
Until it is settled right."  
  
I feel, my brethren and sisters, to commend such men as those who have contributed great sums, and their moral support, for the establishment of peace, and the gathering of peace conventions. But I feel — and I have felt it more today than perhaps ever before — that the Latter-day Saints should be thankful that they have settled the question right for themselves. Until the people of the whole world solves this problem, by accepting the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the question of peace will never be settled right. The Gospel and mission of Jesus Christ was peace on earth, good will to men. It was to banish from the hearts of men self-aggrandizement, and selfishness, the desire to covet that which belongs to our neighbors, and make us possess the spirit of long-suffering, gentleness, kindness, faith and patience, that we might be able, not only to shun the evils of war, but to shun, as Paul tells us, the very appearance of evil.  
  
I wish to read a little from the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning on page 250:  
  
"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not' to understand the doctrines of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents; for this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized; and their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands, and they shall also teach their children to pray— [which we heard quoted in the splendid discourses, and which were so beautifully illustrated in the prayers that we had this morning, in the supplication of our Heavenly Father for peace]— and walk uprightly before the Lord. And the inhabitants of Zion shall, also, observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. And the inhabitants of Zion, also, shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. Now, I the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them. * * * * These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them: wherefore, let my servant, Oliver Cowdery carry these sayings unto the land of Zion."  
  
Recently I clipped an item from a newspaper. It was a comment of the Daily Mail, after the speech of Lord Roberts, appealing to the patriotism of the men of their country. In this comment they stated that the people were playing, as it were, on the deck of a ship with the compass and sails, believing they were self-governed, while down in the hull of the ship was a powder magazine of whose existence they knew not. It commented on the secret diplomacy of their country, stating that it should have no part nor portion in any government; that the people should know and understand the things that are being carried on by their nation. I was very much struck by this: that secret diplomacy should not and must not have any part, and that if Europe would be free from menace in the future they must follow the example of the United States. In reading this, my brethren and sisters, I have thought a great deal of the prophecy, wherein we are told that the law should go out from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Remembering that this whole land, our great country, is the land of Zion, here, in my opinion, was a suggestion in the right and proper direction.  
  
I wonder how many of us are preparing our homes, setting our homes in order, so that we will be able to have our children practice the principle of prayer, and observance of the Sabbath day, that they may grow up and be as a light upon a hill, or be as the leaven that is to leaven the whole lump. I believe that in some of the homes of the Latter-day Saints there is need for reformation, and more diligence should be manifest in teaching children the efficacy of prayer, how to pray and what to pray for properly, that they may grow up with the faith in the divinity of this great work, that they should have as Latter-day Saints.  
  
I trust and pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will bless us, that we may be able to more fully appreciate the wonderful blessings that are showered out upon us in this goodly land where we reside, where the Lord has brought us, and that we may be able to remember Him in the requirements that He has made of us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
