1
Morning
06 10 1921
Heber J. Grant 
10
2-13

None

None

It is indeed a great pleasure to have again the opportunity of meeting with the Latter-day Saints in General Conference. I desire most earnestly that the prayer of President Chipman may be realized and that all of us, who may have the opportunity of speaking during the sessions of this conference, may be inspired of the Lord. I know that I not only speak for myself but for all of my associates of the General Authorities of the Church when I say that we desire only to say those things, during this conference, that shall be for the benefit, spiritually as well as temporally, of the Latter-day Saints. I know not only my own heart, but I know the hearts of those with whom I am associated, as the General Authorities of the Church, and I know that each and all of us desire more than anything else in the world the advancement of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We desire the welfare spiritually of the people, and also their temporal welfare; and it is our daily and constant prayer to God that his blessings may be and abide with the Saints in all parts of the world, and also with every honest-hearted soul who dwells upon the earth. 

THE SANCTIFYING POWER OF DISTRESS, AS ILLUSTRATED IN THE HISTORY OF THE SAINTS 

I would like to express my firm conviction as to the application to each and every faithful Latter-day Saint, of the last verse that we have just sung, verse number four of the hymn, "How firm a foundation:" 

When through the deep waters I call thee to go, 

The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow, 

For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless, 

And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress. 

When I think of the distress of the Latter-day Saints, the dangers and persecutions through which they went in New York, Ohio, Missouri and Illinois; when I think of the trouble and difficulties of the great pioneer journey from the Missouri river to these valleys; when I think of the reign almost of terror at different times from my childhood until now — the coming of an army against our people; when I think how near they came to starving because of the crickets; when I think of the confiscation of all the Church's property, and the many trials and tribulations through which the people have passed, — I say when I think of these things I realize that the Lord has sanctified all their trials to the good of the Latter-day Saints, for these afflictions and tribulations have fitted and qualified them more perfectly to live the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

PRESENT DISTRESS AND DEBT 

At the present time the Latter-day Saints and the people of this intermountain country are in great distress financially. Perhaps there has never been a time from the early days of the settlement of the valley, when there was a greater scarcity of money in proportion to the needs of the people, and when so many people find themselves in financial difficulties, mainly due to the fact that they launched out beyond their means, and ran in debt, in many cases for luxuries. I happened to pick up in Chicago a bank advertisement which I think is very fine and timely just in this particular condition of affairs. The words are the words of that wise man, Benjamin Franklin: 

Taxes are indeed very heavy; but if those laid on by the government were the only ones we had to pay, we might the more easily discharge them. But we have many others and much more grievous to some of us; we are taxed twice as much by our idleness, three times as much by our pride, and four times as much by our folly, [and they didn't even have automobiles in that day] and from these taxes the commissioners cannot ease or deliver us by allowing an abatement. 

FAITH, INTEGRITY AND DEVOTION OF THE SAINTS 

From my earliest recollections, from the days of Brigham Young until now, I have listened to men standing in the pulpit in the old Tabernacle, and before that in the Bowery, before we had the old Tabernacle, and from this stand, urging the people not to run into debt; and I believe that the great majority of all our troubles today is caused through the failure to carry out that counsel. 

I certainly hope that the lessons that we are learning today will turn out a blessing to us, that they will be sanctified to our good, as illustrated in the words of this verse from the hymn that I have read. And I believe that they will. I have an abiding and perfect faith in the integrity and the devotion and the loyalty of the Latter-day Saints to God and their desire to serve him. I have full faith in the people that have embraced the gospel. Why? Because they know the Lord; because they know our Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ; because they know that this gospel, commonly called "Mormonism," is in very deed the plan of salvation; because they have an absolute and abiding knowledge that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God, and that the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants are in very deed the words of God. There is no doubt in the minds of the Latter-day Saints that God our heavenly Father, the Creator of heaven and earth, did speak to Joseph Smith. There is no doubt in the minds of the Latter-day Saints that God pointed to his Son and announced that he was his Son, and told the boy to hear him, and that the Savior of the world gave instructions to Joseph Smith. I read a few months ago of one of the great "divines" in Great Britain — a great student of the Bible, declaring that Jesus Christ was not the Son of God, and quoting as part of his authority another great "divine" and a famous theological student and teacher. Thank the Lord for the revelations of God to us, for the revelations from Jesus Christ where, time and time again, he announces himself as the Son of the living God, and the Redeemer of the World! Knowing as I know, and as the Latter-day Saints do know, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that the revelations contained in this book are in very deed the words of God, and the words of our Redeemer, I repeat that I have full faith in the integrity to God of the Latter-day Saints; and I am convinced beyond a shadow of doubt that the work of the Lord will continue to spread, notwithstanding the hard times financially through which we have been passing. 

PROGRESS IN THE MISSION FIELD 

We have, at the present time in the missionary field, seventeen hundred and ninety-eight missionaries, not including hundreds of workers in foreign lands who are local missionaries, who have been working in that capacity because of the lack of material in sending elders from the stakes of Zion. Our missionary activities for the first six months of this year indicate an increase in all the missions of the Church of 65 per cent in baptisms, as compared with the same period a year ago. This proves that the work of the Lord is spreading, that notwithstanding hard times, notwithstanding financial difficulties, there is a most remarkable and wonderful increase in the number of those who are embracing the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have practically the same number of missionaries now that we had a year ago, so this growth is not because of the increase in the laborers in the fields, but is because of increase in the power of the missionaries and the blessings of the Lord to those who are engaged in the work. There has also been an increase of over 50 per cent in the mission fields in charities obtained during the past six months. 

ABOUT THE LABORS OF MISSIONARIES 

In this connection, I desire to say to all the Latter-day Saints that we wish they would refrain from writing to laborers in the mission field suggesting that it is about time they were coming home. Where parents have had sons in the mission field for, say 15, 16 or 18 months, and feel, because of financial difficulties that it is impossible to keep them longer, we advise that they state the circumstances to the bishop of their wards, who should then apply to the elders and seventies, and these should endeavor to raise the means to keep those young men in the field for at least two years or two years and a half. In most cases a young elder is just coming to himself and to a capacity and ability and power to preach the gospel with force and with the inspiration of God, when he has been in the mission field 18 months, and it is a great injustice to the boy who is growing spiritually — as he cannot grow in any other labor in all the world — that he should have to come home too soon. Those who are at home ought to realize this, and ought to feel a responsibility and a willingness and a desire to keep in the field the young men from the various wards until they have completed at least two years of service; and in many cases it would be a god-send to the young men, as well as to those who help, if their mission were extended to two and a half or even three years. I remember President Lyman's idea was that a missionary who had been in the field two years and a half could do more by remaining another six months than he had done in the entire year of his previous term; and I believe this. 

APPEAL TO THE SAINTS TO KEEP MISSIONARIES IN THE FIELD 

So where young men have the spirit of their missions and are themselves willing and anxious to stay, but whose parents, because of financial difficulties are unable to keep them, I appeal to the Latter-day Saints to respond to the calls of the elders and the seventies and the bishopric of the wards, and assist in keeping these young men in the field. Our mission to the world is to proclaim the gospel; one reason why the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ was placed upon the earth was that men should come to a knowledge of the truth; and the one supreme object above all other objects of every Latter-day Saint should be to bring people to a knowledge of the truth. 

MISSIONARY WORK THE GREATEST OF ALL IN THE WORLD 

The missionary work of the Latter-day Saints is the greatest of all the great works in all the world. We find recorded in the eighteenth section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God: 

For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance; 

And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth. 

Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people; 

And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father? 

And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me? 

Behold, you have my gospel before you, and my rock, and my salvation. 

Ask the Father in my name, in faith believing that you shall receive, and you shall have the Holy Ghost, which manifesteth all things which are expedient unto the children of men. 

And if we have not faith we cannot please the Lord, the revelation goes on to say. We should have faith in God and not only have faith, but works also, and exhibit our works by supporting those who are in the missionary field. 

WONDERFUL MISSIONARY LABORS IN THE STAKES OF ZION 

I wish to say that I am delighted with the excellent and wonderful labors that have been accomplished in some of the stakes of Zion in converting and baptizing people. Missionary work that has been carried on here at home during the past six months has been far more fruitful than it has ever been before. We have not really done our duty here at home in our missionary work. It is only within the last year or two that we have taken up a systematic labor of visiting those who are not of our faith and explaining the gospel; and in proportion to the amount of this work that has been done, the results in baptisms have been greater than the same amount of work anywhere. I am grateful for this labor, and commend those stakes of Zion where it has been most energetically carried on. 

THE BEST LAW IN THE WORLD TO MAKE BETTER LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

In these hard times financially, I want to repeat to the Latter-day Saints my firm belief that God our heavenly Father prospers and blesses and gives wisdom to those men and to those women who are strictly honest with him in the payment of their tithing. I believe that when a man is in financial difficulty, the best way to get out of that difficulty (and I speak from personal experience, because I believe that more than once in my life I have been in the financial mud as deep as almost anybody) is to be absolutely honest with the Lord, and never to allow a dollar to come into our hands without the Lord receiving ten per cent of it. The Lord does not need your money or mine. Compliance with the law of tithing and donations for ward meetinghouses, stake houses, academies, temples, missionary work and these various needs, are all for our good. They are but lessons that we are learning which will qualify and prepare us to become more godlike and to be fitted to go back into the presence of our heavenly Father. The very lessons of a financial nature that are given us are the same as lessons that are given in a school to a boy or a girl; they are for the benefit of the boy; they are for the benefit of the girl, for their advancement, for their joy and happiness in after life; because of all the knowledge and information we acquire, and in the improvement that we make, we ourselves are the ones who are benefited. God our heavenly Father has instituted laws to improve his people physically, spiritually, intellectually, and one of the best laws in all the world to make better Latter-day Saints is the law of tithing. There are many people who believe the gospel and would probably embrace it, but for the fact that they are like that young man of whom we read in the Scripture, when the Savior told him, after the young man declared that "all these things have I done," to sell what he had and give to the poor. Many people cannot endure the gospel because of financial requirements that are made of them, and they allow the things of this world, which they have grasped firmly and steadfastly, to rob them of the greatest of all God's gifts, namely, life eternal. I commend the law of tithing to the Latter-day Saints, and I am entitled to commend it, because from my childhood days I have never made a dollar that the tithing has not been honestly paid upon; and I acknowledge the blessings of Almighty God to me because of obeying this law. 

THE LAW OF HEALTH AND WEALTH 

I want to exhort the Latter-day Saints to observe and keep the Word of Wisdom. I consider it almost a crime for men and women who acknowledge that they know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that this gospel commonly called "Mormonism" is in very deed the truth — I consider it almost a crime that when the Lord Almighty gives to them a law whereby they can have health and vigor of body and mind, they disregard it. Every single dollar that is expended in breaking the Word of Wisdom goes out of the country. It is so much of the vital fluid, so to speak, financially drawn from the community every time a man or woman drinks a cup of tea or coffee or uses tobacco or uses liquor, because we do not produce those things at home. If they actually believed thoroughly the Word of Wisdom it seems to me you couldn't possibly persuade people not to obey it: 

"A Word of Wisdom for the benefit of the Council of High Priests, assembled in Kirtland, and Church, and also the Saints of Zion. 

"To be sent greeting — not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God" — remember this is the will of God — "in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days." 

I believe firmly that if all the money which has been sent out of this country from the day the Saints first located in these valleys, for those things that the Lord has said in this revelation are not good for man, had instead been kept here, the accumulation of wealth in our country would have been so great that this intermountain section where the Latter-day Saints are located, would be one of the richest and most prosperous in all the United States. A dollar is to the financial body what a drop of blood is in the body. We only have, as I understand, about twenty pounds of blood in the body. The heart beats about eighty times a minute and handles about four ounces every time it beats; therefore that twenty pounds of blood is handled every minute and there is about ten tons of it handled every twenty-four hours — ten tons although there are only twenty pounds of it. Of course they say we just accidentally came here, our hearts just accidentally keep a-going and handles ten tons of blood a day — a little bit of a pump, the size of your fist — and if it accidentally stopped two or three minutes, none of us would be here. The heart alone is one of the greatest testimonies of the divine power of God, because we don't even have to think to ask it to beat. If we did, we wouldn't have anything else to do but sit down and tell the heart to work. It would keep us busy all the time. There is nothing in all the world devised by the utmost ingenuity of man, that can do the same amount of work as that little piece of machinery, the human heart, operating after the manner of a pump, with twenty pounds doing practically ten tons of work every twenty-four hours. Now, as I say, money, a dollar, is just the same. It is estimated that a dollar does all the way from twenty to over a hundred dollars of work a year, going round and round, and circulating, and buying and paying and doing work; so when we stop to think that there are hundreds of thousands of dollars sent out of this country every year for breaking the Word of Wisdom — true, the great majority of it is not sent by the Latter-day Saints — we can form some idea of what could have happened if money thus sent out had been kept at home and each dollar of it permitted to do its hundred dollars' worth of work.

A PRACTICAL LESSON ON THE WORTH OF A DOLLAR IN HOME INDUSTRY 

Speaking of the work a dollar does at home reminds me of an incident that I have related many times. Years ago there was a great drive in this section of the country to support home-made goods, and I was one who was deeply interested in it, being a member of several committees that were working to bring about this policy. I remember that during our conference we had a meeting in the Assembly Hall one evening and one of the speakers on that occasion was the then bishop of Smithfield, George L. Farrell. Brother Farrell said that for twenty odd years, or perhaps he said thirty, he had been coming down to conference twice a year and, knowing that all the stock in the railroad running through that country was owned by eastern capitalists, he had marked the money which he paid for his tickets to see if he ever got any of it back again. "I have also," he said, "marked the money that I paid for home-made goods to see if I got any of that back again. I never got any of my railroad money back," he continued, "but one reason that I always buy home-made goods is that I think a whole lot of George L. Farrell and I like to get my money back again, and time and time again when I have bought homemade goods and marked the money, that identical money, staying in the community and circulating around, has come back to me. And it is because I think a great deal of myself, as well as my neighbors, that I buy shoes made at home for my children, that I buy homemade cloth out of which to make clothes for those children." Then he said: "To give you a practical illustration: When starting for this identical conference, standing at the depot at Smithfield I saw a man who had made some shoes for my children, and I walked up and handed him five dollars to pay for those shoes; he saw somebody else in the group to whom he owed five dollars, and he handed him the five; this man saw another to whom he was indebted and handed him the same piece of money; and he in turn saw another man and handed it to him until finally after five or six debts had been paid with the same piece of money the last man to receive it came up to me and said, 'Brother Farrell, I owe you six dollars. Here is five on my account' — and I put my home-made shoes money back into my trousers pocket." Twenty or thirty dollars' worth of debts were thus paid by patronizing one shoemaker in Smithfield, the money was saved at home by circulating around, it paid these many debts and at length landed back into the pocket where it started from. That was a practical lesson, and a practical lesson that ought to count. 

HOME MANUFACTURED GOODS 

It would be a very easy matter to increase the use of this one product in this country by thousands and tens of thousands of dollars. Before me is an audience of at least five to ten thousand people, and I would like to know how many of you are standing, or sitting I should perhaps say, with your feet in home-made shoes. I dare not ask those of you who are thus shod to stand up — I am afraid the showing would be altogether too thin. I am myself standing in home-made shoes; it is the kind I have been standing in for over thirty years, and I find that they are good enough for me. Another reason why I like them is that they wear longer than any I used to get before I commenced wearing them, and in addition to wearing longer they look better; and in addition to looking better, they cost less. So I am like Brother Farrell. It is not altogether patriotism, it is because I think a whole lot of Heber J. Grant that I wear home-made shoes. I have been converted to home-made goods from the time that, as a young man, I heard a sermon from this stand by Brigham Young, that great leader, that man of wonderful foresight for the benefit of his people spiritually, financially, and intellectually, one of the greatest pioneers and most remarkable men that ever lived. In passing let me say that in conversing with a great banker in New York only a few days ago, I made the remark that Brigham Young would yet be recognized as one of the greatest organizers and one of the greatest leaders of men that ever lived, and this banker replied in substance: "There is no one who knows anything of Brigham Young's history that does not acknowledge it today. I do. I have read his history and it is one of the most intensely interesting books I have ever read." And my belief is that one of the very things which caused the banker to have confidence in the Latter-day Saints today was that many years ago he read the history of Brigham Young and was impressed by the wonderful things that had been accomplished by him. 

But coming back to the sermon. President Young pleaded with the people to support the Provo Woolen Mills; and from that day until these mills shut down some years ago, I never bought a suit of clothes in Salt Lake City that was not made from Provo goods which I selected and handed to the tailor to make up for me. I was honored once with being in the legislature when we gave a ball to the members of the Wyoming legislature. I was wearing at the time a gray Provo suit; and, realizing that everybody who would be at the party in the Theatre would have a black suit — a swallow-tail or Prince Albert, —  I went to the Z. C. M. I., bought me a black suit, Prince Albert coat. I didn't want to be the only white sheep in the bunch, and so went to the ball in black. The very next day I gave it away to a poor relative: the ball cost me thirty odd dollars — the cost of a black suit. A friend asked me, "Why didn't you wear it a little while, and get a little benefit out of it before you gave it to your neighbor?" I answered that I didn't want to have the suit on if I happened to want to preach in favor of home-made goods. I was afraid that it being a black suit, I might by chance wear it some Sunday, and I have always felt that I would not ask the people to do anything that I didn't do myself. I didn't know until yesterday that the Provo Woolen Mills were again making cloth for suits and overcoats and I do not propose to buy any overcoats in the future except those made from the Knight Woolen Mills goods or some other Utah establishment which is making them. 

BUY HOME MADE GOODS 

I call upon the Latter-day Saints to buy home-made goods of every kind that they can possibly get here at home. In other words, let cane sugar alone and buy some beet sugar. Some people think you can't make the finest kind of candy unless you have cane sugar. Well, I have been guilty of swapping sacks, you know, and lo and behold, Utah beet sugar in a cane sugar sack will "jell" all right, will make all kinds of candy; but cane sugar in a Utah beet sugar sack won't do any of these things. I had the same experience years ago with soap. As a young man I was agent for Franklin MacVeagh & Co.'s grocery house, of Chicago. The soapmaker employed by James A. Kirk & Co. had left that firm and MacVeagh & Co. secured his services and proceeded to make all the kinds and brands of soap which he had been making for his former firm. There was a good hired woman working for us who couldn't read English, but knew all the wrappers on the Kirk soap; and she insisted she couldn't create a lather on wash day. She couldn't wash clothes at all with the MacVeagh soap. But when I took the MacVeagh soap out and put in Kirk wrappers she declared it perfect; and when I took the Kirk soap and put it in MacVeagh wrappers the poor woman again insisted she couldn't lather with it. 

I say to the people, buy all things that you possibly can which are produced here at home. No section of the inter-mountain country has been hit so hard financially as ours — Utah and southern Idaho — because of the tremendous slump in the prices of the products of the soil and because of the great fall in live stock values. I was given a place of honor as state chairman and I esteemed the privilege of calling upon the people to subscribe for Liberty bonds. I went to California with Mr. Farnsworth, chairman of our state defense committee, and other loyal, patriotic, men, to discuss ways and means in connection with raising money for our government and as chairman of the Liberty Loan committee for Utah. I said to Mr. Lynch, then governor of the Federal Reserve Bank: "I pledge you the absolute loyalty of the people of Utah. I promise to put over any requirement, no matter how much it is, that is placed on the people of Utah, on one condition, and that is that you will give us a federal reserve branch in Salt Lake City. We haven't got the resources, we haven't the war activities, we haven't the money. But we have the loyalty, and if you will bring the bank there, we will borrow the money and we will do our share. The Bank organized a bank and they expected that five or six clerks, ten at the most, were all they would need for some time; and it was a little less than five months, as I remember it, when we were owing that branch bank, because of financial distress, between forty and fifty millions of dollars. We did our duty. Then since the slump came, inasmuch as it was all borrowed money, it is wearing the life out of us to pay the interest. I have conversed with men from San Franisco and they acknowledge that this inter-mountain country has been hit hardest because of difficulty in getting our products to market. Our distance from market creates a discrimination — not that I am blaming this all upon the freight rates, which are costing us heavily, being in some cases almost prohibitive. But if we have to suffer in having to pay so much to get our goods to far-away markets, if we are suffering more than most other sections in this respect, all the more reason to avail ourselves of the great relief and remedy that will come from our purchasing and using every single solitary article that can be made at home. Now, I am not getting any commission for talking home manufactured goods; but I feel that it is clearly for the people's financial benefit that they should support home-made goods to the fullest possible extent. 

CO-OPERATION ADVISED 

I have been much delighted with the splendid work that President Alonzo A. Hinckley is doing in trying to arrange for a co-operation so that our alfalfa, which is quarantined and cannot be shipped away, can be utilized by the people who have livestock to feed. I would rejoice if we could mature our livestock, quit killing the lambs and the breeding cattle, and arrange to feed our stock here at home. I commend all the co-operative work in this direction that is going on, and hope that the farmer and the stockraiser can get together and use up all the hay and other products of the soil for the feeding of our own stock instead of carrying these products over for another year. As an illustration of the imposition in being obliged to pay so much for mutton, I ordered a couple of muttonchops — 80 cents — during my recent trip east; and while I haven't such a fearfully large mouth, I honestly believe I could have taken one of them entire in just one bite, if I had cut the meat off the bone— two bites — forty cents a bite. On other occasions, I ordered and paid for chops which I am sure I could have got in my mouth without the least trouble in the world, in two bites to a chop— twenty cents a bite. Now, when you think of the stock-raiser having to sell his ewe lambs and getting about five cents a pound, it will be evident that the time has come when we need a little co-operation between the man who is running the restaurant, the man who is running the meat shop, the man who has hay and grain, and the man who has got mutton for sale. Perhaps some of us then could raise enough money so that instead of getting two bites for eighty cents, we might get three chops for a meal instead of two and get them for thirty or forty cents. 

CHARITY ENJOINED 

We want to try to get back to first principles, and to co-operate to carry out that second great commandment. The first is to love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our might, mind and strength; and the second is like unto it, to love our neighbor as ourselves. Let us be charitable in these hard times. Let us not oppress our brothers who may be owing us a little, if we can possibly avoid it. Let us be hopeful and cheerful and happy. Why, we are in a magnificent condition in comparison with the time when the crickets were destroying the crops of our fathers and mothers. We are in a magnificent condition in comparison with the early days when people went around bare-footed, when they had one suit of clothes, when they had one pound of butter in a whole year, as some of us did in our houses. Let us study economy, let us be kind and charitable, and above all, let us serve God with full purpose of heart, be honest in our tithes and offerings, liberal in doing these things with our means that shall be for the benefit and uplift of God's kingdom. May the Lord bless us and pour out his Spirit abundantly upon us during this conference is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
