15
Morning
07 10 1921
Elder Nephi Jensen 
(couldn't find speaker ID from google doc)
60-61

None

None

With all my heart I am thankful for membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am thankful that I know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is in this Church. I am thankful that I have had the privilege of telling, in a humble way, some of the children of men of the great things which God has wrought in our day and time. I sincerely pray in my heart that I shall always have the strength and the desire to do my part in proclaiming the knowledge of these great things to the children of men. 

I have had occasion, frequently, while laboring in the Canadian Mission, to discover the marks of truth in the gospel which we teach. Jesus said, "I came not to bring peace but a sword." Carlyle stated the same idea in the terse phrase, "Every fact is a battle." The greater the fact, the greater the battle. Truth is the greatest fact in the world. I have noticed that the truth that we teach does have the characteristics of a battle. Just a few weeks ago a very intelligent gentleman in the city of Toronto visited three street meetings upon the same evening. These three meetings were all being conducted at the same time. In two of them bitter attacks were being made upon the Latter-day Saints. The other meeting was being conducted by our elders. The gentleman visited the two anti-"Mormon" meetings and then finally came to the meeting in which our elders were preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. He remained at this meeting to the close. At the conclusion of the service, he approached one of the elders and told of his attendance at the other two meetings and asked the question, "Are the 'Mormons' the only people in the world?" Well, I hardly think that the Mormons are the only people in the world, but I am quite sure that they have the only religion in the world that has substance enough in it to keep the devil awake at nights. 

I have had occasion to witness the purifying and ennobling power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Some months ago a young man came to our mission. He was a graduate of the University of Utah. In the course of our conversation I asked him how he was going to maintain himself in the field and he said, "I have been teaching school for four years and I have saved a little money. I am going to spend this money in maintaining myself in the mission field." That remark is one of the most eloquent sermons I have ever heard. It is also one of the best testimonies of the divinity of the gospel of Jesus Christ I have ever heard. 

I have also had occasion to notice the greatness and generosity of the Saints at home, in maintaining their sons and daughters upon the firing line of truth. A few days ago one of my companions came to me regarding his release. In the course of our conversation he said, "I have just received a letter from my father, in which he writes: 'It is hard to get money at the present time. I have kept five sons in the mission field, but I don't want you to think about coming homle until you receive an honorable release.'" 

I recall another letter which was received from a good mother in Israel, who had reared ten children. This letter was written to a sister of one of our missionaries. The good mother wrote his sister, "I would rather take in washing every day to keep my son in the field, than to think of his coming home until he has completed his mission." 

I want you to know that I treasure the memory of these things above the price of rubies. They testify of great souls, of souls that have been made pure and great by the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. With all my heart I am thankful for my membership in the Church that produces this kind of souls. I am thankful for the testimony of the truth which God has written upon my heart by the fire of the Holy Ghost. I know that this is the kingdom of the living God. I know that there is in this Church the power and the Priesthood of God. I know that there is in this Church the riches of God's truth and God's wisdom. I do know that Heber J. Grant is a Prophet of God. The promise which he sealed upon my head when I was set apart for my last mission has been fulfilled — a promise which no human power could make come true. 

My brothers and my sisters, let us remember who we are and what our mission is in the world, and let us humbly and faithfully do our part, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.