19
Afternoon
07 10 1921
Nicholas G. Smith 
197
68-71

None

None

What an inspiration it is to look upon this sea of faces, of people who have lived the gospel and who are striving to live it. What a joy it is, I say, to be here in your midst. I come as a foreigner. For eight years I have been in the South African mission. I remember when I was called to go there some of my friends said: "O, get it changed. Don't go down among the heathen," and I said to them: "But who am I that I can have my mission changed? I believe that the authorities of this Church are men called of God, and if they ask us to do anything it is from God himself, and who am I that I can tell the Lord that he does not want me in South Africa? These men who preside over the Church are God's servants and when they speak to us they speak with authority: and we have no right to suggest to them, or to the Lord, that he does not know where he wants us. Wonderful has been the manifestations of the Lord shown to me in that land. They said I was going down there among the heathen. How surprised I was to find out the laws and rules under which they live! When I came home I discovered that in some respects we are following in the footsteps of the heathen. I found when we landed in New York, that we wore just about as many clothes as the heathen did in South Africa (Laughter). They have some other customs that would be well for us to copy after, as well as this custom. They have a rule or law down there which compels all the stores to close down one-half day each week; and upon that half-day the populace go out, and they have their sports and their games. They have another law which compels every store, even the drug stores, to close upon the Sabbath day — down amongst the heathen, if you please; and there are no moving pictures there upon the Sabbath day. Why, I was preaching in one of the wards one evening when an ice-cream wagon came along, clanging its bell, and some of the folks went out and bought a cone — I suppose to keep themselves awake until I finished talking. But these things are not right to my mind — speaking as a foreigner, as one of the members of the Church who comes from a foreign country to Zion, to learn of uplifting laws and ways; why can't we, Latter-day Saints, see to it that the Sabbath clay is honored and respected in our midst? Why, the law should go out of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Then why do we not have these rules in our own places of residence — right here in Zion? Another law they have down there; no one can buy fire-arms in that country who has not a permit from the magistrate; so that only loyal citizens are enabled to secure fire-arms. I never heard of a hold-up in that country all the while I was there. Think of it. Here in Zion, every time I pick up a paper, I read of dozens of them. Why is it? We might well copy after some of the laws and rules that the heathen have. Let me tell you, down there they have good laws, for it is one of the dominions of the British Empire, and the people make their own laws. 

The Lord did not fail us in that mission, thank heaven. He sent a man down there in my place who is in very deed a servant of God, and now the way is opened up so more missionaries can go to South Africa. One of them has already arrived there, a young lad who went all the way to South Africa; he has been permitted to enter, and he is there now with President J. Wyley Sessions, who is presiding over that mission. And let me say to you, brethren and sisters, if you have a son who is called to that mission, rejoice in the fact, for he is down there with a man of God, and there is no better place to be in all the world. 

By way of closing I desire to bear my testimony to you, to show you all how the Lord takes care of his own. You remember in that awful October when the "flu" came over the earth, we had it down there. My mother wrote me from Salt Lake City and said: "Son, nearly one hundred people have died here during October." In return I answered and said: "O mother, if only one hundred had died in a day how happpy we would have been here; but it was one hundred, two hundred, three hundred, four hundred, five hundred in a day; and when a week had passed five thousand people had died in the city of Cape Town alone, which is about the size of Salt Lake City. When the second week had ended ten thousand people had been taken by the scourge." 

Think of it, brethren and sisters; and yet here we complain because one hundred had died in a month. During this time of death and desolation, it crept into the mission house. Out elders went down with the dread disease. Only one besides myself was left upon his feet — Elder Aaron U. Merrill, a grandson of the late Apostle Merrill, of Cache valley. I said to Elder Merrill: "Are you prepared to go with me to bless the people?" He said: "I will go, President." Mind you, we saw children dragging their parents' coffins along the street. But soon the coffins were all gone, and then we saw forty and fifty bodies wrapped in sack-cloth, placed upon motor trucks and taken off to the cemetery and thrown into trenches. Some of our friends we carried away in bread wagons, others in wheel barrows, others were carried away on the shoulders of men. Death and desolation all about us! When it came, there were fifty-seven members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who went down to their beds with this dread sickness. Elder Merrill and I went from door to door. Half of these people should have died, according to the rules of the game. The first door we came to we found a young woman, a girl, who had married a man outside the Church. We opened the door and walked in, because, mind you, people were unable to answer knocks. Some places they went into, they found as many as eight dead lying around in different rooms, some in the bed room, others out by the water, where they had been trying to get a drink, and where they had died. When this man saw us, he told us, in his delirium, to get out; but we refused. We got him on to the bed. We saw that he was dangerously ill. The doctor had been there just a little while before, and had said that both of them were dying. We administered to this young woman, according to the pattern which was set by our Lord and Savior, and which James tells us of; and the Lord raised her up. We went from house to house administering to the members of the Church who were sick with that dread disease, and the Lord raised up every one of them. Not one Latter-day Saint died in the city of Cape Town. One of the elders, Elder Charles Elmer Sessions from Kimberly, wrote to me and said: "President, the Lord has not refused to acknowledge a single one administration." Think of it, brethren and sisters. Why, we have God with us here, here in Zion. We have the Priesthood here. The miracles are not to be read about in only the scriptures. Christ did not perform the last one, nor his apostles; but he said that greater things than he did should we do; and we have that power here with us. Let us exercise our faith, to the end that we might raise even the dead; because I testify to you that I have seen the dead raised. God bless us here in Zion, help us to live the gospel and to follow in the foot-steps and take the advice of the leaders of this Church, is my prayer, in Jesus' name. Amen.
