26
Morning
08 10 1921
Charles W. Nibley 
24
87-90

None

None

Well may we sing "Providence is over all." Who is there that can doubt that the hand of Providence governs and directs in the affairs of this great Nation of which we form a part? Is there any one of us who can doubt that the hand of the Lord is over all the nations of the earth, that they all are his children, and that he has care for them all? Is there any one of us who has any doubt, looking at this vast congregation, that the Lord is with us? The incentive, the motive, that brings these semi-annual gatherings, is a testimony, an evidence to us that the Lord is still with his people. It has been remarked during this conference that there never was a time when there was more evidence of the Spirit of the Lord in the hearts of the people in respect to matters spiritual — temple work, priesthood work, the desire to perform the labors that the priesthood are called upon to perform — than there is now among the people. The Lord is operating through his Spirit in the hearts of this body of priesthood, the priesthood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in a most marvelous manner. Truly, I thought, as I came into this building this morning: "This is a marvelous work." It is a wonder to me to see this large body of men; for, where we go in Church association, and congregations generally, outside of this Church, the great majority, so far as I have been able to observe, are women who take a most active part— and the Lord blesses them for doing it — but here we have not only our sisters, who take a most wonderful and splendid part in the activities of the Church, but we have such a crowd of men here, good men, able men, men who want to do right, men who are doing right, clean men, and trying to keep the commandments of the Lord. It is wonderful to me. How does it all come about? Whose power is it that does this, that accomplishes this? Is it the power of man? No, it is the power of the Almighty God, the power that resides in the priesthood of the Church. The power of the Lord has truly always been over the nation. The nations are in his hands. When he undertakes to break down this power or the other, it is easy for him to do it. When he with-draws his spirit from the children of men they are left to themselves, and we see it. We can go through history and see instances, repeatedly, where the people have been left to themselves, through their wickedness, and they have gone into unbelief and darkness, and have dwindled away. He says in the revelations, in the last days, that he would finally withdraw his spirit from the people of the world if they did not repent and follow him. And woe be unto the people when that Spirit, which overrules for good, has been withdrawn from them, for that is the life-giving power. It is that Spirit that formed this government and gave us our Constitution. The Lord raised up wise men, he said, wise men for that very purpose. It was the Spirit of the Lord, making for liberty, that operated in the heart of a Martin Luther, of an Oliver Cromwell, and men of that character, who received a great portion of the Spirit of the Lord to direct them in their efforts; and Providence was over all. 

The Lord has operated through them but in this body of priesthood he has told us that he would give unto us more power, the power of Priesthood, more power than he had given to men who are not ordained to this Priesthood. What is this power, what is this influence that causes them to operate in their activities in the Church in the way that they do, so that for one thing they have not a beggar — not a beggar in all the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, so far as we know, in any part of the world, certainly not one here in Zion; that is something to he noted — What is it that causes these sisters to sacrifice as they do of their time and of their means, to give their efforts for the betterment of their neighbors and their friends, for the uplifting of the people? It is the power and spirit of the Priesthood which they partake of; for, let it be said that while our sisters are not ordained to the Priesthood, yet we might just as well remember, we lords of creation, that we never can attain to exaltation in the Kingdom of God, not one of us, without our wives. It does not matter whether he is a president of the Church or what office he holds, or how great his Priesthood or calling: "The man is not without the woman in the Lord," in the Church, in the Kingdom of God. He can't be redeemed or exalted in the presence of God without his wife; so they partake of this honor, of this majesty, this power in this wonderful organization. Nothing like it, nothing can be thought of like it in the world, where there is such a union, men and women operating together, everyone members of the Church, everyone having a voice and a vote — the most democratic organization in all the world because everyone has that power: and, let me say, while the hand of the Lord is over all the nations of the world, yet the special power and the evidence of it that he would give to this people, and something more than he had ever given to any other people, is before us. 

I read from the 84th Section of the Doctrine of Covenants: "And this greater Priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God;" and this is life eternal, to know him, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom he hast sent. "And this greater Priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God. Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest and without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the Priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh." That is the word of the Lord. That is what we have. That is what the Lord has given us. I do not need to ask Latter-day Saints, which is the way? They are not groping blindly for the way of life, for the path that leadeth to eternal life. They have found it. They know it. They have it. In the world, where they have not this knowledge of God, nor the key of it, nor the power that goes with it, they are more or less groping for the way. They have lost the way; they are feeling their way, doing good, no doubt, many, many millions trying to do good, and will do good, seeking the way of life, and yet, sometimes, when the truth is placed before even those who are good people and doing good, as was remarked here the other day, they cannot accept it because the sacrifice seems too great. 

But this is certain, everyone that seeketh, findeth; "If you truly seek, ye shall surely find." The Lord has decreed it, and, as we are told in the Book of Mormon, there is a promise held out, that if you seek with real intent, with an earnest desire to know of the truth, you can find it; and no man or woman who has ever put that matter to the test but what has been able to come to a realization and finally to a knowledge that this is the work of God, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in very deed. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I testify of it. I know that the power of godliness, as I have read here from this book, is manifested in this Church, and without this Priesthood, and without the ordinances of the gospel, and the authority of it, the power of godliness is not manifest to men in the flesh, and never will be. It is something to be proud of and to rejoice over. I bear testimony to you once again that the Lord is at the head, the Lord our God is giving direction and guidance to this Church and people, through his appointed servants whom he has called, whom he has brought to their present positions. They did not do it themselves, not by a long way, nor would they for a moment attempt to claim it. They never did and never will; but the Lord has done it. It is marvelous in our sight. It is a wonder how he operates and guides and directs in all the activities of the Church. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, in this work. God bless our liberty-loving nation. It stands for liberty, after all. God bless every influence and power in every church, in every association, in every organization in the world, that makes for liberty and righteousness, peace on earth and good-will to all men. May the Lord help them, too; but in this Church, in this organization, where He acknowledges this Priesthood, this special gift, this special power, where the power of godliness is manifested through it; and without it— so says the Lord, not I — the Lord says that without this Priesthood and the ordinances that go with it, the ordinances of the gospel, the power of godliness is not manifest to men in the flesh. Amen.
