30
Morning
08 10 1921
Melvin J. Ballard 
1
96-103

None

Missionary Work

One of the great responsibilities which rests upon the priesthood of this church is to carry the message of the gospel to the nations of the earth. Considerable emphasis has already been placed upon the subject by the President, in his opening remarks, and by other brethren. Since my heart is in this work, I desire to bear testimony of the great value of the missionary labor, the blessings and benefits derived therefrom and the absolute need of its being carried forward in the world today. 

IMPORTANCE OF MISSIONARY WORK. 

Since some of the brethren, who are in charge of the missions, feel that Latter-day Saints need to be stirred up with a renewed determination, not only to send the missionaries into the field, but to maintain them while they are there, I wish to endorse their plea. I feel impressed, my brethren and sisters, that the days are numbered when we may be permitted to send our missionaries unto the Gentile nations of the earth. The Lord has indicated in the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that there was to be a dispensation of the preaching of the gospel to the Gentiles and that the day will come when their period, the times of the Gentiles, shall close. Since we have discovered, by the reports of the missionaries that there has been a marked increase this present year in baptisms, it surely should be an incentive, on the part of Latter-day Saints, to send the laborers, while the day lasts, into the vineyard where truly the harvest still appears to be great and the laborers are few. I hope and pray, therefore, that we shall not fail, and I know we shall not, in discharging the duty which devolves upon us toward the nations of the earth in this respect. For this gospel was not delivered to the Latter-day Saints for us alone; it was sacredly entrusted into our hands for ourselves and to preserve it for the whole world. There never has been a time, since the missionaries began to preach this gospel, when we have forgotten this obligation. Always there have been men worthy and willing to go. We have seen days that were more trying than these, and still there were missionaries provided. We have seen days when there were many things to lure this people away from missionary work, but still the hearts of our people have not been turned from the great labor which God has given to this Church, of carrying this gospel to the nations of the earth. There were days when the gold fever swept the whole country, and our people were nearest to the point of interest, still they were not deterred from this great responsibility by the allurements of gold. Our missonaries met those gold seekers as they pushed their handcarts across the plains, to carry the message of the gospel to the children of men. Surely we have acted as if we believed what we said, namely, that these are the last days, the days of God's judgments, that they now hang over the nations of the earth, and we alone know the means of escape. Men of Israel, we have been sent to inform all men to flee from the wrath that is to come and to find salvation in this world as well as salvation in the world to come. 

THE SAINTS HAVE ALWAYS PROVED TRUE TO MISSIONARY OBLIGATIONS. 

While this has not been altogether a pleasant message to deliver, nevertheless, our brethren have been true, and by thousands have delivered it faithfully and acceptably to the Lord. Using President Ivins' illustration, we have acted as if we realized the seriousness of the situation. For if there is a possibility of the head-gates coming out and the floods coming in on the people; if there is a possibility that the dam above the valley might break and the people in the valley be engulfed in the on-rushing water, what would we do? If we knew the danger, or if we saw this peril to men, from afar, or other calamities that might come upon them and we knew about it, would we peacefully find a place of security ourselves and watch while their calamity came? No, we would exert ourselves to warn men to flee from the danger. And this is the spirit that has actuated those warnings that have been uttered by the brethren who have spoken at this conference; this is the spirit that accompanies our missionaries who go into the world and cry repentance to this generation, warning them to flee from the wrath that is to come. But, since they do not see it, we who see and know it, with all the earnestness of our souls, we must proclaim repentance unto this generation. Some have repented, but the majority have not. 

DISPENSATION OF PREACHING TO THE GENTILES DRAWING TO A CLOSE. 

Thank the Lord that the day of their repentance is yet extended, but it shall not be extended forever, because we are drawing to the close of that dispensation when the gospel shall be preached to the Gentile nations, and the wheat is being gathered. Thank the Lord there is still some wheat, and as long as the days last, my brethren, we are to thrust in our sickles and reap, and send forth men to discharge this great duty and responsibility; for, when the day cometh that the calamities that are spoken of shall be poured out upon the nations of the earth, let us have no regret that we failed to discharge our duty. Do we rejoice at the prospects of chastisements that shall be ministered to men who do not repent? No, we do not. In my heart I know — and I speak for you, my brethren — we do not feel just exactly as Jonah did, who when he prophesied of judgments upon the people, if they did not repent, and when the judgments of the Lord were averted, through the repentance of men, he felt bad because his prophecies had not been fulfilled. No, I would rejoice with all my soul if these things that await the nations of the earth could only be averted. I would be happy; for do we not love the souls of the children of men? I have spent thirteen years of my life in missionary services and all of you who have spent years of your life out there in the service of our fellow men — walking in the rain, or in sunshine, in the mud and in the cold, because we love their souls — which we could not have done without begetting love for them. And if it were in our power to change the conditions we would do it; but we cannot; even God himself cannot change the conditions that will result, except men repent. If they repent, then they shall escape; but if they repent not, then they shall taste of these things that are coming. 

LET US ROUND UP OUR SHOULDERS TO OUR DUTY, WHILE THE DAY LASTS. 

In the meantime, while the day lasts, let us round up our shoulders and discharge that duty, out of love for those who are yet in darkness and yet in the world without the knowledge of this truth; that they may come to Zion and rejoice with us, and that we may have our garments clear of the blood of this generation, and that our heavenly Father may be justified in that which he shall cause to come upon the unrepentant and the wicked. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I feel sure that after the appeals that have been made, we will gather our strength and send it forth to continue to discharge this great responsibility; and those who do not have sons in the field will lend a helping hand to those who do, that the boys who have not means shall not be under the necessity of coming home, but that the bishops, as suggested, shall call for help and support and strength at home. There is no greater work devolving upon the Church than the preaching of the gospel while these precious days last. Let us not falter nor hesitate, but go forward and be justified. 

OUR DUTY TO THE GATHERED SAINTS. 

The other great responsibility that rests upon the priesthood of this Church, and all the members of the Church, is that we shall sanctify ourselves and our sons and daughters, and preserve that which the Lord has given us; so that we may establish here a people who shall be an ensign and a pattern, an example to the world, as well as to prepare the people for the coming of the Redeemer to live among men in the flesh. 

I wish to read a few words from the 105th section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

Verily I say unto you who have assembled yourselves together that you may learn my will concerning the redemption of mine afflicted people. 

Behold, I say unto you, were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the Church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now; 

But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, but are full of all manner of evil, and do not impart of their substance, as becometh Saints, to the poor and afflicted among them, 

And are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom; 

And Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom, otherwise I cannot receive her unto myself; and my people must needs be chastened until they learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer. 

THE GOSPEL THE KEY TO SOLVE THE WORLD'S VEXING PROBLEMS. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice that, notwithstanding we are in the midst of these chastisements — not because, perhaps, of any deliberate wickedness on the part of the people but because many of us have heard the warning voice of the shepherd of Israel, but have not heeded that warning voice, I want to say to you that there is no plan devised for the solution of these vexing problems that are now before us and before the world; there is no plan devised that shall succeed, except the plan that our God has given to this people. In the restoration of the everlasting gospel there was given and committed to man in this dispensation every means, key, principle and power to solve each and every vexing problem that now distresses the world. We have been given those principles, and, thank the Lord we are making some progress toward their solution. I rejoice, notwithstanding we are occasionally in need of chastisement, that we are not going to fail. I know that. You will read that in the days of Daniel, he, looking down through all the ages following his own day, saw the rise of the kingdoms of the world and their dissolution, until he saw, in these the last days, the kingdom of God being established, as a stone cut out of the mountain without hands. 

GOD'S WORK WILL NOT FAIL, NOR BE GIVEN TO ANOTHER PEOPLE. 

In connection with the rise of that great work of our Father in the last days, he declared a new thing, a thing that never was declared to any other dispensation from the days of Father Adam, namely, that the work of God in that day should not fail; it should not be overcome; neither shall it be left to another people. Two wonderful promises. I recognize that in the dispensations that have preceded our own, men have hoped and dreamed that there would be established in might and power, the work of God but in sorrow they had to see the power of evil triumph in the world. But that shall never be repeated again, for this work has been established to roll forth, and it shall not fail. You may fail; I may fail, but this shall not fail. I rejoice to know that, while some of us may falter and hesitate, this people shall not be rejected. The Lord said to Daniel that the work should not go to another people; and the Lord has indicated that in a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. You find it in the closing two verses of the ninetieth section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

ZION SHALL NOT BE MOVED OUT OF HER PLACE. 

But verily I say unto you, that I, the Lord, will contend with Zion, and plead with her strong ones, and chasten her until she overcomes and is clean before me; 

For she shall not be removed out of her place; I, the Lord, have spoken it. 

That kind of a promise entails the necessity of chastisement, when we need to be chastened and corrected and brought to a condition of repentance. I recognize that the Lord cannot fulfil his work nor accomplish his purposes without our willing obedience. He will not use this people unless we are willing to be used; but he has means of correcting, he has means of chastisement, which he will apply from time to time, and the only thing that impedes our progress today is our own lack of willingness to follow the counsel of those whom God has appointed to lead this people, because of the imagination of our hearts that we are wiser than they are. 

AN APPEAL TO FOLLOW THE COUNSEL OF OUR LEADERS. 

I want to make an appeal to the brethren and sisters of the Church and to the priesthood of the Church who lead in the wards and stakes of Zion, that we shall rally to those whom God has appointed to lead this people. What brings success? Doing the right thing at the right time. What will relieve this people of their present difficulties? Following the counsel of those men who have been appointed, in the wards and the stakes of Zion, to lead this people, not only in spiritual matters, but in material things as well. We do not wish that these brethren shall be appointed dictators or directors, but they are there for counsel and advice. I know that there are brethren who think that they know more than the bishop of the ward, and they would not go to him to counsel with him concerning their material things; nor would they go to the president of the stake or even to the president of the Church. But I want to tell you there is a wisdom and an inspiration resting with these men, who have been called to be leaders of the people, that is greater than the wisdom of men who may think they know very much more, but who, nevertheless, will discover that these are the days when the wisdom of the wise shall perish and the understanding of the prudent be hid. The light, the wisdom and the revelations of the Lord come to his humble servants to counsel and advise this people, and it will lead them to victory, as it has done in the past — to success in material things as well as in spiritual things. 

ASK THE LORD FOR COUNSEL. 

I ask my brethren and sisters to be more diligent with reference to seeking for proper guidance and direction in material things. When you do not know what to do, study it out in your mind. You get the key in the ninth section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, which is applicable to these circumstances, and also to the affairs of life with which we are concerned. Go and study it out, and when you reach your conclusion, if you are not clear in your mind as to the thing you want to do, go and ask the Lord before you do it, as to whether it is right. If it is right, he will cause your bosom to burn within you, and you will know whether it is right. If you do not have that feeling, but only a stupor of thought, and there is uncertainty about it, turn away from that thing. Be sure you are right and then go ahead; and we can't be sure we are right until we receive the witness from the Lord, that it is the proper thing to do. I bear testimony to you that the Lord is concerned in the material prosperity of this people. 

THE BASIS OF MATERIAL BLESSINGS. 

God will never give this people that which will turn them from him. Whenever he sees that in our increase in the things of this world there is danger that our hearts will be turned away, he knows how to shrink that prosperity and bring us just where he wants us. He will continue to do that until we are willing to be led; and when the people are willing to follow those whom God has appointed to lead them, and they will serve him, pay their honest tithing, and keep his commandments, I will tell you there are blessings of a material character beyond anything we have ever conceived of, that the Lord could give this people immediately if he desired. O, I have faith in him. There will come tight times, yes, and days of peril. I think it is a blessing that the granaries and the barns are full. Do not complain about it. Brethren, do not be disturbed over it. It may be possible that even in this the Lord has a plan and a purpose, for, O, how much worse our condition Would be if our banks were full of money and our barns were empty and our granaries were vacant. There are coming days of trial. There are coming days of famine, and the world shall feel the pang of hunger beyond that which they feel today; but even today, there are millions in Russia and in China, notwithstanding the world is full of abundance, who are suffering the pangs of hunger. There is coming a day when the crops shall be destroyed by a hail storm; and how easy to deluge the whole world in famine! Let this people keep a surplus of their foodstuffs, both for man and beasts, and it will be profitable to them. One good season may liquidate our material obligations, if we will be wise and prudent, and listen to the counsel of the brethren. Let us be economical and save, and pay our tithes. In this time when we are tempted to take everything we have to meet our other obligations, let us not forget the obligations which we owe to the Lord, if we want to be vindicated. I will tell you, as the Lord God lives, if this people will turn to the Lord and serve him, cease our extravagance, pay our tithes, and humble ourselves, we will see deliverance, and we will not come into bondage nor into difficulties; and there is no other way out of it that I know anything about. I rejoice to know that we have men who can stand as watchmen upon the towers of Zion. and call our attention to these things. 

THE DANGER OF IMMORALITY. 

In conclusion let me make an appeal to you concerning another thing. Not only is there sweeping over the world distress of a financial character, waves that are deluging people in distress, in debt and in obligations, but there is another thing that is more serious. I would that this was the only thing that was afflicting us and the only thing that is imminent in the world. Far more precious to us than our houses and our lands and our fields are our sons and daughters, and the evil one has conspired to capture them. He is not so much concerned about getting our farms and fields, but O, more precious than all these things are our sons and daughters! Sweeping over the world are waves of immorality, for the standards of the world have broken down, and these dangers are all about us. Shall we stand when this tide comes upon us? I believe we shall; and yet, as a watchman upon the towers of Zion, I call you, my brethren, to watch, to work, to pray, and to guard the flocks over whom God hath made you overseers, that the insidious influence of evil, if it comes in to seek to corrupt the morals of this people, shall not have power to succeed, but that we shall live up to the standards under which I was raised, and you were raised, that we shall teach our sons and daughters that next to murder itself, is the crime of sexual impurity. We have that standard. We expect the boy to be just as clean and as pure as the girl whom he marries, to be his wife and the mother of his children. We have been preserved and protected up to this time by living up to these standards. Let us not lessen the requirements, not a bit; but emphasize them, and fortify our boys and girls against that which is conspiring against them. If they shall succeed in preserving themselves, during these perilous times, and come out clean and uncontaminated, I will tell you that their praise will be sung; yes, by more people and in louder acclaim than the praises of our fathers who subdued the desert and made it blossom as the rose. Good is coming to Zion. While she has her days of chastisement, repentance will come; we will not be forsaken by the Lord, if we will not forsake him, and may God grant that we shall not. Let us all go home resolved more nearly to serve him and keep his commandments, and then, I will promise you, all shall be well with Zion and her people, which may God grant, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
