37
Second Overflow
08 10 1921 
Joseph R. Shepherd 
76
129-133

None

Temples, Marriage

This is certainly a glorious morning. All nature is smiling upon us. The Spirit of the Lord is with us and has been with us in our conference, and will continue until its close. 

I have been thinking, as I have been sitting here this morning, of the words of the prophet wherein he said: 

And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. 

Surely we have here a fulfilment of this prophecy, for I doubt not that if I were to ask how many nations were represented here this morning, even in this overflow meeting we would find representatives from nearly every nation under the sun. We would find either those who have been gathered from the nations of the earth themselves, or we would find their sons or their daughters, or grandsons or granddaughters here. 

The thought that came to me in connection with this prophecy was, what a mighty responsibility rests upon this people who have gathered here, my brethren and sisters, for a specific purpose. The blood of Israel has been gathered from the nations where it has been scattered. This is the day of gathering-in of the house of Israel; and the gathering in the tops of these mountains is for the purpose that we may learn more fully the ways of the Lord and that we may be able to walk in the path that the Lord would have us walk. 

And I have been wondering whether the younger generation, the sons and daughters of the fathers and mothers who have heeded the call of the Lord through his servants, have within them the same degree of faith and a desire to carry on his work, for which their fathers and their mothers have been gathered. Are we becoming careless in regard to these things? Are we forgetting the mission to which we have been called as a people? Are we observing the commandments of God, and are we doing those things that the Lord desires to have done through the gathering of Israel? 

In the hymn that we have just sung is one of the purposes for which this people has been gathered in this day and to these parts: that we might erect temples and participate in the sacred ordinances of the house of God. The hearts of our fathers and our mothers, when they crossed the plains, notwithstanding the arduous journey that they undertook, were filled with joy in contemplation of the very thing of which the prophet spoke, that they should come here unmolested, and that they might here serve God according to the dictates of their conscience; and further, that they might establish themselves here and build temples to the name of the God of Jacob. As the hymn says, we are here that we may be saved, and also become saviors to those who were not permitted to enjoy these blessings. 

The gathering of the blood of Israel from the nations of the earth is a very important part of the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The blood of Israel has been mixed among all the gentile nations, and it is in the providence of our heavenly Father that in the last days they shall be gathered together; and we are here, my brethren and sisters, and should see to it that the spirit of scattering does not enter into our souls. 

Growing up, we have a large number of young men and young women, whose greatest desire should be to enter into the temples that have been erected, and there enter into solemn covenant with their heavenly Father to serve him and to obey his laws and to assist in the establishment of Israel in this land. I have thought many times of the advice given to our young people concerning making alliances with those who are not of the same faith, — not that we have any quarrel with our neighbors, not at all; not that there are not just as good people, so far as they understand things, outside of the Church as inside, — but, my brethren and sisters, this is a day of gathering and concentrating the blood of Israel. And, now that we have gathered out of the nations, let it be known that our sons and daughters, who are of the blood of Israel, should ally themselves together, when the time comes to enter the sacred relationship of husband and wife. It is displeasing in the sight of our heavenly Father that by our acts we should nullify, in effect, the very purpose for which we have gathered here. 

I have been impressed concerning this thing. We should seek to gather the blood of Israel; we should seek to intensify the blood of Israel in our posterity. And how can that be done? By those who are of the blood of Israel allying themselves together in this sacred relationship. And then, as generations shall come and go, can you not see how the preponderance of the blood of Israel will come? It is a gathering, my brethren and sisters. 

I wonder if some of our parents who have given their lives in the establishment of their children in this favored land, would not be greatly disappointed if they found that their boys and girls were forgetting one of the great purposes for which they have gathered, and that they, like old Israel, are seeking after strange gods. From the beginning of time it was the will of God that those who entered into covenant with him to keep his laws and commandments, should only ally themselves with those of the opposite sex who similarly entered into covenant with him. We read right in the beginning, that one of the chief reasons why the curse of God was poured upon the people, why God became displeased, was because the sons of God looked upon the daughters of men and took them as their wives, as they pleased. Now, this is plain; we should understand it. Who were the sons of God? They were the ones who entered into covenant with him and who received of his commandments and acknowledged him as their Father and God. And who were the daughters of men? Those who had no faith in God and rejected him and his laws and his counsels. And it displeased the Father that there should be an amalgamation of these two opposing powers or factors; and from that time to the present, that commandment has been to Israel, and it is the law of God to Israel today. There are plenty to select from; look at the hosts of Israel as they are gathered together. We need not enter into this most sacred relationship with those who have not similar faith and ambition and desires. It will never be productive of good. I have heard presidents of the Church, for years, say — and their advice was not only to Latter-day Saints but to other people — that it was not good that those who have opposing ambitions and views and faiths try to amalgamate together as husband and wife, because it will not work out. Either they will lose faith and disregard the faith that they have, or else there will be eternal trouble. 

I believe this a matter of great importance, my brethren and sisters, and I speak to you as parents, and I speak to you as young men and as young women; if your young people want happiness, peace, and the fullest joy in this life and the life which is to come, let them remember the advice and counsel that God has given his people, and in their selections, let them make selections of husband or wife from those who have the same faith and ideals, and ambitions, and who are journeying toward the same goal. This subject of marriage, my brethren and sisters, is more important than some people think; it means more. It is the laying of the foundation for eternal glory and happiness in the celestial kingdom of God, if entered into with the proper spirit and with the proper understanding of that sacred relationship. What a sorrowful thing it is to know that there is such a large percentage yet of the sons and daughters of these pioneers, who came here and gave their all for the gospel's sake, that nearly one half of them reject the opportunity granted to them of entering into this sacred relationship, which God ordained in the way that he did. 

I said we came here to build temples. One of the ordinances of the house of God is the solemnizing of this sacred relationship. And how blessed are those who have been born under the covenant, that they, having a high regard for the faith of their fathers and for their own faith, go to the house of God and there are sealed to their husband or wife for time and for all eternity. What is more sad than when death comes into the family and the wife or the husband is stricken, than to realize then that the relationship that has meant so much to them is at an end. And it is at an end, my brethren and sisters, unless it has been solemnized by those who are authorized of God, and the couple have been sealed together for time and for all eternity. 

And let us remember, too, that now is the time; now is the accepted time. There are many who, for various reasons, which I have not time to discuss, refrain. They are those who have a kind of faith and a desire to do it, though not very strong, thinking, "O, that can be done sometime later on; we will leave this for someone else to do" or "we will do it when we get old." They procrastinate. It is dangerous, for let it be known, my brethren and sisters, that no man nor woman, will ever receive the same degree of glory in the world to come, who refuses and rejects to do the thing they may do in this life — I care not if the work is done for them by somebody else. 

I hope the Latter-day Saints understand that. Certainly we do work for the dead; but some people have an erroneous idea that those who refuse to do the work in this life, and for whom the work is done after they have passed away, are just as well off then; that is a mistake. The primary principle of vicarious work for the dead is to do for themselves. You know our Christian friends on the outside — we call them Christian, even if they do not call us Christian — have found fault with this doctrine of doing work for the dead, charging us with this that it is an encouragement for impenitence and of putting penitence off. That is not true; they do not understand what we believe in. Work may be done even for the sinner, but he will never receive the same degree of glory, as if he had done it himself. 

Now these are some of the things, my brethren and sisters, that I thought of this morning as I saw this great audience here, and as we sang this hymn concerning the gathering of Israel, and as we sang the hymn in the opening of the meeting of the travels of our parents and grandparents of this country. I thought "Why all this?" It was that we may enjoy the greater blessings of the gospel that are administered in the house of God. That is one of the chief reasons. And here we are living under the shadow of the temple of God. Will we, any of us, reject the opportunity that we have for receiving these blessings? I hope not. I am glad to say that so far as my personal experience goes, the spirit of the work is growing, and the testimonies of the divinity of the work are growing in the hearts of the people, and in proportion as our young people and our old people will go to the temple of God and receive the blessings administered to them there, it will give them additional testimony of the divinity of the work. Let us as sons and daughters of the noble pioneers who came here and left their all for the gospel's sake, be true to them, their memories, and their faith, and let us carry on the work that they expect of us. And may God's blessing be upon us to this end, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
