39
Second Overflow
08 10 1921 
Nicholas G. Smith 
197
137-140

None

None

My brethren and sisters and friends, I delight to testify to the goodness of God to me and to his people. I delight in having the opportunity of preaching the gospel. I love it. I love the people of this state. I love the "Mormon" people wherever they are, and I love all good people. Sometimes I think, when we are talking to ourselves and about ourselves, perhaps we laud ourselves a little too high. Speaking as a foreigner — for I may be counted as such since I have spent the last eight years of my life doing missionary work in the Union of South Africa — I can see a few things that look a little bit peculiar to me. Brother Lambert has just been telling you of some of our virtues, of how high we stand along educational and other lines; I picked up a Milwaukee paper not long ago, and it said that Utah was a wonderful state; they do lots of fine things in Utah, but that Utah is a pest house; they have more small pox than any other state in the Union. Now, stop having small pox! (Laughter) 

I was impressed with the remarks of President Shepherd concerning some of the ordinances of the gospel. What a joy it is to us Latter-day Saints when we hear people abuse us on account of our faith and some of the doctrine of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It has not been very long since one of the ministers, when they were gathered together here in a convention in this city, made the remark that the "Mormon" people stand today where they (the ministers, stood one hundred years ago, that they still cling to the errors of a hundred years ago. Brother B. H. Roberts, in speaking in the tabernacle in answer to the accusations on the following Sunday said, "Well, we are thankful the Lord said that was the trouble with mankind; they are in error." You will remember the words of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith, "They draw near to me with their mouths, and with their lips do honor me, but their hearts are far from me, and they teach the doctrines and commandments of men." They were in error; they did not acknowledge it then, but now we find them acknowledging it. 

They say we stand where they stood one hundred years ago. Is it true? From which one of them did we learn about this great temple work? From which sect, if you please, did we copy temple building? Was it from the Presbyterians, or from the Methodists? No; they did not tell us about the hope that we should have for those who have gone before. We did not copy it from any of them, did we? 

I remember down in South Africa, upon one occasion, I had been talking with a minister of the Church of England about the gospel, and this matter of salvation for the dead came up, and I told him our belief along these lines. "Why," he said, "that is blasphemy to think of such things, to teach that there is a hope after we are dead. You drive people away from the church. Do not talk such rot." I went into his church in the city of Ladysmith, and there were eleven of us present, counting the minister and myself! And we drive people away from the church! I said to him, "Come out to Salt Lake City, and I will take you into one building where ten thousand men and women are worshiping the true and living God, and yet you will tell us we drive them away from church by teaching that there is a hope for the dead." 

Think of it, my brethren and sisters, that tabernacle is full to overflowing with thousands and thousands of people, the Assembly Hall is overflowing, and here in the open air we have gathered together hundreds of people to worship God, and they would tell us we drive them away from the church because we teach the gospel of Jesus Christ. We teach that he is a loving Father, and it counts; it pays. Just think of condemning all his children who have not had the opportunity of accepting this gospel here! 

After the war had been going on for a few years, I had a Church of England minister say to me, "Well, there must be hope for the dead; when we think of our young boys who have gone to France and given up their lives, surely there must be an opportunity for them; there must be some hope for them." Why, of course, there is. Would our heavenly Father condemn all of these men, hundreds of thousands of them, who never cared a thing about Jesus Christ, who were careless, cared not for religion? Will God condemn them? The only answer one can give is "No." Then will he condemn the untold millions of others who have perished in the same way, or in other ways? Are they condemned? Of course not. It is not reasonable. That is not the sort of God that the "Mormons" want to believe in. And from which of these sects did we copy such ideas? From which of the sects did we copy the belief that God is a true and living God, has body, parts, and passions? Which one of them dares stand up and declare that we copied it from them? 

Which one of the sects dare say today that we copied the Word of Wisdom from them? I pray you, which one did we copy it from? And yet today we find it taking hold of other sects. One church has adopted it in toto. They do not eat meat, use coffee, or liquor, or tobacco, they have taken the word of wisdom over completely, and where did they get it? We did not copy it from them; no; it was given by God himself to his prophet. 

And so it is with many others of the beautiful principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Who taught us to believe in a preexistent state? And yet they are coming to that. Which one of them did we copy the law of tithing from? And yet they have found it of such importance that they sent a minister here to study the system, right here in Salt Lake City among the Latter-day Saints, to see whether it might be adopted by the Methodist Church. I had a Church of England minister tell me that he really believed that we must have a personal God, that he must be a God with body, parts and passions. They are beginning to come to it. We took it from none of them. We had it, we got it from God. It was revealed from him to his prophet here on earth. 

And, brethren and sisters, we who have these blessings, how we should value them, and how we should strive to live up to the gospel of Jesus Christ! Every blessing that existed in the days of old is ours. If we will have it we have but to cultivate our faith to that end. I tell you that I know that he has the power to raise the dead, to heal the leper, to cleanse all who are impure, if they will but listen to his purifying gospel and have faith in him. 

You think it was an exceptional miracle when, after crossing the sea, the Savior with his disciples came upon one who was a maniac, and cast the devils out of him, but it was not; it is something that is occuring all the times. It was my privilege, in company with Elder June B. Sharp, of this city, to go into an asylum down in the city of Cape Town, and there we found a woman insane, whose husband had heard of the Latter-day Saints and who had written and asked if we would visit her. We went there, and they told us that she was mad, and they took us into her presence, and we saw from her eyes that she was possessed, and I said to Elder Sharp, "She is possessed of an evil spirit; we will rebuke it." And we bowed our heads, and by virtue of the Holy Priesthood in us vested, we commanded that he come out of her and leave her. And from that instant, she was healed. We went away from the asylum, and a day or two later, Elder Sharp left for home. I was going down a week later to see how she was getting on. I met one of the nurses and she said, "Why, she has gone home; after you men were here the other day, she suddenly regained her senses, and after we watched her for about a week, we released her, and she has gone back up to her home." We heard no more about her for about six months, when one of our elders, traveling without purse or scrip, from Bloemfontein down to East London, stopped and held a cottage meeting in Queenstown, and a strange woman stood up in the cottage meeting and said, "I feel that I must bear my testimony to what these men have been saying. I tell you that I was mad, insane, and two of these men came into the insane asylum, and by the power which they said they had, they rebuked in the name of Jesus Christ the evil spirits which they declared possessed me, and from that instant I was another woman; I was cured absolutely." 

I know, my brethren and sisters, that God is watching over his people, but I wonder at times if we are reaching out to him. Why, our faith is right, we can have encircling that great temple before us a pillar of fire by night and a cloud by day, to be the wonder of all the people of the world who come here to this block to hear of "Mormonism" and the gospel of Jesus Christ. They do wonder when they come here. But if our faith is right, and if we will have it, I tell you we can place around that temple, a pillar of fire, which will cause the nations of the earth to look up and come here in millions to visit us, instead of in hundreds of thousands. Brethren and sisters, let us live the gospel of Jesus Christ. Let us do our part and support the authorities of the Church. And if we will live the gospel, as one of the apostles declared at our conference session the other day; if we live the gospel, we will not need to be worrying about debts; we will be out of debt. God help us to do it; God bless us each and every one, is my prayer. Amen.
