4
Morning
06 10 1921
Elder John M. Knight 
(couldn't find speaker ID from google doc)
23-24

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am very grateful for the privilege afforded me of bearing my testimony on this occasion. As President Grant was talking, I couldn't help but think of the words of one of our hymns: " We are not ashamed to own our Lord, and worship him on earth. We love to learn his holy word, and know what souls are worth." 

I am very happy in having the privilege of laboring in the ministry and of declaring the gospel of repentance to the people of the world. I am very happy that we have no compromise to make with them; that we are not ashamed of the message that we have to deliver to the people of the earth, that we really believe, with all our heart and soul, in the divine mission of Jesus Christ, that we have an abiding faith in him and in his ministry; that he was in reality the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, and that by and through him salvation and redemption shall come to all of God's children who are upon the earth. We are told in the scriptures that he that is ashamed of the Miaster, the Master would be ashamed of him. "Whosoever, therefore, shall be ashamed of me, and of my words, in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels." (Mark 8:38.) 

And I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that we are not ashamed of our God and of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world. I believe that the greatest mission the Latter-day Saints have is to proclaim that truth to the children of men here upon the earth. 

In the Western States mission we have been very fortunate this year in reaching a great many people who are interested in our message. They have listened to the testimony of the elders of Israel. The elders have taught unto them the plan of salvation. Hundreds have embraced the gospel. Many more than in years previous. We are happy in our work. We are glad to be engaged in its labor. 

I am glad that President Grant has referred to the fact that many of our young men who are laboring in the mission fields have been encouraged by people at home to believe that eighteen months, or thereabouts, constituted a full mission. Their friends at home have written and said that it was about time they returned. Some of the elders have reported to me that their friends have advised that, others having returned in so short a period, they too should return to their homes, and I am glad that President Grant has called this to the attention of the Latter-day Saints. Many of our young men are better prepared to preach at the expiration of eighteen months and do a great deal more good than they could prior to this time, and the last few months of their mission is of more worth to the cause than perhaps the first year of their experience. I rejoice that this word has gone forth to the Latter-day Saints, that our boys should remain in the service of the Master at least two years and from that to thirty months or three years, as the case may be. I was very happy to hear one of the presidents of the stakes say yesterday that a certain individual had come to him and asked that his son might be released, and wanted him to write a letter to that effect, and he said: "If you want the letter written, you would better write it yourself." If they would make a little extra effort the boy could remain and fill his mission. Our forces are very much depleted, my brethren and sisters. Many a young man has returned home, when I have felt in my heart that it was not a good thing for the young man, it was not a good thing for the cause; and with a little extra effort released missionaries could have remained and accomplished their labors and brought souls to a knowledge of the truth. 

I pray that the blessings of our Father may attend the Latter-day Saints, that they may have power to keep the commandments of God, and those who have sons and daughters laboring in the mission field, that the way may be opened and means provided that they can keep them there until they have accomplished a full and complete mission. 

May God help us to keep his commandments, all our days, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
