42
Third Overflow
08 10 1921
Benjamin Goddard
63
144-148

None

None

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may not only have your attention, but your faith and prayers. The last few days I have not been strong, but I feel that through your faith and supplications to the Lord he will aid me in performing this task that has been assigned to me. 

It is my privilege, day by day, to meet many thousands of people who are coming from all parts of the world; and while we sat in the tabernacle this morning, I observed some distinguished representatives from foreign countries. I watched them, as they gazed steadfastly over that vast congregation, and observed that they listened very intently to the inspiring remarks that were made by the speakers. I felt in my soul that they must have been impressed with the wonderful faith on the part of this people. They must have marveled at what they witnessed. 

I am convinced that there is more vitality in "Mormonism," more vigor and evidence of the rich outpouring of the Spirit of God, more demonstration of spiritual life than can be found among any other people that I know of. When our brethren spoke from the stand with such eloquence, such power, inspired as by the Spirit of God, I felt that those fervent testimonies were not merely demonstrations of the ordinary intelligence of man; but that their minds were quickened, their words were made eloquent, by the influence of the Spirit of Almighty God, and we had a spiritual feast. 

As I think upon this subject, I wonder if it occurs to any of our stranger friends, why there is so much vitality, so much inspiration in "Mormonism." I have thought of the wonderful revelations given to us of the Lord in the Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price, and Book of Mormon, I have begun to realize why there is this vitality, and why the Latter-day Saints ought to praise God that he has given unto us in these last days so many revelations of his will. I call the attention of the Latter-day Saints to this, and of course it is an old story. It is nevertheless true, and if in our family circles we could get our children around us a little more frequently, and tell them these old, old stories, it would do a wonderful amount of good. We ought to go back to Holy Writ, with regard to the labors of the Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and interprete his great mission for the benefit of our young people. We can testify also that we are living today in the dispensation of the fulness of times. Latter-day Saints realize that God has given to them many wonderful truths, and marvelous demonstrations of his power. 

We have taught to our children the actual manifestations of the Father and the Son to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared to that young man at the inception of this work. But we want to tell them the story, time and time again, in such a way that they will feel impressed with the truth of it, that they will realize that what we tell them we feel in our souls and believe it to be true. We remember the wonderful manifestations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith through the angel Moroni, of his appearing and giving to us, through that young prophet, this sacred record, the Book of Mormon. We realize how we have received the Aaronic Priesthood through the ministration of John the Baptist, and received the Melchizedek Priesthood through the ministrations of Peter, James, and John to the prophet Joseph Smith. And then as we tell the story of these wonderful events in Church history unto our children, they will realize that this is a "marvelous work and a wonder," established by remarkable revelations of God's power, and they certainly will realize that we have abiding faith in these things. I believe that Moroni, an ancient prophet who lived on this continent, appeared unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to this we are indebted for the Book of Mormon, the word of God containing the fulness of the gospel, and we are inspired by its teachings. 

I believe that that which is stated in the 13th section of the Doctrine and Covenants actually took place; that John the Baptist, who held the authority anciently, actually appeared before Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, and bestowed upon them the authority of the Aaronic Priesthood; and then, as recorded in section 27, Peter, James, and John came with the greater power, giving them the keys of that authority and bestowing upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood, we bear testimony to these truths, and we exhort our people to study these sacred volumes. God has done well for us. He has fulfilled his promise. He has caused his word to go forth with power unto the nations of the earth. He has blessed our elders who have labored in the various mission fields, and today upon the temple block there are tens of thousands who have been gathered from the nations (or their parents, perhaps), and have been brought to these beautiful valleys by the preaching of the gospel to the nations of the earth. Now all these things we believe in. You believe in them, I know, just as fervently as I do. But God has so blessed us, and so wonderfully inspired our prophets to give us demonstrations of his power, that it has placed upon us obligations greater than ever to him. He expects more from us than from any other people that ever lived in the wide world. 

In the days of the Savior very few were brought to the knowledge of the gospel. In this day thousands upon thousands have been brought to the knowledge of that same gospel and into the fold of his Church through the ministrations of humble elders going forth in weakness, and often unqualified for the labor, but they have had the authority of the Holy Priesthood and by virtue of that God has blessed their labors, and they have convinced the honest in heart and brought many to a knowledge of the truth; and now, in all the nations of the earth, they are saying, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths." By virtue of this, God's people have been gathered in this dispensation. 

Now, in view of these great blessings, what manner of men and women should we be? Should we not make our lives conform to the teaching of this great work? The strangers here, our neighbors surrounding us, know not the truths we believe in and what lives we are supposed to live. I wonder if by our consistent labor, by the righteousness of our conduct, we are bearing testimony, day by day, that we are really inspired of God? 

There comes to my mind one instance where wonderful results came from faithful and consistent living. I love our presiding officer here, Brother George Albert Smith, as I love very few men here on earth; but I loved his, father, I believe, as much as I can ever love him. Let me give you an instance in his life. Many years ago, in the early morning before many had eaten breakfast, several people came into the Bureau in almost a blustering manner, they evidently were, "hail fellows well met." One of them approaching me said, "Can you tell me if John Henry is in town?" Sometimes such familiarity with the names of our leaders is objectionable, but his manner was such that I could not take exception to it. I asked, "Who do you mean?" He replied, "John Henry Smith." I answered that I thought he was at home, and accordingly I telephoned him. President John Henry Smith asked, "What do you want, Brother Goddard; I am just getting up, just shaving." I said, "I scarcely know, but there is a gentleman here who wants to see you." He asked his name, and I replied, "Mr. Case of Kansas." He promptly said, "Hold him right there until I can come." I detained the gentleman, conversed with him and found he was a very prominent official of the Irrigation Congress, and that he and Brother Smith had been associated for many years. They had attended the Congress sessions, the banquets and other functions. Finally President Smith came in. Have you ever observed John Henry Smith when he was going up to an old friend, putting forth his arms and encircling his comrade with those arms? He did it with this particular visitor. He hugged him as if he had been his own brother, and said, "I am mighty glad you are here." The stranger seemed equally affectionate toward President Smith. A few years later this visitor came a second time, and as he and his party came in, he remarked, "Mr. Goddard, I want you to meet my son." He continued, "I want to tell you why I love John Henry Smith. All his associates know he is a 'Mormon,' that he stands by his convictions, that he is sincere, that he believes in all that he says. This boy of mine was with me at a banquet we attended some time ago in Kansas City. At the table I placed the boy near John Henry Smith, and I sat a little further away. I knew what was going to happen. I knew what Mr. Smith would do. When he sat at the table he very quietly and without ostentation took his glass and placed it upside down. Oh, I tell you I watched this boy. I wanted to know how my boy was going to be impressed with that example; and when I saw him at John Henry's left hand take up the glass that was before him and turn it upside down, as an indication that he wanted neither wine nor champagne, nor any other kind of liquor, I felt to thank God for the influence that John Henry had upon him." 

We shed tears together, as we were talking over some of these circumstances. This incident impressed upon me the necessity of living an upright and consistent life, that we believe in and fully sense what we profess, and that we are endeavoring to live in accordance therewith. 

I had the privilege, a few days ago, of meeting a very large number of representatives from the Eastern states, and as we stood under the shadow of the temple they asked many questions regarding that sacred edifice, and just what it stands for. I explained the gospel principles, with regard to our own salvation and exaltation, and the salvation of our dead, the unselfish labors performed in the temple and the baptisms for the dead, how the Saints labor therein for their ancestors, as far back as they can trace their genealogies. I felt that they were impressed with what the Latter-day Saints are doing and with the breadth of the revealed plan of salvation. While we were thus conversing the east gate opened and a large number of people passed in carrying their valises and going to the temple. "What are they going to do?" was the query. I dwelt at some length upon the devotion of the people who were going to be baptized for their ancestry, in the faith and belief that when the gospel is preached behind the veil unto the dead, they may have the blessings pertaining to that holy ordinance. Many expressed their deep interest in these and other truths expounded to them. About a year ago a young lady came to the Bureau and in an earnest and intelligent manner, investigated the gospel; ultimately after months of prayerful study she applied for baptism. Soon afterwards she secured volumes on genealogy and learned that her family was linked up for centuries with some great characters known in American history. One of these volumes was loaned to me, and I took note of a stanza that impressed me as having a lesson for the Latter-day Saints generally. I submit it to you in conclusion, and trust that we may be alive to the responsibilities God has placed upon us: 

If you could see your ancestors 

All standing in a row, 

Would you be proud of them, or not, 

Or don't you really know? 

Some strange discoveries are made 

In climbing family trees, 

And some of them you know, do not 

Particularly please. 

If you could see your ancestors, 

All standing in a row, 

There might be some of them, perhaps, 

You wouldn't care to know; 

But here's another question, which 

Requires a different view, 

If you could meet your ancestors, 

Would they be proud of you? 

I submit to you, that the work now being done in the temples for our ancestors will cause thousands upon thousands to be proud of these who perform the work, and eternal blessings will be received for the diligent performance of these labors, but the Lord have mercy upon those who neglect this sacred duty. 

May God give us a full appreciation of his Work and an intelligent comprehension of it, that we may all merit and receive the Spirit to enable us to labor for the accomplishment of his purposes, and that we may labor zealously for the salvation of our families and our kindred that have passed away. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
