45
Third Overflow
08 10 1921 
Elder James Gunn Mckay 
(couldn't find speaker ID from google doc)
155-158

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am very glad to be with you here in conference. I am happy to feel the inspiration that is attending this conference, and know that God is attending this people. I know that from the bottom of my heart. I know that from all the experience that I have had in this Church. There are no doubts in my mind concerning this fact, that this is God's church, and that he is guiding its destiny, not only its destiny but its officers, and what they teach and direct his people. 

When called to the British mission I had occasion to find out that its late president, Hyrum M. Smith, was a chosen vessel of the Lord to preside over that mission, when the great war broke out, well nigh engulfing all the European missions. I know of no man among all the authorities of the Church that could have stood against that great wave of excitement and held those missions together, as well as that great son of God, Hyrum M. Smith. He stood as a stone wall against the excitement and the fears of the Saints and the elders. When the time came to close that mission he had the inspiration upon him. He was qualified although his difficulties were great, yet he was able to rise to every occasion. Soon the time came when those elders who were under his administration were to be released, and we were pondering our hearts who was the one who should preside over the European mission to succeed President Smith. Soon the word came that Elder George F. Richards was to be appointed. I had occasion to say that God is guiding this Church, and whoever is appointed, that man is fitted for the time and place. In the course of time, President Richards came. He was the one who had to gather in the local people, and place them as presidents of branches and other officers. He was the man who was qualified, by his experience and his makeup and his care and caution, full of the inspiration of the Lord, to meet the conditions under which he was called to preside. Not only that. When he went about his duties, you could see as he went into a conference how the Spirit of the Lord rested upon him, and when he suggested a local man for a position that required experience and understanding, you could not have suggested a better man than he chose under those conditions and circumstances, and he could not have chosen a better man for that place. It shows quite well, that even this people are not guiding themselves, neither are their officers guiding this people through their reason, but they are receiving inspiration, as they are entitled to, to lead this people. 

When President Richards was about to be released, of course all were excited. There weren't very many of us elders. We wondered who would be the man for that purpose. Well, when the cable came, that President George Albert Smith was appointed, we knew at once that the way was opening for the missions to be rejuvenated again. There was no better man. And I want to say this, I may not be able to attend his funeral — he may live longer than I, so I am going to give him a few bouquets now. I believe in that. I don't know that corpses care very much for flowers. President George A. Smith came over there and under his training men among the nations of the earth were led. He was able to go among those officials, he was able to procure concessions and permits for the elders to come, because he was a man best qualified, in my judgment among all the authorities of the Church to preside over that great mission at that particular time. Look at the wonderful work that he accomplished. There were only a few elders there. The way seemed to be hedged up, and yet he came imbued with the inspiration of the Lord, and was able to knock at the doors of the officials, to gain their confidence; and eventually we obtained the privileges we wanted, that elders might come to take up their work and fulfil their missions in furthering the cause of God and accomplishing his work, and in that way he secured to us a testimony that God directs that work. 

There are some who ridicule and say our officers are appointed by the wisdom and favoritism of men. I want to tell you if there are such cases they are few in this Church. If a man is living as he should live, he is entitled to go before the Lord and ask him for what he needs, what knowledge he may desire, and the Lord will place it in his way. 

I remember on one occasion when President Smith came to London to appoint a new conference president. He had written to me about the elders there, and finally he came; and we met together to counsel over the matter. He said he thought so-and-so is the man, and you know that man's name had been in my mind ever since I had begun to pray about the matter. He had prayed also, and the Lord had designated to him the man who was to preside. That man was chosen, and he has made a wonderful success, and is still there. I know the Lord does not make mistakes. 

My good father labored in the Southern states. When he was released, the President said, "You are now appointed to go to Scotland." My father said to himself, "A man should not be appointed to go on two missions without going home." So he went into the woods and prayed, to learn if it was the mind and will of the Lord that he should go to Scotland before returning home. When he prayed the third time, the word of the Lord came to him, "The words of my servants unto you are my words; do as they instruct you, and my blessings shall attend you." He made his way to New York and there met John Henry Smith. He said, "I am not prepared, Brother Smith, to go. I havn't any means. I have been preaching in the south without purse or scrip." Brother Smith said, "Come with me." They went into a large mercantile house. He met the manager. The manager patted my father on the back, and said, "I want you to try on a new overcoat, that we have in the office." He said, "I haven't seen you before, but I want you to take that overcoat with my compliments." Father had been praying that his way should be opened up. His passage across the ocean was paid by strangers. So I say, we are not left alone. We are not left in doubt, and if any of you are left in doubt concerning the counsel of the authorities of this Church, and you will obtain his mind and will in no uncertain terms. Just as sure as the Latter-day Saints will seek God they will be guided aright, and they will know that the Lord has placed the right man in the right place. I know that God lives, and that I can approach him, and that I can receive answers from him, as I have done in many, many cases. Missionaries have a great many experiences which teach them these things. 

There was an elder who was sent for by two companions who were in trouble. He was running to catch the train, the station master saw him and held the door of the car open as the train left the station; but as soon as this elder got to the door something said to him, "Don't go." He stopped. The station master said, "Why don't you go? You have run two or three blocks; you are the strangest men on earth, you 'Mormons', I don't know what is the matter with you. Why, you have come running down here out of breath, and just when you see your way clear to go on, you are not going." He said, "I know where you will end your days if you are not careful." The elder took the next train, and later that day he found that the train which he had refused to board had broken through a bridge and every soul had perished. Had he not listened to the inspiration of the Spirit of God, had he not been guided by a heavenly influence, he, too, would have been one of the victims. See how an elder may be guided by inspiration. God help us that we may feel that inspiration that is in his Church, and if we do not feel it, let us get in tune with it, for God is speaking unto his people, privately and otherwise; and if you have not a testimony, seek him that you may obtain it, just like Samuel said when the Lord called him, "Samuel, Samuel," three times. Samuel arose and said, "Speak; for thy servant heareth." The Lord is anxious to speak to us through the means that he has. We need to be in communication individually with the Lord as well as with the authorities of the Church, that we may have inspiration, that we may have the blessings and the gifts of God with us continually. 

It is well enough to read the story of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; but to sit at a table of spiritual feasting, to dine with the Lord on a few of the things that you know have come from heaven direct is worth all of the scriptures, valuable as the scripture may be; and if you have not had that, and if your testimony has not been added upon and added upon, I beseech you to turn that door that Heaven may speak to you in your work and in your life, so that you will have no doubt that God has established his Church never to be thrown down. 

May we fulfil our covenant. May we feel this inspiration in our lives, for this is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
