54
Afternoon Session
08 10 1921 
Joseph Fielding Smith
37 OR 38 (there were two in the google doc)
185-187

None

None

ELIMINATION OF GOD FROM EDUCATION. 

For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth: 

And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God: 

Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me. 

These are the words of an ancient prophet. I believe them most sincerely. My reason for quoting them is due to the fact that at a meeting, this morning, the statement was made, in remarks by one of our educators, that the Lord has been eliminated from our education and that he is being eliminated from the doctrines of some of the so called Christian churches, for they are attempting to harmonize their teachings with certain ideas that prevail in the world which are in conflict with the truth. This same brother made a statement to the effect that a student, seeking advice regarding a certain course including certain subjects in science, was informed by his teacher that he would have to choose between his faith and the course of study that would be given in the school, for they could not be harmonized. 

COURSES OF STUDY IN CONFLICT WITH FUNDAMENTAL TRUTHS. 

I regret exceedingly that courses in study in the public schools, in the colleges and places of learning throughout the land, are in conflict with fundamental truths of the Christian faith; and, for one, I desire to express my feelings, and to declare that I consider it an outrage against the liberties of the people, when we are denied the privilege of teaching principles of eternal truth, in the realm of religion; when we are denied the privilge of praying to our heavenly Father in the schools, or referring to the Supreme Being, for fear that we will offend someone; and at the same time instructors are permitted to advocate that in the school which the teachers themselves profess and declare to be in conflict with the fundamentals of the faith which I believe, and which thousands of others accept throughout this nation and other nations of the world as divine truth. 

JESUS CHRIST THE SON OF THE LIVING GOD - A FUNDAMENTAL TRUTH.

My brethren and sisters, we have assembled here from all the stakes of Zion; we came with one thought in mind, and that was to receive light and truth, to receive encouragement, guidance, and instruction, that we might again return to our homes rejoicing in the testimony of the knowledege of this gospel, renewed in our faith, invigorated, built up and strengthened. I pray you that when you return, you remember the things that you have heard; if not the words, at least that you will absorb that which has been said, that it may become a part and parcel of your being, that you will go away rejoicing and feeling that you have been fed the words of eternal life, and above all else I say this to you: Let it be uppermost in your minds, now and at all times, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God who came into the world to lay down his life that we might live. That is the truth, and is fundamental. Upon that our faith is built. It can not be destroyed. We must adhere to this teaching in spite of the teachings of the world, and the notions of men; for this is paramount, this is essential to our salvation. The Lord redeemed us with his blood, he gave us salvation, provided — and there is this condition which we must not forget — that we will keep his commandments, and always remember him. If we will do that then we shall be saved, while the ideas and the foolishness of men, shall perish from the earth. 

CRITICISM FROM A GREAT CITIZEN.

I want to read to you, and I will do it in conclusion, the words of one of our great citizens, a man that I honor and respect because of his integrity, because he is honest, because he is courageous, because he stands for the truth, as he understands it. These words were uttered some time ago by Honorable William Jennings Bryan, in the city of New York, before the Brooklyn Academy of Music: 

The Nebraskan exhorted his hearers to dismiss the Darwinian theory as false to Christianity, and criticized the colleges and schools for failing to teach students Bible truths, declaring that today's crying need is "to love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and thy whole mind, and thy whole soul." He said in part: 

"I am impressed by the lack of earnestness of those who teach religion. Our young people in the schools and colleges often go out to battle with life without the benefit of religious teaching. Neutrality in religion is taught in our universities. We have been too lenient to those opposed to teaching religion in the schools. We have allowed them to taKe God out of education. 

"One thing I observe is that mystery in the dining room bothers us not — it's only in the church. In the former we eat and are not harmed. But in the latter we want to 'understand' everything. And yet in the dining room there are many mysteries." 

THE CHRISTIAN FAITH CANNOT BE HARMONIZED WITH THE FOOLISHNESS OF MEN. 

With that I fully agree. The reason that there is a lack of spirit and force in the religious teaching of the world is in part because they have tried to harmonize the Christian faith with the foolishness of men; and, of course, it will not harmonize with falsehood and with the doctrines of men. But we have received the light of the everlasting gospel. It is our salvation. Let us adhere to it, and worship the Lord and keep his commandments, as we have been instructed to do, in the name of his Son. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
