56
Afternoon Session
08 10 1921 
Heber J. Grant
10
191-192

None

None

We have with us today the only living survivor of the Pioneers who came here with President Brigham Young — Brother Lorenzo Zobriskie Young. I doubt if he could be heard, so we will only ask him to stand up and let us take a look at him. This is Brother Young, the only surviving member of President Brigham Young's company, which came here in 1847. [He was one of the two children who came with the company — Perry Decker, being the other child.— Clerk.] 

PRESENTATION OF PEACE, RESOLUTION. 

President Grant presented the following resolution: 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, brought forth and established by the power of God and dedicated to the mission of preparing the way for the glorious coming of the Son of God to reign in the earth, in truth and righteousness and peace, beholds with deep interest every authoritative movement taken by the nations in the interest of World Peace.  

It is believed that the conference called in Washington to consider the limitation of armaments and questions concerning the Pacific and nations of the Far East may, under the favor of Heaven, promote this great objective. 

To the end that it may do so, the Latter-day Saints in general conference now assembled approve the appointment of a Sabbath day before the eleventh of November, 1921, on which in all the wards and stakes of Zion, and in all branches of the Church in the United States and in the Missions throughout the world, the members of the Church shall be called together in their usual places of worship to engage in special and solemn prayer for Divine guidance of the International Conference on the Limitation of Armaments, that the cause of Peace may be thereby enhanced, and an amelioration of the burdens of mankind secured. 

President Grant: It is moved and seconded that this resolution be adopted by the Latter-day Saints in General Conference assembled. All in favor raise the right hand. 

There was a unanimous vote of approval. 
