59
Afternoon Session
08 10 1921 
Stephen L. Richards
96
197-199

None

Home, Family

I fear lest I shall say a word to detract in any measure from the noble themes of this conference, for the subject which, with the help of the Lord, I would present for your brief consideration, is indeed a very humble one. 

HOME, THE BASIC INSTITUTION. 

When I contemplate the great organization of the Church, with all the means and facilities which the Lord has placed at our command to carry forward his work, to educate the people in the ways of the Lord, and to ultimately establish his kingdom, I always revert to one great institution as being basic in its nature, and fundamental in its importance. That one institution, to my thinking, has done more to influence the lives of human beings than has any other of the institutions given to us. It is the sacred institution of the home. 

THE GREAT AUXILIARIES CAN NOT TAKE THE PLACE OF HOME 

I have for a considerable number of years had the opportunity of engaging in the work of the various organizations of the Church. I know something of the great accomplishments of the auxiliary organizations which devote themselves, in large measure, to the care and culture of the young. I know what great effort is put forth by them to teach the principles of the gospel, to stimulate righteousness in the hearts of the youth of Israel. It is my observation that these great institutions of the Church, however much of good they may accomplish, can in no sense take the place of the home. They cannot be proxy for parents. Men and women to whom have been given the most priceless heritage given of God to man — children — can in no wise escape the great responsibility devolving upon them — to rear their children in the fear and admonition of the Lord. 

THE OLD FASHIONED HOME DETERIORATING. 

I have been led to think that the old fashioned home is deteriorating. I have feared that its influence upon humanity is becoming less and less. We have come to regard the places in which we live as mere accomodations, mere boarding houses, wherein we eat and sleep and from which we are to make our escape as soon as may be. This characterization does not apply to all homes; but I believe that it applies to altogether too many homes. 

HOME, THE FOUNDATION OF SOCIETY. 

I believe in the home as the foundation of society, as the cornerstone of the nation, and as the primary institution of the Church. I cannot conceive of a great people without great, good homes. I believe that the first calling of man and woman is to form a good home. I know of no honor that can come to men and women that exceeds the honor of father and of mother, I regret that not all men who enter into this sacred relationship, which lies at the foundation of home, are real fathers; and I likewise regret that every woman who comes into the temple of the home as its priestess does not in full comprehend the great responsibility and the wonderful privilege bestowed upon her. I sometimes think that the processes of modern education are inclined to educate our people away from home rather than to home. 

NO GREATER DISTINCTION THAN MOTHERHOOD. 

I believe that no greater distinction may come to the women of our land than to be in verity mothers in Israel. I am not unmindful of the progress that woman has made in the last half century and of her present influence in public and other affairs. I welcome that influence. I am always willing that our women should take a large interest and exercise a large influence upon all the affairs of State and of Church, but I want to say that no woman can ever attain a place of renown and distinction for any work performed in this world that is comparable with the high place of mother and wife. 

THERE IS NO GREATER CALLING THAN FATHERHOOD. 

I want our men to know that of all the vocations they may pursue in this life, no vocation is fraught with so much responsibility and attended with such boundless opportunity as the great calling of husband and father. In this Church I believe we have the highest and most exalted conception of home and family that exists anywhere in the wide world. Attention has already been called to the fact that we base our very hope for exaltation and eternal life upon those relationships that lie at the basis of home. No man, whatever his accomplishments may be, can, in my judgment, be said to have achieved success in this life if, when he goes hence he may not take his posterity with him, and may not be surrounded by them in the day of the Lord, when he shall be called upon to account for his life in the flesh. 

AN APPEAL TO THE FATHERS AND MOTHERS OF ISRAEL. 

Time will not permit the elaboration of this humble but exalted theme. I would that every father and mother in Zion would bind their children to them with ties of love and affection that will hold them safe in the hours of temptation and danger and trial. We of the auxiliary associations and institutions of the Church cannot hope to do more for you than merely to supplement and complement the work of the home. You can not place the chief responsibility with us; and, therefore, I appeal, in the name of the children, to the fathers and mothers of Israel, for closer attention to and study of that great institution, the home. I appeal for more of comradeship between father and son, for more of chumship, confidence, and love between mother and daughter. I believe in home-made men and women. I believe they are more assured of success in life; they will make better citizens; that they will accomplish their destiny far more acceptably to our Father, than will lodge-made and club-made, fraternity-made, union-made, society-made men and women. I plead for the return to old-fashioned, domestic family life, that there may be stimulated in the hearts of men a love for home and all its surroundings; and as we now disperse to go to our several homes, up and down this land, God grant that that great institution may be the place where Latter-day Saints are nurtured and conserved, and where a citizenship of this great nation and of this great Church shall be assured for the establishment of our Father's kingdom, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
