61
Afternoon Session
08 10 1921 
Heber J. Grant
10
200-202

None

None

PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS. 

Since our last meeting here, in general conference, one of the most faithful and best beloved, and most remarkable workers in the Church among our sisters, has passed away, the late Emmeline B. Wells, who lives in the hearts and memory of the people. She bore testimony to the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, from my earliest recollection until she passed away, some ninety-odd years of age, with a power, a force, and a spirit that I have seldom heard from the lips of any person. I rejoice that she had the opportunity of traveling over the stakes of Zion, from Canada to Mexico, and in many foreign lands, in attending many gatherings of noted women in the world, at home in these United States and abroad. Wherever she went she bore that testimony and, by the integrity of her heart, by the wonderful and splendid intellect that she had, and above all, by the burning testimony of the divinity of this work, in which we as Latter-day Saints are engaged, she made friends for this people among all those with whom she came in contact. 

REGRETS THE LIMIT OF TIME. 

There has been but one regret in my mind during this conference, and that is that we have had to limit the time of the speakers, asking some not to exceed ten minutes, others not to exceed fifteen, and allowing none to go beyond twenty minutes. I sometimes feel that we make a mistake in not having four days of conference, so that when men are speaking under the inspiration of the Spirit of the living God, they will not feel that they have to say "Amen" upon the moment. At the same time, I believe that we feel better and that we accomplish more, if we can start on time and close on time. 

BLESSINGS FOR THE PEOPLE. 

I feel to bless the people for the wonderful attendance at this conference. I feared on account of the hard times, and the great financial depression, that our conference would not be as largely attended as heretofore; but our gatherings here this morning, in this building, in the Assembly Hall, and in the overflow meetings, and our gatherings this afternoon in all three of those meetings, I believe have been larger than upon any other occasion in the history of the Church. Zion is growing. The faith of the people is enlarging. Their attendance at their sacrament meetings, and at their priesthood meetings is increasing and they are becoming more and more faithful in performing the duties and the obligations that rest upon them in the auxiliary associations. They are doing better; more work is being accomplished in the temples than ever before; and the people are growing in the light and the knowledge and testimony and the love of the gospel. I pray God to bless the Latter-day Saints in every land and in every clime, I pray for hip blessing upon the honest the world over, and I pray for peace and happiness to come to the inhabitants of the world. 

We will now close our conference for six months, by the choir singing the words of a song given by revelation from God contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84. 

The music was written by a former citizen of this state, Arthur Shepherd, who has gained for himself a national reputation as a composer of music. 

The Lord hath brought again Zion: 

The Lord hath redeemed his people, Israel, 

According to the election of grace, 

Which was brought to pass by the faith 

And covenant of their fathers. 

The Lord hath redeemed his people, 

And Satan is bound and time is no longer: 

The Lord hath gathered all things in one: 

The Lord hath brought down Zion from above. 

The Lord hath brought up Zion from beneath. 

The earth hath travailed and brought forth her strength: 

And truth is established in her bowels: 

And the heavens have smiled noon her: 

And she is clothed with the glory of her God. 

For he stands in the midst of his people; 

Glory, and honor, and power, and might, 

Be ascribed to our God; for he is full of mercy, 

Justice, grace and truth, and peace, 

For ever and ever, Amen. 