9
Morning
07 10 1921
Elder George W. Mccune 
(couldn't find speaker ID from google doc)
49-51

None

Missionary work

My brethren and sisters, I have a high sense of appreciation for this privilege of standing before you to bear my testimony; and I sincerely desire to have the Spirit of the Lord to direct me; to that end I beseech of you, sustain me by your sympathy and your love. I have enjoyed more than I can tell you the remarks that have already been made during our conference. I feel that they are timely. They are those principles which we need to apply in our lives. I am glad that I have been considered worthy to be associated with these good men who are directing the work of the Lord in this day; that I have been called into the world to preach the gospel, for I know it is the gospel of our Redeemer, that has all the elements of salvation within it, that gospel which will save us, not only spiritually at some distant far off time, but now and forever. It will save us temporally, physically, intellectually and morally as well as spiritually, and I feel highly honored to be called of God to go into the world to proclaim these glad tidings to my fellowmen. 

We are meeting with fair success in the Eastern States Mission. We are being handicapped for lack of sufficient help just now. We made a good start in many places, but had to withdraw our forces from a number of localities. This I regret very much. Therefore, I appreciate the remarks of President Grant to you regarding this matter, showing you the importance of allowing your sons and daughters to stay in the field as long as possible to the completion of their missions. They have been called of the Lord and they will be released by the same authority in due time when you have done your part. O, my brethren and sisters, you cannot invest your means to a better purpose. You cannot invest them in a way that will bring you greater dividends than in sustaining your sons and daughters while they are proclaiming these glad tidings throughout the world. I beg of you, do your part and put your trust in God. Consult the bishop, as you have been instructed when you find it impossible to maintain your sons longer, and I believe you will find that the way will be opened up so you can sustain them until they have completed their misson. 

I know that this is the work of the Lord, and O, the joy this sweet sentence gives: "I know that my Redeemer lives." It is the greatest blessing that has come into my life; nothing else gives me so much pleasure as to bear testimony of this. I know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the living God, sent in the latter days again to establish in the earth the Church and kingdom of God; and I wish I could burn that testimony into the hearts of all men with whom I come in contact, that they might partake of the joy that we experience in bearing witness of it, and the joy that it brings into my life every day. I cannot tell you how I know this. I know that I see you before me, and that is through the power of my mortal sense; but I believe it is possible for the mortal sense to be deceived; but, my brethren and sisters, it is not possible to deceive that which is divine by which power these glorious truths are revealed to my soul. It is true that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and that we have embraced the true gospel of our Redeemer, and if we only apply it to our lives we will earn our salvation in God's kingdom. We are being saved now, not in the sense that the world understands it; for they say we are saved, and cannot sin, that there is nothing more to do. That is not true; it is a misunderstanding, as I see it; but we are being saved just as fast as we apply to our lives the glorious principles of the gospel of our Redeemer. We are being saved temporally just as fast as we live the laws pertaining to our temporal salvation; and if we continue therein we shall earn our salvation and exaltation in God's kingdom. 

I feel that I ought not to take more time this morning. I am glad I am here, and to bear testimony of these things. My heart is filled with love for you, my brethren and sisters, and for the brethren who are directing the work of the Lord in the latter days. I realize it is an honor to be associated with them. I love them, and I too, sustain them by my faith and prayers and I hope also by my works. Brethren and sisters, let us be free in giving expression of our love in our daily lives. I sometimes think we are too backward in this matter. I would rather have the expressions of your good will now than your bouquets upon my casket when I am gone. Let us be free in facing our fathers and mothers, putting our arms about them and telling them, face to face, that we love them. Let us greet our brothers and sisters cordially and whole-heartedly and tell them we love them and delight to be associated with them. This should bring to their hearts good cheer. 

Now, may the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters. May his peace and blessings be with you in your homes, that you may apply in your lives the wonderful truths that have been spoken in our conference, is my sincere prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
