Afternoon
08 10 1921 


ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

My heart is filled with gratitude on this occasion, my brethren and sisters, for the blessings of our heavenly Father which I enjoy in common with you. I feel greatly honored in being permitted to sit beside the members of the First Presidency of the Church and members of the Council of the Twelve, in the midst of these General Authorities of the Church, and to have their fellowship and esteem, I would have been pleased to have enjoyed this seat that I have been occupying, all through the conference, if it had pleased the Lord and the brethren that I should have done so; but inasmuch as I have been asked to make a few remarks, I sincerely hope that I may be inspired of the Lord to say the things which he would have me to say. I realize that there is a greater responsibility resting upon me than upon some of the lay members of the Church, because of the position to which I have been called, and the authority which has been placed upon me to be a special witness of the Lord Jesus Christ in all the world, whither my lot shall be cast. I feel very happy in, and thankful for, the testimony which our heavenly Father has given me of the truth of this great latter-day work which came forth through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know that it is true, that there is in it the power of God unto salvation, both in this life and in the life to come. 

THE NOBIILITY OF OUR ANCESTRY AND BIRTH. 

I know that God lives, that he, through his Son Jesus Christ, is the Creator of the heavens and the earth, the seas and fountains of waters. I know that he is our very eternal Father, the Father of our spirits, and I rejoice in the nobility of our ancestry, and birth. Brethren and sisters, and friends, when we think of the block from which we have been hewed, I am led to remark: "What manner of men and women ought we not to be, we who have inherited, through our spiritual birth, the very attributes of Deity which in their perfected state and condition make our eternal Father what he is?" We are required to develop these attributes. 

THE PURPOSE OF OUR BEING. 

We are placed here upon the earth that we may be tried and proved to see whether we will serve God at all hazards, and keep his commandments, and endure the tests which shall be made of our faith and our integrity. The scriptures say: "Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God." As Christ felt, so we are admonished that we should feel, just as good children here on earth should try to emulate all that is good and noble and great in their earthly parents. When there was a great controversy in heaven it was upon this point, as I understand, that of being obedient or of being disobedient. In other words, there was one great one who came forth and wanted the Father to make him his son and give him the privilege of saving mankind, but in doing so he would take away the agency of man and the honor and glory of God. There was another, who was our Father's firstborn. The platform of principles upon which he stood was: "Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." That took with the Lord and with the hosts. We who are privileged to enjoy the blessings that we enjoy here in this life stood with Christ our Savior upon that platform. It pertained not only to the former existence, but to the existence of man in mortality and beyond the grave. 

JESUS CHRIST OUR GREAT CAPTAIN.

Christ, our Lord, was true to the trusts reposed in him. He was our great captain there and has been our great captain here. He has marked the way, and every path defined. When he came here he said that he came not to do his own will, but the will of him who sent him — the Father, and he has stated that if any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine whether it is of God or of man, whether he spoke of himself or of him who sent him. I thank the Lord that we have so far advanced in doing the will of our Father in heaven, in yielding obedience unto the laws, ordinances and commandments of the Lord, that we have received this witness unto ourselves, as many hundreds of thousands of honest men and women in the Church can testify today. I rejoice not only in the testimony our Father has given to me, but in the testimony he has given to you, my brethren and sisters of the Church. 

WILLINGNESS OF THE SAINTS TO WORK.

While there are some who have been wayward and indifferent, who seem to have forgotten the covenant which they made before they came here, to do the will of our Father — and we are constantly laboring with such — the great mass of the Latter-day Saints, I firmly believe, are trying their utmost to do the will of our Father as pertains to them in this life, and they have the testimony of the truth and manifest it in their works in the Church, answering every call that comes to them, recognizing the authority which the Lord has placed in the Church, whether it be to go abroad into other lands among strangers, leaving loved ones, leaving professions, business interests, all that they have, to preach this gospel of the kingdom as a warning unto the world, or whether it be to labor at home in the stakes, in the wards, in the quorums, in the auxiliary associations, or in the temple of the Lord, or wherever they are wanted to go. Whatever they are called upon to do we find that willingness of spirit to answer the call of authority, take up the responsibility, make sacrifice, and work to help the carrying on of this great latter-day work, our Father's work, unselfish service to our fellowmen, whether they be in the Church or not, whether we have known them or not, whether they be dead or alive, this unselfishness is in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, a desire to help the Father to carry on his work of salvation. 

THE WONDERFUL ACHIEVEMENTS MADE. 

A wonderful work is being accomplished in the midst of the people, and we have the evidence in the organization of the Church, in the perfected state it is in at the present time, in the organization of the Sunday schools, the auxiliary associations, the quorums of the Priesthood, and in our temples. In all this work we have the evidence that God has not forsaken his people since the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Those who have come after, who have succeeded him to the presidency, have received the mantle of the Prophet, each in succession, and his administration has been attended with the power of God for the growth and the development and onward progress of his work in the earth. As we see the work today, we have a living evidence of God's power that is in this work, and with his people. We do know that the truth will ultimately triumph, that this Church and kingdom is established never to be thrown down or to be given to another people. Zion's young people are as faithful today as they ever have been, and are willing to carry on the work and bear the responsibility as it comes to them, and they are being better prepared, than were the former generations in this Church, to take this responsibility, and do effective work. I thank the Lord for the efficiency of his ministry at home and abroad, for faithful men and women who are willing to sacrifice and to give and to do for the accomplishment of the Lord's purposes. I trust that I am not jealous or envious of any living man. I do hope that I do so love the Lord, our God, and love his work, and love the brethren, that I desire to see the work succeed, and to see my brethren honored and successful in this work. I have no need to covet what any other person enjoys in the way of ability or power for good. The Lord has blessed me even more than I could deserve, and now I pray you, brethren and sisters, do the will of the Lord, follow the direction of him who stands at the head and be on safe ground, sure of salvation, and I promise you in the name of the Lord you shall obtain it. Amen.

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Read the following cablegram from Calcutta, India: 

"President Heber J. Grant. 

"Salt Lake City, 

"Greetings, God bless everybody. 

"David O. McKay, 

"Hugh J. Cannon." 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

ELIMINATION OF GOD FROM EDUCATION. 

For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth: 

And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God: 

Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me. 

These are the words of an ancient prophet. I believe them most sincerely. My reason for quoting them is due to the fact that at a meeting, this morning, the statement was made, in remarks by one of our educators, that the Lord has been eliminated from our education and that he is being eliminated from the doctrines of some of the so called Christian churches, for they are attempting to harmonize their teachings with certain ideas that prevail in the world which are in conflict with the truth. This same brother made a statement to the effect that a student, seeking advice regarding a certain course including certain subjects in science, was informed by his teacher that he would have to choose between his faith and the course of study that would be given in the school, for they could not be harmonized. 

COURSES OF STUDY IN CONFLICT WITH FUNDAMENTAL TRUTHS. 

I regret exceedingly that courses in study in the public schools, in the colleges and places of learning throughout the land, are in conflict with fundamental truths of the Christian faith; and, for one, I desire to express my feelings, and to declare that I consider it an outrage against the liberties of the people, when we are denied the privilege of teaching principles of eternal truth, in the realm of religion; when we are denied the privilge of praying to our heavenly Father in the schools, or referring to the Supreme Being, for fear that we will offend someone; and at the same time instructors are permitted to advocate that in the school which the teachers themselves profess and declare to be in conflict with the fundamentals of the faith which I believe, and which thousands of others accept throughout this nation and other nations of the world as divine truth. 

JESUS CHRIST THE SON OF THE LIVING GOD - A FUNDAMENTAL TRUTH.

My brethren and sisters, we have assembled here from all the stakes of Zion; we came with one thought in mind, and that was to receive light and truth, to receive encouragement, guidance, and instruction, that we might again return to our homes rejoicing in the testimony of the knowledege of this gospel, renewed in our faith, invigorated, built up and strengthened. I pray you that when you return, you remember the things that you have heard; if not the words, at least that you will absorb that which has been said, that it may become a part and parcel of your being, that you will go away rejoicing and feeling that you have been fed the words of eternal life, and above all else I say this to you: Let it be uppermost in your minds, now and at all times, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God who came into the world to lay down his life that we might live. That is the truth, and is fundamental. Upon that our faith is built. It can not be destroyed. We must adhere to this teaching in spite of the teachings of the world, and the notions of men; for this is paramount, this is essential to our salvation. The Lord redeemed us with his blood, he gave us salvation, provided — and there is this condition which we must not forget — that we will keep his commandments, and always remember him. If we will do that then we shall be saved, while the ideas and the foolishness of men, shall perish from the earth. 

CRITICISM FROM A GREAT CITIZEN.

I want to read to you, and I will do it in conclusion, the words of one of our great citizens, a man that I honor and respect because of his integrity, because he is honest, because he is courageous, because he stands for the truth, as he understands it. These words were uttered some time ago by Honorable William Jennings Bryan, in the city of New York, before the Brooklyn Academy of Music: 

The Nebraskan exhorted his hearers to dismiss the Darwinian theory as false to Christianity, and criticized the colleges and schools for failing to teach students Bible truths, declaring that today's crying need is "to love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and thy whole mind, and thy whole soul." He said in part: 

"I am impressed by the lack of earnestness of those who teach religion. Our young people in the schools and colleges often go out to battle with life without the benefit of religious teaching. Neutrality in religion is taught in our universities. We have been too lenient to those opposed to teaching religion in the schools. We have allowed them to taKe God out of education. 

"One thing I observe is that mystery in the dining room bothers us not — it's only in the church. In the former we eat and are not harmed. But in the latter we want to 'understand' everything. And yet in the dining room there are many mysteries." 

THE CHRISTIAN FAITH CANNOT BE HARMONIZED WITH THE FOOLISHNESS OF MEN. 

With that I fully agree. The reason that there is a lack of spirit and force in the religious teaching of the world is in part because they have tried to harmonize the Christian faith with the foolishness of men; and, of course, it will not harmonize with falsehood and with the doctrines of men. But we have received the light of the everlasting gospel. It is our salvation. Let us adhere to it, and worship the Lord and keep his commandments, as we have been instructed to do, in the name of his Son. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Never, I believe, have I experienced more inspiring upwellings of thanksgiving and praise in my heart respecting the Latter-day Saints in general, than I have during this conference. Looking from my position upon the stand upon this vast body, and realizing that this multitude represents comparatively but a small part of the membership of the Church, so assembled in an official capacity, I am impressed by the sense of solidarity and greatness of the Church. I have been struck by the uniform attentiveness. I have seen no evidence of frivolity, of giving way to the consideration of matters other than those of the hour and minute. I have watched carefully; and I have failed to see neighbors talking together. The people present have been following the remarks of the speakers; they have been attentive to what has been said. 

IN HARMONY WITH THE WORD OF WISDOM AND WISE COUNSEL. 

I agree most heartily with every word uttered in praise and encouragement of the Latter-day Saints, who are verily the people of God, chosen by him and unto whom is committed this gospel with all its powers and privileges, including the authority of the holy priesthood. While equally optimistic with those of my brethren who have pictured brightly the assured future of the people of God, I am also in harmony with the words of warning and wise counsel, that have been given, not in pessimistic spirit, but in wisdom; and I say unto you, let us heed them. 

COUNSEL IS BINDING UPON THE SAINTS. 

Do you ever think of the inconsistency of raising your right hand in solemn witness before God that you will sustain certain men who have been called and ordained, in the manner appointed of God, as your leaders, as prophets unto the people, verily as revelators, and then, though perchance you come together and hear their words, going away and pay no attention to them? When one speaks with the power of his Priesthood, and in the authority of his office, then what he speaks is binding upon himself and all who hear. Oftimes I tremble, literally, as I consider what I am doing when addressing the Latter-day Saints, for I know that what I say unto them is binding upon me, and that I shall be judged by the precepts that I impress upon them; and what I say under such conditions is likewise binding upon those who hear. 

You cannot, we cannot, pass by lightly the words that come by way of counsel and instruction from the ordained servants of God, and escape the inevitable penalty of that neglect. Nevertheless, we have our agency; we may choose to disobey, but we must take the consequences of that choice. 

LET US BE GENUINE AND LIVE UP TO OUR PROFESSIONS. 

Latter-day Saints, let us be what we profess to be; let us be genuine; let us live up to the religion and the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ that we proclaim. We profess to be a prayerful people. Do we pray? Are our homes kept pure by prayer? Prayer is the Lord's great sterilizer against the germs of spiritual disease that make their way into our homes, contaminating the atmosphere, poisoning the food we eat. I don't mean your family prayers only; but do we individually pray? It is possibly that a mass or collective condition may exist which is very different from the individual condition. There may be a home in which prayers are said, but yet perhaps no member of that household is really prayerful. Do you feel urged at times to seek a place where you can be alone with God, where you can pray, pray unto him, not for others to hear, not to conform with some regulation or custom, or even because of counsel or advice, but because you feel the need of communication with God? Have you not read of the Christ, who, after a period of strenuous ministry, went to seek rest; and do we not read that he arose next morning before it was day and went out where he could pray? He needed that help that prayer alone could bring. 

Great and grand as is this people, mighty as are the works that have been accomplished through the blessings of God through his servants in these days, there is too little real prayer among the Latter-day Saints, too many prayerless homes, and hence the spread of spiritual contagion among some of us. Thank the Lord not among many, relatively speaking. I have faith in my people, for I know that they are the Lord's people, and I am proud to be one of them; but when the cry shall come, as come it shall: "To your tents, O Israel," for there are struggles ahead, the Lord knows where to find those who have been faithful. They are in the valleys of these mountains, by the thousands and tens of thousands. Young men, young women, men and women of mature years, who have never contaminated themselves, who are acceptable unto the Lord, who have never bowed the knee to Baal, who are the Lord's own. They are here, and though there be a few who go astray, yet the Lord will bring them back if they will but repent, and make it possible for him to bring them back. 

BLESSINGS COME THROUGH COMPLIANCE WITH LAW. 

Do you know that we tie the Lord's hands, figuratively speaking, again and again, so that he can't do what he wishes to though we say he is omnipotent. He can't pour out blessings when we have not complied with the law upon which those blessings are predicated. He can't do it, or he would be unjust. He can't do it, or he would be untruthful; and were he untruthful, were he unjust, he would cease to be God. 

I am glad that we praise and worship the living God, and that we know of him; and I feel that we are living in the day of the realization of his mightly promises to Israel of old, addressed directly to Israel, when Israel as a kingdom had arrayed itself against Judah as a kingdom, and when Israel, or the kingdom of Israel, had gone off and left the choice and chosen land given unto them. Oh, how the Lord pleaded with them. He said unto them that if they would come back and would obey him and keep his commandments, he would shower blessings upon them. Among other things he promised this: I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding. Do we not live in that day, the day of the realization of that promise? 

"How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, 

Is laid for your faith in his excellent word! 

What more can he say than to you he hath said, 

You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled?" 

WHY AFFLICTIONS COME. 

Has he not given us prophets and apostles to teach, patriarchs and high priests, elders and seventies, the Lesser Priesthood, and provisions in the auxiliaries, for the instruction of every soul from the cradle age to the age that is considered as marking the natural end of man's life? The Latter-day Saints are largely a highly educated people, in the things of the Lord; nevertheless, we are not as well educated as we ought to be. We do not read enough, we do not study enough; we do not pray enough; or we would know more of the word of God and of his will concerning the people. 

When trouble comes upon us, I admit that then we seek after him; and I think we are very much like the Saints in the early days of the Church; those who were persecuted in Missouri, while yet the Church had a center in Ohio. The Lord was telling the people in Ohio concerning his people in Missouri, their brethren, their brothers, members of their own households in many cases. He was telling them why the Saints in Zion or Missouri, had suffered as they had suffered: 

"I, the Lord," he said, "have suffered the affliction to come upon them, wherewith they have been afflicted, in consequence of their transgressions;" and then with that pathos and love ever characteristic of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, the Lord Jesus added: 

"Yet I will own them" — I will own them. I can't let them go. I will chasten them and cleanse them, but I will own them still, "and they shall be mine in that day when I shall come to make up my jewels. 

"Therefore, they must needs be chastened and tried," aye, "even as Abraham, who was commanded to offer up his only son; 

"For all those who will not endure chastening but deny me, cannot be sanctified. 

"Behold I say unto you, there were jarrings, and contentions, and envyings, and strifes, and lustful and covetous desires among them; therefore by these things they polluted their inheritances. 

"They were slow to hearken unto the voice of the Lord their God, therefore the Lord their God is slow to hearken unto their prayers, to answer them in the day of their trouble. 

"In the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but, in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me." 

LET US BE SAINTS INDEED AND NOT PRETENDERS. 

Many of us can't stand prosperity. We forget the Lord until we find ourselves in distress, and thereby we demonstrate that we are yet not wholly what we profess to be. I cited prayer as a simple illustration. I ask again, do we really pray? We profess to be living according to the law of the tithe; we profess it; we proclaim it; yet we are not living the law of the tithe. It is a gladsome fact that there are many amongst us who are conscientiously obeying that law, many with whom God is well pleased; but, sad to say, there are many who content themselves with making a little donation to the Lord, and then they call it a tithing. I understand that the application of the term is definite. If we profess to be tithepayers, let us be tithepayers; not go around with a false face. If we profess to be making offerings for the poor, according to the order and system established in the Church, the value of the two meals from which we are supposed to abstain on fast day, let us give that food for the help of the poor. Do not pretend to do it only. 

Oh, what it is to be a pretender! I feel that if I preach to you and do not follow my own preachings, that my place is among the hypocrites, and I have read with trembling what the Lord thinks of hypocrites. Now I do not say you are hypocrites; I spoke of myself; but I know I would be a hypocrite if I profess to be living the law of the tithe and simply give a little donation to the Lord that bears no proper relation to the blessing he has poured out upon me. I am cheating him — think of it, cheating my landlord who has given me the place I call home, food for my household, clothing for my family, and many blessings of life, and who, moreover, has trusted me to keep the account, and to reckon up how much is due; who has given me those things on a graded rental, with the understanding that if times are hard and my income be thereby lessened I need not pay him so much, because I do not get as much; and that if times are good and my income is larger, that I can pay him a little more. 

Have you ever found a landlord in mortality who would make any such arrangement? The Lord has said to me in effect: "Now this has been a hard year for you. You have not had as much income as you had last year. I am going to lower your rent. You just pay one-tenth, that is all, but it will be less than you paid me last year." The landlords on earth, at least some, with whom I have had to deal have said: "Look here, times are pretty hard. I must raise your rent; and you must pay it in advance." The Lord says: Pay when you receive the blessing. 

Again I say, Latter-day Saints, let us be what we profess to be. The Lord, in the passage I have read, spoke of the time in which he would come to make up his jewels. He loves jewels, but they must be genuine. No colored glass for rubies, no mere paste for diamonds, they must be the real thing; and when he comes to make up his jewels, I would rather be found a little tiny one-hundredth of a carat diamond than a glass imitation the size of the Culinam, the biggest diamond ever found. The Lord help us to be what we seem to be, before him, before our brethren, and in our own consciences, I humbly pray in the Master's name. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "O ye mountains high." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have with us today the only living survivor of the Pioneers who came here with President Brigham Young — Brother Lorenzo Zobriskie Young. I doubt if he could be heard, so we will only ask him to stand up and let us take a look at him. This is Brother Young, the only surviving member of President Brigham Young's company, which came here in 1847. [He was one of the two children who came with the company — Perry Decker, being the other child.— Clerk.] 

PRESENTATION OF PEACE, RESOLUTION. 

President Grant presented the following resolution: 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, brought forth and established by the power of God and dedicated to the mission of preparing the way for the glorious coming of the Son of God to reign in the earth, in truth and righteousness and peace, beholds with deep interest every authoritative movement taken by the nations in the interest of World Peace.  

It is believed that the conference called in Washington to consider the limitation of armaments and questions concerning the Pacific and nations of the Far East may, under the favor of Heaven, promote this great objective. 

To the end that it may do so, the Latter-day Saints in general conference now assembled approve the appointment of a Sabbath day before the eleventh of November, 1921, on which in all the wards and stakes of Zion, and in all branches of the Church in the United States and in the Missions throughout the world, the members of the Church shall be called together in their usual places of worship to engage in special and solemn prayer for Divine guidance of the International Conference on the Limitation of Armaments, that the cause of Peace may be thereby enhanced, and an amelioration of the burdens of mankind secured. 

President Grant: It is moved and seconded that this resolution be adopted by the Latter-day Saints in General Conference assembled. All in favor raise the right hand. 

There was a unanimous vote of approval. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(President of the First council of Seventy) 

If I did not know that the gospel is true, and that Joseph Smith was divinely inspired to organize the Church of Jesus Christ once more on the earth, I would not be here today, and I would take no interest in this particular time that I stand before you. But so well do I know of the truth of the gospel that I am glad of the opportunity, and glad of the honor accorded me by the President of the Church to stand before you for a few minutes, and lift up my voice in testimony of the great truths that we all love and believe in. 

Seventy years ago last June, on the 23rd day of that month, I sat on the steps leading up to our little cottage door fronting on the Mulholland street on the outskirts of the city of Nauvoo. On that morning, passed before our cottage a little distance away, some sixteen men in a small company of horsemen, with the exception of the sheriff or the officer from Carthage who rode behind the company in a buggy with two of his assistants. In the van of that company were the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum. My mother, standing with her five little children on the steps of our little dwelling made this remark, and it has never been forgotten by me, although I never heard her repeat it after: "There goes the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum. They are going to Carthage." She hesitated a moment and then she added: "I fear they are going to their martyrdom." The days dragged wearily until the 28th of June. About daylight, in the morning, our neighbor, Jacob Gates, who afterwards became prominent as one of the Seven Presidents of Seventy, associated with my father, President Joseph Young, knocked at our door and said: "Sister Jane, are you awake?" No doubt he would have called "Brother Joseph," but my father was in the eastern states on a mission. My mother said: "Yes, Brother Gates," and I remember the startled tone in which she asked the question; "What is it?" he answered: "The Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were murdered in Carthage jail last night at 5 o'clock." For this dastardly and cruel deed there was great responsibility resting upon the leading men of the state and especially upon Governor Thomas Ford who, on the morning of the 27th of June, with a small body guard went to the city of Nauvoo, leaving the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother, the patriarch Hyrum Smith, and a few of the brethren with them in Carthage Jail to the tender mercies of the state militia, known as the Carthage Greys, who had declared the day before, in the presence of the Governor, that they would take the lives of Joseph and Hyrum Smith. I am sure that sooner or later Governor Ford will be called to an account for that responsibility, and he with others guilty of this terrible crime will have to answer for it by paying the uttermost farthing. And so, with reference to the Savior of the world, Pontius Pilate is still held responsible for the crucifixion, and he has never been able to wash his hands of that crime. During his trial Pilate said to the Savior, "What is truth?" The Savior did not answer, and Pilate said, "Why dost thou not answer me, dost thou not know I can send thee to the cross, or that I have power to set thee at liberty?" Oh, the awful responsibility resting upon Pilate, and he, like Governor Ford, will be required to pay the uttermost farthing, sometime, somewhere. There has been written a classical poem on the subject of the crucifixion, and Pilate's connection therewith. I will read you the poem from memory, but will preface it with quotations from Matthew 27th chapter. 

And when Pilate was set down on the judgment seat, his wife sent unto him, saying: Have thou nothing to do with that just man: for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him. 

And when Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, but that rather a tumult was made, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person; see ye to it. 

THE DREAM OF PILATE'S WIFE 

You cannot wash your hands of this: that crimson would defy 

The many waters of the sea, the cisterns of the sky. 

His blood will be upon your name: nor years can wash it white — 

Not till the leaping seas shall wash the great stars from the night. 

You say the Galilean only dreams a foolish dream, 

That he is but an idle leaf upon an idle stream. 

No, he is the man of the people, hated by scribe and priest: 

He is the fear at the Temple door, the specter at the feast. 

Shall the whispering house of Annas draw down upon your head 

The hatred of the future and the shadow of the dead?  

Why palter with this priestly crew? They hold a long intent: 

When the wheels of the street have pity, will the hearts of the priests relent? 

You say you fear Tiberius, — you fear the roar of Rome; 

But this man is to Caesar as a sea-rock is to foam. 

Whoever turns from this man's truth, he takes the thorns for bed, 

He plows the seas for gardens, and he sows the sand for bread. 

Oh, let the Galilean go, strike off his cruel bond. 

Behold that fathomless silence and those eyes that look beyond. 

There's more than mortal in that face, — than earthly in this hour; 

The fate that now is in the bud will soon be in the flower. 

Pilate, I have suffered many things in dream today 

Because of this strange teacher of the strait and mystic way: 

I saw him hanging on a cross, where the stones of Golgoth are: 

Then laid, at last, in a guarded tomb, under the evening star. 

I saw him rise again one dawn and down a garden go,

Shining like great Apollo white, our god of the silver bow: 

And then the wind of vision tore the veil of time apart, 

And love of him ran greatening from camel-path to mart; 

His story was a wonder on the eager lips of men, 

The scourged Galilean walked the roads of earth again. 

I saw Jerusalem go down before the wrath of spears, 

And turn into a field of stones under the trampling years. 

All these fair towers and walls went down, with a great and terrible cry, 

While signs and portents so threw on earth their shadows from the sky, 

Where spectral warriors strode the clouds like giant cherubim, 

Going to battle in the night, now glorious, now dim. 

Then whispers wild; the shout of crazing prophets on the street; 

The wail of mothers by their dead; the sound of running feet; 

And then the temple reddened up, and stood a cone of flame. 

Then ashes, and Jerusalem had withered to a name. 

World-battles raged around this man, the world's mysterious king; 

But over the storm of ages I could hear the Seven-Stars sing. 

Rome crumbled and I heard a voice across the ruin laugh; 

A Power had risen on the world, shaking its thrones as chaff. 

And down the ages rang your name, a byword and a jeer: 

"He suffered under Pilate!" sounded ever in my ear. 

The deeds of some are clean forgot, but yours did breathe and live; 

Some are forgiven in the end, but none could you forgive. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

{Of the First Council of Seventy) 

I desire to call your attention, for just a few moments, to the resolution which you so unanimously, and, as I judge, enthusiastically voted to sustain. I am sorry that we shall not have larger opportunity io go into the theme which that resolution naturally presents to our minds. I do not know whether the international conference on the limitation of armaments, to be held in Washington beginning on the third anniversary of the signing of the armistice, which brought to its close the great World War — I do not know, I say, if that conference will result really in the limitation of armaments among the great nations that will be represented in that conference. I realize, I think, in part at least, the great difficulties that confront such a conference in the present unsettled state of affairs of these nations; but while I do not know whether it will be successful or not, I think I do know that it is the duty of the membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to put forth every effort within their power to further the probability of the limitation of armaments among the nations of the earth. The old theory used to be that in order to preserve peace you must be prepared for war. The years between August, 1914, and the 11th day of November, 1918, demonstrated the fallacy of that theory. I am sure if there shall come an agreement upon the limitation of armaments, a long step will have been taken in the direction of world-peace, and therefore even if there exists but just a bare probability that something favorable in the interest of world-peace may be accomplished, it is becoming in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to make it known in all the world that we stand in favor of every movement that even holds out a prospect of peace on earth and good will to men. I can only refer to just one concrete example of the folly of what the nations of the earth are doing in this mad struggle that they are engaged in, in the competition of armaments. 

The Government of the United States recently received from the contractors the battleship Maryland. It is the proudest possession of our navy. It requires a crew of fifteen hundred men to man it, and one hundred officers, making in all to man that one battleship sixteen hundred men who are, of course, withdrawn from productive pursuits in life. It was builded at a cost of forty-two millions of dollars. It has as its chief armament eight sixteen-inch guns at a cost of two hundred fifty-six thousand dollars per gun. The guns can be fired one hundred times, and then they go to the junk heap. That is one of our battleships. Its life of usefulness and effectiveness will be eight years. After eight years, you must by that time have another ship of the same calibre and quality to take its place, with still further ships if you are going to keep your relative position in the naval strength of the world. We have three such great battleships as this, that is, we have two others of the same type, the Colorado and the California. We have eight other battleships in course of construction, but the dates of their completion are not fixed, at the present time. If our own naval program shall proceed as planned, and England shall go on with her program as planned, by the completion of these programs, we shall nearly have overtaken the great navy of the world-wide empire of England. Japan, to keep up in the mad race, is likely to ruin her people in that effort. She can only maintain her relative position in the struggle by a continuation of her predatory methods, by encroaching upon the rights and privileges of other nations in order to make good her part in her alleged struggle for existence, and her naval program is said to be attendant upon it. 

And so one might go on to call attention to the varying phases of this useless competition going on in the world, in the matter of naval armament, to say nothing of the army programs and the development of land forces in the several nations of the earth. We have evidently come to the time when there will come through limitation of armaments the security of the world's peace, or we shall go on and on until we repeat — which God forbid — repeat the awful cataclysm of war and destruction such as we witnessed during the world's great war but recently closed. 

The Lord gave a commandment unto his people, early in the history of this dispensation, at the time when they were driven from their homes in Missouri and inquired earnestly of the Lord to know what they were to do. He commanded them to raise a standard of peace, not only in reference to those who had maltreated them, and driven them from their homes, but to raise a standard of peace to the whole world, and to proclaim peace. (Doc. and Cov. 105:38-40). That is our mission, chiefly our mission, to prepare the way for the coming of the. Prince of Peace himself, whom the angels and the inhabitants of the earth shall again proclaim the giver of "peace on earth, good will to man." That is our program; and since this international conference proposes to limit the armaments of both land and sea forces, I for one hail it as an indication that the Spirit of the Lord is working in the hearts of the people and the leading statesmen of the world to bring to pass peace among the nations, and so I want the privilege, for one, of standing in the midst of my fellows and at least raising my voice in good cheer towards the achievement of that noble end which the conference has in view. But, Latter-day Saints, if this resolution just passed is not of the spirit, and if it be not your intent to rise as one man in Israel and pledge your earnest effort, with prayer to God, for the achievement of this thing, I pray you cancel the vote that you have cast. Let us either not do this thing, or do it with all the strength and power that God will give to us in desire and in prayer. 

I shall conclude, however reluctantly I leave the theme — I shall conclude by reading to you a prayer which perhaps in the meeting that you are to hold on the day appointed, when you shall assemble in solemn prayer service for this great cause, might not be inappropriate. It is a prayer which was given by revelation of God, ninety years ago, through the Prophet of the new dispensation. There seems to be no historical conditions existing at that time that especially called for such a prayer. It is introduced in the history of the Prophet with the mere statement that "In the fore part of October I received the following prayer through inspiration." The heading of the prayer in the Doctrine and Covenants is as follows: 

"Revelation on prayer, given through Joseph, the Seer, at Hiram Portage Co., Ohio, in the fore part of October, 1831." 

And this is the prayer; and, like all the prayers given of God, it is brief: 

Hearken, and lo, a voice as of one from on high, who is mighty and powerful, whose going forth is unto the ends of the earth, yea, whose voice is unto men — Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. 

The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth; 

Yea, a voice crying — Prepare ye the way of the Lord, prepare ye the supper of the Lamb, make ready for the Bridegroom; 

Pray unto the Lord, call upon his holy name, make known his wonderful works among the people; 

Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of man shall come down in heaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth; 

Wherefore may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven so on earth, that thy enemies may be subdued; for thine is the honor, power and glory, forever and ever. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

I fear lest I shall say a word to detract in any measure from the noble themes of this conference, for the subject which, with the help of the Lord, I would present for your brief consideration, is indeed a very humble one. 

HOME, THE BASIC INSTITUTION. 

When I contemplate the great organization of the Church, with all the means and facilities which the Lord has placed at our command to carry forward his work, to educate the people in the ways of the Lord, and to ultimately establish his kingdom, I always revert to one great institution as being basic in its nature, and fundamental in its importance. That one institution, to my thinking, has done more to influence the lives of human beings than has any other of the institutions given to us. It is the sacred institution of the home. 

THE GREAT AUXILIARIES CAN NOT TAKE THE PLACE OF HOME 

I have for a considerable number of years had the opportunity of engaging in the work of the various organizations of the Church. I know something of the great accomplishments of the auxiliary organizations which devote themselves, in large measure, to the care and culture of the young. I know what great effort is put forth by them to teach the principles of the gospel, to stimulate righteousness in the hearts of the youth of Israel. It is my observation that these great institutions of the Church, however much of good they may accomplish, can in no sense take the place of the home. They cannot be proxy for parents. Men and women to whom have been given the most priceless heritage given of God to man — children — can in no wise escape the great responsibility devolving upon them — to rear their children in the fear and admonition of the Lord. 

THE OLD FASHIONED HOME DETERIORATING. 

I have been led to think that the old fashioned home is deteriorating. I have feared that its influence upon humanity is becoming less and less. We have come to regard the places in which we live as mere accomodations, mere boarding houses, wherein we eat and sleep and from which we are to make our escape as soon as may be. This characterization does not apply to all homes; but I believe that it applies to altogether too many homes. 

HOME, THE FOUNDATION OF SOCIETY. 

I believe in the home as the foundation of society, as the cornerstone of the nation, and as the primary institution of the Church. I cannot conceive of a great people without great, good homes. I believe that the first calling of man and woman is to form a good home. I know of no honor that can come to men and women that exceeds the honor of father and of mother, I regret that not all men who enter into this sacred relationship, which lies at the foundation of home, are real fathers; and I likewise regret that every woman who comes into the temple of the home as its priestess does not in full comprehend the great responsibility and the wonderful privilege bestowed upon her. I sometimes think that the processes of modern education are inclined to educate our people away from home rather than to home. 

NO GREATER DISTINCTION THAN MOTHERHOOD. 

I believe that no greater distinction may come to the women of our land than to be in verity mothers in Israel. I am not unmindful of the progress that woman has made in the last half century and of her present influence in public and other affairs. I welcome that influence. I am always willing that our women should take a large interest and exercise a large influence upon all the affairs of State and of Church, but I want to say that no woman can ever attain a place of renown and distinction for any work performed in this world that is comparable with the high place of mother and wife. 

THERE IS NO GREATER CALLING THAN FATHERHOOD. 

I want our men to know that of all the vocations they may pursue in this life, no vocation is fraught with so much responsibility and attended with such boundless opportunity as the great calling of husband and father. In this Church I believe we have the highest and most exalted conception of home and family that exists anywhere in the wide world. Attention has already been called to the fact that we base our very hope for exaltation and eternal life upon those relationships that lie at the basis of home. No man, whatever his accomplishments may be, can, in my judgment, be said to have achieved success in this life if, when he goes hence he may not take his posterity with him, and may not be surrounded by them in the day of the Lord, when he shall be called upon to account for his life in the flesh. 

AN APPEAL TO THE FATHERS AND MOTHERS OF ISRAEL. 

Time will not permit the elaboration of this humble but exalted theme. I would that every father and mother in Zion would bind their children to them with ties of love and affection that will hold them safe in the hours of temptation and danger and trial. We of the auxiliary associations and institutions of the Church cannot hope to do more for you than merely to supplement and complement the work of the home. You can not place the chief responsibility with us; and, therefore, I appeal, in the name of the children, to the fathers and mothers of Israel, for closer attention to and study of that great institution, the home. I appeal for more of comradeship between father and son, for more of chumship, confidence, and love between mother and daughter. I believe in home-made men and women. I believe they are more assured of success in life; they will make better citizens; that they will accomplish their destiny far more acceptably to our Father, than will lodge-made and club-made, fraternity-made, union-made, society-made men and women. I plead for the return to old-fashioned, domestic family life, that there may be stimulated in the hearts of men a love for home and all its surroundings; and as we now disperse to go to our several homes, up and down this land, God grant that that great institution may be the place where Latter-day Saints are nurtured and conserved, and where a citizenship of this great nation and of this great Church shall be assured for the establishment of our Father's kingdom, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities of the Church, and, by vote of the assembled multitude, they were unanimously sustained in their various offices and callings as follows: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH. 

First Presidency: Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Charles W. Penrose, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthony W. Ivins, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

President of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Rudger Clawson. 

Council of Twelve Apostles: Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Joseph Fielding Smith, James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Melvin J. Ballard, John A. Widtsoe, 

Presiding Patriarch: Hyrum G. Smith. 

The counselors of the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, Levi Edgar Young. 

Presiding Bishopric: Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop; David A. Smith, First Counselor, John Wells, Second Counselor. 

Trustee-in-Trust: Heber J. Grant, as Trustee-in Trust, for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Church Historian and Recorder: Joseph Fielding Smith as Chuich Historian and Recorder, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

Church Board of Education: Heber J. Grant, Charles W. Penrose, Anthony W. Ivins, Willard Young, Rudger Clawson, Orson F. Whitney, Joseph Fielding Smith, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman; Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Commissioners of Education: David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman. 

Superintendent of Church Schools: Adam S. Bennion. 

Auditing committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, Peter G. Johnston. 

Tabernacle Choir: Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Asistant Conductor; John J. MlcClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball, Assistant Organist; Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organist; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer. And all the members of the Choir. 

Clerk of General Conference: Edward H. Anderson. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS. 

Since our last meeting here, in general conference, one of the most faithful and best beloved, and most remarkable workers in the Church among our sisters, has passed away, the late Emmeline B. Wells, who lives in the hearts and memory of the people. She bore testimony to the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, from my earliest recollection until she passed away, some ninety-odd years of age, with a power, a force, and a spirit that I have seldom heard from the lips of any person. I rejoice that she had the opportunity of traveling over the stakes of Zion, from Canada to Mexico, and in many foreign lands, in attending many gatherings of noted women in the world, at home in these United States and abroad. Wherever she went she bore that testimony and, by the integrity of her heart, by the wonderful and splendid intellect that she had, and above all, by the burning testimony of the divinity of this work, in which we as Latter-day Saints are engaged, she made friends for this people among all those with whom she came in contact. 

REGRETS THE LIMIT OF TIME. 

There has been but one regret in my mind during this conference, and that is that we have had to limit the time of the speakers, asking some not to exceed ten minutes, others not to exceed fifteen, and allowing none to go beyond twenty minutes. I sometimes feel that we make a mistake in not having four days of conference, so that when men are speaking under the inspiration of the Spirit of the living God, they will not feel that they have to say "Amen" upon the moment. At the same time, I believe that we feel better and that we accomplish more, if we can start on time and close on time. 

BLESSINGS FOR THE PEOPLE. 

I feel to bless the people for the wonderful attendance at this conference. I feared on account of the hard times, and the great financial depression, that our conference would not be as largely attended as heretofore; but our gatherings here this morning, in this building, in the Assembly Hall, and in the overflow meetings, and our gatherings this afternoon in all three of those meetings, I believe have been larger than upon any other occasion in the history of the Church. Zion is growing. The faith of the people is enlarging. Their attendance at their sacrament meetings, and at their priesthood meetings is increasing and they are becoming more and more faithful in performing the duties and the obligations that rest upon them in the auxiliary associations. They are doing better; more work is being accomplished in the temples than ever before; and the people are growing in the light and the knowledge and testimony and the love of the gospel. I pray God to bless the Latter-day Saints in every land and in every clime, I pray for hip blessing upon the honest the world over, and I pray for peace and happiness to come to the inhabitants of the world. 

We will now close our conference for six months, by the choir singing the words of a song given by revelation from God contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84. 

The music was written by a former citizen of this state, Arthur Shepherd, who has gained for himself a national reputation as a composer of music. 

The Lord hath brought again Zion: 

The Lord hath redeemed his people, Israel, 

According to the election of grace, 

Which was brought to pass by the faith 

And covenant of their fathers. 

The Lord hath redeemed his people, 

And Satan is bound and time is no longer: 

The Lord hath gathered all things in one: 

The Lord hath brought down Zion from above. 

The Lord hath brought up Zion from beneath. 

The earth hath travailed and brought forth her strength: 

And truth is established in her bowels: 

And the heavens have smiled noon her: 

And she is clothed with the glory of her God. 

For he stands in the midst of his people; 

Glory, and honor, and power, and might, 

Be ascribed to our God; for he is full of mercy, 

Justice, grace and truth, and peace, 

For ever and ever, Amen. 

The choir sang an anthem, (words from Section 84 Doc. & Cov.) "The Lord hath brought again Zion."
Conference was adjourned for six months.
Benediction was pronounced by Elder J. William Henderson, President of the Panguitch stake of Zion.
