Overflow
08 10 1921 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

My brethren and sisters, we may not be in the great tabernacle, a few rods away, in which is a great congregation of five or six thousand people; but we are here in this smaller building for the same purpose as are those in the larger building, and we are entitled to the same Spirit and should enjoy the same blessings. I am sure we shall have a splendid meeting here this morning. President Grant has sent us some faithful brethren to speak to us, and I know that we shall have the Spirit of God to bless and to comfort us during this hour. 

A TESTIMONY FULL OF JOY. 

I bear my testimony to you that I am happy to belong to this great people, chosen in the last days for the carrying on of the purposes of the Almighty. I delight to bear my testimony that I know that this is the work of God, that Joseph Smith was a prophet divinely ordained and set apart to carry out the great latter-day work that was planned before the foundations of the earth were laid. I know that in the light of the gospel, man may walk in happiness and in enjoyment throughout this life's journey, and ultimately, when we shall pass through the great veil, we may enjoy exaltation and eternal life throughout the endless ages. This testimony fills my heart with joy; and when, on a morning like this, I find these two great halls crowded to their capacities, and yet see beyond me a great concourse of people who are probably assembling in another overflow meeting, I praise God that he is blessing us so abundantly. 

Who would have thought, in 1830, when a handful of people assembled to organize this Church, that in ninety years these thousands of people would assemble in these valleys, then unknown to the civilized world, twice a year, in devotion and fidelity to God. My experiences on this land and in other countries have demonstrated to me that a sight like this is not to be witnessed anywhere else on the face of the earth. Ten thousand people at least, I imagine, are on this square today, with the common purpose of worshiping their God, of testifying to the things that I have been testifying to you here this morning. And, probably anyone of these ten thousand could stand on this platform, as I do now, and bear his living testimony that this is the work of God. 

Some years ago a mother with her children was standing near the statues of Joseph and Hyrum Smith on this block. They were looking at the conference crowds. One of the children, a girl pretty well grown into young womanhood, felt the spirit that we feel on this occasion, and she said to her mother: "Mother, mother, mother! If I know nothing else in this world, I know that I am a Latter-day Saint. I want to live with this people. I want to die with this people; I am of this people." That is how we all feel; we are leaving the world and we praise the Lord for it. 

Not only in numbers have we become a "marvelous work and a wonder" in a little less than one hundred years; but in a greater and a larger sense have we become a marvelous people, for we have impressed our thought upon the whole world. The world does not believe today as it did ninety years ago. A few days ago I picked up a recent number of a great magazine, and my feelings were roused within me and my testimony increased, when I found one of the writers declaring to the readers of the magazine that "God cannot look upon sin with the least degree of tolerance," borrowed almost word for word, from section one of the Doctrine and Covenants. In such a way have the doctrines taught by the despised Latter-day Saints been appropriated by the nations of the earth; and whether the people of the earth accept the inspiration of Joseph Smith, nevertheless, in fact, the whole current of human thought has been changed by the doctrines of this people. That is perhaps the greatest achievement of "Mormonism" during the last ninety years, unless it be the achievement to secure a body of people numbering hundreds of thousands who almost always see eye to eye, who understand as with one mind, who feel as with one heart, who worship God alike, and who in that united worship and action find a tremendous advantage in life. Do you know of a happier people than we are? I have not found a happier people. I find happiness wherever I go, for Latter-day Saints understand the truth. They have seen the beginning and they know the end of the designs of God with respect to his children. They do not grope in darkness. Who cares if we are few in comparison with the 1500 millions of people on the face of the earth? We are as yeast in the dough, and will yet ferment the whole earth. 

A few weeks ago I was in Canada, where I spent some time with people not of our faith. One afternoon we had a social affair, which ended in an automobile trip over some interesting places in that neighborhood. By my side sat an old gentleman, who was the man who drove the first railway train over the Canadian Pacific railroad into Vancouver. He told the story of that railroad; how a group of men saw a vision of the possibilities of building a railroad over the Canadian mountains, and how, with little influence, money and power, they formulated a plan to build from ocean to ocean a great continental railroad which would open up to humanity the great Canadian dominion. This man said: "I am ashamed to tell you how often I ran trains into Vancouver without a single passenger on them, during the first few years of the history of that railroad," and he said, "when we got a crowd of four or five people I thought the railway was coming into its own. One day we had 7 passengers, and we were all jubilant until we discovered that six of them were employees of the railway and traveled on passes." That was about a generation ago. Today, as I found, one almost has to plead for a seat on the trains that run every day over that same railroad. Who cares about the hard beginning and the empty trains when the end can be seen from the beginning? The makers of the Canadian Pacific railway saw the building of homes and schools and happy families, the growing of a civilization in that part of the world, so what did they care about the difficulties and modesty of the beginning? 

MARVEL OF THE SETTLEMENTS IN UTAH. 

You also, my brethren and sisters, saw the end from the beginning. If we know the message of the Prophet, what do we care about the hardships or the modesty of our beginning or of the difficulties of today? I know that the germs of permanent greatness lie in this great work; and I am content and glad and grateful to have been born into the world in this age, to do my work; even if some one after me must have the joy of realizing even more completely the vision of the past. 

Who thought when we came to the mountains in 1847 that we could build here an empire? Even Brigham Young, led by the Spirit of God, having visions by night and by day, of the future of his people, did not fully comprehend the destiny of this people when established in this once arid valley. But is it not wonderful that these great leaders did believe and trust in God as they did? The story is told that Brigham Young was met by the trapper Jim Bridger, who came to the Great Basin about 1824 and lived here for a quarter of a century; and that he said to Brigham Young, "I have spent a quarter of a century in the Great Basin, and I can't see any possibility of building a state on these barren wastes. I doubt if grain can be raised in the Salt Lake valley." But Brigham Young, taught by Almighty God, said, "You who have spent your life in these valleys may come to me with these conclusions; but I know that within this great American desert we may yet build homes and enjoy prosperity and happiness, and fulfil the destiny that God has promised his people." That is the difference between the inspiration of God and the judgment of men! 

ALL LIFE WAITS ON US. 

We are a small people in the eyes of the world; but we have an understanding of the purposes of God, and the gift of the priesthood and the authority to act for God in the accomplishment of his will. The living and the dead are depending upon us for the truth and the power of salvation. The living must hear our message; and the dead are waiting for us to open the doors through which they may go on to a greater life in the great hereafter. All life waits upon us and our actions for the fulfilment of the prophecies of holy men and the promises of God. I feel tremendously the responsibility that rests upon me as a member of this Church, having all this knowledge, having all this authority, having all these things placed before me to do. God grant that I may do all that God desires me to do, that I may not fail on account of any hesitancy on my part. 

I pray that God may give us a full conception of the meaning of this great Latter-day work, and give us strength from day to day to enter into partnership with him to accomplish the great work that he insists shall be done for the human race in this great stage of our existence, I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER ARNOLD G. MILLER 

Late President of the Australian Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel the responsibility that rests upon me at this time, and my heart is fluttering, perhaps, as is general when I have been called upon to face a congregation.  

I have recently returned from the Australian Mission, about seven months ago. I want to say of the Australian people that they are not in general a religious people. They are hospitable and among them many intelligent people. Among those who have been converted to the faith we can find as fine people, perhaps, as any that may be found. Among the elders who labored with me, there could be no finer young people anywhere than those young men were. Remember we were laboring under very difficult circumstances at the time. The world's war was one, when it was impossible to get elders from Zion to fill our ranks where they were depleted as our elders were sent home. They left us with very few to carry on the work in that far-off land. 

Perhaps the idea prevails among the Latter-day Saints that the people of Australia were against the "Mormon" people; in other words, that they had formulated laws against them. But this is not the case. I wish to defend that people. There was a rule passed by the British counsel, at the time they were engaged in that great struggle, that there should be no foreigners sent into the colonies during the prevalence of war. I was under the impression that the people there were compelling our people to keep away from that land. But as I put it up to the American consul there, he gave me to understand differently. I got a letter to the Secretary for the Colonies there, at Melbourne, and when I went to him and asked him why they were discriminating against the American citizens, he said they were not, that there were no laws passed by them against us; it was simply a rule passed for self-protection by the parent government. I saw very readily that they were right in doing this, because in the early stages of the war people were sent out in the guise of missionaries, and they were stirring up revolt among the nations, especially in India, and I commended them on the position they took. But that did not alleviate our situation. We finally got an order passed by which the British officer at Washington was directed to vise the passports of men from this country. And finding that we had lost so many men from our ranks, they allowed us to send so many more. And then we found that our government had proscribed men, so it left us with very few men in that field. We used what local ability we could. Finally, when the armistice was signed we received a small company of men to relieve the situation, but for a long time we had twelve men only in that great country having an area larger than the United States, and we did the best we could under those conditions. 

In coming in contact with the Australian parliamentarians, men who sat at the head of the government, we had a splendid opportunity to preach the gospel of the Son of God. The question would be asked by the men to whom we appealed, "What do you teach our people? What are your practices? What is your policy as far as emigration is concerned?" All of these things are vital questions to the Australian people. They wanted to know what we were teaching, and they got an opportunity to learn what we believed as to a personal God. We believe in God as a personal being, and in Jesus Christ as another personal being. We believe in the Holy Ghost as a personage of spirit, these constituting the Godhead. We also believe in the doctrine that Jesus came and atoned for the original transgression of man, and that through him and by him all will be resurrected from the grave. We believe that as individuals, we will have to give an account of our actions here upon the earth, and that we will pay the penalty for our transgressions. But we believe that somewhere, sometime in the great beyond, there will be a time when the gospel will be preached to all people, whether in this mortal life or behind the veil, when all will have an opportunity to hear, and to have a place in the kingdom of God. Again, we teach our people that they are to be subject to kings, presidents, magistrates, etc., and obey and sustain the law, and that our policy was at that time, knowing the opportunity there for colonization and for building up of institutions for the betterment of that people there. We had a splendid opportunity; we reached the chief men in the republic to tell them what we believe. We even reached Hon. William Hughes, who was at the head there, and I told him these things. He listened very attentively. "Well, " he said, "it seems to me that we ought not to bar your people, nor bar your elders from coming into this land." We told him what we had done for the "flu" there. We had this scourge very severely in Melbourne. In Sydney it was not quite so bad, where I was. But one of our elders who was at Melbourne visited the homes of some sixty people, and administered spiritual and temporal comfort, in connection with his associates. There was one local elder at one of the hospitals who was in a dying condition, and as far as any mortal aid was concerned he had passed by the portals of this earth, so to speak, and was entering into the great unknown. The elder procured a permit, and was permitted to visit the man and stay with him, which he did day after day, until the sick man was finally put on his feet, and today that man stands as a living witness of raising the dead in these last days. 

Brethren and sisters, miracles have not ceased. I have seen them in numbers of instances where I have labored, where the sick have been healed, and the barren have been made fruitful, and many other wonderful things done by the power of God. I have seen the power of God made manifest in the lives of those who have faith in the blessings of the gospel. 

I know that the gospel is true. God burned that into my being in my youthful days; and I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. I have said to some men whom I have met: you may look, perhaps some of you may sneer at our child-like faith; but I thank God for that child-like faith. We cannot help what we believe in, because God has revealed it to us by the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost. 

Once upon a time, when I was talking with one of these men, when it was reported that some of our elders had been accused of taking their women out of that country, as they thought, that man said to me: "Do you affiliate with other churches?" I said, "Oh, no, they will not have us fellows; we are too tangible; we preach, perhaps, a different doctrine." "But," he said, "Isn't your faith the same as preached by the world in general?" I said I did not know but it was. I said, there is a difference, though. I picked up a book and I said, we open the scriptures and we believe the things that are written in the book, and we try to keep our lives in accordance therewith. Your people believe the book when it is closed. You are believing the traditions of men. Here, let us take up some of the very principles that we believe in. We believe that Jesus Christ came upon the earth to atone for the transgression of our first parents, Adam and Eve. But let us not put it "transgression," it was a preconceived plan. There was something to be gained. But for the action called the transgression of our first parents, we would never have been here. We would have been ever in the spirit world; but inasmuch as death came upon our first parents, and we were all subject to death and dissolution, the spirit will have a body; that it became necessary that we should be redeemed from the condition of mortality that we were placed in, and that through the redemption all men would be resurrected from the dead. I said to those gentlemen: I am convinced of the work of the Lord. I have been time and time again over the whole territory of Australia, including Tasmania; I have labored some in New Zealand, and I have visited also the Samoan, the Sandwich Islands and others as a humble elder of the Church of Christ, and going from house to house and from hamlet to hamlet, preaching the truth, and I have found very few who believed actually in the resurrection of the dead. 

To us in Zion it is a bold statement, but it is a fact, very few people of the world believe in the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I believe that Jesus Christ came, that he fulfilled the predictions of the ancient prophets, particularly Isaiah, that he would be lifted up and would be slain for the sins of the world. He came and fulfilled these predictions, and as a result, all mankind will have the benefit of that great gift that he bestowed upon us. 

But aside from that, the time and place of resurrection, which will come to every son and daughter of man, will be according to our fitness. The Apostle Paul said that every man would be resurrected in his own order, Jesus Christ being the first fruits of the resurrection. I have taken up a labor with them, showing what is shown in the scriptures, and showing that their spiritual heads ignored these very things. 

We have talked sometimes on the resurrection, and shown them plainly that Jesus was crucified, and his body laid in a tomb, and that a guard was placed over his body for fear that something might happen to give the diciples of Jesus a chance to claim that he had prophesied truly that he would rise again. The Jews went to the Roman governor and they begged that there might be a guard placed over the remains of Jesus, that no such thing as this might take place; and on the third morning, before it was light, there was a wonderful convulsion of nature, and the Roman guards became frightened, and they left the place, you know in those times it meant death to a Roman soldier to leave his guard. Now, it is not likely that those men left that place in the night, as those men thought might have been the case; but something came that probably frightened those men almost to death; and early in the morning one of Jesus' followers who had been greatly benefited by Jesus, in having had evil spirits cast out of her, came to the sepulchre, and there Mary found the stone rolled away; and then she departed and went to the house of Peter and John, and she apprised them of the fact and they ran to the sepulchre. John outran Peter, and arrived first but when Peter came, he bolted into the sepulchre, impetuous as he was, and found the linen cloth or napkin lying at the foot of the sepulchre; but Jesus' body was not there. Now what took place at that time? Just the fulfilment of the promise Jesus had made them, that he would come forth. They discovered then the things that they had an idea of, but not a present knowledge. They discovered then the reality of the resurrection of the Son of God. They had perhaps looked upon him as an advanced teacher, something like Confucius, Mohammed and other great teachers in the world, but perhaps had never realized the tangibility of a resurrection. Mary came back, and as she was weeping, she looked upon the sepulchre and she saw two angels dressed in white, one sitting at the foot and the other at the head, where Jesus had lain, and they accosted her in these words: "Woman, why weepest thou?" She said, "Because they have taken away my Lord and I know not where they have laid him." And as she was turning she saw Jesus standing, but knew not that it was Jesus. And he said, "Woman, whom seekest thou?" And she said, supposing him to be the gardener, "Because they have taken away my Lord and I know not where they have laid him; if thou hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away." And then, as Jesus turned facing the woman, he said: "Mary," and she recognized him and was convinced, and in the excitement she went to embrace him, but he said, "Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father, but go to my brethren and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father, and to my God, and your God." 

Now, in talking upon this proposition at one time, a man claiming to be a linguist said, I want to give you the right rendition of "touch me not." He said it meant "don't detain me." It sounds better to me. But, however, Mary was an ambassador at this particular time. You remember, Mary went to the disciples and told them he had gone to his Father. Now, many manifestations took place at that particular day. But there was gathered together a little knot of these people. They were discussing the wonderful things that had taken place, and at that particular time Jesus came and stood in the midst of them, and said, "Peace be unto you." But they were affrighted and terrified, thinking they had seen a spirit. That is, they thought it would be a spiritual resurrection, not a tangible one. Jesus accosted them, knowing the fears in their hearts, saying: "Why do fears arise in your hearts, behold my hands and my feet, that it is I, myself." Then he stretched forth his hands before them and said, "Handle me and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have." He showed them his hands and feet, and while they believed him not for wonder and for joy he said unto them, "Have ye any meat?" And they gave him a piece of broiled fish and honey comb and Jesus ate it before them. Thus Jesus demonstrated to those people that he was tangible and real, a resurrected being. Paul says, "We do not know how we will appear, but we will appear like unto him." He says further, "If we have been buried with him in baptism, we shall be like him in the resurrection of the dead." 

In discussing this subject before the people, we have found people who admit that inasmuch as Jesus' body had not become corrupted it would be possible to accomplish this great thing, but deny the resurrection of the body after it has gone into the mother earth. Then we bring up the incident of his providing food for a multitude of people in four or five loaves and a few little fishes, and yet after feeding some four thousand people, they had twelve basketfuls remaining. We argue the point to the people of the world set forth in the first chapter of John, that by him and through him were all created. Now, if God created this earth, then should we curtail his power, and say that he cannot bring back the elements and breathe into them, so to speak, the breath of life. Another scripture, found in Mathew, 27:51,52. "And the graves were opened, and many of the saints who had slept came out of their graves and went into the holy city and appeared unto many." Here is an evidence of one of the apostles, who perhaps gave up his life for the testimony that he gave to the world, that there were others resurrected after the resurrection of Christ. 

Again, now nearly one hundred years ago, on the Susquehanna river, when two men had gone out to pray in regard to baptism, there came a personage who declared he was John the Baptist the one who baptized Jesus in the river Jordan, and said: "Upon you my fellow servants (as he laid his hands upon their heads) I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which has the keys of the administration of angels and of baptism for the remission of sins; and this will not be taken from the earth until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering in righteousness." They felt his hands upon their heads. John, who had been taken before the Master was slain, he had been resurrected from the dead. 

I am taking up too much time, excuse me. Oh, I love the doctrines that are contained in the Bible. I love to ponder over the revelations of God in the Doctrine and Covenants. 

I wish to say to the young people that there is no myth in the resurrection of Jesus Christ or of other individuals. I like to proclaim unto them that I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. That God revealed himself unto him, because of the prayer of faith in his early manhood. I have this testimony, too, for God revealed it unto me in my early manhood. I was sceptical, was worrying, I had my doubts and strugglings. I wanted to know if Joseph Smith was a Prophet inspired of God; I wanted to know if the Book of Mormon was true, because I had been reading it and pondering its pages, and had found many things there that I could not understand because they were too great for my conception. I wanted to know if the things incident to the establishment of this great latter-day work were true. And the Spirit of God came upon me upon a desert plain where I then was, and it filled my whole being with a living fire, it radiated to the very tips of my fingers, to the very hairs of my head, and I was shown these things that I could not understand before; it burned into my being that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the Book of Mormon is true. 

I would like to follow out the story of the resurrection at some future time. I pray that we may have the living faith that our forefathers had that we may demonstrate in that child-like, living faith the purposes of our Father, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

A baritone solo was sung by Elder Charles R. Pike. 

ELDER OWEN BENNION 

{President of the Duchesne Stake of Zion.) 

My brethern and sisters, I have a great prayer in my heart this morning. It is that those of us who occupy the time may do so under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, and those who listen may have that same inspiration, that each one of us may be able to gather from the speakers such encouragement or such exhortation or advice as may be best fitted to our present needs. 

I am very grateful that my parents received the gospel, many years ago, in the Old world, and that I was permitted to be their son. I have great sympathy with the boys and the girls who have been reared in the land of Zion. I have a great appreciation of the temptations the evil one places in their way. I have a great appreciation of the responsibility that rests upon them to set examples of righteousness before the world, and take advantage of the opportunities that the Lord has given; and I beg of these my brethren and sisters who have been so situated as I have, whose parents have left the old world and have come here for the sake of the gospel, that their sons and daughters might be properly trained, and that they might be the means of giving the light of the gospel to the world; I hope that our heavenly Father will give them a sense of responsibility that rests upon them through this great privilege they have. Those who are present who have received the gospel themselves in the Old world have been under great responsibility, and they have come to this land of Zion. They have come because of the testimony that perhaps many of their former associates in the Old countries did not have and perhaps a testimony that their children have not had and sometimes they will be turned aside somewhat by the actions of their sons and daughters. I hope they will realize that the evil one works in Zion as well as out of Zion. For myself, I have a great sympathy, and a great understanding for the Scandinavian gentleman who said: "If there is anything that is not good for me, that is what I would like; if there is anything that I ought not to do, that is what I want to do." The evil one works upon those in responsibility to such an extent that we ought to have charity for them. I have had in my mind these men. I have had in my mind the responsibility that rests upon the young people, and I would like to say to the fathers and mothers present, it seems to me that we leave too much responsibility of training our young people aright to our heavenly Father, or to the circumstances around them. We fail to realize sufficiently that our heavenly Father does work through us, that it is our responsibility to take care of all these boys and girls; that because we know that the gospel is true, it does not follow that they know it. It is just as necessary that the spirit of that gospel should come to them as it was that it should come to us. They have to know for themselves that the gospel is true just as we have to, and just as our grand-parents have to, and just as our grand-children will have to know it. 

We sometimes fail to realize that the temptation of the evil one come to our children and grand-children as well as they come to us, and it is our responsibility to care for and look after them. It is our responsibility to see that from the time of their baptism they are trained in righteousness, truth, and charity. The mother who teaches the little ones to pray must take care to see them grow up in the truth, that they may follow in the path in which they have been started. 

I want to testify to you that it is time half wasted, if we stop there. Even though there comes a time in the lives of the young people when they are not just what we would have them to be, when the right thing comes they will exhibit the influence of the early training they have received, and it is a responsibility that devolves upon us, fathers and mothers, to give them that teaching. What can religion class teachers do if there is no foundation laid in the boy or girl of fourteen years of age brought to them? The familiarity of the teachings of the Sunday School leaders and the leaders of the religion classes and other organizations are such that the responsibility of religious training rests upon us. I noticed that President Widtsoe used the word "entertainment," and corrected himself. I would like to say that there is too much of an idea among the Latter-day Saints that we have to be entertained at all times. Our religion is not a matter of entertainment. I have heard men and women complain that they cannot get their boys and girls to go to meeting, because it is not entertaining. You know what the Catholics claim, that if they have the child until it is nine years old they have it afterwards, for the rest of its life. Their religion is not entertaning. I have seen young men and women and old men and women, count beads, because of the training they had when they were children, before they were nine years old. 

It is my testimony that the Lord knew what he was talking about when he said the Latter-day Saints should teach their children the gospel before they are eight years old, and when he says that our young boys should become deacons and teachers at a certain age, that is the time that the Priesthood should be given unto them. The same time and the same opportunity comes but once in a life time. 

It is my testimony that the gospel is true, that while we may fail, the Lord never fails in his promises. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be with us, that we may live our religion one day after another. That is all that is required. I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

A solo and chorus, "Calvary," was sung by Lily Bennion and the choir. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON 

(Assistant Church Historian) 

My beloved brethren and sisters: I have enjoyed this meeting so far, and in the remarks I shall make I hope I may be blessed with the inspiration of the Almighty. And while I do not desire to detract in the least degree from the gospel discourses and the practical advice from former speakers, to which we have listened, yet I desire to add something in the nature of testimony, perhaps out of the ordinary way. I desire to do this with a view to strengthen us in our most holy faith and make us understand better than before, if possible, that God is with the true Latter-day Saints and that those who have enlisted in his service and who remain faithful and true to the whisperings of the Holy Spirit and to those who rule in the midst of Israel, will always be in the right, and consequently prosper, while those who are disobedient and rebellious will fail. 

I have lately returned from a special mission to the Republic of Mexico and to most of the Latter-day Saints missions in the United States, during which I have traveled about 20,000 miles and have had occasion to visit many places which I never visited before. I had already visited many foreign lands and nearly all the foreign missionary fields of the Church, but it so happened that my historical labors in the United States, so far as the missions here are concerned, were left until the last. In traveling through our American missions, as I have now done, I found myself repeatedly standing on what we sometimes term "sacred ground," because the places seen were closely connected with the early scenes of the Church, and I was brought face to face with many things of a historical nature which I did not experience on my travels to foreign countries. 

There are two things which deeply impressed me, while on this special mission — something that I cannot dismiss from my mind upon my return home. One of these is the predictions contained in the Book of Mormon concerning the Indians, or Lamanites, the aborigines of this western hemisphere. On my sojourn in the Eastern States mission I had occasion to stand upon the hill Cumorah, as I had done upon two former occasions, and also had the privilege of spending a night in the old Smith home, near Manchester, western New York, where the angel Moroni appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith that memorable night between September 21 and 22, 1823. 

I have always been interested in the Book of Mormon, having read it over and over again since I was a boy, and while visiting old Mexico, together with Prest. Rey L. Pratt and others, on my late mission, I began to study with greater interest than ever before the predictions contained in the Book of Mormon regarding the Lamanites and the possible fulfilment of these predictions. The remnants of the house of Israel, now known as the North American Indians, have so far disappointed us to a certain extent. We have had missionaries among the Indians since the beginning of 1831, and some of the very best and most faithful elders in the Church have devoted the principal part of their lives endeavoring to learn the various languages or dialects spoken by the several tribes oi Indians in the United States. But after all their efforts in that regard they have only been able to reach a few people, and their labors have resulted in bringing a still smaller number of Lamanites to a knowledge of the truth, and of those who have been baptized quite a few have not been faithful to their covenants, but have returned to their old habits and uncivilized ways and thus rendered the Church very little assistance. On this account we have been inclined to attach but very little importance to our Indian missions, or even to the mission established many years ago in our sister republic on the south, the Mexican mission. For compared with some of the missions among white people in our own country, and in foreign lands, the fruits or results have not been satisfactory. In view of these facts, some of us have been led to query: How shall the predictions of the Book of Mormon regarding the Lamanites be fulfilled? And will they ever become a white and delightsome people and assist the so-called Gentiles (who shall be converted, to build up Zion and establish truth and righteousness upon the earth? Those of us, however, who have accepted the Book of Mormon as an inspired record will not concede for a moment that the words of the Lord will fail; hence, we naturally extend our vision and researches to other tribes of Indians, besides these once powerful tribes within the boundaries of the United States. 

We, therefore cast a glance southward into old Mexico and through the great countries beyond — down through Central America and South America, where there are millions and millions of Lamanites, direct descendants of Father Lehi. We read with mixed feelings of sadness and joy about the Spaniards, who many years ago conquered the Aztecs of Mexico and the powerful tribes in South America, and who compelled the natives, at the point of the sword, to abandon their idols and paganism and accept that kind of Christianity which is represented by the Roman Catholic Church. We deplore the methods used to bring this change about; we shall always sympathize with the great Aztec Chief Montezuma and his people, when we read of the tyranny and oppression practiced upon them by Cortez and his soldiers. But there is one redeeming feature connected with all this Spanish warfare and bloodshed. The conquerors taught the inhabitants of Mexico, Central America and South America the Spanish language, which language is now spoken by nearly all peoples in these lands. Consequently, when our elders at the present time are sent to labor in the Mexican mission, and they succeed in learning the Spanish language, they can preach the true gospel of Jesus Christ to many millions. This fact stands forth in great contrast to the activities of Jacob Hamblin and others who labored as Lamanite missionaries in the United States, who could only reach a few small tribes after studying as hard, and perhaps worked harder to learn a local Indian dialect than our missionaries do in learning the Spanish language. I therefore look for the Mexican mission, now by many considered of but little importance, to flourish by and by, and become one of the best and most important missions of the Church, and I would further suggest that whenever the time comes that these Lamanites in the south shall embrace the Gospel, there will be a sufficient number of them to fulfil every prediction contained in the Book of Mormon concerning the Lamanites, and justify every expectation that we have had in regard to the help which these remnants of the house of Israel shall render in building up Zion in these last days. I desire to present this matter to you as my testimony and my faith in all that God has ever spoken through the mouths of his holy prophets. Heaven and earth may pass awav, but not one jot or tittle of that which God has spoken will ever fail. Every word of prophecy contained in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price, and perhaps many others not contained in these four standard works of the Church, will surely be fulfilled in the own due time of the Lord.  

The other matters, which attracted my attention and created special interest in my mind, while traveling recently in the United States, were certain facts connected with the several factions of apostate organizations which have broken away from the Church since it was first organized, a departure from the true order of the Church commenced almost immediately after Joseph Smith began his divine mission upon the earth. Ever since that great Anglo-Saxon Prophet began to receive glorious visions, converse with angels and obtain the gifts of translation, the devil has tried to counterfeit everything the Lord has done, and that, too, with considerable success, by deceiving people through impostors or tools who were willing to be used for that purpose. Through these emissaries the evil one has attempted to confuse the minds of mankind by introducing into the world through his agency and inspiration all kinds of imitations to deceive the very elect, if possible. Thus, if a servant of the Lord prophesied in the name of the Lord, the devil would do the same thing and claim that he also did it by the power of God, when in reality it was inspired by the powers of darkness and deception. 

Soon after Joseph had received the gift of translating sacred records by the gift and power of God, other men were influenced to translate by some power which they themselves perhaps did not understand, and while some of these efforts seemed at first to be somewhat successful time proved them all to be failures. The Prophet Joseph in his history records as early as September, 1830, that Hiram Page, one of the Eight Witnesses to the Book of Mormon, had in his possession a certain stone by which he obtained certain revelations concerning the upbuilding of Zion, the order of the Church, etc., all of which were entirely at variance with the order of God's house, as laid down in the New Testament, as well as in modern revelation. The Whitmer family and Oliver Cowdery were among those who believed in some things brought forth through this stone. So Joseph, the Prophet, enquired of the Lord and received the revelation which constitutes the 28th section of the new edition of the Doctrine and Covenants. And at a conference held soon afterwards Bro. Page, as well as all members of the Church who were present renounced the said stone and all things connected with it. 

In February, 1831, a woman, who professed to be a prophetess of the Lord and who believed the Book of Mormon to be true, made "pretentions of revealing commandments, laws and other curious matters," so it became necessary for the Prophet once more to enquire of the Lord and in answer the 43rd section of the Doctrine and Covenants was given, in which the Lord plainly said that "there is none other was given unto you to receive commandments and revelations until he [Joseph Smith] be taken, if he abide in me," etc. 

Soon afterwards, when the Saints began to congregate in Ohio and there became quite numerous, they were blessed with many of the gifts and powers of the gospel; but almost at the same time, according to the statement of Parley P Pratt, "some very strange spiritual operations were manifested, which were disgusting, rather than edifying. Some persons would seem to swoon away and make unseemly gestures and be drawn and disfigured in their countenances. Others would go into ecstasy and be drawn into contortions, cramp, fits, etc.; others would seem to have visions and revelations which were not edifying and which were not congenial to the doctrine and spirit of the Gospel; in short a false and lying spirit seemed to be creeping into the Church." The question was referred to the Prophet Joseph, who enquired of the Lord, the result being a revelation given in May, 1831, in which the Lord explains the difference between the manifestations of the power of God and the manifestations of the power of evil. (See Doc. & Cov. Sec. SO) 

According to the historian, Geo. A. Smith, the first attempt to establish an apostate Church, was made by one Wycam Clark, in Kirtland, Ohio. This Mr. Clark was baptized about the same time as Sidney Rigdon and, in company with Northrop Sweet and four others, seceded from the Church and said they would carry the whole world with them by preaching "Mormon" principles. They had two or three meetings and then the society broke up. 

Geo. A. Smith also says: "Another species of apostasy took place in the neighborhood of the forge at Kirtland. A man named Hoten seceded from the Church, denounced the Book of Mormon and the Prophet and established himself under the name of the Independent Church. A man named Montague was made bishop. This church got to number about ten members. They pretended under the order of the New Testament to have all things in common. In a few weeks the bishop, who had charge of the temporal things, made a charge on the president for visiting his pork barrel, and the president charged the bishop with visiting his wife, and that broke up the society." (See Deseret News, Vol 7, page 364). 

Bro. Smith also mentions a man by the name of Hawley, who was attacked by a spirit of revelation, somewhere in the state of New York, while he was plowing, and it took him in such a hurry that he had no time to put on his boots, but traveled barefoot to Kirtland, some 600 miles distant, to warn Joseph that he was a fallen prophet, that God had cut Joseph off and placed in his stead a man by the name of Noah, and the reason why Joseph was cut off was that he had suffered the men belonging to the Church to wear cushions on their coat sleeves and the women to wear caps. He went through the streets of Kirtland with a dismal howl, crying: "Woe, woe, to the people." On one occasion, about midnight, Brigham Young went out and took with him a cowhide and said to Hawley: "If you don't quit annoying the people with your noise, I'll cowhide you." Mr. Hawley then considered that he had suffered persecution enough for his Master's sake and shup up his noise. 

After the selection of the first quorum of Twelve apostles, in 1835, and after the dedication of the Kirtland temple, the spirit of apostasy became more general, and one of the First Presidency, several of the apostles, and other prominent men in the Church, were all carried away in this apostasy; and one of their number, namely, Warren Parrish, who had been a traveling missionary in the Church in the Southern States, and known as an eloquent preacher, undertook to organize those elements into a Church. They were going to renounce the Book of Mormon and Joseph Smith and take the "Mormon" doctrines to overthrow all the religions of the world and unite all the Christians into one great religious band — they to be its great leaders. This apostasy took place in 1837 and 1838. When Heber C. Kimball, while filling a mission in 1844, was crossing Fox River on a ferry, he encountered Warren Parrish as a grave-looking man — a straitjacketed fellow, dressed in black, with a white handkerchief around his neck. He spoke to Elder Kimball, saying: "Elder Kimball, will you have the goodness not to say to the people here that I was a 'Mormon!' I am a Baptist minister and am preaching in that meetinghouse at a salary of $500 a year. If they find out that I have been a 'Mormon,' it would hurt my influence very much indeed." The question arises: Where was the big church he had tried to build up. He had tried pleading law, but failed, and he had been peddling bogus money, which also failed, like the big church speculation. George A. Smith in explaining the origin of the Warren Parrish movement says: I recollect waking up late one evening when I was quite a young man and hearing my father and one of the brethren talk. Being a little disposed to listen, I learned that there had been considerable of a difficulty between Parrish and one of the brethren. This was when he was in good standing in the Church. He had been too kind with the brother's wife. Then I learned the commencement of his apostasy. 

At the breaking up of Far West, Mo., in 1838-39 Isaac Russell, one of the missionaries who first brought the gospel to Great Britain, undertook to lead the Saints into the wilderness. He gathered some twenty followers, but did not succeed. He afterwards suffered much persecution in Missouri and died in Richmond Sept. 25, 1844. 

David Whitmer, one of the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon, like all the witnesses to that sacred record, remained faithful to his testimony regarding the Book of Mormon, but otherwise he fell into darkness and allowed himself to be influenced by a number of apostate leaders, such as James J. Strang, and later Wm. E. McLellin. And when he became an old man, he undertook to organize a church of his own, claiming that inasmuch as he had been ordained and set apart by Joseph Smith to preside over a stake of Zion organized in Clay county, Mo., in 1834, he had as much authority as the Prophet himself. He obtained a few followers in Missouri, but not enough to make a complete church organization. He presided over his little church until he died in 1888, and when I visited Richmond, a few months later, his nephew John C. Whitmer, a son of Jacob Whitmer, had succeeded him as president of the Whitmerite faction. There is a very small remnant of that church left yet. 

Mr. Francis Gladden Bishop, commonly known as Gladden Bishop, and his brother I. H. Bishop, also started a church of their own, which became known as "Gladden Bishopites." Mr. Bishop believed that the valley of the Colorado was the place of refuge for the Saints at the time they were expelled from Nauvoo. He had joined the true Church in 1832, and after being ordained an elder did considerable missionary work for the Church; but he fell into darkness, and, under the influence of a delusive spirit, he organized a new church, as stated. He was on trial as early as 1842 before the High Council at Nauvoo (Joseph the Prophet being present) on complaint of having received, written and published or taught certain revelations and doctrines not consistent with the doctrines and covenants of the Church. At first Mr. Bishop refused to present the written revelation, but finally read portions of it to the council. The purported revelation appeared to be the extreme of folly, nonsense, absurdity, falsehood and bombastic egotism. Joseph the Prophet explained the nature of the case and gave a very clear elucidation of the tendency of such prophets and prophesying, and then delivered Mr. Bishop over to the bufferings of Satan until he shoidd learn wisdom. The council then disfellowshiped Mr. Bishop. It was after that that he organized a church of his own. 

Oliver Olney, who joined the Church at an early day and had presided over the Teachers in Kirtland was disfellowshiped in Nauvoo, 111., by the High Council of that place for setting himself up as a prophet. Later (Feb. 10, 1843) Oliver Olney was tried before a court in Nauvoo for stealing goods. He declared before the court that he had been visited many times by the Ancient of Days, that he had a mission from him to the four quarters of the world, that he had visited them all except one in the south, that he had suffered much for two or three years for want of clothing, that he despised a theft except to clothe himself, etc. Joseph the Prophet declared that Olney had never seen the Ancient of Days, or anything like him, but that he was under the influence of a wicked and delusive spirit. 

William Law acted for a while as second counselor to the Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, Ill., and while on terms of intimate friendship with the Prophet he was, Judas-like, plotting with his enemies to destroy him. His treachery was found out and he was dropped from his position and excommunicated from the Church. But so strongly did this base man profess to believe in the doctrines of the Church that after declaring Joseph Smith to be a fallen prophet he actually attempted to organize a church of his own. He put himself at the head of it as a prophet, chose two other apostates to act with him as counselors, and proceeded to select twelve men to be his apostles. This movement of his and his confreres was the height of impudence and hypocrisy, and of course it failed. 

When Joseph, the Prophet, was martyred the members of the Church were placed in a position which they had never before experienced. Nobody had looked for Joseph Smith's early demise (he being only 38 years of age) although he had hinted at it several times. But the people seemingly did not understand him, no more than the disciples of old understood Jesus the Christ when he talked to them of his early death. Not until he arose from the grave did the apostles and disciples of old understand. The Church in our day did not understand the principles of succession of the presidency of the Church, in 1844, as well as they do now. Sidney Rigdon who had acted as first counselor to Joseph the Prophet came forward after the martyrdom of Joseph and wanted the Church to accept of him as the Guardian of the Church. He had not been true to the Prophet Joseph for several years, and after his case had been investigated by the apostles and high council at Nauvoo, he was excommunicated from the Church. He then went to Pennsylvania and organized a church of his own, which had some following for several years and did not altogether cease to exist as an organization until the death of Sidney Rigdon, in 1876. 

William Smith, the Prophet's brother, who had succeeded to the position of Presiding Patriarch of the Church, also tried to organize a separate faction, but most of his followers subsequently left him to follow James J. Strang, another pretended leader. 

James J. Strang had joined the Church shortly before the death of the Prophet. He claimed to have received a letter from the Prophet Joseph appointing him to preside over the Church, in case the Prophet should die, and he made further assertions to the effect that he had seen an angel, received revelations, etc. He tried to organize a stake in Voree, Wisconsin, with two or three hundred followers, and afterwards moved his headquarters to Beaver Island, in Lake Michigan, where he founded a town called St. James and had his followers anoint him a king, to preside over the kingdom of God, claiming at the same time that Joseph Smith had only been president of the Church. For a short time King James reigned apparently with a degree of success, but after a while he became overbearing and tyrannical in his ways, and on a certain occasion he had some of his disobedient or rebellious followers whipped in public. This so exasperated the parties thus punished that they improved the first opportunity they could find to assassinate James J. Strang. This took place in 1855 on Beaver Island. This was the end of "King James," but strange enough some of his followers continued to adhere to his false doctrines and really believed that he was called of God, that he had received revelations and was the true successor of the Prophet Joseph. About twenty years ago one of the Strangite apostles visited Utah. There may be half a dozen Strangites yet alive. 

On my recent visit to Texas I became quite well acquainted with the career of Lyman Wight in that country. Lyman Wight was a strong and influential man in the days of the Prophet Joseph, and had acted for several years as one of the twelve apostles, but when Joseph passed away Lyman Wight claimed that he would not follow Brigham Young or any other man in the Church. Hence, when it was decided (at the time of the exodus from Nauvoo, in 1846) that the Saints would seek a new home in the Rocky Mountains, Elder Wight refused to go into that desert country, having perhaps forgotten that Joseph Smith had predicted that the Saints should become a mighty people in the Rocky Mountains. So, instead of working in harmony with the other members of his quorum, he led two or three hundred people, members of the Church, first into the Indian Territory and later to that part of Texas where Austin, the capital of that state, now stands. There, in a beautiful valley, he built a mill and endeavored to establish a colony but failed. He tried three other localities but failed again in regular succession, until many of his followers left him and he himself died as a drunkard, in 1858. Lyman Wight remained true to the first principles of the gospel and tried even to practice the rules of the United Order, or something similar, in which the members of his church should be equal in temporal as well as spiritual things; but while he was colonizing in one of the best districts of country and should have met with great success, he entirely failed, as stated, while Prest. Brigham Young and the Twelve who remained true to the Church proceeded in the successful establishment of settlements of the Saints in the Rocky Mountains, though that part of our great country which is now Utah was at the time of Lyman Wight's departure for the south a desert and desolate country as compared to Texas. 

George Miller had been one of the presiding bishops of the Church in Nauvoo and had led one of the leading camps of the Saints westward into the wilderness. But he became disaffected and with a small faction, over which he gained influence, he also went down into Texas, where he for a short time affiliated with Lyman Wight, but fell out with him and left for the north, afterwards to become a follower of James J. Strang. 

Alpheus Cutler, who joined the Church at an early day and was quite active in Missouri, was chosen a member of the High Council in Nauvoo, Illinois, and afterwards acted as President of the High Council at Winter Quarters, Neb. When Prest. Brigham Young left Winter Quarters, in 1848, on his second trip to the Valley with a large emigration Alpheus Cutler remained in Iowa, where he for some time was identified with the Silver Creek branch, but he was disfellowshiped from the Church at a conference held in Pottawattamie County, Iowa, for exercising an influence against the migration to the Valley and for advocating the building of a temple, etc. At a general conference held in Salt Lake City, in 1850, Father Alpheus Cutler, as he was generally called, was excommunicated from the Church. After that he organized a church of his own. According to the statement of Bishop Abraham A. Kimball Alpheus Cutler changed his residence from Pottawattomie county to Manti, Fremont county, Iowa, where he organized a church and constituted himself as its leader, calling it "The true Church of Latter-day Saints," and presumed to officiate in the ordinances of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, such as baptisms, endowments, etc. He also energetically denounced polygamy and the law of tithing, and taught his followers that Joseph Smith was a true Prophet of God, but that Brigham Young was not his successor, but an imposter and that he (Alpheus Cutler) was the true leader and held the authority to carry on the Latter-day work. This pretended "true church" was organized with Alpheus Cutler as president, Edmund Fisher as first, and Chauncey Whiting as second, counselor, and Grandfather Fisher as patriarch. 

It so happened that Heber C. Kimball had married two of Alpheus Cutler's daughters, but when Heber C. Kimball, in 1848, took part of his family to the Valley, these two Cutler girls, who each had a son, remained in Iowa. The two young women subsequently died, leaving the two sons of Heber C. Kimball (Abraham A. and Isaac) who subsequently were told of their real parentage, which had been kept from them by their grandfather. Abraham A. Kimball (afterwards Bishop of Kanosh, Millard county, Utah,) became identified with his father's family in Salt Lake City in 1862. The next year he was called on a mission and sent east to get his brother Isaac to the Valley, in which he succeeded. On this trip Alpheus Cutler, who had now become an old man looking toward the end of his journey, confided to his grandson as follows: "I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and I know that Brigham Young is his legal successor, and I always did know, but the trouble with me was that I wanted to lead and could not be led. I have run my race, and sealed my doom, and I know what I have got to meet." He then, addressing Abraham, his grandson, said: "Let what may turn up, never yield the point (never leave 'Mormonism'), for it will save and exalt you in the kingdom of God." He wept like a child after saying this, and then continued, speaking to his grandson: "One favor I wish to ask you, namely, that you will not divulge this confession to those whom I lead, while I live." Shortly after this Alpheus Cutler died and the church which he had organized ceased to exist. 

In 1848 a man by the name of James T. Brewster associated himself with Hazen Aldrich (at one time a president of Seventies) and organized a church, June 26, 1848, on the pretense that the Lord had rejected the original Church, and he (Brewster) having received a commission of the Lord to call together all the pure in heart to establish anew the Church. Brewster also claimed the extraordinary gift of reproducing under the inspiration of the Almighty the lost books of Esdras, as a continuation of the First and Second Book of Esdras, which are known among the apocryphal writings of the Old Testament. There are still a few Brewsterites in existence. 

Granville Hedrick is the founder of a sect now known as the Hedrickites; they are the possessors of the temple lot in Jackson county, Missouri, and claim to be a branch of the original church organized in 1830, but reject all the revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith later than 1834. 

The Josephites, or so-called Reorganized Church, came into existence as a real organization, in 1860, when young Joseph, a son of the martyred Seer, accepted the leadership. The original membership of this Church was to a great extent made up of Strangites, Wightites, Wm. Smithites, Cutlerites and remnants of other factions by means of whom the followers of that organization are trying to bridge over the interim, 1844-1860. The "Reorganites" represent the only faction of apostate organizations which at the present time, so far as numbers are concerned, can claim any consideration. 

Joseph Morris, an early convert to the Church in Wales, was severely hurt in his youth from being hit in the head with a lump of coal, while working in the coal mines of Wales, and after joining the Church, and while doing missionary labors, he showed repeated signs of insanity, and finally a delusive spirit took possession of him after his arrival in Utah, and he organized a church and established himself on the Weber river as a prophet, in 1861. He pretended to receive a number of revelations which have since been published in a book, but he came in collision with the territorial authorities in 1862 and was killed together with a few others of his followers. His organization known as the Morrisites was broken up, yet there are even now a few alive who still believe that Joseph Morris was a prophet. 

William S. Godbe was once a prominent man in the Church, but when co-operation started in 1868, he, as one of the merchants of Salt Lake City, rebelled, withdrew from the Church and organized with others what was called the "Godbeite movement," which, however, flourished only for a short time. 

There are a number of other factions which might be mentioned, but time does not permit, such as the Bickertonites; also the Modern Brewsterites (a movement set on foot by one F. R. Brewster, who called himself the Seventh Angel, the Captain of the Lord's Host, etc., early in the '80's in Salt Lake City). An organization made by the late John E. Forsgren, who established himself in a tent east of Salt Lake City with twelve women, representing the twelve tribes of Israel and others could be mentioned. In fact I could mention altogether some thirty attempts made by apostates or seceders from the Church who claimed to succeed to the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith. We have the history of all these factions at the Historian's Office, and are gathering additional information about them from time to time. 

President Young said at the important meeting held in Nauvoo, Ill., Aug. 8, 1844: "If an man thinks he has influence among this people to lead away a party, let him try it, and he will find out that there is power with the apostles which will carry them off victorious through all the world" (Mill. Star, Vol. 25, page 216). 

This prediction on the part of President Brigham Young has certainly come true, and in my remarks I have only endeavored to show this great fundamental truth, that where the Priesthood of God is exercised in righteousness, there is success and happiness, while the dissenters and apostates have always met with failure and disasters. The history of the Church affords us abundance of proofs to establish this fact. It all goes to show that when we do what the Lord wants us to do, when we say what the Lord wants us to say and go where the Lord wants us to go, we will prosper. By doing this we will gain the victory over every species of evil, and, if we remain faithful to the end, be saved in the kingdom of God. 

May God help us to be true to him and to ourselves, and to the principles which we know to be true, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

Manasseh Smith and the choir sang the hymn, "Victory." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder James Z. Stewart. 


