Second Overflow
08 10 1921 

ELDER JOSEPH R. SHEPHERD 

{President of the Logan Temple) 

This is certainly a glorious morning. All nature is smiling upon us. The Spirit of the Lord is with us and has been with us in our conference, and will continue until its close. 

I have been thinking, as I have been sitting here this morning, of the words of the prophet wherein he said: 

And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. 

Surely we have here a fulfilment of this prophecy, for I doubt not that if I were to ask how many nations were represented here this morning, even in this overflow meeting we would find representatives from nearly every nation under the sun. We would find either those who have been gathered from the nations of the earth themselves, or we would find their sons or their daughters, or grandsons or granddaughters here. 

The thought that came to me in connection with this prophecy was, what a mighty responsibility rests upon this people who have gathered here, my brethren and sisters, for a specific purpose. The blood of Israel has been gathered from the nations where it has been scattered. This is the day of gathering-in of the house of Israel; and the gathering in the tops of these mountains is for the purpose that we may learn more fully the ways of the Lord and that we may be able to walk in the path that the Lord would have us walk. 

And I have been wondering whether the younger generation, the sons and daughters of the fathers and mothers who have heeded the call of the Lord through his servants, have within them the same degree of faith and a desire to carry on his work, for which their fathers and their mothers have been gathered. Are we becoming careless in regard to these things? Are we forgetting the mission to which we have been called as a people? Are we observing the commandments of God, and are we doing those things that the Lord desires to have done through the gathering of Israel? 

In the hymn that we have just sung is one of the purposes for which this people has been gathered in this day and to these parts: that we might erect temples and participate in the sacred ordinances of the house of God. The hearts of our fathers and our mothers, when they crossed the plains, notwithstanding the arduous journey that they undertook, were filled with joy in contemplation of the very thing of which the prophet spoke, that they should come here unmolested, and that they might here serve God according to the dictates of their conscience; and further, that they might establish themselves here and build temples to the name of the God of Jacob. As the hymn says, we are here that we may be saved, and also become saviors to those who were not permitted to enjoy these blessings. 

The gathering of the blood of Israel from the nations of the earth is a very important part of the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The blood of Israel has been mixed among all the gentile nations, and it is in the providence of our heavenly Father that in the last days they shall be gathered together; and we are here, my brethren and sisters, and should see to it that the spirit of scattering does not enter into our souls. 

Growing up, we have a large number of young men and young women, whose greatest desire should be to enter into the temples that have been erected, and there enter into solemn covenant with their heavenly Father to serve him and to obey his laws and to assist in the establishment of Israel in this land. I have thought many times of the advice given to our young people concerning making alliances with those who are not of the same faith, — not that we have any quarrel with our neighbors, not at all; not that there are not just as good people, so far as they understand things, outside of the Church as inside, — but, my brethren and sisters, this is a day of gathering and concentrating the blood of Israel. And, now that we have gathered out of the nations, let it be known that our sons and daughters, who are of the blood of Israel, should ally themselves together, when the time comes to enter the sacred relationship of husband and wife. It is displeasing in the sight of our heavenly Father that by our acts we should nullify, in effect, the very purpose for which we have gathered here. 

I have been impressed concerning this thing. We should seek to gather the blood of Israel; we should seek to intensify the blood of Israel in our posterity. And how can that be done? By those who are of the blood of Israel allying themselves together in this sacred relationship. And then, as generations shall come and go, can you not see how the preponderance of the blood of Israel will come? It is a gathering, my brethren and sisters. 

I wonder if some of our parents who have given their lives in the establishment of their children in this favored land, would not be greatly disappointed if they found that their boys and girls were forgetting one of the great purposes for which they have gathered, and that they, like old Israel, are seeking after strange gods. From the beginning of time it was the will of God that those who entered into covenant with him to keep his laws and commandments, should only ally themselves with those of the opposite sex who similarly entered into covenant with him. We read right in the beginning, that one of the chief reasons why the curse of God was poured upon the people, why God became displeased, was because the sons of God looked upon the daughters of men and took them as their wives, as they pleased. Now, this is plain; we should understand it. Who were the sons of God? They were the ones who entered into covenant with him and who received of his commandments and acknowledged him as their Father and God. And who were the daughters of men? Those who had no faith in God and rejected him and his laws and his counsels. And it displeased the Father that there should be an amalgamation of these two opposing powers or factors; and from that time to the present, that commandment has been to Israel, and it is the law of God to Israel today. There are plenty to select from; look at the hosts of Israel as they are gathered together. We need not enter into this most sacred relationship with those who have not similar faith and ambition and desires. It will never be productive of good. I have heard presidents of the Church, for years, say — and their advice was not only to Latter-day Saints but to other people — that it was not good that those who have opposing ambitions and views and faiths try to amalgamate together as husband and wife, because it will not work out. Either they will lose faith and disregard the faith that they have, or else there will be eternal trouble. 

I believe this a matter of great importance, my brethren and sisters, and I speak to you as parents, and I speak to you as young men and as young women; if your young people want happiness, peace, and the fullest joy in this life and the life which is to come, let them remember the advice and counsel that God has given his people, and in their selections, let them make selections of husband or wife from those who have the same faith and ideals, and ambitions, and who are journeying toward the same goal. This subject of marriage, my brethren and sisters, is more important than some people think; it means more. It is the laying of the foundation for eternal glory and happiness in the celestial kingdom of God, if entered into with the proper spirit and with the proper understanding of that sacred relationship. What a sorrowful thing it is to know that there is such a large percentage yet of the sons and daughters of these pioneers, who came here and gave their all for the gospel's sake, that nearly one half of them reject the opportunity granted to them of entering into this sacred relationship, which God ordained in the way that he did. 

I said we came here to build temples. One of the ordinances of the house of God is the solemnizing of this sacred relationship. And how blessed are those who have been born under the covenant, that they, having a high regard for the faith of their fathers and for their own faith, go to the house of God and there are sealed to their husband or wife for time and for all eternity. What is more sad than when death comes into the family and the wife or the husband is stricken, than to realize then that the relationship that has meant so much to them is at an end. And it is at an end, my brethren and sisters, unless it has been solemnized by those who are authorized of God, and the couple have been sealed together for time and for all eternity. 

And let us remember, too, that now is the time; now is the accepted time. There are many who, for various reasons, which I have not time to discuss, refrain. They are those who have a kind of faith and a desire to do it, though not very strong, thinking, "O, that can be done sometime later on; we will leave this for someone else to do" or "we will do it when we get old." They procrastinate. It is dangerous, for let it be known, my brethren and sisters, that no man nor woman, will ever receive the same degree of glory in the world to come, who refuses and rejects to do the thing they may do in this life — I care not if the work is done for them by somebody else. 

I hope the Latter-day Saints understand that. Certainly we do work for the dead; but some people have an erroneous idea that those who refuse to do the work in this life, and for whom the work is done after they have passed away, are just as well off then; that is a mistake. The primary principle of vicarious work for the dead is to do for themselves. You know our Christian friends on the outside — we call them Christian, even if they do not call us Christian — have found fault with this doctrine of doing work for the dead, charging us with this that it is an encouragement for impenitence and of putting penitence off. That is not true; they do not understand what we believe in. Work may be done even for the sinner, but he will never receive the same degree of glory, as if he had done it himself. 

Now these are some of the things, my brethren and sisters, that I thought of this morning as I saw this great audience here, and as we sang this hymn concerning the gathering of Israel, and as we sang the hymn in the opening of the meeting of the travels of our parents and grandparents of this country. I thought "Why all this?" It was that we may enjoy the greater blessings of the gospel that are administered in the house of God. That is one of the chief reasons. And here we are living under the shadow of the temple of God. Will we, any of us, reject the opportunity that we have for receiving these blessings? I hope not. I am glad to say that so far as my personal experience goes, the spirit of the work is growing, and the testimonies of the divinity of the work are growing in the hearts of the people, and in proportion as our young people and our old people will go to the temple of God and receive the blessings administered to them there, it will give them additional testimony of the divinity of the work. Let us as sons and daughters of the noble pioneers who came here and left their all for the gospel's sake, be true to them, their memories, and their faith, and let us carry on the work that they expect of us. And may God's blessing be upon us to this end, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JAMES N. LAMBERT 

(Former President of the New Zealand Mission) 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege that is afforded us to worship our heavenly Father on this beautiful morning. 

It is now something less than a hundred years ago since the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established. Shortly after the Church was organized, in this day and age, the Lord said that he was about to commence a marvelous work, a work that would possibly not be understood by some. Shortly after our Church became a church, in the state of New York, our people — your people and mine — were compelled to move from that state because of persecution that was heaped upon them. They went from the state of New York into Ohio, and from Ohio to Missouri, and from Missouri back into Illinois. And then came the movement west into the valleys of the mountains. Some that were weak, who felt that they could not stand the heat and the burden of the day, fell by the wayside. The Lord blessed those, however, who had the tenacity, the will, the desire. It is recorded that even in the first company of pioneers who came here July 24, 1847, there were some who could not see the blessings of the Lord that would attend the people in the settlements of this valley. They were willing to take a chance as to what lay beyond, between here and the Pacific ocean; they reminded President Young that they had seen many places from the Missouri river unto this valley that appeared more inviting to the human eye than they saw when they first caught a glimpse of this valley. President Young's remark to them, however, as his prophetic eye could see what lay in the future for the people who settled here, was, "This is the place." And when reminded that this was a part of the Great American Desert, he said that we would yet make it literally blossom as the rose. My brethren and sisters, you can testify to the truthfulness of this prophecy of President Brigham Young. Surely the Lord has blessed us; surely the Lord is blessing us. Wherever our people have settled, from Canada to Mexico, from California to states east of us, the Lord has blessed our people and blessed their efforts. 

I wonder if all of us are striving to do what is required of us as Latter-day Saints. Brother Shepherd in reminding us of one of the greatest blessings that has come unto us, one of the greatest gifts that the Lord has conferred upon us — to be married in the temples of our God, to be sealed to our companions, not only for this life, but for the life to come — wondered if all of us who are here this morning are doing our utmost to live up to that blessing. Are we teaching our children the blessings that have come unto us and that have been taken advantage of by us? 

You know we have been accused many a time of being a peculiar people, peculiar in our ways. In the first few years of the existence of our Church we were accused of believing in a God that has body, parts, and passions, of believing in a God that could hear and answer our prayers, of believing that we could ask him to direct us in the way in which we should go and that he would do so. We have been held up to ridicule, not only in this country, but throughout the world, wherever the gospel has been preached. But I believe the tide is turning; I believe the people of the world are beginning to admire us and, perhaps, to sing our praises. 

You will remember that it is recorded in the Scripture that the Lord said we should beware when people would begin to say all manner of good things in favor of us, but rejoice and be exceeding glad when the world said things falsely against us. It was my privilege only a few weeks ago to talk to a prominent physician in this city, a man who does not claim to be a Latter-day Saint; and when he learned that I had recently returned from a mission where I had been preaching the gospel for some years, he said, "This system that you 'Mormon' people have of sending your missionaries into the world is a wonderful thing; the other religious sects of the day do not have it; the other religious organizations won't do it; it is left entirely for the 'Mormon' people to do it. I wonder how you started such a thing." I told him that away back in the beginning of our Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation to send our elders out two by two, to preach the gospel without fear or favor, to deliver the message that they had received, to warn their neighbor, even as they had been warned, and that we go out without hope or thought of reward so far as this life is concerned, when a call comes to us, whether to a man or woman, to go out and preach the gospel, and we have been set apart for that particular work; that the Lord blesses us, and many return here seeing the fruits of their labors, and those who have not even had this privilege, later on see that others reap from the seed they sowed. 

I was reminded, in talking to this doctor, of the remark that was made some years ago by a prominent Salt Laker, a man who had come here and married a Salt Lake woman after he had visited all parts of the United States and other parts of the world. In the Commercial Club of Salt Lake City here, he made the statement that never in his travels had he met a people who were so ready to make answer, who were so ready to talk and discuss things, and give a reason for the hope that is within them. He said you can go into the smallest hamlet and find men and women there who can do it, and I marvel at it. A man who heard him make this statement was rather anxious to find out just why he thought he had found such a condition. This brother wanted to know if he had the right idea about it, and so at the close of the meeting in the Commercial Club, he asked this gentleman to what he attributed this ability that he found so peculiar among our people. He said, "That is no secret; it is this wonderful missionary system that you 'Mormon" people have, of sending your young men and your young women into the earth, into the various parts of the world to preach the gospel. They come back bubbling over with new ideas. They bring back the best things that they see, no matter whether they go to Japan or to Australia, or to South Africa or to various parts of Europe, or to various states of this Union." 

There is nothing in the world, my brethren and sisters, that benefits a person like comparison, travel, education. Do you wonder, therefore, at the high standard that is maintained by our people here in this state? We compare most favorably, when measured by the various states of the Union or various countries of the world, as far as education is concerned. We have ever sought education. Our elders who go into the various mission fields and who come back with these excellent ideas gathered up from peoples to peoples, disseminate these good things among the rest of us. We have ever striven for that which is good and wholesome and pure, from the very things that we were taught in the early history of the Church, that "The glory of God is intelligence," that all we seek after here, all the good, the excellent things we get here, and remember and understand, will rise with us in the hereafter, and by so achieving, by so accomplishing and understanding these things, our power will become much greater in the other world. Do you wonder, then, at the ambition, do you wonder at the desire that is in the heart of every Latter-day Saint? Not at all. Do you wonder, then, that every parent puts forth his best efforts to teach his son or his daughter the things that are most dear to him, the gospel of eternal life, the gift of eternal life, that has been so much misunderstood, by the people of the world? You elders, and you sisters, who have been abroad preaching the gospel and have heard ministers and others contend that the gift of eternal life in the kingdom of God is the gift of God without any effort on our part, you have heard it, and you have wondered and marveled at the misconception that some people have. 

Let me point out a comparison that I have made on many an occasion when such arguments have been brought up. There is no state in the Union, no country in the world, that affords an education to a young man or woman, more than does the state of Utah. Our boys and girls growing up here are compelled to go to school. Books are found for them; pencils, paper, ink, are furnished them. They can go to school, and if they live any great distance, conveyances of some kind are provided for them. This 'gift' of education is theirs. It is not theirs for the asking, because it is forced upon them; they are compelled to take it; a boy or girl in normal conditions must go to school and receive an education; they are compelled to. Would anyone say that education is not free? Why no; we boast of it; we prate it, we sing of it; our missionaries in going to the uttermost parts of the world tell of the splendid things that we have achieved, and how when we are measured up to our sister states in this Union, we compare well with them. And yet, do you mean to tell me that any boy or girl will ever go from one grade to another without an effort on his own part? Did you ever hear of anyone being graduated from the eighth grade into the high school without an effort on the part of the one who is receiving this splendid gift, without price, of education? Why no, and do you think a person can be admitted at the University who has not credits entitling him to go there? Not at all. And yet this education is free. No one would have the termerity to say that this education is not free. It IS free; yes, for those who WORK for it. God Almighty is not going to save his children in ignorance. Just as I quoted to you a few moments ago, "The glory of God is intelligence;" God rejoices in seeing his children grow and develop and become something. He does not look down upon us with any degree of satisfaction and joy when he knows that we are ignorant or will remain in ignorance — either in the principles of the gospel or in anything that is going to make us bigger or better or greater. God almighty will rejoice in seeing us become bigger, greater, better. 

I rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in this wonderful conference. I rejoice with you, and bear my testimony to you that I know that this is the Church of Jesus Christ, that within this Church are found the blessings of Almighty God, and that we cannot expect to find them, nor will we find them, outside. The Lord has been merciful, kind, considerate, long-suffering, and patient with some of us. May we appreciate these blessings. May we appreciate the outstretched hands of our Father, that are continually beckoning for us to come to him to receive at his hands these wonderful blessings that we have preached about, that we have sung, that we have told in story. 

My God add his blessings, my brethren and sisters; may he sustain us and uphold us in all our righteous endeavors, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.

ELDER NICHOLAS G. SMITH 

(Former President of the South African Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters and friends, I delight to testify to the goodness of God to me and to his people. I delight in having the opportunity of preaching the gospel. I love it. I love the people of this state. I love the "Mormon" people wherever they are, and I love all good people. Sometimes I think, when we are talking to ourselves and about ourselves, perhaps we laud ourselves a little too high. Speaking as a foreigner — for I may be counted as such since I have spent the last eight years of my life doing missionary work in the Union of South Africa — I can see a few things that look a little bit peculiar to me. Brother Lambert has just been telling you of some of our virtues, of how high we stand along educational and other lines; I picked up a Milwaukee paper not long ago, and it said that Utah was a wonderful state; they do lots of fine things in Utah, but that Utah is a pest house; they have more small pox than any other state in the Union. Now, stop having small pox! (Laughter) 

I was impressed with the remarks of President Shepherd concerning some of the ordinances of the gospel. What a joy it is to us Latter-day Saints when we hear people abuse us on account of our faith and some of the doctrine of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It has not been very long since one of the ministers, when they were gathered together here in a convention in this city, made the remark that the "Mormon" people stand today where they (the ministers, stood one hundred years ago, that they still cling to the errors of a hundred years ago. Brother B. H. Roberts, in speaking in the tabernacle in answer to the accusations on the following Sunday said, "Well, we are thankful the Lord said that was the trouble with mankind; they are in error." You will remember the words of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith, "They draw near to me with their mouths, and with their lips do honor me, but their hearts are far from me, and they teach the doctrines and commandments of men." They were in error; they did not acknowledge it then, but now we find them acknowledging it. 

They say we stand where they stood one hundred years ago. Is it true? From which one of them did we learn about this great temple work? From which sect, if you please, did we copy temple building? Was it from the Presbyterians, or from the Methodists? No; they did not tell us about the hope that we should have for those who have gone before. We did not copy it from any of them, did we? 

I remember down in South Africa, upon one occasion, I had been talking with a minister of the Church of England about the gospel, and this matter of salvation for the dead came up, and I told him our belief along these lines. "Why," he said, "that is blasphemy to think of such things, to teach that there is a hope after we are dead. You drive people away from the church. Do not talk such rot." I went into his church in the city of Ladysmith, and there were eleven of us present, counting the minister and myself! And we drive people away from the church! I said to him, "Come out to Salt Lake City, and I will take you into one building where ten thousand men and women are worshiping the true and living God, and yet you will tell us we drive them away from church by teaching that there is a hope for the dead." 

Think of it, my brethren and sisters, that tabernacle is full to overflowing with thousands and thousands of people, the Assembly Hall is overflowing, and here in the open air we have gathered together hundreds of people to worship God, and they would tell us we drive them away from the church because we teach the gospel of Jesus Christ. We teach that he is a loving Father, and it counts; it pays. Just think of condemning all his children who have not had the opportunity of accepting this gospel here! 

After the war had been going on for a few years, I had a Church of England minister say to me, "Well, there must be hope for the dead; when we think of our young boys who have gone to France and given up their lives, surely there must be an opportunity for them; there must be some hope for them." Why, of course, there is. Would our heavenly Father condemn all of these men, hundreds of thousands of them, who never cared a thing about Jesus Christ, who were careless, cared not for religion? Will God condemn them? The only answer one can give is "No." Then will he condemn the untold millions of others who have perished in the same way, or in other ways? Are they condemned? Of course not. It is not reasonable. That is not the sort of God that the "Mormons" want to believe in. And from which of these sects did we copy such ideas? From which of the sects did we copy the belief that God is a true and living God, has body, parts, and passions? Which one of them dares stand up and declare that we copied it from them? 

Which one of the sects dare say today that we copied the Word of Wisdom from them? I pray you, which one did we copy it from? And yet today we find it taking hold of other sects. One church has adopted it in toto. They do not eat meat, use coffee, or liquor, or tobacco, they have taken the word of wisdom over completely, and where did they get it? We did not copy it from them; no; it was given by God himself to his prophet. 

And so it is with many others of the beautiful principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Who taught us to believe in a preexistent state? And yet they are coming to that. Which one of them did we copy the law of tithing from? And yet they have found it of such importance that they sent a minister here to study the system, right here in Salt Lake City among the Latter-day Saints, to see whether it might be adopted by the Methodist Church. I had a Church of England minister tell me that he really believed that we must have a personal God, that he must be a God with body, parts and passions. They are beginning to come to it. We took it from none of them. We had it, we got it from God. It was revealed from him to his prophet here on earth. 

And, brethren and sisters, we who have these blessings, how we should value them, and how we should strive to live up to the gospel of Jesus Christ! Every blessing that existed in the days of old is ours. If we will have it we have but to cultivate our faith to that end. I tell you that I know that he has the power to raise the dead, to heal the leper, to cleanse all who are impure, if they will but listen to his purifying gospel and have faith in him. 

You think it was an exceptional miracle when, after crossing the sea, the Savior with his disciples came upon one who was a maniac, and cast the devils out of him, but it was not; it is something that is occuring all the times. It was my privilege, in company with Elder June B. Sharp, of this city, to go into an asylum down in the city of Cape Town, and there we found a woman insane, whose husband had heard of the Latter-day Saints and who had written and asked if we would visit her. We went there, and they told us that she was mad, and they took us into her presence, and we saw from her eyes that she was possessed, and I said to Elder Sharp, "She is possessed of an evil spirit; we will rebuke it." And we bowed our heads, and by virtue of the Holy Priesthood in us vested, we commanded that he come out of her and leave her. And from that instant, she was healed. We went away from the asylum, and a day or two later, Elder Sharp left for home. I was going down a week later to see how she was getting on. I met one of the nurses and she said, "Why, she has gone home; after you men were here the other day, she suddenly regained her senses, and after we watched her for about a week, we released her, and she has gone back up to her home." We heard no more about her for about six months, when one of our elders, traveling without purse or scrip, from Bloemfontein down to East London, stopped and held a cottage meeting in Queenstown, and a strange woman stood up in the cottage meeting and said, "I feel that I must bear my testimony to what these men have been saying. I tell you that I was mad, insane, and two of these men came into the insane asylum, and by the power which they said they had, they rebuked in the name of Jesus Christ the evil spirits which they declared possessed me, and from that instant I was another woman; I was cured absolutely." 

I know, my brethren and sisters, that God is watching over his people, but I wonder at times if we are reaching out to him. Why, our faith is right, we can have encircling that great temple before us a pillar of fire by night and a cloud by day, to be the wonder of all the people of the world who come here to this block to hear of "Mormonism" and the gospel of Jesus Christ. They do wonder when they come here. But if our faith is right, and if we will have it, I tell you we can place around that temple, a pillar of fire, which will cause the nations of the earth to look up and come here in millions to visit us, instead of in hundreds of thousands. Brethren and sisters, let us live the gospel of Jesus Christ. Let us do our part and support the authorities of the Church. And if we will live the gospel, as one of the apostles declared at our conference session the other day; if we live the gospel, we will not need to be worrying about debts; we will be out of debt. God help us to do it; God bless us each and every one, is my prayer. Amen.

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric) 

I have been thinking while these brethren have been talking to you, "What was it that caused President Shepherd to leave his home and his business and all that he had and move to Logan to take charge of that Temple when requested to do so by the presidency of this Church? What was it that caused Brother Lambert to leave his business, his home, and all that he had to go down to the South Sea Islands to preside over a Mission there and take the gospel to the natives? What was it that kept Brother Nicholas G. Smith in South Africa for eight years? — all at their own expense and personal sacrifice as far as this world's goods are concerned. Was it not faith in God and a desire to be worthy of his blessings? 

I have been wonderfully impressed with the remarks that have been made, especially the remarks of President Shepherd, whose life's work is to labor in the temple. 

Two or three weeks ago I stood at the east end of the Tabernacle with a body of men who held the office of bishop in the Church to which they belonged, and who are, I believe, sincere, men who are endeavoring to better the condition of their fellowmen; one of them turned to me and said, "Bishop Smith, what do you do in the temple?" 

I answered, "We baptize for the dead; we perform the marriage ceremony." 

"Baptize for the dead?" said he — "baptize for the dead? Why do you baptize for the dead?" 

Here another one said, "Don't you remember? They did that anciently. In I Corinthians, 15, Paul calls attention to the fact that at that time they were baptizing for the dead." 

Now, I want you, my brethren and sisters, to try and get the spirit of this work at this time. Cast your eyes upon that building, you will see that the architect has tried to interpret the word of God in the decorations on the building; for, carved in the stone windows, you will see symbols of the sun, and the moon and the stars. What does it mean? It means that we believe in the words of the Savior, "Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also." (John 14:1, 2, 3.) And Paul gives us more light. "There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial; but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption:" (I Corinthians 15:40, 42.) 

We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants (Sec. 76:50-57), that to receive an exaltation in the celestial kingdom is not possible except through the Priesthood and through faithful observance of all the laws and ordinances of God. Every one of God's children who come to this earth are entitled to everlasting life. "Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God; and they that hear shall live. * * * And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation." (John 5:25, 29.) But where is that existence to be? Those who are faithful in all things will be saved in the celestial kingdom, where God dwells and rules. Those who have not been faithful in all things, but have fallen short, will be saved in the terrestrial kingdom, the kingdom which is presided over by Jesus Christ, his Son. Those who have chosen to go their own way and have failed to keep the commandments of God, in so far as it has been their privilege to know them, must be content to receive their salvation in the next world, in the terrestrial kingdom, which is ministered to by angels. "And they shall be servants of the Most High, but where God and Christ dwell they cannot come, worlds without end." (Doctrine and Covenants 76:112.) 

Now it is for us to choose; it is for us to labor diligently, or go our way as it pleases us to do, and receive in God's kingdom the reward that we merit. 

Why do we baptize for the dead? Because God is a just God, and the same law that applies to me applies to you. The same requirements are made of you that are made of me; I must do the same things that you must do, to receive the glory that God has promised unto me and unto you. There are many who have not had the privilege of hearing the gospel; there are many who do not know what God's plan is. There were many anciently. Jesus the Christ, after his death, went to bring the gospel to those who were in prison. "By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison; which sometime were disobedient, when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water. The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us (not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ." (I Peter 3:19, 20, 21.) And so all men will have the privilege of hearing God's word; they will have the privilege of selecting and choosing for themselves what their final reward will be. Baptism, being an ordinance that can only be performed in this life, must be performed by some mortal being in this life, which, if accepted by the person for whom it is done, will have the same effect as if done personally. 

Why are we hunting for our genealogies? Why are we seeking to know who our ancestors are? Why does the spirit of this come upon us? Because we have that promise that came to the Prophet Joseph Smith, which promise President Grant read the other day: "Behold I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord; and he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to their fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers; if it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." (Section 2, Doctrine and Covenants.) 

The fact that we have the desire and are being baptized for our dead by the thousands, should be an evidence to us that Elijah has come in this day, as testified to by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery: "After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said — Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he (Elijah) shoud be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse. Therefore the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands, and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors." (Doctrine and Covenants 110:13-16) In this temple they are taking through hundreds of people every day, performing that work, in order that those of their kinsmen who have gone, not knowing the laws of the Lord, should have the privilege, after having heard it, of accepting the gospel and receiving the blessings God has promised unto them. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I know that you have the spirit of this work, the most important work that we have to do. And I again voice the sentiment of Brother Shepherd; let us look to our own homes; are we faithful, worthy, diligent, in doing that which we are called to do? Are we teaching our children and bringing them up in faith before God? Are they looking forward to the time when they can go into that house and prepare to receive the blessings of God? I want to tell you that those of us who have not been doing so are forfeiting our right to the blessings and must be content with our salvation in a lesser degree of glory than that where God dwells. 

I humbly pray that the spirit of this great work will rest upon us, that we will go forward with all our might, with all our strength, humbly praying that God will help us to carry on the work required of us, his children. God bless us to this end, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

The congregation sang, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet," and the benediction was pronounced by Patriarch William Jex, of the Nebo stake. 


