17
Morning
08 04 1900
Elder E. H. Nye
269
50-51

None

None

president of the California mission: My brothers and sisters, it is a wonderful privilege to meet with you in this conference. It seems as though I am hardly able to control my feelings, I am so overcome with joy in meeting with the Saints of the Most High. The spirit that has prevailed throughout this conference thus far has been a joy to my soul. I thank the Lord my God and my brethren the Presidency that I have been permitted to come to Zion from the State of California, where I have been laboring for the last three years and a half as a missionary. This grand question of tithing has been with us, and I bear testimony with my brother, Elder Smart, who has just preceded me, that the same spirit permeated the hearts of the Saints throughout the State of California, so much so that they have come to the front, paid their tithes and their offerings and enabled us to carry on the mission in that part of the world. I rejoice in this and in the testimony that has been given and in the spirit that has actuated the servants of God, who have spoken to us the words of life and salvation in these meetings. It seems to me that if we could comprehend the situation, every man and woman would rise in the strength of their manhood and womanhood and rejoice in the privilege of performing this wonderful work. We have in our own hands a key to the spiritual blessings of the Almighty. We meet together in our various wards and branches and partake of the sacred emblems of the flesh and blood of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. I am always impressed with the importance of that sacred ordinance, for in that it seems to me we have a key to the spiritual blessings of the Almighty. Let me call your attention for a moment to what we do in partaking of that ordinance: 

"Witness unto thee. O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember Him, and keep His commandments which he has given them." 

What for? "That they may always have His spirit to be with them." Every time that we partake of that sacred ordinance we enter into a covenant with the Lord that we will keep the commandments He has given. What are the commandments? "Love one another," is one of them. "Thou shalt not lie," is another. And our brethren, the Presidency and the Twelve, have been impressing upon us in a most wonderful manner that there is a commandment to pay our tithing. Now if we go to meeting, partake of this sacred ordinance, enter into this covenant anew, and then ignore these commandments, do we not, my brethren and sisters, become covenant breakers before the Almighty? This is the way it strikes me. This ordinance is instituted that we may continually renew our obligations unto the Lord, and the ordinance itself says what we do it for— that we may always have His spirit to be with us. Some of the brethren have quoted from the Book of Mormon. I will call attention to one passage in it. On the occasion of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ visiting the people upon this continent, He called them to prayers. He prayed, and they prayed: 

"And they did pray for that which they most desired; and they desired that the Holy Ghost should be given unto them." 

And further on the Book of Mormon tells us, after enumerating the wonderful gifts and blessings that the Lord bestowed upon the people, that it was because the love of God did dwell in the hearts of the people. This is a key to the whole grand question. If we will keep the covenants that we make before the Almighty every time we partake of this solemn ordinance, we shall come right up to the standard of perfection that the brethren have been talking about, and that those old Nephite Saints arrived at when there was no wickedness of any kind among them, because the love of God did dwell in their midst, and the record declares that they were a most prosperous people in everything. Here is a lesson for us, if we can take it to ourselves. 

I rejoice in the great work as it is rolling along. In the law of tithing there is a key to the wealth and blessings of the earth; for the Lord makes a declaration that if we will pay our tithes and our offerings he will open the windows of heaven and pour forth such blessings as there shall not be room to receive. These things have been manifested time and time again in the California mission. I could enumerate instances where individuals through the payment of their tithes have received wonderful gifts and blessings; have been prospered in all that they set their hands to do, and have proved to their own satisfaction that the blessings of the Almighty do come unto them through obedience to this command. May God bless you. Amen. 

