18
Afternoon
08 04 1900
President George Q. Cannon
4
51-52

None

None

THE GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH

were presented to the conference for the assemblage, as follows:

Lorenzo Snow, as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world.

George Q. Cannon, as first counselor in the First Presidency.

Joseph F. smith, as second counselor in the First Presidency.

As members of the council of the Twelve Apostles: Brigham Young, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, John W. Taylor, Marriner W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund, Matthias F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff and Rudger Clawson.

At this point President Cannon stated that owing to the death of Franklin D. Richards a vacancy has been created in the council of the Twelve Apostles, and that the conference would be given an opportunity to vote for some one to fill the position.  He then, in this connection, presented the name of Reed Smoot, and the vote was taken.

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators.

Patriarch of the Church — John Smith.

First seven presidents of the Seventies—Seymour B. Young, Christian B. Fjeldsted, Brigham Henry Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and Joseph W. McMurrin.

William B. Preston as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and John R. Winder as his first and second counselors.

Assistant Church historians: John Jaques and Andrew Jenson. 

General Church board of education: Lorenzo Snow, George Q. Cannon, Karl G. Maeser, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, James Sharp, Joseph F. Smith, John Nicholson and George H. Brimhall.

Lorenzo Snow, trustee-in-trust for the body of religious worshippers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

Jack Nicholson, clerk of the General Conference.

The voting in instance was unanimous.

President Cannon announced that, in accordance with a legal requirement, the names of the board of directors of Brigham Young Academy, Provo, would be presented for the vote of the conference. They are: George Q. Cannon, Wilson H. Dusenberry, Brigham Young, David John, Karl G. Maeser, Edward Partridge, Reed Smoot, Susa Y. Gates, Thomas R. Cutler, Joseph Don Carlos Young, William H. Seegmiller, and Stephen L Chipman.

The vote was unanimous.
