Second Outdoor
06 10 1918

. A second outdoor meeting was held at the Bureau of Information building at 2 o'clock p. m., Elder David O. McKay, of the Council of Twelve, presiding. 

Singing and music were furnished by the Richard's ward Glee Club, J. Spencer Cornwall, chorister, and Cleon Donelson accompanist. 

The Glee Club and congregation sang: "High on the mountain top." 

Elder Ernest Kimball offered the opening prayer. 

The Glee Club sang: "Scatter Sunshine." 

ELDER DON C. DRIGGS. 

(President of the Teton Stake of Zion.) 

My brethren and sisters. — It is certainly gratifying to be here today to participate in the exercises of this great conference of the Church. 

This is my first meeting of the conference. I happened to be engaged in the Government service, voluntarily, in one of the departments of our Government, and was called away at the conference date to attend a meeting in Boise, and I have tried to fill both appointments. I came in this morning with the hope of getting in touch with the conference spirit and taking back something that would be valuable to myself and my people who live in one of the stakes established in the last few years in Idaho, a growing state, which is inhabited in the southern part, by Latter-day Saints. It has only been a few years ago it seems to me, that our people began to migrate into Idaho, to overflow the boundaries of this state. I remember that at the time we went into Idaho, it was a period of depression in the Church, and the authorities felt the need of the young people staying at home, but they allowed a few of us to go over there. We have established a stake of Zion in that part of the country, have developed now into quite a colony, and a good part of the Church is located within the boundaries of the state of Idaho. 

I rejoice in the progress of the Church, of the latter-day work, and that I have been permitted to have a humble part in its establishment, in its growth and development. I like to keep in touch with the spirit of the work and the progress of the Church, and know that I am in harmony with those who are charged with the responsibilty of carrying the work of the Lord. 

I rejoice in the work that our boys are doing, in the spirit that they are manifesting, not only in their loyalty to the Government of the Lmited States, but in the feelGENERAL CONFERENCE. - that comes to them at the same time, that they desire to place themselves in harmony with the Church, and seek the blessings it is their right to enjoy, before they depart on their great mission of service to their country. I have noticed that as our boys go out in the service of our country, that they begin to think about the possibilities of the blessings that are vouchsafed unto them through the channels of the Priesthood, and have a desire to receive these blessings. I feel that the experience that our boys are getting in the service of our country is going to make them appreciate also the service that they may give to the Church. 

I believe that the spirit that the boys have in desiring to go forth in the service of their country is also enjoyed by the people. We find that our boys are not satisfied to stay back in the training camps, but are eager to get to the front, and when they get to the front "over there," that they are not satisfied to stay back, but are eager to get right on the firing line. We are beginning to get that spirit ourselves as a people. When the calls are made upon us from time to time to do service for our country, there is an eagerness to get into the front line, and to go "over the top." I am proud of the record we are making in this particular. I am proud of the record of the people in our particular part of the country, and 1 want to state here that at 8 o'clockon the night of the drive for this Fourth Liberty Loan, we were able to telegraph to headquarters that we had gone "over the top," just at the close of the first day. And that is the spirit that is being manifest in our part of the country. I know it is the spirit all over the , and especially .among the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice that we so readily take up the cause of our country, because it is really the cause that we have been hgnung for ourselves these many years; and it is characteristic of the Latter-day Saints that they adapt themselves to the needs of their country, and when an opportunity comes, that they are ready and willing to show their devotion and patriotism. These thoughts are uppermost in our minds. I know that we may be excused for talking about them in our meetings, and we can be satisfied with the feeling that it is in harmony with the teachings that we have always received. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I desire to remain faithful to that testimony. I desire, as long as I am permitted to live upon the earth, to be permitted to have a desire and disposition to raise my voice in defense of the Church, and to live so as to be worthy of the blessings of the Lord. I pray that his favor and blessing may be enjoyed by all of us, that we may continue faithful in the discharge of every duty and obligation resting upon us, in the name Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. BAXTER. 

(President of the Woodruff Stake of Zion.) 

I have enjoyed all of the sessions of this Conference, my brethren and sisters, and the sweet influence that has attended its meetings. I most humbly pray and desire that while we are assembled this afternoon, in this little meeting, the same sweet influence may attend us. 

The first article of faith of the 127 

Church of Jesus Christ of Latterclay Saints reads: "We believe in God the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost." It seems to me that all of the Christian world claim to believe in God our Eternal Father and in his Son Jesus Christ; but we, as Latter-day Saints, have a knowledge of God that the world does not have. We believe in the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers. 

We read in the 18th chapter of Genesis, that God made himself known to Abraham, on the plains of Mamre. He talked with him and ate with him, and associated with him, as one man talks and eats and associates with another. Abraham had great faith in God, because of his knowledge of God, because he had associated with him, had been near him. At the time of the destination of the cities of the plain, when God came down himself, Abraham had great influence with him concerning those things, because of his knowledge and faith in God the Eternal Father. 

Isaac and Jacob were both familiar with God, and therefore, they had great faith in him. 

Our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, when upon the earth, said he was the very image of his Father in heaven, and those who had seen him had also seen the Father. They were so much alike in person that whoever looked upon the person of Jesus Christ could see in him the exact image of his Father; and we know that our Savior had a body the same as the body of a man, and he mingled with men upon the earth, ate with them, conversed with them, and finally laid his body in the tomb as other men are laid away whe»  pass from this state of existence. 

In our dispensation, the Lord has again revealed himself to men upon the earth. In answer to prayer, God the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared to Joseph Smith. They were in appearance similar to men, and they conversed with him, the Father saying, "This is my beloved Son, hear ye him." The Savior of the world conversed with the boy prophet, and instructed him concerning his future mission upon this earth. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, there is a great deal of difference between saying that we believe in God, and in Jesus Christ, his Son, and knotting God. We are told that to know God, and Jesus Christ his Son, is eternal life. And I believe that is the only way that we will ever attain to eternal life, to obtain # a knowledge of God, our Eternal Father. I do not believe we can successfully worship him unless we know who he is. 

I believe that there are a great many people in the world today, who are *in the same condition tnai the people were at Athens when Paul went there, on one occasion. He saw upon an alter this inscription "Unto the unknown God;" and he said, "Him whom ye ignorantly worship, declare I unto you;" and then he preached unto them the true and the living God, the Father of our spirits, the creator of the heavens and the earth, the seas, and the fountains of water, and all that in them is. 

And that is the God whom we serve, worship, and pray to. We have faith in him, because of our knowledge of him. It seems to me that it is the only way we can GENERAL CONFERENCE.  faith in anything. Our belief in anything" is through the knowledge that we have of that in which we believe. When we pray to God our Eternal Father, we expect our prayers to be answered. We pray in sincerity, as Latter-day Saints, and we have all faith and hope that our prayers will be answered. 

There are people praying today, in all this world, who never prayed before; and it is difficult indeed Ifor people to pray to God who have not faith in him. It is evident to me that a great majority of the people of the world today that I have been associated with, outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, do not know to whom they are praying; they do not have a knowledge of God. If they had, they would not profane his name in one breath, and pray to him in the next. We are l;ving in an age of profanity. God has commanded his people, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain;" and yet, over all this broad land, we find men and boys, young and old, who ought to know better, profaning the name of God; and now, when distress, trials and troubles are coming to them through this terrible world war, they are turning to the Lord, endeavoring to pray to him for the protection of their sons, and those who are near and clear to them, who have been called into the war. 

The Lord has said, "If you will turn unto me, I will turn unto you." If you will turn unto God, he will turn unto you. If you will resist the devil, he will flee from you. And I believe in that saying. I believe that it is true. If we have profaned the name of Deity, we have not known what we were do, we have not known the true and the living God. I believe if those who have been guilty of it will repent, draw near unto the Lord in prayer, that he will draw near unto them and they will be forgiven for that which they have done. I believe in the principle of repentance, whether it is of profanity, or the breaking of the Sabbath day, or any other commandment that the Lord has given unto us. After we have attained to a knowledge of these things, and know that we have done wrong, and we repent, the Lord will forgive us; and so sure as we draw near unto him, so sure also will he draw near unto us, and his Holy Spirit will be with us, and guide and direct us in our lives. But we ought to pray consistently to God. 

I remember one little incident that brought this matter to my mind a few days ago. A man with whom I am well acquainted, a member of the Church, who has not done anything in the way of performing his spiritual duty in the Church, had never prayed before in his life with his family. He had an invalid mother who herself had been a praying woman, but his boys had never been taught to pray.' When they had gone away from home, they wrote letters home. The influence that surrounded them at home in the organizations of the Church, appealed to them then more than it had at home; and they wrote to their father and mother that they wanted them to pray for them night and morning. They wanted to be remembered in their prayers.. And this man, after that, commenced to pray to the Lord for the preservation of his boys. After # conversation with him regarding it, and he had informed me himself 129  he had started to attend to his prayers, the next Sunday on my way to attend meeting' in our stake of Zion, I found him and his whole force of men (because he was a rancher ) working upon the Sabbath day, just the same as on any other day of the week, — though doubtless on the evening of that Sabbath day, he knelt down, in his home and called upon the Lord to preserve the lives of his sons who were away. 1 do not feel that his life was consistent, or that his prayers were consistent. It will be very difficult for him to have faith in God the Eternal Father; and it is said that without faith, it is impossible to please God, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Therefore, under those conditions, I cannot see how a man could have faith in God, and faith that his prayers would be answered. James the apostle tells us that when we ask anything from the Lord, we must .ask in faith, believing, never wavering, for he that wavereth is as the waves of the sea, driven by the winds and tossed; and we should not think that any man under those conditions will receive the favor of the Lord. When we waver, we are unsettled in our minds as to whom we are praying. When we have never had a knowledge of God the Eternal Father, it is very difficult indeed for us to have faith in him, and have faith that our prayers will be answered. 

It seems to me that this present time in the world's history, is a time of repentance, a time when we should repent of our sins. If we have done evil, we will do evil no more; and we will find grace in the sight of God our heaveny Father,  our faith in him will be increased that our prayers may be answered. 

It seems to me that it is a time that we should turn to the Lord, if we have disregarded his law, broken the Sabbath day, and desecrated that holy day that he has commanded us to keep holy. We should repent of it, and observe the Sabbath clay, work six days of the week, and upon the seventh day go to the house of the Lord, partake of the Sacrament there, and renew our covenants with him, promise that we will serve him and keep his commandments through the week that is before us. If. we have been in the habit of breaking the commandment which God gave that we should not take the name of the Lord our God in vain, we should repent of that, and not do. it any more, but be humble and prayerful, ask forgiveness of God for the desecration of his name, go before him and put ourselves right before the Lord, not only in those two things of which I have spoken, but in everything that we have clone that is wrong. It seems to me it is a fitting time, in this particular age of the world's history, for us to put our houses in order, to live the lives of Latter-day Saints, to trust in the true and the living God. 

I believe with all my heart that the destinies of men and nations are in the hands of the Lord, and I believe that if the Latter-day Saints would overcome the weaknesses of their natures, and repent of their sins, draw near unto the Lord by prayers and supplications, and make their lives consistent with the same, thev would have greater power and influence to bring about the conditions that thev are desirous of bringing about. We would thus have GENERAL CONFERENCE.  with the Lord. I believe it is within the province of the Lord to save every man and woman and child who will turn to him, serve him and keep his commandments. 

I pray the Lord to bless you with his Holy Spirit, to guide and direct you in your lives, that you may draw near unto him, that we all may repent of our sins, overcome the weaknesses of our flesh, and live lives consistent with the teachings that we have received as Latter-day Saints, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Elder Joseph Kjar sang a solo: "Keep the home fires burning." 

ELDER EDWARD W. CROFT. 

(President of the Big Horn Stake of Zion." 1 

If there was ever a moment in my life, my brethren and sisters, when I deeply felt to appreciate the fact that I am a member of the Church, it is at this particular time. During this conference there has not been one moment that it has been my privilege to listen to the servants of God, that the prayer has not been in my heart, "Thank God for my humble standing in the Church." If there has been a minute during the conference, that I have not enjoyed so very much, it might be termed the one that I am living right now. 

I feel this afternoon that of all the history of the Church that should be inspiring to the Latterday Saints, the hours spent in a general conference should be considered the most important. I thought yesterday during the meetings, what a glorious interpretation we have of the mission of this country! I thought, too, yesterday af, what could we ask, as citizens of this country, of our flag, that it has not given to us, and does not give to us every day? Along with that thought, there was a kindred thought that went through my mind, what is there in the experience of mortal man, that he could ask for, pray for, possess, as a mortal being, that this great organization of ours does not give us ? 

I thought, too, what a glorious thing it is to be reared in this Church, what a glorious privilege it is to be born under the new and everlasting covenant, what a blessing it is to hold the priesthood, what a protection it is to. know where we came from, what we are doing here, and what our life's mission is, and what will be the ultimate result of our actions in this life, and to know where we are going! 

There is an old story that is told of a king who had certain individuals to perform before him to make him laugh and be happy when he seemed to be downcast, otherwise than happy. A particular fool, for so they were called, had presented to him a token, I believe a cane; and the king told him whenever he found a bigger fool than he was,»to hand him the cane. The story tells us that after a number of years, this fool was called before the king, and the king was going to take his final journey, the journey that we all will take sooner or later; and the fool stood before the king and said, "Where are you going? Where do you expect to go, now that you are dying?" And the king said, "I do not know." And the fool said, "Take the cane." 

As I sat yesterday and heard the plea of the man who presides over our meeting today, to the young men of Israel, I thought of some of 131  experiences that I have encountered as a practicing physician. I have watched all my life some of the things that my mother taught me as a boy, and I have found that she told me the truth about this great latter-day work, and about some other things about my nature that 1 did not understand as a boy. She told me that the Lord had given me appetites and passions, that if properly controlled and governed, they were to be a blessing to me all my life; but, on the other hand, if I ever became the slave to any of them, that I would be in the most abject slavery. She talked about them as masters, who when once they have the fetters of slavery wrapped about a human being, have no mercy and are the downfall of thousands of boys and girls. Yesterday, while Brother McKay made that beautiful plea to the youth of Zion to conserve their manhood, their minds, and their bodies for the great and glorious work of God in which we are engaged, I thought of the things that my mother told me;' and this afternoon, in the moment that is left me, I would like to say a word to our boys, the youth of Zion. 

I believe that I have had experiences that have taught me one thing that I want to give you here this afternoon. 

I heard a great man make this statement to a class of his students, "Boys, there are certain conditions in you as human beings, certain passions, that unless taken care of, will become the master of you; and there is one the gratification of which is stronger than the desire for self-preservation." I have watched in my experience as a physician, and I know that man spoke the truth! and I testify to you, my young brethren and sisters, as a  of experience in this regard, that there is no protection you can give a young man that will equip him like the protection that this Church gives. 

Up in our stake the other night, we had the Attorney General of Wyoming, Mr. Preston, talk to us on the Liberty Loan. I know he will not care if I repeat his thought to you, because he spoke in all earnestness, and he told me after the meeting that he spoke from the bottom of his heart. He said : "I have watched during this great war, especially since Uncle Sam called his sons to the colors and we sent them across the seas to fight in this great ant glorious cause of ours, in the districts where your 'Mormon' people live, and I have discovered that in all the requirements in the matter of Thrift Stamps and War Savings Stamps and Liberty Bonds, and volunteering, and in the selective draft, that the Latter-day Saint people have gone over the top in a more glorious way than anything that I have ever seen in my life." 

"Now," I told him, "Mr. Preston, that is not surprising to me, and it would not be surprising to you if you knew the hearts of our people as I know them, and if you knew what we think of the flag and what we think of the Constitution, as I know." 

You will remember last April a prominent man stood in the Tabernacle here and spoke of the divinity of the Constitution of the United States. I heard him make a similar talk in the theatre in Cheyenne, and came to Salt Lake with him; and I told him after he was through with his talk, in a conversation with him, "Your talk certainlv found lodgment in my heart, for I have been taught as a boy to honor GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Constitution of the United States as the greatest document that has guided any government in the history of the world, and, more than that, I have been taught to believe that it was divinely given to the world." 

My brethren and sisters, it is no wonder that Latter-day Saints appreciate the position our country is in, and appreciate the opportunity that comes to them to aid our Government, for we know what it is, and we know that while there are mistakes on the part of men who administer the laws, we know as God knows, and he gave us this Constitution, that it is divine, and we know that when we turned our eyes toward poor stricken Europe, we were doing God's service. We saw early in the war, those of us who stopped to think, only one thing, and that was the adversary endeavoring once more to throttle the liberty that God gave us when "the stars of morning sang together, and all the sons . of God shouted for joy." We knew that there never was, and perhaps can never be a man, closer to the being who proposed to make you and me go back whether we wanted to or not, and be saved. There never has been a mortal, as far as my judgment can go, that has been as close to that individual as the present ruler of Germany. 

As I look at this war, I can see so many good things that will come. I can see, too, that the Lord is with his people. Out there in my little home town at Cowley, we have not a boy left. Practically all of them volunteered, there have been very few of them drafted; and I know what is in their hearts. I know that they have not gone over there with any intention of  their fellow men unnecessarily; I know, too, that they have not gone over there with the purpose in their hearts of changing the boundaries of countries; but their mission, as they know it, and we know it, is to change the hearts of men; and when they see that we have done that, they will be willing to say Amen to their work across the water, and will come back here and again be sifted into the Church and into our country. They will have learned some of the lessons of life that you and I could not teach them, and their fathers and mothers could not teach them. They will have learned things that will make them some of the best boys and some of the best men that we will ever have in our country. 

Now, my brothers and sisters, I am thankful above all things, this afternoon, that I can sit in that grand old building [the Tabernacle], in this one, or any other place, and have go into my heart the words of the servants of God. I am not so particular about how it is said, or who says it : the thing that I am particular about is that my own heart be a receptacle for the word of God and a place in which the teachings of this Church can find lodgment, for I testify to you in words of soberness, that you cannot find anything like it outside of this Church, you cannot find anything that can direct you as can this Church and the servants of God whom he has chosen. 

So I am thankful, today, above all other things, that my father and my mother, in the little old isle of England, saw and heard a "Mormon" elder, and came to this country, and that I have had the privilege of over thirty years of work in the Church; and I say to you that 133  I love my profession, and while I love to work in the town, in the city, in the state, or in the nation, or anywhere else that I can do anything for humanity — it is the work in this Church that brings joy to my soul and satisfaction to life. 

I know, too, that there has, never been a thing taugjht tme \hat J have had to be retaught, or had to relearn; and I cannot say that for anything else that I have ever studied. I have dug and plugged along in school, and gotten things from what I supposed to be science, and I have had to absolutely remodel my learning, and adjust it to the development of that particular science. But, with the work of God, the science of theology, as directed by our Lord and Master Jesus Christ, ever since that memorable day when he shone the light of truth and knowledge of a living God into the hearfof Joseph Smith, those things have not been in doubt; and from that clay to the present, we Latter-day Saints have not had to relearn anything that the Church has ever given us; but we can sit down with it and study it and measure it by any measurement that man might hand us to use, and it never fails to follow along with any true science or any truth that has ever been given to the world. 

May God grant that we may- have his Spirit always with us, for I assure you and testify to you, that I know that there is no other guide to our feet, there is no other lamp to our faith, there is no security but direction by the Spirit of God; and you brethren of the priesthood, let me ask you this question as the last word, "Is there anything that you will take from this world — or you mothers, heirs to the priesthood  your husbands, is there anything you will take out of mortality — that you do not get through the priesthood that our brethren hold? If there is, name it. No, your hearts tell you that there are only a few things that you will ever get away from this world with, and those few things are the precious gifts of God to us and our children, who could not be bound to us for all time and all eternity but through the channels of the holy Melchizedek priesthood. May God grant that we may magnify it as brethren in the priesthood, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

E LDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

(Of the. Bureau of Information, Salt Lake City.) 

I am very glad to be here for the second time today, worshiping the Lord in such an assembly. I have enjoyed listening to the testimonies of my brethren. I appreciate, as do they, my membership in this Church. In connection with my work upon this block, which is going on day after clay, year after year, I meet people from all countries, of all faiths and creeds; and every time I talk with regard to our work and the organization of the Church, my heart swells within me, for I am more proud of it than ever. 

A gentleman came here some time ago, the editor of the Baltimore Southern Methodist, administer of prominence. He spent a little time here, and went around with one of our business men who acted as a guide, and then he asked if he could not see the gentleman who had charge of the work, and came GENERAL CONFERENCE.  my office. He was astonished at the work that we were doing. He was perfectly amazed at the information that had been given him with regard to the organization of our Church. He admired every phase of our work, and then he went home again, and in his own paper, wrote a very long article with regard to his visit here and the vitality of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Amongst other things, he said, "I was informed by a business man that he had leisure from time to time, and rejoiced in coming and giving his time unto the work of informing the strangers of the faith of the Latter-day Saints. And then," he said, "I was told that when a crowd of tourists came there, if none of these guides were present, the gentleman in charge could call upon the 'phone for a prominent business man, a prominent banker, or a lady of leisure, and they would respond readily, and go around with the tourists, describing to them the organization of the Church and the faith of the Latter-dav Saints." And then he remarked, "I wonder how many Methodist business men there are in the city of Baltimore who would respond to my call, or who could give an intelligent ex-' position of their faith or the organization of my Church, if they should be called." 

Amongst all these churches and their membership, there is not the live spirit of testimony that there is among the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice in this work. I rejoice that I am a member of this Church, that it is a living Church, that there is power in it. It is so organized that we can take hold of any movement and push it through to success; and hence the report that our brother  us from the Big Horn stake, in Wyoming. 

In corroboration, in order that you young men many really feel as I feel with regard to the Church, I thought of a little paragraph that was published a short time ago. In July, 1917, a prominent Utahn, who had been appointed by the Government, for certain service in our State, made this statemnt in compliment to the people of Utah : "For me to undertake the reorganization of conservation forces in the State at this time would be like trying to 'paint the lily.' The forces now organized are doubtless working more effectively than similar committees will be able to work in any State of the Union; and while not a 'Mormon' myself, I cannot refrain from paying the 'Mormon' Church and the 'Mormon' people the compliment that they are now, through the professional and practical and energetic local defense committees, providing the government with a model of .efficiency in organization for food conservation; and I only wish every state in the Union had the nucleus of such an organization in entering into this most important work." 

I am proud of the organization of our Church, and the way that we can handle matters for the benefit of our children, for the benefit of the United States. But I come back again to this thought; What is the Church? Not that monument of stone over there, not that oval shaped dome, the Tabernacle, not the Assembly Hall, not your chapels nor your churches that are built of stone and brick in various parts of the state, or wherever the Church exists. The Church is the membership thereof, you who are present, and all the rest of the live members of it; and the Church has vitality because we, the members of it, are 135  to consecrate ourselves to its service, we are willing- to respond to every call that is made upon us. If the Church calls for a tenth of our income, we are will' ing to give it, and witness our devotion by our giving. 

A minister came to me a short time ago. He was going to the Northwest. He had been appointed by one of the churches to investigate the tithing system of the "Mormon" Church. He came here to find out something about it. We showed him our system at the Presiding Bishop's office, and explained to him how it worked, how these bishops gave their time to the work, how many of the brethren were laboring in various capacities to perform their labors unselfishly and freely, and how liberally our members respond to that law of God in the payment of their tithing. After he had visited the Presiding Bishop's office, and we had discussed this tithing question at some length, he asked the very pertinent question, "How do you think that would work in our church? You know what I am here for. I am trying to find out just how you work this tithing question, and if possible, arrange so that it can be adapted to Methodism." 

"Well," I said, "frankly, do you want me to tell you just how I feel about it?" 

"O yes," was the reply, "tell me just how you feel." 

"I think it would be an utter failure. You cannot introduce it in vour church and make a success of it. Why? In the first place, your membersip does not recognize it as a law of God given to them .directly by revelation in this day- In the second place, they may not trust their leaders. They do not know  the money will be spent. They do not know but that numerous salaries will be paid to the very persons who are to administer the funds. The difference between your organization and ours stamps our organization as divine. Our membership know that the tithing which they pay unto the Lord comes back again to them; and with that tithing we go into southern Utah or elsewhere, and if a dam is washed out, and the people might starve without relief, we build their dam with the tithing. If our people need educational help, we establish our Church schools amongst them from our tithing fund. If we have widows and orphans that have to be maintained, or if we have distress of any nature, from our tithing funds we minister especially at such times to the people; and our membership recognize that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a grand fraternal organization for their benefit, for their relief — we need no others — and they have confidence in these bishops and in these presidents of stakes who are giving their time, who are giving their energies, who are laboring continuously for the p"ood of their people; and not working for salaries, and they are not getting them. There is this difference between our Church and others. I do not believe it would work." 

With the Latter-day Saints, however, it is different, our membership recognizes tithing as a divine institution. 

Permit me to .draw attention to a particular passage of Scripture that has always impressed me. as I have no doubt it does you. Commenting upon our Church again, the Apostle Peter, speaking with regard tn the membership, says, "Ye GENERAL CONFERENCE. , as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Chrisc." Who are we, therefore ? We are the living- stones in this great edifice, in this Church of God. It is built up of us. 

Now, what else is there to it? In the second chapter of Ephesians, the Apostle Peter says, "Ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone." This is the living Church Christ the foundation, Christ the revelator, Christ who gave unto the Prophet Joseph Smith the keys, who spake to him personally, with regard to the organization of this Church. 

And in this Church, what have we Latter-day Saints ? An organization which we should be proud of. At the head, prophets and apostles whom we can sustain with all our souls, because we know that they are laboring with an eye single to the glory of God, and for the benefit of his people. O, we may think sometimes, these apostles have a grand time, they are traveling all the time, they are eating the best, etc. I admit that they are most hospitably entertained. You are glad to receive them. But my soul goes out in sympathy to these apostles of God. They have consecrated themselves to God's service; and from being accustomed to having the best their good wives could prepare for them, accustomed to good beds, accustomed to the comforts of home, they now go out visiting all the stakes of Zion, under various conditions and enduring many dis, accepting whatever is provided for them and thanking the Lord for it; or traveling 40 or 50 miles over rough roads, until they are almost shaken to pieces; and they come back home and in a day or two, off again. A wife of one of them told me one day that she hardly knew whether she had a husband or not, we call for so much of their time. But they are willing to give it. We love them because of their fidelity, because of their devotion, and it is their labors that make us strong. 

Prophets and apostles, pastors teachers, deacons, presidents of stakes, bishops; and in the various organizations, we have everything that could minister unto our wants — our Relief Society caring for the sick, and the dying, and burying the dead; our young men's organizations, seeking to save the boys and train them in chastity; our young women's organization, teaching virtue and purity unto the girls, and striving to lead them in the path of righteousness : our Sunday Schools, our Religion Classes, our Primary, ex>cd, "helps in government." I thank God that we have such a Church, and that it ministers unto us so many good things. God bless the man that stands at the head. If there ever was a time when Israel shouH bow in praver and plead with God, it is now, for never could you find a man Avho would be more devoted, who would set a better example, who would live a cleaner life, who would ''o all that God would have him ' 1 o, to the laving down of his l : fe. than President Toseoh F. Smith. We need him. In my heart I praise God that he has b^en able to be with us at this conference, that we have heard his voice. May God bless and strength137  him is the prayer of all Israel. 

And now, my brethren and sisters, my heart is full .of thanksgiving for the blessings that have come to me and to mine in this Church. My hope and prayer is that I may so live that I may receive the blessings promised the faithful, and that I may have every member of my family forever with me. 

May God strengthen and sustain us, and lead us to the accomplishment of good, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The General Authorities, as presented in the Tabernacle, were then presented by Brother Goddar.d, ami sustained unanimously. 

ELDER DAVID 0. McKAY. 

(Of the Council of Twelve Apostles.) 

Ideals and character-building — A College illustration — Breaking ideals is breaking character — An illustration of a mother and her son who went to war — Make Prohibition safe, by voting in November to adopt the Prohibition amendment to the Utah state Constitution. 

At the conclusion of this pleasing, and most profitable session, which is one of ten general sessions held during this conference, I desire to say just this; that not one of us can go back to our homes with the same responsibility which we had when we left. Our presence, our impression-s, our acceptance of the principles which have been enunciated throughout these various sessions, have placed greater obligations on us than we have ever had before. 'To him who knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin." I never heard one of our brethren bear testimony to the divinity of this work, with feeling that the strength and growth of his character depends upon a consistent life with that testimony; and it makes character to live in harmony with man's ideals, or at least to strive to live in harmony with them. 

I can illustrate what I mean by relating an incident of what happened to two of our boys at college. They had been taught as you boys and I have been taught, that next to bur lives, we should cherish the chastity referred to by Dr. Croft. 

One of these boys noticed that there was a laxity among his classmates, in regard to that cleanliness in association with other boys and girls; and after a few months at college, he partook of a different spirit from the one he had in his home, and one night, he said to his companion, who was older than he, "I am going out tonight with those fellows." 

"Well, you better not," said his companion. 

"Oh," he said, "I do not know! Those fellows have a good time, take their wine, have their cigarettes and their cigars, they enjoy themselves; and here we are restrained. They get their lessons, they are doing just as well in college as we are, and I am going out with them. I am not so sure that our ideals are necessary, anyhow." 

The older one walked up, put his hand on his companion's shoulder, and said, "Those boys may be getting along all right in school, they may do these things to which you refer with impunity, but you can't." 

"Why?" 

"Because you know better. And once you break through that ideal, vour character is broken." 

Tt was the best lesson he learnGENERAL CONFERENCE.  college, and I am very glad that he learned it and lived it. 

I have thought of the application of that principle to our boys who are at the front. These boys must be brave, they cannot shirk a duty, their blows must be mighty in defense of righteousness, their power of resistance must be great, or else they are going to weaken, weaken their characters, and come back men unfit to take their places in this great nation, to say nothing of this great Church. Why? Why, my brethren and sisters, because they know. They know what chastity means. They know what the righteousness of the cause for which they are fighting is. And when their mothers kissed them good-bye, they went with a last impression that they must maintain that ideal of purity. You let a boy fall down, and he is miserable, because he has not lived up to what he knows to be right. 

I shall never forget the picture of an Arizona mother's parting with her son. It was about a year and a half ago, when we first entered the war. He was one of the first to go. The mother, with her heart almost breaking, went with him to the recruiting office, and in the presence of a United States officer, when she was taking her last good-bye, said, "John, I want you to come back to me just as clean and sweet as you are now, or do not come back at all." 

And the officer said, "Why, madam, you must not expect that of your boy." 

"I do expect it of him," she returned, "and every 'Mormon' mother expects it of her boy. I do expect it of you, John, and I know you will;" and with that she gave him a caress and went back to her , and he to fight for his country. 

Don't yOu think that boy will strike for righteousness, for the ideals of home, and the ideals of his character? He knows what is right; and if he is going to be a man of strong character, he must maintain those ideals. 

And so to us, I would like to say at parting that the thoughts that have been awakened in our minds, the resolutions that have been made in our hearts, have placed upon us greater responsibility than we have ever had before. God help us to be true to them, and to radiate that strength of character, that faith and confidence in God and his eternal work that will encourage others to seek higher ideals, and arouse in others' hearts higher hopes and aspirations. . 

Brothers and sisters, I have rejoiced in this gathering, in every gathering of the Latter-day Saints, because the power of salvation is here — salvation here and now — happiness, peace and prosperity here. 

I leave my blessing with you, with the Latter-day Saints in all Israel, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

.Brethren and sisters, on the next election day, the people of Utah are asked to vote on an amendment to the Constitution of the State of Utah. There- are several amendments. I am going to mention only one. It pertains to Prohibition in our State. As you know, we have Prohibition by legislative enactment, but it is not a part of the Constitution of the State, now if we can make it a part of the Constitution of the State, Prohibition is safe. Now, the suggestion is that 139  prohibition statute be made a rart of the Constitution of the State. I am sure there is not a member of the Church anywhere who does not approve of this, there is not a law-abiding citizen throughout the state who does not desire it. But here is the danger : we may not think of voting it! I am simply mentioning it so that when you go to the polls you will look at that amendment and vote "Yes." 

We desire to thank the brethren of this male chorus for the excellent service rendered this afternoon, and the organist, and you, my brethren and sisters, who have rendered your assistance here by your attention, and the spirit that has radiated from your good souls. We thank these brethren of the stake presidencies and appreciate the spirit they have manifested and the testimonies they have borne. 

The choir sang : "Set the lower lights along the shore." 

Elder A. S. Workman, Stake president of Sunday Schools of Deseret stake, offered benediction. 


