Afternoon
06 10 1918

The choir and congregation sang : "Redeemer of Israel." 

The choir sang the hymn : "Great God, attend while Zion sings." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Edward H. Anderson. 

A trio, "God be merciful," was sung by Evan Arthur, Evangeline Thomas, and James H. Nielson. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

The singing of this conference has seemed to me to be particularly appropriate. I have seen new meaning in many of the old songs which have been sung. To begin with we sang : 

Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning, 

Joy to the lands that in darkness 

have lain! Hushed be the accents of sorrow and 

mourning, Zion in triumph begins her glad 

reign. Hark! from all lands, from the isles of the ocean, Praise to Jehovah ascending on high; 

Fallen are engines of war and commotion, 

Shouts of salvation are rending the sky. 

The next to the last line is prophetic for the future; but it is certainly appropriate for us to exclaim today, "Joy to the lands that in darkness have lain." 

We sang also the song composed by Brother Parley P. Pratt: 

"The morning breaks, the shadows flee;  

Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. 

The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine; 

The glory, bursting from afar. 

Wide o'er the nations soon will shine." 

And others of the songs were particularly appropriate and striking at this time. If we understand the word "Zion" in the larger meaning of referring to North and South America, the land of Joseph, ther there is an added meaning to these GENERAL CONFERENCE.  which I have read. In order to understand what this glad news means to countries like Belgium and France and other nations that soon shall be liberated, we must visualize some of their sufferings. I think this people should be able to sympathize very fully with these oppressed peoples, because there have been some things in our history which should help us to be very sympathetic. We, whose ancestors had the experiences of migrating from New York and Ohio to Missouri and from thence to Illinois, and who witnessed the slaying of the prophet and the patriarch while under official protection, and the wanderings of the people from thence to the Rocky Mountains, and beingseparated, husband from wife and child from parent, in connection with the call of the Mormon Battalion, we appreciate the joy and the peace that we have here in these mountain valleys, and yet we have learned so well the lesson taught in the parable of the Good Samaritan, that we know who our neighbor is; and so with the sufferings of our brethren and sisters across the great waters, we are able to sympathize, and our contemplation of peace here is only of short duration, because our minds go to our suffering brethren and sisters abroad. 

What joy must come to the hearts of the Belgians today as they realize that their deliverance is not far off, those who suffered the pangs connected with the abuse of the doctrine of hostages. Lieutenant Eberlein confesses how he clubbed with the butt of the gun, hostages, in order to have them take perilous positions so that their own countrymen in seeking to defend themselves would slay these hostages. That is almost like "seething the kid in its 's milk," or like the incident of which Byron writes, of the eagle wounded with the arrow, and yet the keener pain was when he realized that it was a pinion of its own which had sped the shaft which then festered in its" vitals. 

Notwithstanding article 50 of the agreement at the second Hague convention, to which the German Empire was a party, there were many abuses of the doctrine of penalties. First, five hundred million francs were levied upon Belgium, that stripped nation, then the subject of charity froirf other lands; then a monthly levy of at first forty million francs, then increased to fifty and afterwards to sixty million francs that those people, with much of their machinery shipped to Germany, their raw material either cut off or taken from them, besides the individual penalizing of various towns and cities. 

But one of the most deplorable incidents in the occupation by Germany of Belgium, was their system of deportations. Contrary to article 52 of the same agreement which had been entered into, some of those deported were required, so Minister Gerard told us, to manufacture ammunition to be used against their countrymen. Ninety minutes notice was given to men and women to prepare for the deportation. Tens of thousands were deported for labor in Germany under that order. Many of the orders issued against the Belgians were expressly required to be carried out without mercy. That was the expression frequently used in those messages, that they were to be carried out without mercy. 

One of the correspondents, Will Irwin, in the Saturday Evening Post of October 6, 1917, said : 141 

Some ten or a dozen American correspondents, of whoim I was one, witnessed the first German drive through Belgium. Most of us were so appalled and horrified by what we saw as to become anti-German for life. 

Air. Whitlock, our Minister to Belgium, reporting" on the situation, said : 

They have dealt a mortal blow to any prospect they may ever have had of being tolerated by the population of Flanders; in tearing away from nearly every humble home in the land a husband, a father or a son and brother, they have lighted a fire of hatred that will never go out; they have brought home to ever}' heart in the land, in a way that will impress its horrors indelibly on the memory of three generations, a realization of what German methods mean, not as with the early atrocities in the heat of passion and the first lust of war, but by one of those deeds that make one despair of the future of the human race, a deed coldly nlanned, studiously matured, and deliberately and systematically executed, a deed so cruel that German soldiers are said to have wept in its execution, and so monstrous that even German officers are now said to be ashamed. 

This is from an official report of our Minister to Belgium, a reliable and conservative man. 

Some of the Belgian petitions ani appeals read very much like some of the many petitions that were offered in behalf of the Latter-day Saints, while they were passing through some of the tribulations to which I have referred. Here is one : 

You are a father, you know that there is not in the order of humanity a right more honorable or more holy than that of the family, for .every Christi?n the inviolability of God, who created the family, attaches to it. The German o..cers who have been bil for a long time in our homes know how deep in our hearts we of the North hold family affection, and that it is the sweetest thing in life to us. Thus to dismember the family by tearing youths and girls from their homes is not war; it is for us tortures and the worst of tortures — unlimited moral torture. The violation of family rights is doubled by a violation of the sacred demands of morality. Morality is exposed to perils, the mere idea of which is revolting to every honest man, from the promiscuity which inevitably accompanies removals en masse, involving mixture of the sexes, or, at all events, of persons of very unequal moral standing. Young girls of irreproachable life, who have never committed any worse offense than that of trying to pick up some hread or a few potatoes to feed a numerous family, and who have besides paid the light penalty for such trespass, have been carried off. Their mothers, who have watched so closely over them and had no other joy than that of keeping their daughters beside them, in the absence of father and sons fighting or killed at the front — these mothers are now alone. 

And Mr. Herbert Hoover, giving an official report of the conditions existing in Belgium after the occupation by Germany, used very strong language : 

The sight of the destroyed homes and cities, the widow.ed and fatherless, the destitute, the physical misery of a people but partially nourished at best the deportation of men by tens of thousands to slavery in German mines and factories, the execution of men and women for paltry effusions of their loyalty to their country, the sacking of every resource through financial robbery, tihe battening of armies on the slender produce of the country, the denudation of the country of cattle, horses and textiles; all these things we had to witness, dumb to help other than by protest and svmpathy, during this long and terrible time — and still these are not the events of battle heat, but the effects of a grinding heel of a race demanding the mastership of the world. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

All these things are well known to the world — but what can never be known is the dumb agony of the people, the expressionless faces of millions whose souls have passed the whole gamut of emotions. And why? Because these, a free and democratic people, dared plunge their bodies before the march ,of autocracy. 

And as we were eloquently told last night by the French officer, as to France fourteen hundred thousand of their men have perished, a like number seriously wounded; and our English officer told us of the great numbers that England has lost. So, if the day is approaching when darkness and error shall flee away, when the lands that in darkness have lain shall receive the light, will there not be great rejoicing? We rece'ved word last night that the fourteen terms proposed by President Wilson last January 8th, that this law which had gone forth from Zion might be accepted by the Central Powers, one of which provides for the righting of the wrongs against Alsace and Lorraine. Think of the joy there to the lands which in darkness have lain to those people who are not permitted the privilege of their own language or to inscribe upon the tombstones the names and record of the departed in the native language of the people. 

We must not be too optimistic in reference to the prospect for immediate peace, because one of the great obstacles lies in the fact heretofore suggested by American statesmen, of the want of capacity for convenanted peace. We must not grow too enthusiastic because we hear the shout "Kamerad" even by a nation, because, if we grant an armistice we may have the experience that we had when we protested against the sinking of the Lusitania, and were given to under that such warfare would cease, only to find that upon better preparation the work was renewed with greater energy; and just as our New York boys learned last week, when the word "Kamerad" was sounded and heeded they discovered a little later it was only for an opportunity of throwing hand grenades at them. So, there are some difficulti es in the way yet of securing- peace. I rejoice that we are not relaxing, that in the very face of the announcement that the Central Powers are willing to discuss the fourteen terms specified by our nation, that our Church made the purchase today of a quarter of a million dollars in defense of liberty and truth. 

Word has been given during this conference of the abuse of the freedom of speech. Freedom of speech and of the press are glorious rights guaranteed by the Constitution, a protection against the repetition of those things that our ancestors in England had experienced when men were not free to write and speak as they cho.se; but there are other rights that are guaranteed by the Constitution in addition to the right of speech. The freedom of the press is no higher or greater than the freedom of speech, and these guaranteed rights always had certain limitations. Under the rights of free speech or of a free press one would not have the right to utter blasphemy; neither would he have the right to publish immorality, nor .sedition, as some have learned recently in this great Republic of ours under the prosecution of a Utah boy; neither would it give the right to character assassination. While attention has been called to the fact that we have realized in a few instances that a spirit of lying is 143  and that some first class falsehoods have been put forward and industriously circulated, our Government has experienced the same thing" upon a larger scale. The French officer referred last night to some of those falsehoods uttered against his own country, that it was a decadent nation; have you not heard that? And also that France had been bled white, — another falsehood. So our own country has listed some one hundred important falsehoods that have been circulated in this country; and I think the lesson to us is not to repeat these idle tales because there is no more critical period of this great world conflict than we are passing through now. If we' make serious mistakes now in being too anxious for an early peace, it may result these millions shall have died in vain, if we do not square a peace which shall usher in the Millennium or tend very stronsdy in that direction. So the duty of citizenship, as I view it, is to be careful how we pass along any of these falsehoods, e : ther against the Church or against the state, and it is no excuse or justification to the person repeating a slander, that he has heard it from someone else; that is no justification, so we mav well stop and inquire when anv strange tale comes to us. whether it is true or not. The matiirv. "Where d'd vou eet vour facts." would be pertinent both as to these Church rumors ana as to these rumors pertaining to the situ* . Tt is a time for care. The Deseret News, in its excellent editorial column the other night, called attention to the fact that when that maerninrent parade was passing,', and the fla? was being carried; n a formal manner, that some citizens were either too careless or too ignorant  salute the flag as it passed by; and it occurs to me in connection with this epidemic that is abroad, that care must be used, care by those who are taken with it, that they may not expose others. I have seen people sneezing and coughing in public assemblages and in the street cars, without the use of a handkerchiefs and, if affected with infectious disease, endangering those in near radius. 

I have already taken more time, perhaps, than I should. May the Lord bless us, help us to be true and faithful and loyal citizens to our country and to our Church, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG. (Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

While Elder Hart was speaking about the great world's war, I was thinking of the heroism of our .soldiers, as well as the terrible sufferings of the people of Europe. Today, I feel more than ever the need of bowing our heads in the presence of a loving God, who is directing the world to a better life. This wild and distracted world is still his. The war will end in victory — a victory that will go down the ages. This consummation of human happiness shall be given us because we have desired to do our best, and to be our best. We are standing in the service of our King and Master, and we are obtaining new visions of a higher and newer life for ourselves and humanity. God grant that the day of peace may come, and the world may be governed by the Prince of Peace. 

And yet, I believe that after this great conflict of arms is over with, that a greater conflict is going to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  place in the world, a conflict that you and I must prepare for with all our might and strength. It will be the conflict between intellience and ignorance, between morality and immorality, between the Spirit of God and the spirit of darkness. In the wake of all wars come ignorance and immorality . In fact, the history of the world proves that after great struggles of might, men are in darknkess, for war precipitates the greater evils in human society on one hand as well as the better spiritual attitude toward life on the other. 

The question with you and me is : which will prevail? The Latterday Saints have a message to the world that the spiritual life must prevail; that the gospel of Jesus Christ must triumph. It will be through our lives, our words, and our actions, that the influence of the gospel of Jesus Christ will be felt in the world. I believe firmly what has been suggested in this conference, that one reason for this war is the false philosophies that have been rampant in the hearts of students of the European countries and ofthe world. The great message that you and I must bear must be prefaced with the divine thought that God made man in his own image, in the image of God made he him. This is a divine truth. Its divinity stamps divinity upon us. We are divine. The children of God in deed and in truth. We have not evolved from something lower. The vision of Moses as found in the Pearl of Great Price tells us this. I wish the message could be carried to the world, for we are distinctly told that man is in the image of God materially and spiritually. This great fundamental  is what the world needs today. We are in the image of God, with a great spiritual outlook on life. What the world needs is idealism, religion, and faith in God, which humanity has long since lost. We need idealizing. Yet this congregation and conference, our acts and our words, certainly stamp the Latter-day Saints as a people with ideals. The gospel of Jesus Christ is idealistic. As a people we idealize the earth, we idealize man, we idealize everything pertaining to righteousness and truth, and we are convinced that the truth will pervail in all the world. This war now raging in Europe was not of God; but it has been permitted; it has come as a. result of the ignorance of humanity. God is a God of love for his children, and though this war is permitted, there will come out of it the great conflict of light against darkness. But light and truth will prevail. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the message to the world that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ and the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God in whom we have great faith. 

The question was asked me recently, "If God is a God of love, what will be the compensation for this war?" We can all judge what the ultimate outcome of it is to be. No one can tell when the compensation will come to us. But compensation will come, for the world is going to be made better, and prepared for the gospel of Christ. 

In 1777, the first Continental Congress sent Benjamin Franklin to the court of. France to ask for succor for the American cause. The Council of State voted to help America, and one young officer, Lafa145 , asked permission to lead four or five thousand men to America. It was permitted, and a few weeks after, Lafayette, with his men, came into Philadelphia; they had been nine weeks on the sea. Lafayette was taken to the camp of Washington and was put on the staff .of the commanderin-chief. He immediately went to work to train the American forces. After a long struggle, until 1781, the American colonies won their independence. 

They had fought for great ideals, and when independence was gained Lafayette bade farewell to General Washington on the banks of the Potomac, General Washington, grasping the hand of that young French officer, said in French, "God grant that your people may never need America's help, but always know that America will love your country." When those French soldiers left France, many a mother wondered when the compensation would come back, when their boys' work would be rewarded. Many French soldiers fell fighting for America's cause. 

Lafayette went back and reported to his government that many of his men had fallen for the cause of truth and liberty in America. The government passed a resolution of thanks, and one old man, a Catholic Father, prayed to God that France might receive a just compensation for her sacrifice. 

The compensation did not immediately come to the French people. Nearly a hundred and fifty years afterwards, on the sixth day of September, 1917, General Pershing of the American army had been programmed to give an address before the tomb of Lafayette. He went down to the tomb with his staff of. General Pershing stepped before the tomb of Lafayette, and in French said, "Lafayette, we are here!" That is all that he said, but it is a speech that has gone into the 'hearts of humanity, and the compensation for what France did over a hundred years ago has gone backto France. 

My brethren and sisters, the world is in need of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Liberty, democracy, truth, light, intelligence, morality, is what we are fighting for. The American troops will never listen to peace, nor will Britain, or France, or Servia, or Belgium, until a new life, a new liberty, and a new democracy, strike deep into the hearts of the Germanic people of Europe. ,~Xhere will be no peace, it is our -.g^aith, until the world is partly slighted, and made safe for democracy, that the gospel of Jesus Christ may become supreme in the hearts of men. 

God made man in his own image, in the image of God made he him, 'is our message to the world. Amen. 

Prof. J. J. McClellan rendered a voluntary on the great organ, finishing with the melody of, "O my Father." 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President of the Eastern States Mission.) 

This is an inspiring sight, my brethren and sisters, to see so many Latter-day Saints gathered together in one place. In the Eastern States mission we have no such congregations, but ours is composed of twenty or thirty, sometimes one hundred, where -we, in our weak way, and by the assistance of our heavenly Father, are attempting to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to them the principles of life eternal. 

I have been greatly interested and edified in the remarks that have been made by the speakers at this conference. I am sure that they have been inspired by the Spirit of our heavenly Father; and it is the inspiration of that Spirit that I desire to enjoy for the few moments that I shall stand before you. 

Brother Levi Edgar Young said, "the thing that the world needs most is a knowledge of the true and the living God." Is it not a singular thing, but a thing that should give great joy and satisfaction to every Latter-day Saint's heart, to know that the prayer of faith was rewarded by the revelation of God himself and his Son Jesus Christ, nearly one hundred years ago, when Joseph Smith, the boy, went into the woods near Palmyra, New York, supplicated God in fervent prayer to know which of all the sects and denominations then existing in the world was right? When the Father and the Son appeared to him, the Savior, who had been introduced with the words, "This is my beloved Son; hear him," said that Joseph should join himself to none of the then existing organizations upon the earth, "for," said the Savior, "they have a form of godliness, but they derty the power thereof. They preach for hire, they divine for money, they draw near unto me with their lips and honor me with their mouths, but have removed their hearts far from me; they teach for doctrine the commandments of men." 

Despite the fact that one hundred years have .passed, there has been no consistent attempt on the part of the representatives of the  churches or organizations of that time to prove that they were not teaching for hire, that they were not divining for money, that they were not drawing near unto him with their lips and honoring him with their mouths, and that their hearts were not removed far from him; but rather, they have made vicious attacks upon the one who gave the message of Jesus Christ to the world. Are we to apologize for what the Savior said, in the face of the present condition of the world ? No; a thousand times no. Let it be heralded to the world. God has revealed himself and his plan of life and salvation to the children of men, and it is our privilege, aye, it is our duty, to proclaim that message to the world. 

Among other attempts that have been made to discredit those who have been instrumental in the furthering of the purposes of the Lord, a recent attempt was made in one of the army camps, as published in the Boston Transcript. I desire to read to you from the Boston Transcript, of July 13, 1918: 

"While Father McQuaide, a popular chaplain of a well-known San Francisco regiment, was waiting a few days at Camp Mills, L. L, before embarking for France, many men from other regiments who were without Catholic chaplains, learning of his presence, visited him, almost invariably for confession. One day, after hearing many, Father McQuaide was conscious of the presence of another waiting soldier, and in his characteristic way he said: 'Now, kneel right here and bless yourself, my boy.' The soldier looked up meekly and said: 'I don't know how. I am an elder in the 'Mormon' Church.' " 

This is intended for a slur upon the Latter-day Saints, but oh, how they have misunderstood the mes147  of Christ to the world. When the devil appeared to the Savior in his emaciated, hungry condition, he said : "If you are the Son of God, turn these stones into bread," or, in other words, "Bless your hungry self." Did he do so? No; he did not do it. He did not bless himself on that occasion; but out on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, where there were four thousand who were hungered, he took the loaves and small fishes, and blessed them and gave them to the multitude, thus extending the blessing of his authority to others. And in- his dying moments upon the cross, while they wagged their heads and mockingly said : "If you are the Son of God, come down and save yourself," did he bless himself by saving his life? No. He went to a martyr's death, crucified. What for? That you and I might live. And yet they make ridicule and light of the fact that the Latter-day Saints do not know how to bless themselves. Why, bless your souls, the priesthood that has been given to the elders in this Church is not intended for blessing oneself, but for blessing others. How true this is, and in harmony with the statement of St. James, when he said : "Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the Church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name , of the Lord; and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up." He did not say, "Anoint yourself and bless yourself," but let the priesthood of others be operative in behalf of the afflicted. 

Now, I want to bear to you my testimony, my brothers and sisters, that I do know that this is the true work of God, and that if we  persist unto the end to proclaim this gospel to the world in holiness of life and purpose, that we shall be preserved from the pitfalls of the evil one, for he has preserved us amid the trials and persecutions that have been heaped upon this people from the earliest organization of the Church to the present time. We praise God that we live in this land of liberty, where we can worship God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and the opposition, for the most part, is from organizations that have found their origin under monarchial forms of civil government. 

God bless us all, that we might keep our covenants true and sacred, and ever be found with the faithful, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission.) 

While President Grant was reading the 121st section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, the other day, which contains the instructions from the Lord concerning the spirit that should actuate the priesthood of this Church, my mind went out to some of the statements which have been made by the enemies of this Church. One that impressed itself upon me was the utterance of a noted divine in the city of Portland, a few years ago, wherein he charged that the "Mormon" Church was the most perfect organization in the world, the most powerful; but he feared it, because of its power. He was afraid that this power would be utilized for unholy purposes. I recall at the same time that a noted official of the Government said that "the GENERAL CONEERENCE. 

'Mormon' Church and the German army are the most efficient organizations in the world;"and he deplored that, while we have efficiency in both these organizations, there was the surrender of individuality. He hoped that the day might come when we could have equal efficiency as shown in these two great institutions in the earth, and yet have freedom and liberty. These two systems, that is, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and the German army, so far as the spirit that dominates and actuates them is concerned, are as far apart as the two poles can be. There are two methods by which efficiency may be obtained even in the home — one by the whip that brings immediate obedience from the child — you can get what you wish by fear, by punishment; the other method is to obtain it through love. If you will observe the rule, however, to punish and obtain obedience through that means, you can do it until the child becomes of your'own age and size, and then your power is gone; but if you control by love, it will endure forever and ever, even into the eternal world. These two spirits respectively are characteristic of these two organizations — -the one that rules by fear and punishment illustrates the spirit that dominates and actuates and controls the German army, and obtains the efficiency of that people. I rejoice to be a witness to the nations of the earth that the spirit that domintaes and controls the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is the spirit of love. Here is liberty; here is freedom. No man has coerced me nor has he coerced you, and yet we have been united; we have thought alike we have believed alike; we have  one common teacher; it has not been the whip, nor the lash, nor the threat, but it has been the witness and the testimony of the Holy Ghost that has born to us all the same witness concerning the teachings of the leaders of this Church; and how, in my heart, I rejoice that 1 have always found it possible to yield, and gladly and willingly have I yielded, to the instructions and endorsed the counsel and advice, which have been given, and have always felt a perfectly free man. 

These two systems were in operation in the very beginning; on the one hand was he, who offered himself to redeem the world; but, said he, "I will save all men." By what means ? Taking away their individual liberty. The right to think, the right to act; but said he, "I want the glory." It was a new scheme, and if it succeeded it was his, and he wanted the glory. On the other hand was the Christ, giving unto all men their free agency, holding them, nevertheless, accountable, but extending unto them the right of choice and the reward that should follow; and the honor and the glory were the Father's. There was war over that questiori when the Father's decision was appealed from, and the majority of the great body who were present voted against him who sought to take away the agency of man; there was war in heaven, actual combat. The forces of evil were cast down to Jhe earth, and here they have been and here the war wages and never have these combats ceased. When these two great characters in the drama of the world met in the hour of temptation, the great thing for which both were seeking — the right to preside over the 149 

Kingdoms of this world, was discussed; in panoramic view .they passed before the mind of Jesus. Satan said, "Aren't they splendid? Wouldn't you like them?" In his heart he knew that it was what Jesus came to obtain — the right to rule over them, to die for them and to save them, and in his own heart he was saying: "You don't have to die for them if you will only do what I tell you now; you can have them on easy terms; you just fall down and worship me; behold they are mine and I will give them to you." Jesus knew who it was, however, and he said : 'Get thee behind me, Satan.' Jesus in his own heart no doubt realized that Satan's was only a squatter's claim upon the earth. It is true he had been ruling from the rivers to the ends of the earth, but his claim was no good; it was not valid at all; and if Jesus should bow down and worship him. Jesus would have a title that was worthless and at the same time lose his opportunity to redeem the world in the way God had decreed. So he died to win the right to rule and he is the only one who ever shall rule by "right Divine." Those powers are still in the world; they are arrayed against each other today. When shall the conflict end? There is no doubt in our minds what the result will be when that end shall come. Satan even steals the liveries of heaven to accomplish his purposes and he will give revelation — this is a wonderful 'time for revelation. He is giving revelations to some poor, deluded Latter-day Saints. I think that the greatest prophet of Baal in Europe today is the German Kaiser; I haven't any doubt but that he has received revelation. I haven't any doubts but that he feels in his own  that he has been anointed as he said he was, and set apart by God to dominate and rule the earth. 

It is the power of the evil forces arrayed through a political form of government for the purpose of staying the fulfilment of these ancient predictions referred to in this conflict, when in the interpretation of Nebuchadnezzar's dream Danial said, that in the days of these kingdoms, our days, the God of heaven should establish a Kingdom that should roll forth and fill the whole earth. 

My brethren and sisters, it warms my heart to be able to say and to feel that God is not only working in this Church, but outside of it, as indicated and as it has been referred to by the brethren here, that the Lord established the Constitution of the Linked States for the blessing of all flesh. In my soul I believe that that is part of the great Kingdom of God, the political part, for Jesus was to come as "King of kings and Lord of lords." In the capacity of King of kings he rules in a political way, and as Lord of lords in a spiritual way. He is the greatest statesman the world has ever seen, and that great kingdom, cut out of the mountain without hands, founded by God, has been rolling forth. Let me tell you, my weak-kneed brethren and sisters, if there are any of you here, take courage, for God's word shall not fail when he predicted that the instrument known as the Constitution of the LTiited States, the Spirit of Liberty established here by a few weak colonists, was his order of things for the government of men, and it should roll forth to fill the whole earth. There were great kingdoms, in the world that refused to believe it, but it has GENERAL CONFERENCE.  forth until it now bids fair to reach every nation, kindred and tongue and people in the earth, and bring God's form of political government for the delivery of the souls of men just as sure as that has been true, just so sure am I that this is God's spiritual part of the great kingdom that Daniel saw — the more sacred, the more holy part, the sanctifying thing that shall not only sanctify men, but shall sanctify nations, when at the peace table the sword shall be sheathed and the covenant and agreement of peace signed. 

We shall not have a lasting and enduring peace until men shall accept that other part of the Kingdom of God, the truth that has been delivered in the restoration of the everlasting gospel. My heart thrills when I look at our boys. I saw seven or eight hundred of them leaving Camp Lewis in the Ninetyfirst Division, going to France. Don't you fathers and mothers grieve any more about them as to whether or not they will keep themselves clean. I have this witness and testimony that they are doing it; about ninety per cent of them, are as clean and as pure as though they were missionaries performing their work in the mission field. I have had the sanction and opportunity to ordain scores of them to the priesthood, many who never had any priesthood, did not know anything about it nor care about it; but the Spirit of the Lord is working upon them, and I have a witness that they will keep themselves true to their covenants, though many of them shall in all probability lay down their lives. But I see them in the visions as of the future, men who today are clothed upon with the uniform of  country, going forth to offer their lives for the establishment of truth and liberty among the na-  tions of the earth. I see the day when they will go forth as missionaries of the Church. Such a band of men God is preparing to do a work that never before has been done in the history of this Church; when they will stand in Germany, in Belgium, in France, in the islands of the sea, and in all the European nations, these very identical men, ministers of the Lord Jesus Christ, carrying the balm that will heal the wounds of the nations. There will not be a dog to wag its tail against them. They shall be honored. God is preparing them for another service. 

May the Lord bless this Church and the membership thereof, that we may get out of debt in this good time; seventies and elders, prepare yourselves for the great demand, for it will come and God's word shall be carried to the ends of the earth. We do not retract what has been said concerning that message which was delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We reannounce it, not in a spirit of boastfulness, but in a spirit of deep gratitude to God our Father, and say to all the ends of the earth, this is essential for the salvation and peace of the world. God speed the time when the world will receive it, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I have only one regret, and that is that this day could not be lengthened out some six or eight or twelve hours longer, so that we could hear from the rest of the brethren who are full of the spirit of their missions and of the Lord, and that 151 , one and all of you, would be delighted to hear. But the time will not permit. 

A sacred aolo, "The Ninety-andnine," was sung by Edna Chipman, just returned from the Eastern States Mission. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. 

Presented the General Authorities and officers of the auxiliary organizations who were voted upon and unanimously sustained as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Heber J. Grant, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards and Richard R. Lyman. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding 

Bishop, with David A. Smith and John Wells as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church His torian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr. and August William Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joesph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson 

F. Whitnev and Joseph F. Smith, 

Arthur Winter, as Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, C. N. Jensen and Guy C. Wilson. 

Auditing Committee : William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Peter 

G. Johnston. 

Tabernacle Choir : Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign and B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductors; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; and all the Members. 

AUXILIARY ORGANIZATIONS GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 

Emmeline B. Wells, President; Clarissa S. Williams, First CounGENERAL CONFERENCE. ; Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor; Amy Brown Lyman, Secretary; Susa Young Gates, Corresponding Secretary; Emma A. Empey, Treasurer; Lizzie Thomas Edward, Musical Director; Edna H. Coray, Organist; Sarah Jenne Cannon. Romania B. Penrose, Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Earnsworth. Phebe Y. Beatie, Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Carrie S. Thomas, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Rebecca X. Xibley, Elizabeth C. McCune, Edna May Davis, Sarah M. McClelland, Elizabeth C. Crismon. Jeanette 

A. Hyde, Sarah Eddington, Lillian Cameron and Donette Smith Kesler. 

GENERAL BOARD OF DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION. 

Joseph E. Smith. Superintendent : David O. McKay, First Assistant Superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, Second Assistant Superintendent; George D. Pyper. Secretary; John E. Bennett, Treasurer. Meber T. Grant, Hugh J. Cannon. Andrew Kimball, John M. Mills, Seymour 

B. Young. Anthon H. Lund, James E. Talmage; George M. Cannon. Horace H. Cummin«\s, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton. Horace S. Ensign. Henry H. Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds. Charles B. Eelt. George H. Wallace. Howard R. DrigL's. Nathan T. Porter. Milton Bennion. Charles W. Penrose, Edwin G. Woolley, Jr., Hyrum G. Smith, Charles H. Hart, Joseph Ballantyne. J. Leo Fairbanks, J. W. Walker. E. G. Gowans, E. Conway Ashton, Adam S. Bennion. Edward P. Kimball, Tracy Y. Cannon and Richard R. Lyman. 

GENERAL BOARD YOUNG MENS MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. 

Joseph F. Smith, Superintendent; 

Heber J. Grant and Brigham H. Roberts, Assistant Superintendents; Moroni Snow, Secretary; J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells. George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson. Thomas Hull, Willard Done, LeRoi C. Snow, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin. Bryant S. Hinckley, Brigham F. Grant, Joseph F. Smith, Jr.. Lewis T. Cannon, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A Widtsoe. James H. Anderson, Anthony \\ . Ivins, Oscar A. Kirkham, Anthon H. Lund. George F. Richards. Nephi Anderson, John H. Taylor. Charles W. Penrose, James E. Talmage. Hyrum G. Smith, Henry C. Lund, George J. Cannon, Nicholas G. Morgan, Claude Richards. John F. Bowman, Levi Edgar Young, Roscoe W. Eardley Preston I). Richards, Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, Brigham S. Young. B. Cecil Gates, Richard R. Lyman, Ernest P. Horsley. 

GENERAL BOARD YOUNG LADIES* MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. 

Martha Home Tingey, President; Ruth May Fox, First Counselor; Mae Taylor Xystrom, Second Sounselor; Clarissa A. Beesley. Secretary; Joan M. Campbell, Recording Secretary; Alice K. Smith. 

"fl*!»easurer; Margaret Summerhays. 

Chorister and Mabel C. Cain. Assistant Chorister. Aids: Maria Young Dougall, Adella W. Eardley. Agnes S. Campbell, Ann M. Cannon, May Booth Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Julia M. Brixen, Agusta W. Grant, Emily Caldwell Adams. Mary E. Connelly. Elen Wallace. Lucy Woodruff Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Edith R. 153 

Lovesy, Laura Bennion Dimond, Rachel Grant Taylor. Sarah Richards Cannon, Lucy M. S. Carter. Charlotte Stewart, Lucy Grant Cannon. Emily H. Higgs, Martha G. Smith, Catherine Folsom. 

GENERAL BOARD OF PRIMARY ASSOCIATION. 

Louie B. Felt, President; May Anderson, First Counselor; Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor; Genet B. Dee, Secretary and Treasurer; Matilda W. Cahoon, Acting Chorister; Isabelle S. Ross and Ann Nebeker. Physical Directors; Advisors to the Board, Anthony W. Ivins and David O. McKay, Aids : Aurelia Rogers, Lillie T. Freeze, Josephine R. West, Eliza S. Bennion, Edna Harker Thomas, Edith H. Lambert, Laura L. Foster, Eleanor R. Jeremy, Ella S. Capener, Zina Y. Card, Georgina F. Richards, Vilate S. Chambers. Helen Davis, Marion Belnap Kerr, Nellie A. Talmage. Cordia H. Smith. Sadie G. Pack. 

GENERAL BOARD OF RELIGION CLASS. 

Anthon H. Lund, Superintendent; Rudger Clawson, First Assistant Superintendent; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Second Assistant Superintendent; Edwin S. Sheets, Secretary; Horace H. Cummings, RuLon  S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney. James E. King. George F. Richards, Heber J. Grant Anthony W. Ivins, George H. Brimhall, P. J. Jensen, Willard Young, James E. Talmage, N. Andrew Jensen, Guy C. Wilson. Richard R. Lyman, Hyrum G. Smith. John Wells. 

GENERAL BOARD OF THE . GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH. 

Anthon H. Lund, President; Charles W. Penrose, Vice-President; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Secretary and Treasurer; Joseph Christenson, Librarian; Anthony W. Ivins, Heber J. Grant and Hyrum G. Smith. 

Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of the Conference. 

A solo and chorus: "Hear Me and be not afraid," was sung bv Ruth Wilson and the choir. 

DAVID A. SMITH. 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric.) 

President Smith wishes me to say that Elder George F. Richards continues in charge of the European Mission. 

We have now in the service of the army and navy of the United States nearly fifteen thousand of our young men. We have in France Elders B. H. Roberts, Calvin S. Smith, and Herbert Maw, acting as chaplains. According to the ruling of the government, we should be entitled to the appointment of oth ers. Recommendations have been made, and we hope assignments will follow soon. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder David A. Smith, of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing in the Tabernacle. Professor John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interGENERAL CONFERENCE. , etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball, and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken in the Tabernacle by Elder Franklin W. Ot, assisted by Clarence Cramer; and in the Assembly Hall, and by the Bureau of Information, by Elders Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. 

Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of Conference. i HISTORY OF! 

I THE CHURCH [ 

| tiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ | 

§ Compiled by the Church Historians and j 

i Published by the Church | 

j IN SIX VOLUMES j 

| COMPLETING THE FIRST PERIOD j 

I "The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with J 

H introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 1 

§f A remarkably low price has been placed on the 1 

g History by the First Presidency to secure the widest § 

1 possible circulation. § 

1 Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and §f 

g Private Library should have a set. 1 

g Cloth — Embossed, per Vol. $1.50 Postpaid § 

| Half Calf— Gilt Top, per Vol 2.50 " 1 

j Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per Vol 2.50 " I 

| Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge,per Vol 4.00 " j 

| IIIIIII1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH | 

| WRITE FOR 1918 CATALOG FREE j 

| DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE [ 

| No. 6 MAIN STREET - SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH j 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH 

|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM 

! THREE NEW! 

( BOOKS ISSUED 1918 I 

I iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiih m 

| 2000 GOSPEL QUOTATIONS j 

| BY JUDGE HENRY H. ROLAPP— The latest addition to Home § 

% Literature. The volume is subdivided into thirty general heads M 

% with two hundred and four sub-heads, which in turn, are divided W 

U into two thousand paragraphs. Remarkable dexterity in plan, W 

§§ painstaking research, and a marvelous aptitude for classification || 

H and arrangement are evident in the work. Indispensable to every W 

M student of the Gospel. || 

J Handsomely hound in cloth $1.25 1 

| LOVE AND THE LIGHT— An Idyl of the Westland. | 

I BY ORSON F. WHITNEY— A Love Story told in verse, into 1 

W which the religious experience of both hero and heroine is inter- || 

: woven. Adopted as one of the books in the M. I. A. Reading || 

= Course, 1918. | 

1 Illustrated and beautifully bound in cloth.... $1.25 §f 

| TOBACCO AND HUMAN EFFICIENCY | 

| BY DR. FREDERICK J. PACK— Deseret Professor of Geology, | 

§§ University of Utah. Dedicated to the unbounded possibilities of the jz[ 

H youth of Israel. W. 

1 Bound in Cloth $1.00 1 

I lllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll | 

| WRITE FOR 1918 CATALOG FREE j 

| DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 1 

No. 6 MAIN STREET - SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH | 









