Morning
05 10 1918

The congregation was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "Come come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Joseph S. Geddes, president of the Oneida stake of Zinn. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "Hail to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

Why America was discovered — Columbus and the Western World — Not an accident — Nephi and the Land of Promise — What "Gentile" means — Lamanites or IndiansDiscovery and colonization — The War for Independence — Material prosperity — America's future — Our Country's real glory — Fulfiling her mission. 

The twelfth day of October, 1918, will be the four hundred and twenty-sixth anniversary of the discovery of America by Columbus, and the day has been set apart by proclamation of the President of the United States for general observance throughout the nation. It might not be amiss, at this general conference of the Church to anticipate that observance, in so far, at least, as to make reference to this great and illustrious event and to some of the issues that have grown out of it. I cannot hope to elaborate my theme; the time is too limited for that; but will give it to you in headlines, as Brother Roberts  say, merely throwing out a few thoughts which you can clothe for yourselves at your leisure^ 

Columbus discovered America in the year 1492. He was not the first white man to tread the soil of the New World. Five hundred years before his time an Icelandic sailor, Lief Erickson, with a band of daring spirits, grounded keel on the shores of New England, named by him Vinland (Vine Land) from the wild grapes that grew there in profusion. They built a few huts, but did not make a permanent settlement, did not remain very long. Other Norsemen followed in their wake. But no tidings of these adventurous exploits had. penetrated to the other European nations when Columbus started upon his great voyage. 

Columbus believed that the earth was round, but he was not the first to entertain that theory. Sir John Mandeville, an English traveler, wrote a treatise upon the subject in 1356, long before Columbus was born, having become convinced of it by astronomical observations. That treatise is said to be "the very first English book that ever was written" (Ridpath's History of the United States, chapter 3). Most of the people of that time believed the earth to be flat or shaped like a cheese, and that one had but to sail westward a certain .distance beyond the Pillars of Hercules — the Strait of Gibraltar — and he would come to "the slipping off place," and go down and be heard from no more. In the face of this terrible tradition, widely prevalent in that age, it took some degree of courage and fortitude to set out for the unknown West. Columbus was one of a number of learned men who held that the earth was a sphere. While not the first to hold that theory, he was the first to put it into practice. He believed that he could reach India by sailing westward. Accordingly, he sailed for India, and found America on the way. [President Smith, sotto voce, from his seat behind the speaker : "He could hardly have missed it."] PresMent Smith remarks that "he could hardly have missed it." (Laughter.') Landing on one of the Bahama Islands — San Salvador — Columbus supposed it to be the coast of India, and he never learned to the contrary so long as he lived on earth. That is why he called the natives "Indians." 

The discovery of America was not an accident. The event had been fore-ordained in the eternal councils. The prophets of old had it in view. Jacob foresaw it when he blessed his son Joseph, calling him "a fruitful bough by a well, whose branches run over the wall" [of waters] "unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills" (Gen. 49: 22-26). Moses had it in prophetic vision when he blessed the tribes of Israel, making great and peculiar promises to the tribe of Joseph, whose land (America) was to be "precious" for the things of heaven and of earth, and whose descendants through Ephraim were to "push the people," the Lord's people, "together to the ends of the earth" (Deut. 33:13-17); a hint foreshadowing the gathering of Israel in the last days. 

There was an American prophet named Nephi. He came from Jerusalem six hundred years before the birth of the Savior — came with his , Lehi, and an Israelitish colony, and both South and North America were eventually peopled by their descendants. Those who followed Nephi were known as Nephites, while a degenerate faction who had for their leader Nephi's brother Laman, were termed Lamanites. These were the ancestors of the American .Indians. Nephi was shown by an angel the glorious future of this land, a land of promise, the land of Joseph, the latid of Zion, the theatre of wonderful events in .days that were to come. I shall now read to the congregation a portion of Nephi's vision of the future of America, an 'I in order to avoid repetition ami thus save time, will comment upo" the several paragraphs as I proceed. First Nephi, thirteenth chapter : 

"And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying, Look! And I looked and beheld many nations and kingdoms. 

"And the angel said unto me, What beholdest thou? And I said, I behold many nations and kingdoms. 

"And he said unto me, These are the nations and kingdoms of the Gentiles." 

The word "Gentiles" in the foregoing quotation refers to the peoples of Europe at the time of Columbus and the great discovery. Let me interject here that the word "Gentile," as we use it, is not intended as a term of reproach. The nickname "Mormon" was originally applied to the Latter-day Saints in derision. We are railed "Mormons" because we believe in the Book of Mormon, from which I am reading. Mormon, a Nephite prophet, was the compiler of this record. But "Gentile" meant in ancient times "one of another nation or people." The great proerenitor of the Gentiles was Japheth, one of the three sons of Noah, bv whom earth was reneopled after the "'nod. Shem peopled Asia and became the ancestor of Abraham, Tsaac and Jacob, those great patriarchs of the chosen seed. Ham inhabited Africa: he was the father of the black races. From Japheth sprang the European nations, and it was to them that the angel referred in sneaking to Nephi. The origin of the English word "Gentile" is in the Greek "Gentili's," which simply means of or pertaming to a nation or people not of the House of Israel. But let me read further : 

"And it came to pass that I looked and beheld manv waters; and they divided the Gentiles from the seed of mv brethren. 

"And it came to pass that the angel said unto me, Behold the wrath of God is upon the seed of thy brethren." 

Here is meant the Lamanites, who were cursed for their iriicmitv with dark skins and benighted minds. Thev were the brethren of the Neohites, the seed or descendants of the rebellions brothers of Nephi. and bv them the Neohites were destroved about the vear 420 A. D. "Manv waters" describes the ocean d : viding the American continents from the Eastern Hemisphere. 

"And T looked and beheld a man amonsr the Gentiles who was separated from the seed of mv brethren by the many waters: and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man and he went forth i^on the many waters, even unto the seea of my brethren who were in the promised land." 

I need not stop to say that this man Avas Christopher Columbus,  by the Spirit of God 10 cross the deep, and thus build, as God's servants have always done, better than he knew. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of God, that it wrought upon other Gentiles; and they went forth out of captivity, upon the many 

waters." 

This reference is to the Pilgrims or Puritans, who about the beginning of the Seventeenth century fled from England to Holland to escape religious persecution in their own land, and then returned to England and sailed for America, landin 9" at Plymouth Rock in December, 1620. They were followed by many others. In fact, before the Puritans settled in Massachusetts, an English colonv had settled in Virginia, where they founded Jamestown; and Huguenots from France, Cavaliers and Roundheads from England, with Scotch and Irish and German emigrants of all classes came flocking to North American shores, and were the elements of the great nation subsequently founded here. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of the Gentiles upon the land ,of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God, that it was upon the seed of my brethren; and they were scattered before the Gentiles and were smitten." 

The history of the .red man, rmshed back by the white man landing in America, is too well known to require extended comment. 

"And I beheld the Spirit of the Lord, that it was upon the Gentiles, that they did prosper and obtain the land for their inheritance; and I beheld that they w,ere white and exceeding fair and beautiful, like unto my people before they were slain. 

"And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles who had gone forth out of captivity did humble themselves before the Lord; and the power of the Lord was with them. 

"And I beheld that their mother Gentiles were gathered together upon the waters and upon the land also, to battle against them; 

"And I beheld that the power of God was with them and also that the wrath of God was upon those that were gathered together against them to battle. 

"And I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles that had gone out of captivity were delivered by the power of God out of the hands of all other nations." 

Thus is portrayed in brief the Revolutionary War, that heroic strife of the American colonies for freedom and independence, followed by the setting up of the Government of the Llnited States, the greatest and best government that the sun shines on. Great are the promises of God concerning this nation, provided it be a righteous nation; for he says in other parts of this sacred book that he "will fortify this land against all other nations," that there shall be "no king upon this land," and that they "who fight ag'ainst Zion shall perish." 

I wish now to dwell upon another phase of the subject. How wonderfully the Gentiles have prospered upon this , choice land. I feel that I cannot do better at this point than to read a few paragraphs from the writings of Dr. John Lord, showing how marvelously God has blessed America, and forecasting some of the great things that he intends yet to do for her. In the sixth volume of Beacon Lights of History, is a lecture entitled "Mar Discoveries." Therein that writer says : 

"The discovery of America opened a new field for industry and enterprise to all the discontented and impoverished and oppressed Europeans who emigrated. At first they emigrated to dig silver and gold. * * * * Many were disappointed, and were obliged to turn agriculturists, as in Virginia. Many came to New England from political and religious motives. But all came to better their fortunes. Gradually the United States and Canada became populated from east to west and from north to south. The surplus population of Europe poured itself into the wilds of America. Generally the emigrants were farmers. With the growth of agricultural industry were developed commerce and manufactures. Thus, materially, the world was immensely benefited." 

Dr. Lord then speaks of the future : 

"There is no calculating the future resources and wealth of the New World, especially in the United States. There are no conceivable bounds to their future commerce, manufactures, and agricultural products. We can predict with certainty the rise of new cities, villas, palaces, material splendor, limited only to the increasing resources and population of the country. Who can tell the number of miles of new railroads yet to be made; the new inventions to abridge human labor; what great empires are destined to rise; what unknown forms of luxury will be found out: what new and magnificent trophies of art and science will gradually be seen; what mechanism, what material glories, are sure to come? This is not speculation. Nothing can retard the growth of America in material wealth and glory. 

"And what then? * * * * The world has witnessed many powerful empires which have passed away and left not a rack behind.' What remains of the antediluvian world? — not even a spike of Noah's ark, larger and stronger than any modern ship. What remains .of Nineveh, of Babylon, of Thebes, of Tyre, of Carthage, — those great centers of wealth and power? What remains of Roman greatness even, except in laws and literatu^l and renovated statues? * * * What is the simple story of all the ages? — industry, wealth, corruption, decay, and ruin. What conservative power has been strong enough to arrest the ruin of the nations of antiquity? 

"Now if this is to be the destiny of America, — an unbounded material growth, followed by corruption and ruin, — then Columbus has simply extended the realm for men to try material experiments. Make New York 

second Carthage, arid Boston a second Athens, and Philadelphia a second Antioch, and Washington a second Rome, and we simply repeat the old experiments. 

"But has America no higher destiny than to repeat the old experiments and improve upon them and become rich and powerful? Has she no higher and nobler mission? If America has a great mission to declare and to fulfil, she must put forth altogether new forces, and these not material. And these alone will save her and save the world. * * * The real glory of America is to be something entirely different from that of which the ancients boasted. And this is to be moral and spiritual, — that which the ancients lacked. 

"I cannot see that civilization gained anything, morally, by the discovery of America, until the new settlers were animated by other motives than a desire for sudden wealth. When the country became colonized by . men who sought liberty to worship God, — men of lofty purposes, willing to undergo sufferings and danger in order to plant the seeds of a higher civilization, — then there arose new forms of social and political life. * * * An entirely new political organization was gradually formed, resting equally on such pillars as independent townships and independent States, and these represented by delegates in a national centre. 

"So we believe America was discovered, not so much to furnish a field for indefinite material expansion, — but to introduce new forms of gov, new social institutions, new customs and manners, new experiments in liberty, new religious organizations. * * * If America has a destiny to fulfill for other nations, she must give them something more valuable than reaping machines, palace cars, and horse railroads. She must give, not only machinery to abridge labor, but institutions and ideas to expand the mind and elevate the soul. 

* * * Unless something new is born here, ivhich has a peculiar power to save, wherein will America ultimately differ from other parts of Christendom? 

* * * America is a glorious boon to civilization, but only as she fulfils a nezv mission in history, — not to become more potent in material forces, but in those spiritual agencies which prevent corruption and decay." 

I presume the learned author of those splendid words would stand appalled at the "presumption," the seeming audacity of one who would stand up in a public assembly and announce to him and to all the world that this "something new" — new and yet old — having "a peculiar power to save," has already come, and that it lies at the very foundation of this work, God's mighty and marvelous work of the last days. Yes, whatever men may think or say, this is our position. In the Everlasting Gospel and in the powers of the Eternal Priesthood, restored to earth through the instrumentality of a Prophet of God, in this the final dispensation of Gospel grace, are those "spiritual agencies which prevent corruption and decay," "institutions and ideas to expand the mind and elevate the soul," forces and powers which can alone save this nation and "save the world." 

The Latter-day Saints believe Columbus was inspired to discover this land in order that a free nation, dedicated to the maintenance and preservation of the rights of , including his right to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience, might arise here; a nation founded upon the proposition that all men have equal rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed — a doctrine diametrically opposed to the old autocratic notions prevalent in European and oriental lands. And we further believe that this nation was established so that the great work of Israel's God might come forth under its protecting aegis, and not be crushed out by the tyranny of man; to the end that the gospel, "the power of God unto salvation," might be preached in all the world as a witness before the end comes; that the House of Israel might be gathered in from their long dispersion, that Zion might arise, and the glory of God rest upon her, and the world be prepared for the coming of the King of kings, the Lord Jesus Christ, in his glory. We believe this fervently. It is our message to the world. , 

America has fulfilled, or is fulfilling her high and noble mission. True, there have been some abuses, things that were never contemplated by the founders of our nation, by the signers of the immortal Declaration, by the framers of the glorious Constitution. Men have been persecuted under the Stars and Stripes for their religious convictions. But it was not the Constitution that did it; it was not the Declaration, not. the Flag, that was responsible. These things occurred, not because of the Constitution, but in spite of it, and because the laws were not enforced for the protection of the weak against the strong. Yet we do not hold this against our 

Government. We are willing to let bygones be bygones. America is fulfilling her mission despite such lapses; for she has fostered and in a sense brought forth the Church of God, which represents the lifting of the ensign for the gathering of scattered Israel. Under her protecting shield "the little stone" has come forth that is destined to become "a mountain" and fill the whole earth. 

And we stand by our country , we are glad and proud to see her continuing the noble work that God has placed upon her. Even as Joseph of old, liberated from prison and exalted to a throne, ministered to his brethren who had hated him and cast him out and sold him into slavery, so this Land of Joseph, lifted up on high, enthroned in beauty and power and glory, is now ministering to the needy nations who 1 come bending to her for food, for succor, for assistance. America, rediscovering herself, forgiving the past and magnanimously returning good for evil, has even crossed the ocean with her armies and navies and is sending her sons to the front to help the nations of Europe, the democracies of the Old World, fight the battle of freedom and equal right. And I thank God, for one, that our boys have the privilege of participating in this glorious strife. They are pre-eminently the sons of liberty, for the gospel covenant in which they were begotten and born, is liberty's perfect law, and it is most fitting and appropriate that they should play their part in the great and mighty drama that is fated to spread the principles of human freedom and clear the way for the carrying of the message of salvation into every nook and corner of the world. God bless our country! God bless America in ber heaven-appointed task of succoring the needy nations, of guarding the ark of liberty, keeping alive the fires of freedom, and maintaining the rights of man! Amen. 

A duet: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," was sung by David Reese and Anthony C. Lund. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY. 

 A beautiful hymn and a significant prophecy — Necessity of considering the meaning of the Church of Christ — The change among the Jews regarding the Holy One of Israel — God will remember his promises — The Holy Land about to be restored to Judah — Responsibility upon the peoples of the earth regarding the gospel of Christ — What are the responsibilities of the Latter-day Saints?— An appeal to the youth of Zion to read the signs of the times, and to set an example of purity and chastity before the world — A striking illustration. 

I was just wondering how many in this magnificent audience fully appreciate, or appreciate even to a slight degree, the sinificance of the third stanza of that beautiful hymn so inspirinly sung just now by these two elders. While the inspiration of 'their music is still thrilling our hearts, let me read : 

The Gentile fulness now comes in, 

And Israel's blessings are at hand: Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from ski, 

Shall in their promised Canaan stand. And the next equally applicable: 

Jehovah speaks! let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live; 

His mighty arm is making bare, His cov'nant people to receive. 

Over two thousand years ago a  on the American continent prophesied of the restoration of Israel to "their promised Canaan," and also of the land of America, the mission of which has been so eloquently explained to us by my brother, Elder Orson F. Whitney. If you will turn to the 19th chapter of I Nephi you will find these .significant words : 

And as for those who are at Jerusalem, saith the prophet, they shall be scourged by all people, because they crucify the God of Israel, and turn their hearts aside, rejecting signs and wonders, and power and glory of the God of Israel; 

And because they turn their hearts aside, saith the prophet, and have despised the Holy One of Israel, they shall wander in the flesh, and perish, and become a hiss and by-word, and be hated among all nations; 

Nevertheless, when that day cometh, saith the prophet, that they no more turn aside their hearts against the Holy One of Israel, then will he remember the covenants which he made to their fathers; 

Yea, then will he remember the isles of the sea; yea, and all the people who are of the house of Israel, will I gather in, saith the Lord, according to the words of the prophet Zenos, from the four quarters of the earth; 

Yea, and all the earth shall see the salvation of the Lord, saith the prophet; every nation, kindred, tongue and people shall be blessed. 

And I, Nephi, have written these things unto my people, that perhaps I might persuade them that they would remember the Lord, their Redeemer. 

During the few moments that I occupy this position, I desire to say something regarding this significant prophecy with a view of reaching the young men and the young women of Israel, that they might do two things, the first of which is to stop amidst their pleasures, to pause in the midst of the rush of this Twen Century and think, — think of the significance and mission of the Church of Jesus Christ; to try to realize even in a slight degree, the significance of the world changes that are now taking place, and measure them by the standard of  righteousness as taught by their parents and the authorities of the Church. 

Boys, now is the time to think, to pray, and to search, as we have never searched before, for the everlasting truth; to realize while we are young that God's hand is over the destinies of the world, that he -is shaping the destinies of nations. Benjamin Franklin once said, "The longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs in the affairs of man; and if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, how is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid ?" 

I believe that the providence of God is shaping and will shape the destiny of the nations now in the grip of the worst war known to history. "Under the storm and the cloud today, And today the hard peril and pain. Tomorrow the stone shall be rolled away, 

For the sunshine shall follow the rain. 

Merciful Father, I will not complain, I know that the sunshine shall follow the rain." 

Twentv-three hundred years ago the prophet looking down through the vista of time saw this day. He saw Israel scattered among all natrons. He saw them become a hiss and a by-word, but added, "nevertheless, when the day cometh that they no more turn aside their hearts against the Holy One of Israel" — note he does not say when they ac him as their Redeemer, nor necessarily declare to the world that he was the Messiah to come to their people — the prophet words it most significantly; viz. /'when they no more turn aside their hearts against the Redeemer, then in that day will he remember the covenants that he made to their fathers." 

Brethren, isn't it a significant thing that today there is a change in the hearts of the descendants of Israel in regard to the Holy One of Israel ? 

In 1918, while visiting the California Mission with President Robinson, he put in my hand a book entitled, Jesus, the Jetv, written by a prominent Jew of Sacramento. In the first chapter of that book we get a picture of the enmity and bitterness of the Jews when the author was a boy. Their hearts were not turned, evgn at that late date, much toward the Holy One, but most bitterly against him. He said in substance : "I remember when a boy that one of my classmates brought into the class a book containing the name of Jesus. I remember how wrought up and excited the rabbi became when he was made aware of its presence in the schoolroom. 'Sacrilege! Sacrilege!' he indignantly cried. Then the rabbi proceeded to denounce the Holy One. He said : 'How can any lew who realizes what that name has brought upon his people even touch a book containing the name of Jesus?' He told how the Jews bad been persecuted, how they had made outcasts and wanderers over been driven from pillar to post, and the face of the earth; how their beards had been torn from their roots, their teeth drawn from their jaws; how they had been whipped at the post, put upon the rack, and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  bones drawn joint from joint; how they had been outraged, ravished, and killed, all on account of Jesus" — and by the Christians, President Smith adds. That is one picture, when that man was but a boy — when you were boys, my fellow workers in the priesthood. Here is another picture given by a prominent Jew, Tsadore Singer, the editor of the Jewish Encyclopedia : "When I was a boy, had my father. who was a very pious man. heard the name of Jesus uttered from the pulpit of our synagogue, he and every other man in the congregation would have left the building, and the rabbi would have been dismissed at once." That is illustrative of the spirit among the descendants of Israel when this Rook of Mormon came forth among the children of men. Even at that time no man, it seems to me. acting upon his ordinary judgment, would dare say that the time would come when they would accept that Holy One. but here, two thousand years before, a prophet of God said the day would come when they would no more turn their hearts aside from the Holy One, and that then he would remember, the promises he made to their fathers. 

Now the question is : Has that day come? That same man who heard his teacher say, "Sacrilege. Sacrilege!" because a boy happened to bring a book containing the name of Tesus, said : 

"I began to study his teachings. I found what his teachings were — purity, humility; 'Blessed are the poor in spirit.! 'Blessed are they that mourn.' 'Blessed are the pure in heart, for they should ,see God; blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth; blessed are they that hunger and thirst after right, for they shall be filled.'' And then he proceeds to show how Tsrael today is indebted to Jesus the Jew. Tn one chapter entitled, "Is the Messiah yet to come?" he says: "The enlightened Jew says no, but the Messianic age is what the Jews today are looking forward to." 

And here in that connection let me just read one verse from that same Mr. Singer : "I regard Jesus of Nazareth as a Jew of the Jews, one whom all Jewish people" — all Jewish people! — "are learning to love. His teaching has been an immense service to the world in bringing Israel's God to the knowledge of hundreds of millions of mankind. The great change in Jewish thought concerning Jesus of Nazareth I cannot better illustrate than by this fact — " and then he relates the instance of his childhood, as I have read it. 

"Now. it is not strange in many synagogues to hear sermons preached eulogistic of this Jesus, and nobody thinks of protesting. In fact, we are all glad to claim Jesus as one of our people." 

Boys of latter-day Israel, does it not seem that the time has come when "their hearts no more turn against the Holy One?" It seems to me that it has. Then, if so, great events are to take place. God has said he will remember his promises. What are they? Turn to the tenth chapter of II Nephi, and there you will find that "when the day cometh that they believe in me. then shall they be restored in the flesh unto their own land." In the month of December, 1917, General Allenby,of the British army, took possession of the holy city, Jerusalem. Today the Holy Land is practically freed from the domination of the Turk, and it is under the rule of the Gen. It was significant that during that very month one of the leaders of the British parliament, announcin the taking of Jerusalem, also suggested that it should be made the home of the Jews. In that same paragraph in II Nephi the prophet also added this significant reference : "And the Gentiles shall be great in mine eyes, because they shall be the means of restoring Israel unto their lands." As soon, practically, as the announcement was made by Mr. Balfour, I think, that Jerusalem should be held for the Jews, a prominent Jew in this country wrote an article in one of the magazines saying, "We don't want to go back to Jerusalem. The Holy Land is of such strategic value that should the Jews gather there and build a Jewish republic, and the nations go to war later, we shall be crushed as Belgium was crushed in this war;" but he was answered by the leaders of the Zionist movement, one of whom is Israel Zangwill. the author of that most patriotic American play. The Melting Pot, and they said this : "Place the Jewish republic under the protection of some such nations as Great Britain and the United States," and in harmony with that sentiment, June the 26th of this year, prominent Jews held a convention in Pittsburg in which it was stated publicly and authoritatively that at that time fifty thousand Jews were with General Allenby working for the freedom of the Holy Land; and the Jews who stood up in that convention, said : "We dedicate the rest of our lives to the rebuilding of Jerusalem." 

It is said by some one that we cannot see great events when we are right close to them, and it may be that we are too close to the fulfilment of these prophecies to get  full significance. However, I am sure this morning that we .get at least glimpses of their significance. This is one thought, then, which I desire to give to the boys and the eirls of Zion — that ''The providence that watches over the affairs of men works out of their mistakes at t : mes a healthier issue than could have been accomplished by their own wisest forethought." 

I grant you that the gentile nation, Great Britain, did not go over there to get Jerusalem free for the Jews. In this great war they wanted to protect their possessions and interests in the far east. That was simply a strategic movement in this great war, but out of it what has come? I myself heard within the last month a prominent Jew of our own state express to an audience his appreciation of what is now dawning for his people. "Under the storm and the cloud today, and today the hard peril and pain, tomorrow the stone shall be rolled away for the sunshine shall follow the rain." God's providence will bring out of this great conflict blessings to humanity of which they scarcely dream. 

But in order that they might have them and acknowledge them, there is a responsibility upon the peoples of the earth. Liberty is offered them; and the perfect law of liberty, the gospel of Jesus Christ, is offered them. In this day, the greatest in the world's history, a day toward which prophets looked with longing hearts, you and I are witnesses of the fulfilment, at least in part, of God's promises. You and I, then, have the responsibility if there is anything at all in the testimony we bear, of giving to this people, not only the Jews, but to the world, the gospel, the .perfect law ©f liberty. 

What is our responsibility? I said there were two things I would like to have the boys think of. One I have mentioned; viz., To read the signs of the times and see if they cannot discern the existence and providence of an allwise Creator. As soon as they feel that truth in their hearts, and know it, oh, how distasteful will sin become to them! What was the other? That they might realize that they must set an example of purity and chastity to the world. I mention this because it is the crying- need of the world today. In this the boys and girls of Zion must lead or the world will ask you, when you claim that this is the gospel, the perfet law of freedom — "what are the fruits of ft? What are the fruits?" 

Oh, how my heart warmed yesterday, with yours, when we listened to President Smith say : "For seventy years T have devoted my l : fe to this work." T have heard him say that what he is, he is because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That gospel which can make a man of strength, a man of charactei, a man of God. such as I bear testimony to you President Smith is, has in it the redeeming power for the salvation of mankind. But the foundation of growth in this Church is purity, with faith in God. T am glad that our nation is in part fulfiling its mission in sending out with the boys the message of purity, telling them that though they are soldiers, they cannot violate with imnunity the principle of chastity. 

Illustrative of this, I read The Nurse and the Knight, a little book sent bv Corporal Wendell Whitney to his father, Elder Orson F. Whitney, a letter from a Red Cros> , in which, in substance, in one place she said : 

"First I was in Paris, where the wounded came to have their wounds dressed. I saw them wash their wounds and they were clean. The boys seemed to be happy, and looked with pride and honor upon the wounds they had received in a righteous cause. Later I was placed in an emergency hispital near the battle line. There some worse cases came, but they too were proud. Then later I went to the base hospital, part of the trenches, and there I saw men with their bodies mangled; I saw in one case some German prisoners with their legs blr^vn off, but they had their hearts, chey had their minds and their souls, and they could still live and love and think. It was not the worst thing I had seen. Then there came .some from Verdun, where the liquid fire had been blown into their faces. They were scarred and blind. Oh, it was worse than death. Death seemed sweet to those others, and this was worse, but it was not the worst thing I saw. I saw men who were standing there by the big guns that were placed up by the French to withstand the German great guns that were blowing off the hills of Verdun. When they were brought back they were mad. But that was not the worst thing I saw. When with a Red Cross nurse, whose name you have seen in the papers, we passed a certain hospital there in Paris, she said, T can stand everything else in this Avar but that,' 'Why, what is it?" 'Don't you know?'" 'Why, no,' 'Haven't you nursed in there?' 'No.' 'Then thank God you have not had to nurse there. Those are the boys who could fight for their country, but who could not fight  themselves. The soldiers whom you have nursed with their bodies clean, if they died they died in honor. If they lived they lived in honor; but those boys in there, wich the poison of sin in their blood, die in loathesome horror. If they live they live to be a sorrow and a curse to those who trust and love them." 

Oh, boys of Zion, can't you ,see what the nations need? Will you set an example? God help us to tell them that the hour of his judgment is come. God has spoken. The .day of Israel is here, and the coming- of the Son of Man is not far off. How many years it matters not. It is near by. We must do our part and prepare for it. I pray that we may prove worthy sons and daughters of Zion, entitled to the blessings of Israel, entitled to participate in the great consummation of all things in this last dispensation, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

The spirit of Anti-christ — Two diametrically opposed schools of philosophy concerning the salvation of man — One based on individual choice, the other ,on force and compulsion — The spirit of Anti-christ in the world today — Proof that it directs the German people — The existence of Christianity is at stake in the present world struggle — Antichrist banished, from the earth, the former-day Christian Church both in the eastern and western continents — Our duty is not only to make the world safe for Democracy, but safe for the true Christianity upon which the salvation of the world depends. 

I shall read a paragraph from the first general ep : stle of Tohn to thp Church, from the third verse: "Every spirit that confesseth not  Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God; and this is that spirit of Anti-christ whereof ye have heard that it should come; and even now already is it in the world." 

The scripture which I have read makes plain the fact that any spirit which assumes the guise of Christ, but is in opposition to him, and the doctrines which he taught, is Antichrist. Knowledge of the great plan of human redemption, and the part which was to be taken in it by Jesus Christ, did not have its origin with the personal appearance of the Redeemer and his ministry, in the meridian of time. 

Since a very early period of the world's historyi presume if we had authentic record of it from the very beginning, there have existed two schools of philosophy, each purporting to have as its basis the welfare of mankind while in mortality, and his redemption in the life to come. The doctrines taught by these two schools, while having the same purpose in view were diametrically opposed. 

Upon the one hand it was urged that the redemption of the human family could best be accomplished through an agencv wlr'ch should assume responsibility for the life and actions of the individual, guaranteeing redemption, and a return to the presence of the Creator, without regard to his conduct while in the flesh, the condition being that in consideration of salvation the individual should render service, and acknowledge allegiance to the rower thus assuming - responsibility for his conduct during his mortal life. Tt was, in effect, a plan to =ave and redeem mankind, whether he .desired and labored for it or not. 

In contrast to this compulsory plan of redemption, and directly opposed to it, was the doctrine that man. endowed as he is with reason, and possessed, in a limited degree, with the intelligence of the Creator, in whose image he is formed, endowed with knowledge which enabled him to .discern between right and wrong, between good and evil, became a responsible agent, and that his status in the life to come was governed by his conduct while in mortality. That in order to attain to exaltation he must live a righteous life, not because he was compelled to do so by superior force, but because he loved righteousness. In one case it was the doctrine of force, of compulsion, in the other the voluntary will of man to do right for right's sake. 

Christ was the exponent, the embodiment of the latter idea, and that which conflicts with it is Antichrist. A great struggle has always existed between these two ideas. Systems of religion have been evolved which made compliance with certain rules indispensable to the eternal welfare of man, and compulsory laws enacted by which it was sought to compel compliance with them, regardless of the will of the individual. 

Civil governments have been established in which this doctrine of compulsory obedience to law was imperative. notwithstanding the fact that the individual had no participation in framing the law or its administration. It is the principle that whoever has the power to impose his will upon another is justified in doing so, that the w r eak have no rishts which the strong are under obligation to respect. 

Opposed to this idea is the doctrine of Christianity, which teaches self sacrifice, that the strong should  only respect but help the weak, that he, too, may become strong, that in both civil and religious life man .should follow his own inclination, framing such laws as seem best adapted - to his condition, and administering them in his own way, worshiping whom or what he may desire, or not worshiping at all, but with this one fundamental truth written in his creed, that whether great or small, he has no authority, either in civil or religious life, to infringe upon the rights of his neighbor, or exercise coersion or unrighteous dominion over him. He must do to others as he would that others do to him under like circumstances. 

Exemplifying this doctrine Christ testified that he came not into the world to do his own will, but the will of the Father, who sent him. That he came not to seek his own aggrandizement, and dominate others, but to serve them. Testifying that he who would be greatest in the kingdom of heaven must be the servant, not the master, of all. _^ In the general epistle to the Church, from which I have quoted. John warns his brethren to beware of any spirit which may come into the world teaching .doctrines which are contrary to those taught by the Redeemer, and declares "that such are Anti-christ. The scripture warns us to be especially careful in the latter days, the dispensation of the fulness of times, when we are told that this spirit will manifest itself. 

I do not think it necessary to enter into any argument to convince this congregation of thoughtful, ob^ serving people, that the spirit of Anti-christ is in the world todav, and js making the greatest effort to obtain world dominion, and the  of Christianity that has ever been made since the beginning of time. That I may justify this assertion permit me to draw the contrast between the teachings of Christ and the outspoken declarations and teachings of the men who control the lives, and to a great extent the thought of the German people, who are in some respects among the most civilized people of the world. The statement that world dominion is sought is justified, it appears to me, by the following : 

Carl Peters, in his book, Clear the Wax, published in 1915, says: "Not live and let live; but live, and direct the lives of others, that is power." 

Baron Von Bernhardi, in his book, Germany and the Next V/ar, savs : "Might is at once the supreme right, world power or downfall will be our rallying cry." 

Contrast those words with the doctrine taught by the Redeemer of the world. 

Christ said: "Blessed are the peace makers, for they shall be called the children of God." 

Husro Mustenberger, in his book. The War and America, says: "Ye shall love peace as a means to new wars, and the short peace more than the lonef. Be not considerate of thy neighbor. This new table. O, my brethren, put I up over you, become hard." 

Christ said : "Ye have heard it said, thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them that desp : tefully use you." 

When questioned regarding the health of his wife, Count Von Bismarck answered : "She is very well, only she suffers from her hatred of the French, all and each of whom  would like to see either shot, or stabbed dead, even to the very small children." 

Henrich Vieroldt, the German poet, answering the recent criticism of a Swiss newspaper, which commented on one of his poems says : "If the treasury of the German language contained expressions of hate and anger a thousand times stronger, I would have hurled them in the world's face." 

The Redeemer said : "Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy." 

On August 26, 1914, General Stenger, commander of the 58th brigade, of the German army, issued the following order of the day : "Beginning with today, no more prisoners will be taken. All prisoners are to be put to death. Prisoners even in large units are to be put to death. No living man is to be left behind us." 

Such teachings, my brethren and sisters, can have but one result, a result which is expressed by Thomas Mann, in the Rundschau, November, 1914, in which he says : "Culture is a spiritual organization of the world which does not exclude bloody savagery. It raises the demoniac to sublimity. It is above morality, reason, or science." 

It will be observed that the quotations which I have made, and which are but a small part of utterances of like character which might be submitted, are the words of soldiers, statesmen, professors, authors and poets, proving that the antiChristian doctrines which are advocated are not confined to any particular class among the German people. I do not believe that these doctrines are universally accepted in Germany; but, on the contrary, that there are many devout Christians there who follow the Redeemer, according; to the light which they possess, but that the existence of Christianity is at stake in the present great struggle, I sincerely believe. 

Those who follow Christ have ever traveled over stony paths. He was crucified because he taught doctrines which conflicted with the selfish ambition of the men who controlled the world at the time of his coming. Those who believed in him were persecuted, driven into the dens and caves of the earth, until the Church ceased to exist. On this continent of ours, to which reference has so appropriately been made, by preceding speakers, men inspired by this same selfish spirit sought to, and finally succeeded in, destroying Christianity. Let me read from the Book of Mormon : 

"And now it came to pass that when Moroni, who was the chief commander of the Nephites, had heard of these dissensions, he was angry with Amalickiah. And it came to pass that he rent his coat; and he took a piece thereof, and wrote upon it. In memory of our God. Our religion and freedom. And our peace, our wives and our children. And he fastened it upon the end of a pole, and he fastened on his head plate, and his breast plate, and his shield, and girded on his armor about his loins. And he took the pole which had on the end thereof his rent coat, (and he called it the Title of Liberty), and he bowed himself to the earth, and he prayed mightily to his God for the blessing of liberty to rest upon his brethren, so long as there should a band of Christians remain to possess the land. For thus were all the true believers in Christ, who belonged to the Church of God, called by those who did not belong to the church. 

"And therefore, at this time Moroni prayed that the cause of the Christians, and the freedom of the land might be favored. And when Moroni had said these words, he went forth among the people, waving the rent of  garment in the air, that all might see the writing which he had written upon the rent, and crying with a loud voice saying: Behold, whomsoever will maintain this title upon the land, let them come forth in the strength of the Lord, and .enter into a covenant that they will maintain their rights, and their religion, that the Lord God may bless them." 

My brethren and sisters, we have heard a great deal since, the beginning of this devastating war, in regard to making the world safe for democracy. My appeal to you this morning is to make the world safe for Christianity, for if Christianity is safe, then is democracy safe also. Then is representative government by the people, and for the people, safe. Then are the principles of charity, and mercy, and justice safe, for these, and every other thing which the heart of man may desire in righteousness are made safe when the doctrines taught by the Redeemer are acknowledged to be the supreme law, and he the Lawgiver. 

So I appeal to you to reflect, and to resolve, in the words of Morom which I have read, that so long as there is a band of Christians left in the world, they will gird on their armor, the armor of righteousness, that the word of the Lord may be advocated in every nation, and if necessary the arm of every Christian be steeled to fight for the perpetuitv of these eternal truths upon which the salvation of the world depends today. God give victory to the armies which are fightinsf in defense of these principles. May he p-ive strength to the Latter-dav Saints to properly perform their part in this great struggle, and above all mav he give power to spread these truths among all nations, until the world shall be con, God's kingdom come, and his will be done upon earth, as it is in heaven, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

It was announced that the General Priesthood meeting' would convene in the Assembly Hall at 7 o'clock to-night. 

The choir and congregation sang : "America." 

President C. Alvin Orme, of Tooele stake, offered the closingprayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. 




