Afternoon
04 10 1918


President Anthon H. Lund presided and called the congregation to order at 2 o'clock. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "Come, O thou King of kings." 

Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian, offered the opening prayer. 

The choir and congregation sang : "O ye mountains high." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. 

It is ever and always a very great pleasure to me to meet with the Latter-day Saints in any of their assemblies, and I am particularly pleased to be present at our general conferences. It was a custom with me as a child to attend our general conferences regularly, and for thirty-six years, before this month expires, it has been my privilege to attend these conferences as one of the general authorities of the Church, and I have never yet attended a conference in this building but what I have been fed the bread of life by those who have spoken to the people. I rejoice with you in the very splendid meeting which we held here this morning, in the inspiration that came to each and all of the presidency of the Church as they addressed us. I desire to echo the sentiments expressed of gratitude and thanksgiving to our heavenly Father that our beloved President was able to be with us at our session this morning; and I hope and pray, that the exertion necessary on his part to attend may not have been so great but what he can be with us again before our conference shall close. 

REGARDING FALSE TEACHING 

I desire on behalf of the council that I have the honor to preside over to say that we endorse the references, which were made here this morning by President Penrose, and so forcibly reaffirmed by the President of the Church, regarding this question of plural marriage and the fact that some men are today teaching it in secret, pretending that they are married or are entering into what they call plural marriage. Such men are indeed rebels, and traitors to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, because they are branding it in the eyes of people who are not of us as being a dishonest organization. Personally, and I also speak for each member of the council of the Twelve Apostles, because I know their sentiments and I know that they are behind me, I endorse with all my heart these remarks. I want to say to the Latter-day Saints that in my opinion when any rebel or traitor to the work of God comes into their homes and tells them something false about the Church that there is a lack of patriotism on the part of all such individuals for not giving the traitor away. I would like you to get this into your minds. These people go around and lie, to put it in good, plain English, and they tell people, "Don't you say anything, don't you tell who told you that it was right." 

You don't have to keep the confidence of those who are crooked, you don't have to keep the confidence of somebody who is telling you that which is false, and such people ought to be exposed, and exposed upon the house tops; they go around posing as superior to honest, straight-forward, upright people, branding the Church and the leaders of the Church with infamy by pretending we preach one thing in public and do another thing in private. I do not care to say any more on this subject. I seldom, if ever, speak on it that it doesn't arouse almost every particle of anger in my nature. Some of them say the Lord has directed them to take more wives. Well, I think he directed them just like he directed the negro (not that I am saying this to reflect upon negroes), but there was a negro who prayed : "Oh Lawd, oh Lawd, oh Lawd; send dis heah niggah a turkey." He prayed for a whole week, and he didn't get any turkey, and at the end of a week he said : "Dis heah niggah don' know how to pray," so that night the negro prayed, "Oh Lawd, oh Lawd, oh Lawd, send dis heah niggah to a turkey," and he, said, "Dis heah niggah had turkey dinner the next night." 

A REMARKABLE MANIFESTATION 

I indorse the remarks made by President Penrose regarding the peace and the joy and the happiness that comes into the human heart in testifying of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ which has again been revealed to the earth. From October when I was called to be one of the council of the Twelve, until the following February, I had but little joy and happiness in my labors. There was a spirit following me that told me that I lacked the experience, that I lacked the inspiration, that I lacked the testimony to be worthy of the position of an apostle of the Lord, Jesus Christ. My dear mother had inspired me with such a love of the gospel and with such a reverence and admiration for the men who stood at the head of this Church, that when I was called to be one of them I was overpowered; I felt my unworthiness and the adversary taking advantage of that feeling in my heart, day and night, the spirit pursued me, suggesting that I resign, and when I testified of the divinity of the work we are engaged in, the words would come back, "You haven't seen the Savior; you have no right to bear such a testimony," and I was very unhappy. 

But in February, 1883, while riding along on the Navajo Indian Reservation with Elder Brigham Young, Jr., and fifteen or twenty other brethren, including the late president, Lot Smith, of one of the Arizona stakes,on our way to visit the Navajos and Moquis — as we were traveling that day, going through a part of the Navajo Reservation to get to' the Moqui Reservation — as we were traveling to the southeast, suddenly the road turned and veered almost to the northeast, but there was a path, a trail, leading on in the direction in which we had been traveling. There were perhaps eight or ten of us on horseback and the rest in wagons. Brother Smith and I were at the rear of our company. When we came to the trail I said, "Wait a minute. Lot; where does this trail lead to ?" 

He said, "Oh, it leads back in the road three or four miles over here, but we have to make a detour of eight or nine miles to avoid a large gully that no wagons can cross." I asked : "Can a horseman get over that gully ?" He answered, "Yes." 

I said, "Any danger from Indians, by being out there alone?" He answered, "No." 

I said, "I want to be alone, so you go on with the company and I will meet you over there where the trail and road join." 

One reason that I asked if there was any danger was because a few days before our company had visited the spot where George A. Smith, Jr., had been killed by the Navajo Indians, and I had that event in my mind at the time I was speaking. I had perhaps gone one mile when in the kind providences of the Lord it was manifested to me perfectly so far as my intelligence is concerned — I did not see heaven, I did not see a council held there, but like Lehi of old, I seemed to see, and my very being was so saturated with the information that I received, as I stopped my animal and sat there and communed with heaven, that I am as absolutely convinced of the information that came to me upon that occasion as though the voice of God had spoken the words to me. 

It was manifested to me there and then as I sat there and wept for joy that it was not because of any particular intelligence that I possessed, that it was not because of any knowledge that I possessed more than a testimony of the gospel, that it was not because of my wisdom, that I had been called to be one of the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ in this last dispensation, but it was because the prophet of God, the man who was the chosen instrument in the hands of the living God of establishing again upon the earth the plan of life and salvation, Joseph Smith, desired that I be called, and that my father, Jedediah M. Grant, who gave his life for the gospel, while one of the presidency of the Church, a counselor to President Brigham Young, and who had been dead for nearly twenty-six years, desired that his son should be a member of the Council of the Twelve. It was manifested to me that the prophet and my father were able to bestow upon me the apostleship because of their faithfulness, inasmuch as I had lived a clean life, that now it remained for me to make a success or a failure of that calling. 

GREAT JOY IN THE TESTIMONY OBTAINED 

I can bear witness to you here today that I do not believe that any man on earth from that day, February, 1883, until now, thirty-five years ago, has had sweeter joy, more perfect and exquisite happiness than I have had in lifting up my voice and testifying of the gospel at home and abroad in every land and in every clime where it has fallen to my lot to go. A.nd I have gone to Japan, I have been in the Hawaiian Islands, I have been from Canada to Mexico, I have been in nearly every state in the Union of the United States; I have been in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Germany, Holland, Belgium, France, Switzerland, Italy, Norway, Sweden and Denmark and I have had joy beyond my ability to express, in lifting up my voice, in bearing witness to those with whom I have come in contact that I know that God lives, that I know that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, the Redeemer of mankind; that I know that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the true and living God, that I have  abiding testimony in my heart that Brigham Young was a chosen instrument of the living God, that John Taylor, that Wilford Woodruff, that Lorenzo Snow were, and that today Joseph F. Smith is the representative of the living God, and the mouthpiece of God here upon the earth. 

I do not have the language at my command to express the gratitude to God for this knowledge that I possess; and time and time again my heart has been melted, my eyes have wept tears of gratitude for the knowledge that he lives and that this gospel called "Mormonism" is in very deed the plan of life and salvation, that it is the only true gospel upon the face of the earth, that it is in very deed the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That God may help you and me and everyone to live it is my constant and earnest prayer. 

HOW THE POWER OF THE PRIESTHOOD HAS BEEN MAINTAINED BY THE AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

I will read from Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

We have learned, by sad experience, that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

Hence many are called, but few are chosen. 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greasy enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile, 

Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death; 

Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God, and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy sceptre an unchanging sceptre of righteousness and truth, and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shail flow unto thee for ever and ever. 

I want to bear witness to you here today that during the thirty-six years this month that I have been a member of the Council of the Twelve, that no power or influence has ever been exercised by the prophet of God who has presided over this Church during this time except exactly as taught in the Doctrine and Covenants; and that no one of all the men I have been associated with as presidents of the Church has had more charity, more love, and has exercised the priesthood by the power of the living God in meekness and mercy and kindness, than the man who stands at the head of the Church today, Joseph F. Smith. 

That God may preserve his life for many, many years yet to come is the earnest prayer of my heart, and that of every Latter-day Saint in all the land. May God guide us to his praise continually and forever, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. x\men. ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Greatness of the Lord Jesus — The burden of his mission — Scattering and gathering of Israel — The Church and Kingdom of God predicated upon repentance — The judgments of God upon the unrepentant — The Millennium can only come through the establishment of righteous peace which can never exist if the earth is governed by militarism — The Central Powers therefore cannot win — The time for repentance and reformation is at hand — The day to approach the Lord in faith and prayer. 

I greatly rejoiced in the spirit of this morning's meeting', and was particularly pleased with the presence of President Smith, as of course we all were. I have listened wifh much interest to the testimoney and exhortation of President Grant, and I humbly desire an interest in your faith and prayers that I may be led to say something this afternoon that will be instructive to those who are assembled. 

My brethren and .sisters, we learn from the scriptures and also know from our own experience, something of the character of that Holy Being whom we have come together to worship this afternoon. I doubt if we can fully comprehend the greatness of his attributes. It is said of him in Exodus that, "He passed by before Moses and proclaimed the Lord God, the Lord God merciful and gracious, long suffering and abundant in goodness and truth." And in the 103d Psalm we find two references to the Almighty that are very striking. One is that "the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy," and the other "the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children, to such as keep  covenants, and to those that remember his commandments to do them." 

How broad and far reaching is the love and mercy of the Lord. But remember that his mercy is invariably predicated upon repentance, repentance of sin; and the history of his people, I think, will substantiate this statement. You will remember that in the wilderness Moses was constantly calling upon the people to repent of their sins that they might be forgiven by sacrifice. It 'was the burden of his mission apparently to bring the people into harmony with the Lord and with his work by repentance; and so it was in the meridian of time. The people who dwelt in Palestine had a great temple, the temple of the Lord, and they had the law of Moses, but it seems that they strayed away from the law because we read that in those days came John the Baptist preaching in the wilderness of Judea saying, "Repent ye, repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." And still later we learn that after John was put into prison, the Savior came into Galilee preaching the gospel of the Kingdom of God, saying, "The time is fulfilled, the Kindom of God is at hand; therefore repent and believe the gospel." And it appeared that Jerusalem and all of Judea came out to hear the preaching of John, and were baptized of him in the Jordan river. But the Pharisees and the Sadducees rejected him and he pronounced a woe against them demanding that they should bring forth fruits meet for repentance. This they did not do, they were rebellious, they loved darkness rather than light, and their deeds were evil. They went so far as to crucify their Lord. As a re Jerusalem was trodden down of the gentiles and the people of God were scattered among the nations where they have been to this day, and they have been hated and persecuted because of the stand which they took at that time. 

But we can see a day of deliverance coming - for Israel. Jerusalem has fallen into the hands of the Christian nations, and doubtless this will eventually open up the way for the return of the Jews to Jerusalem, and the building up of the waste places of Palestine. You will remember that the Savior stood upon Mount Olivet and wept over Jerusalem, and said, "Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often would I have gathered thy children together even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye would not," thus giving evidence, as I have said, of the spirit of unrepentance and of rebellion. And let me remind you, brethren and sisters, that the coming forth of the work of God in our day, of the true Church and kingdom of God as referred to by President Penrose so powerfully this morning, was predicated upon the principle of repentance. In an early day, in fact it was April, 1829, the Lord said to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, "Say nothing but repentance unto this generation, keep my commandments and assist to bring forth my work according to my commandments and you shall be blessed." Somewhat later than this, in the year 1831, the Lord again referred to this important subject as he has done all through the Book of Covenants. He spoke of the great necessity of his people, and the people of the world, repenting of their sins and turning from evil unto him. Let me read to you a few words of that impressive . Oh, how powerful is the word of the Lord when it comes direct from him by revelation to his servants. The language is simple enough, a child could understand it, but the spirit and power of it is indeed impressive. Listen to these words : 

Lift up your voices and spare not. Call upon the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying, prepare yourselves for ^ l he great day of the Lord; 

For if I, who am a man, do lift up my voice and call upon you to repent, and ye hate me, what will ye say when the day cometh when the thunders shall utter their voices from the ends of the earth, speaking to the ears of all that live, saying, Repent, and prepare for the great day of the Lord. 

Yea, and again, when the lightnings shall streak forth from the east unto the wes^t, and shah after forth their voices unto all that live, and make the ears of all tingle that hear, saying these words. Repent ye, for the great day of the Lord is coming. 

And again, the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven, saying, Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear tha words' of that God who made you. 

O, ye nations of the earth, how often would I have gathered you together as a hen gathereth her chickens under her v/ings, but ye would not? 

How oft have I called upon you by the mouth of my servants, and by the ministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of thunderings, and by the voice of lightnings, and by the voice of tempests, and bv the voice of earthciuakes, and preat hailstorms, and by the voice of famines and pestilences of every kind, and bv the great sound of a trumn. and by the voice .of iudgment. and by the voice of merry all the dav long, and bv the voice of glory, and honor, and the riches of eternal life, and would have saved you with an everlasting salvation, but you would not' 

Toehold the dav has come, when the rim of the wrath of mine indignation is full. 

Behold, verily T say unto you, that these arc the words of the Lord your God; 

Wherefore labor ye, labor ye in my vineyard for the last time — for the last time call upon the inhabitant of the earth. 

For in my own due time will I come upon the earth in judgment, and my people shall be redeemed and shall reign with me on eartTi. 

For the great Millennium, of which I have spoken by the mouth of my servants, shall come. 

Brethren and sisters, these are the words of the Almighty, and they emphasize and confirm the words of the prophet Isaiah who has .spoken upon this subject. O, how great is the mercy of the Lord. For eightyeight years this people have lifted up their voices at home and abroad crying" repentance to the nations of the earth, but comparatively few have accepted the gospel, and now the judgments of God are going forth and have been going forth all these years, for the simple reason that we are living in the last time. It is here. The Lord has so declared it. And notwithstanding present conditions, that the wrJrkl today is in turmoil and the hearts of men are failing them for fear, not knowing what will be, still, as a people, we have received a promise from the Lord. He has declared it in modern revelation, that the Millennium, a thousand years of rest and peace, shall come. Didn't Isaiah refer to this matter hundreds of years ago when he said that God would judge the nations and would rebuke many people and thev will turn their swords into plow-shares and their spears into pruning hooks, nation shall not lift up the sword against nation and they shall learn war no more? 

And so we may be very certain, that a time is coming when there shall be no more war. It is the voice  the prophet, it is the voice of God unto his people; and I want to ,say to you, brethren and sisters, to me, to be personal, it is as clear as the noon day sun that the Central Powers cannot win this war because if thev should win this war and fix the principle of militarism permanently upon the earth, the Millennium could not come. Militarism must be put down. It is the purpose of the Allies without question to crush out the spirit of cruelty and of vandalism that is abroad in the earth. 

I do not say, I am not prepared to sav, that this is the last great war; I wouldn't sav that, but it does seem to me that this great world war, the greatest we have ever known or ever read of in history, by far the greatest, is leading up to the Millennium that will come. I entertain that view and that feeling, and it is in accordance with the word of the Lord which must eventually be fulfilled. The earth may pass away, the stars may drop from their orbits, but every iot and tittle of the word of God will be realized. He is a God of truth and cannot He; and let me repeat to you that surelv this is a time for repentance and reformation as President Penrose suggested this morning so beaut 1 'fullv, a time to draw near to the Lord in faith and by prayer. This is a time to honor the priesthood, surelv, to honor that great principle of divine authoritv which has been given to the Church. This is a tune , of all times to pay our tithes and our offerings to the Lord. To give to him his iust dues since he has onened the windows of heaven and blessed us so abundantlv as a people and as individuals. This is a time to keep the Avord of wisdom ourselves right now. todav, and to teach our children to do the same. It is, I  it, the law of health to the Latter-day Saints given for their blessing, for their peace and for their prosperity. It also brings spiritual gifts, such as wisdom and knowledge. And above all things it is a time for solemn prayer to the Lord. We surely cannot reach him nor get near to him without the exercise of faith in prayer. 

In conclusion I am constrained to read the last verse of a hymn that was sung at the morning session: 

'Hark, from all lands, from the isles of the ocean, Praise to Jehovah ascending on high; 

Fallen are engines of war and commotion, 

Shouts of salvation are rending the sky." 

May the Lord bless us and guide us by his Spirit, sustain us in every trying situation and eventually bring us off victorious, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Norman McCarty sang a tenor .solo: "How lovely are thy dwellings." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I have to confess that I am certainly taken by surprise. I had no expectation whatever of being called upon at this time. I do hope that the few minutes that I occupy I may be favored of the Lord and be influenced by his Holy Spirit. I have had experience enough along this line of work to realize that the servants of God, when they speak, should speak under the influence of the Holy Spirit; that the servants of God  entitled, if they do the will of the Father, to revelation and inspiration. The Prophet Joseph Smith says that no man should testify that Jesus is the Christ, unless it be by the Spirit of prophecy and revelation. I am a very strong believer in this, although we are not always under his influence. 

Brethren and sisters, I do not think that you question my integrity and my loyalty and patriotism to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I think there are times when you have questioned very much what I say to you, and criticized me very severely sometimes, but I get a good deal of comfort out of the fact that none of the rest of you escape any better than I do. Our people and the children of men are very ready to criticize the brethren of the authorities and the local brethren who preside over the stakes and over the wards. They seem to feel that it is their right, and they certainly take advantage of it, some of them; so that I am not discouraged at all. I often wonder when you do have the Spirit of God. I used to think I had it in the Southern States, when I became excited and sensational, and my face was red, and the cords ofmy neck were swollen — I thought then, in my ignorance, that it was the Holy Ghost. I learned differently afterwards. I am sure that was not the Spirit of God. I have learned since that the Spirit of God gives you joy and peace and patience and long-suffering and gentleness, and you have the spirit of forgiveness and you love the souls of the children of men. I have learned that the Holy Ghost is the spirit of prophecy and the spirit of revelation. I often think, when I reflect along this line, sometimes when I have preached and perhaps in my egotism I thought I had the Spirit of God, but after some of the brethren talked to me I was very doubtful about it. I think of my father — our father, the father of a great race of people — he prophecied once somewhere on these temple grounds, when the people were in poverty, when they were almost disheartened, and things looked so dark and dreary before them. Heber C. Kimball prophecied that goods would be sold as cheaply in Salt Lake City as in New York. After he (sat down, lie said ko Brigham Young, "Well, Brother Brig-ham, I have done it now." 

Brother Brigham said, "Never mind, Heber; let it go." 

They did not. either one of them, believe it (Laughter; 

After the meeting adjourned, Apostle Charles C. Rich, I am told, went up to Heber C. Kimball, and he said, "Heber, I don't believe a word you said." 

Heber said: "Neither do I." 

(Laughter.) But he rounded it out: "But God hath spoken." 

, It was not Heber at all; it was Cod who' spoke through Heber as a prophet. A short time after, the prophecy was literally fulfilled. 

So that sometimes, and very often, the servants of God speak by the Spirit of God, but some of the people haven't got the same spirit, and do not believe the servants of God. Now, brethren, I want to express to you this thought, that it is just as necessary for you Latterday Saints to have the Spirt of God as it is for the apostles and the seventies and the presidents of stakes and the bishops, for when you speak, or when the servants of 

God speak under the influence of the Holy Spirit, it is the word of God to the Latter-day Saints. 

I do not care whether you like the mannerism or the crudity of the speaker. That does not make any difference, whatever; it is the word of God to you. 

Now, brethren, in a few words: I was very glad to hear Brother Penrose speak of the seventies. We are laboring under great difficulties in order to find men who are prepared to go out as witnesses of the Lord to the nations of the earth. I was at a seventies' meeting not long ago in the Richmond ward, and there were forty-five seventies there— a very splendid body of priesthood— and I said: "Now, brethren, I don't want to talk mission to you if you have to go to war. I guess it would be a good thing to find out how many of you are between the ages of eighteen and forty-five." Over forty of them stood up. I told them to go to war as soon as they could, and on their return, after peace is declared, be prepared to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. That is about the condition. The Lord said, not only to the seventies but to the priesthood of God: "If you desire 'to serve ? God, you are called to the work." I have that desire burning m my heart, like a living fire, and so has every other man who holds the priesthood of God and has the spirit of his appointment. Again in that same revelation, the Lord tells us what qualifies us for the work It is not money. What is it? It is faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory ot God, and any man who holds the priesthood of God, who has those gifts, he is qualified and fitted for the work. All he needs is to be  to the work by those holding divine authority. 

In conclusion : I have worked in the Church, perhaps not as well as I might have done, but I have staked everything on it. As I told a man one day, I had fifty-two cards in the beginning. I never played cards in my life — only smut. But to illustrate : I am not a card player, but in the begining I had fifty-two of them — that is a deck, I think. Some of you seventies are better informed, perhaps, than I, but at the present time I have only one card left. Do you know what I have staked it on ? Eternal life; and if I fail in that I have failed in everything. Why? Because "salvation is the greatest gift of God to his children." Of all the gifts and all the blessings that God can give to his children, the "greatest gift is salvation." If you leave your father and if you leave your mother, your wife and your children, and your flocks and your herds, and all that you have, and go out as a witness for God, he has promised you an hundred fold. All the investments I ever made in my life, except the one of two Liberty Bonds I have been able to pay for, at four per cent, I have paid from eighteen per cent down, and all I got out of it was experience; the other fellow got my money. (Laughter.) But this investment we have started out for, the Lord has promised you an hundred fold, and I pray God that this spirit may burn in the hearts of the priesthood of God, that every man shall understand for himself, as I understand for myself, that the priesthood of God is "inseparably connected with heaven." That is what places us in communication with our God. 

I know, as well as I know any, that this is the kingdom of God, that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of God. I have always sustained the prophets of God, and I never talked with one of the Presidency of the Church that I did not rise to my feet and know that they were prophets of God. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

' T 

It is a matter of great satisfaction to me to be present here in this general conference of the Church, and I have been greatly pleased in listening to the words that have been spoken; and. with all of the rest of my brethren I have rejoiced exceedingly in seeing the face of our beloved President with us here this morning. 

Reference was made this morning to the work of the seventies. President Penrose, in his splendid address, spoke of the obligation that rests upon the Church of sending the "Gospel of the Kingdom" to the nations of the earth. President Lund - likewise spoke of this great missionary labor, and the impression has been made upon my mind, as no doubt it has been made upon the minds of all of my brethren who constitute the membership of the Seventies' quorums, who are present here, that the special duty of carrying that message to our Father's children has been laid upon our shoulders. 

We live in the day that has been spoken of by the prophets; we see the signs of the coming of the Son of Man, and of what is called the end of the world. It is no doubt this universal war (the like of which has never been known) that now impresses the minds of men that we live in that wonderful day. After the Savior had been predicting the destruction of the temple, his disciples came to him privately, saying: "Tell us when shall these things be, and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?" And in reply, after telling of the wars and rumors of wars which preceded the fall of Jerusalem, he said, among other things, "For nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom; and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places" (Matt. 24:1-7). 

And doubtless the apostle John beheld in vision the same eventful day when he declared, "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and' people, saying with a loud voice, "Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come" (Rev. 14:6). 

These words have been literally fulfilled, for the nations and the kingdoms of this world have been arrayed against each other in the most gigantic and greatest war the world has ever known. Famines, pestilences and earthquakes have occurred in divers places. Let all men repent and turn to the Lord for indeed "the hour of his judgment is come." 

Another sign of the Lord's coming and of the end of the world, given by the Savior himself, was this : "And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the , for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come" (Matt. 24:14). 

And this was the vision of John when he saw the angel fly in the midst of heaven having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth. 

These words, too, have been fulfilled for the angel came, the everlasting gospel has been restored to earth, and this gospel of the kingdom is being "preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations," and when this labor is completed, "then shall the end come." 

In the establishment of this Church the quorums of the Seventy have been organized with the special mission of carrying into effect this obligation, that our Father's children might receive the truth, be brought into the fold, and escape the judgments which are to come. It is well, therefore, for our brethren of the quorums of the Seventies, to understand something of their obligation and of the purpose of these organizations, and the relationship which they bear to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. It is with the quorums of the Seventies as it is with other quorums — they bear the same relationship to the Church; they are organized into quorums of the priesthood, to fit and to qualify themselves for their various' lines of service in the upbuilding of the Church of Christ upon the earth. When we are privileged to be at home and associate with our brethren in quorum capacity we are in out training camps, drilling and training ourselves for the service that we are to render to the Church, and when the Church calls us we are expected to respond. Where is our first allegiance? There have  been misunderstandings existing among the brethren, and some have said, "My first allegiance is to my priesthood, and nobody should interfere or assign me to any duty that in any way interferes with my quorum work in the quorum where I belong." President Joseph F. Smith presides over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world, at the present time, and when he speaks for the Church, and as the mouthpiece of God unto the people, and if service is required, he may call from any of the quorums of the priesthood men to render the special lines of service and of labor, for which they should have been qualifying and preparing themselves in their training camps. So, if Seventies are needed to preach the gospel to the nations of the earth, the call will come from that source, and being endowed with power from on high, and divinely called, they go forth as witnesses for the Lord and carry the gospel message; and if any other service is required of those who hold the priesthood or of any member of the Church, all are subject to that call, the call of the Church. 

In every stake of Zion there is a president of the stake; he is the president of the church in that stake; every institution, every organization, and every member of that stake is under the jurisdiction of that stake president; for he is the president of the church in that stake of Zion. His jurisdiction, however, is limited to the boundaries of his stake; and if the service of any man, any membe: of the Church is needed in the work of the ministry, in the building up of the Church, in the work and the labor of that stake of Zion, it is his  to call, and it is the duty of every member of the Church, be he high priest, seventy, elder, or a member of the lesser priesthood, residing in his stake, to respond to that call. 

In every ward there is a bishop. He, besides being a bishop and a common judge in Israel, has been ordained a high priest, and set apart to preside in that ward. He is the president of the church in his ward, and has jurisdiction over every institution and over every member of the Church in his ward and has the right to call them to his aid in behalf of the Church. His jurisdiction is limited to the boundaries of the ward. 

It is essential that we should have the priesthood. We cannot do without it. The Church could not perform its labor without the priesthood, for this is the work of God and he has endowed his Church and his servants who hold the priesthood with power from on high giving them the right to officiate in his name, and he recognizes their official acts just precisely the same as if he had performed those acts himself. 

So, without the priesthood, the work of the Church could not be done, and therefore the priesthood is paramount; but the Church, through its presiding authority, directs the labors of the priesthood, and it is the duty of every man who holds that priesthood to respond to the call of the Church. 

Our soldier boys have been in their training camps, subject to the call of their Country through the commander-in-chief. They have been qualifying themselves in their drills and in their exercises, that they might become capable and efficient soldiers to battle for life and liberty on the battle fields of France and of Europe. They have been armed with the necessary weapons to carry on the great war for human liberty, and they have learned how to wield those weapons to the greatest advantage. They have been clothed in their Country's uniform, let no others presume to wear it. The call came and now they are fighting the enemies of human liberty, and in doing this they are opening the gospel door to the nations of the earth. This is a part of the work of God, for his design is that his children shall be free indeed, free from oppression, free from tyranny and despotic rule, and therefore they are engaged in the cause of righteousness and truth. Success attend them in their battles and give them a glorious victory over all of their foes! 

And while our enlisted boys in khaki are fighting for civil liberty, let all the priesthood battle for the freedom of the soul against the arch enemy of God, who seeks to enslave the soul, the tyrant that would make us slaves indeed, putting us under the bondage of sin. Let us go into our* training camps, into the quorums of the priesthood; we have been armed with the shield of faith and the sword of truth. Let us learn by drilling how to wield these weapons that we may successfully combat the powers of evil. We have been clothed with divine authority, the uniform of God's soldiers. Let no others presume to wear it; and when the Church calls, through the commander-in-chief, let us go forth and battle for the great cause of spiritual liberty, and^God will give success to our arms. 

Let the Seventies realize that they are enlisted in the armies of the Lord. They belong to the se draft, to go forth and fight the battles of the Lord. There may be other volunteers, from the elders' quorums, and from the high priests' quorums, as their circumstances shall allow, but we are in the draft, and let us respond whenever the call shall come to do our duty, and fight the battle of human liberty. God help us to do it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of the Southern States Mission.) 

I earnestly pray, my dear brethren and sisters, that the Lord by his Holy Spirit will enable me to say something that will be for our good. I testify in earnestness of spirit that the speakers this day have spoken under the power of the Holy Ghost, and therefore their words have gone to the hearts of those who heard them. With you I rejoice with all my soul that God blessed us with the presence and counsels of his Prophet this morning. The life of our leader, President Smith, his splendid life, given in the service of our heavenly Father, is an inspiration, not only to the Latter-day Saints, but to those who have not yet become members of the Church of Jesus Christ. As I gazed upon his countenance this morning, and as my soul was thrilled with his inspired words, the promise that the Lord made to the Prophet Joseph came to me. That promise was this, that the testimony of traitors should never turn the people of God against the Prophet Joseph Smith; and that promise is a continuing one. It has been realized in the life of President Smith; for never  a leader held in more love and affection than is the present leader of the Church today. 

The Lord Jesus Christ said : "Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone; but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit." 

The world today is immersed in the spirit of sacrifice. This nation today is finding itself through the glorious mission that it is performing. Sacrifice, we are told, brings forth the blessings of heaven, and the Lord Jesus said that it is more blessed to give than to receive. The mothers of this nation today are sowing precious seeds in this great conflict. The mothers in Israel, many of them, have been deprived voluntarily, however, of the company of their sons, by reason of them being on missions, and many of these boys, after two years or two years and six months' absence, have returned home only to embrace their mothers and then go into this awful world conflict. Can the world point to more sublime faith and sacrifice than these patriotic mothers are making? This faith did not spring from the earth. It is not earthy. It is the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, that sustains these mothers, and that has given birth to this glorious faith which all men everywhere cannot help but praise and admire. For what is more sacred and divine than the faith of a mother ? If this gospel were a base system, if the leaders, the priesthood of this Church, were designing men, bent only upon achieving the subjugation of the people to their own pleasure and will, how could such a faith as that arise out of this system? I want to bear testimony to  that the splendid faith of these mothers is a living, abiding, permanent testimony that this Church is of God, and that the gospel is indeed the power of God unto salvation. 

In the days of Kirtland, in the darkest hour of the history of the Church, the very midnight of its history, when the powers of evil were attempting to destroy the Church, the word of the Lord came to the Prophet Joseph: "Something new must be done for the salvation of my Church." And then Joseph, always imbued with the spirit of sacrifice, sowed corns of wheat in the ground, so to speak. He took his choice servant, Heber C. Kimball, and he called upon Willard Richards, two stalwart defenders of the prophet and of the gospel; and these men with others, he sent to England to preach the gospel, because it was the will of the Lord that they should go. Oh, what a splendid spectacle — the prophet, surrounded by traitors, some, alas, in the Church, surrounded by enemies, voluntarily depriving himself of the support of these two pillars of the Church, whom he sent to Great Britain to open up the gospel door to the inhabitants of that great land. And when they arrived in Preston, behold, their eyes met this inscription written upon a banner : "Truth will prevail." It did prevail. It shall ever prevail, because this work is the truth of God, and truth is imperishable; it is of God, and like God, it is eternal and shall live forever. 

The Apostle Paul said: "For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye, through his poverty, might be rich." Ah, there is the grand principle of sacrifice. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that the life that is lived for self is useless to our fellow men and to the Lord. When a man lives and works for himself he begins to die, because there is no life in work wrought for one's self. The work that has life and progress in it is the work that is done for our fellow men, and the Book of Mormon says that "When ye are in the service of your fellow men ye are only in the service of your God." 

Well, these mothers whose sons are going to fight the battles of liberty, what fruits are we going to receive from that splendid and sacred sacrifice? First of all, the words of the prophets of God will be fulfilled by the utter defeat and demoralization of that power which was once flung from the battlements of heaven into the very bosom of hell. Again, out of this world conflict will come a period of peace, of rest; how long we know not; but in this period of peace the servants of God will go forth to ^preach the everlasting gospel, and countless thousands shall come into the Church, praising God because they accepted the glorious message brought to them by his servants. Again, another fruit of this conflict, of this sacrifice, will be this — a new Jerusalem of liberty, of the rights of men, shall descend out of the firmament of liberty; it shall rest upon the earth, and the right of every man to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness shall be established, let us pray, nevermore to perish from the earth! God bless our armies. May they go forth with invincible power. Oh, may God bring the people to repentance, that they may escape a prolongation of this terrible conflict; for when sin repentance begins, then we may expect, nay, we have faith that the end of this war will soon be in sight. 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that in Israel there is no disposition to be a stumbling block to our brethren. But if I by my recklessness or indiscretion in using any civic right I have make a stumbling block for the young man, in encouraging the saloon, or by using things which God hath forbidden, if I forget myself and I cause that boy to take the first step in his downward career, oh, God help me to remember this awful truth, ':hat I am starting the boy down the track, but I can never repent for aim, for repentance is an individual gift which God hath given. Let us remember it. As a man cannot divide t his righteousness with his fellow men — for each and every one of us must work out our salvation in fear and in trembling — let us also remember that we cannot repent for our fellow men. We can preach the gospel to them; we can console them; we can call them to repentance, but after all, repentance is a gift from God and comes only to the penitent and repentant heart. So let us keep this lesson in view, that with the help of our heavenly Father no word, no act of ours shall ever be the means of creating a stumbling block for the youth of Israel. 

God bless the gospel. In the missions it is growing by leaps and by bounds. During the past six months we have witnessed miraculous and sudden conversions to the truth. There was an apostle in the Southern States mission about two years ago; and a woman who was afflicted with the dread malady of pellagra in a state pronounced in, asked to be administered to. She was administered to by this servant of the Lord. Eighteen months later this woman came to me. I did not recognize her, there was such a marked improvement in her condition. "Why," she said, "I am the one whom you and Brother 

 administered to, and I am 

healed. The power of God hath healed me." 

Again, this same apostle, in bidding adieu to the Saints in one of our branches, when shaking hands with a good, faithful sister, whose husband was not in the Church, and we had well nigh given up hopes of him ever coming into the Church, said: "Sister, I promise you that the desires of your heart shall be realized, and your husband will come into the Church." Imagine my deep pleasure, for the poor wife had almost despaired of seeing this promise realized — she kept it sacred, told no one about it— when the day came only a few  ago that her husband experienced a change of heart. It was miraculous. God's power touched his heart, and he came to me and said : "Brother Callis, I want to be baptized," and we all joined ' in shedding tears of joy with that devoted and faithful wife who had experienced the fulfilment of this inspired promise. 

I know the gospel is true. I bear testimony to it in humility, and in deep gratitude, and with the fervent desire that I may ever conduct myself so that I shall be worthy of this testimony abiding in me, is my earnest prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang : "Do What is Right." 

Conference adjourned until Saturday morning, 10 o'clock. 


