Afternoon
07 04 1912

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. 

President Joseph F. Smith presiding. 

The choir rendered a sacred chor, entitled "Adoration," by Beethoven. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Edward J. Wood. 

A bass solo, "Within the Holy Temple," was sung by Brother Alva Woodward. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

The Power of Testimony — Joseph Smith's Account of his first Vision — How he saw God — The Gift of Seership — Other Instances of its exercise — The Church on Earth a Reflex of the Church in Heaven — The Speaker's Testimony. 

"The pure testimony poured forth by the Spirit. 

Cuts like a keen two-edged sword." 

So runs the old hymn, and I have been forcefully reminded of that declaration during the meetings of the conference; in fact, it has fallen to my lot recently to hear more than one powerful testimony from the servants of God, not only in this conference but in other places, and it has set me to reflecting upon the conditions that surround us at the present time. It has more than once been pointed out that most of our missionaries, traveling in the world, are not men of experience, of eloquence and argument, but mere boys who can only testify, or who mainly testify and exhort. Some have deplored this condition, and have thought they saw in it one reason to justify in part a prediction said to have been made by Andrew D. White to Count Tolstoy, to the effect that the third generation of Latter-day Saints would turn from the faith. Their grandparents and fathers and mothers might be firmly rooted and grounded, but the third generation would fall away. Some have feared that the Church would be weakened from the fact that our missionaries, most of them, are not men of experience, of learning and scholarship, but are the stripling's of the community. These are the ones who are preaching the Gospel; they do not reach the scholars, the learned men; they are not capable, it is thought, of impressing men and women of maturity; and it is argued that this bodes no good to the cause of Christ. 

I was led to reflect that it was the testimony of a boy, a mere lad, that opened the dispensation of the fullness of times, and I know of nothing more powerful, more searching, more beautiful, more sublime, than that plain and simple testimony of the boy Joseph. I thought it might be well to recall that testimony, and to read it in part — the testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

"It was on the morning of a beautiful clear day, early in the spring of 1820. * * * After I had retired into the place where I previously designed to go, having looked around me and finding myself alone, I kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so when immediately I was seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me, and had such astonishing influence over me as to bind my tongue so that I could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around me and it seemed for a time as if I were doomed to sudden destruction. 

"But, exerting all my powers to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was ready to sink into despair and abandon myself to des—not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of some actual being from the unseen world, who had such a marvelous power as I had never before felt in any being; — just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the Sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me. 

"It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held me bound. When the light rested upon me, I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other, 'This is My beloved Son, hear Him.' 

"My object in going to enquire of the Lord, was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sooner, therefore, did I get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I asked the personages who stood above me in the light, which of all the sects was right, and which I should join. 

"I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong; * * * and many other things did He say unto me which I cannot write at this time. When I came to myself again, I found myself lying on my back, looking up into heaven. 

"Some few days after I had this vision, I happened to be in company with one of the Methodist preachers, who was very active in the before mentioned religious excitement, and conversing with him on the subject of religion, I took occasion to give him an account of the vision which I had had. I was greatly surprised at his behavior; he  my communication not only lightly, but with great contempt, saying it was all of the devil, that there were no such things as visions or revelations in these days; that all such things had ceased with the apostles, and that there never would be any more of them. 

"I soon found, however, that my telling the story had excited a great deal of prejudice against me among professors of religion, and was the cause of great persecution, which continued to increase; and though I was an obscure boy, only between fourteen and fifteen years of age, and my circumstances in life such as to make a boy of no consequence in the world, yet men of high standing would take notice sufficient to excite the public mind against me, and create a hot persecution, and this was common among all the sects, all united to persecute me. 

"I have thought since, that I felt much like Paul when he made his defence before King Agrippa, and related the account of the vision he had when he saw a light and heard a voice, but still there were but a few who believed him; some said he was dishonest, others said he was mad, and he was ridiculed and reviled; but all this did not destroy the reality of his vision. He had seen a vision, he knew he had, and all the persecution under heaven could not make it otherwise. 

"So it was with me, I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two personages, and they did in reality speak unto me, or one of them did; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me and speaking all manner of evil against me, , for so saying, I was led to say in my heart, Why persecute for telling the truth? I had actually seen a vision, and who am I that I can withstand God? Or why does the world think to make me deny what I. have actually seen ? For I had seen a vision. I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I to do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God and come under condemnation." 

I have never heard an argument or an oration equal to that; and so long as we have boys, striplings, who can speak by the power of God, who can testify by the Holy Spirit, we need not despair. Mormonism has in its hand the mightiest weapons that man can wield, divine authority and the power of pure testimony that cuts like a keen two-edged sword. Argument has its mission, and God can inspire an argument just as readily as He can a testimony; but there is something peculiar about the power of testimony. It is a pioneer. Argument may come afterwards and fill up the gaps, build the bridges and the cities; but testimony goes before into the wilderness blazing a trail, and marking out the way. Joseph Smith said, "I saw and I heard," and who can gainsay it, especially when the words are accompanied by the mighty power, the convincing power of the Holy Ghost? No argument can stand against it, and there is enough force and virtue in such a testimony to bring the whole proud world under condemnation if they reject it. 

How did Joseph Smith see God? Many attempts have been made to explain away this wonderful manifestation, the latest and most grotesque attempt being - one that would ascribe the glorious vision and all that has sprung from it, to a fit of epilepsy! I suppose this theory rests partly upon the fact that the boy according to his own statement, found himself "lying on his back, looking up into heaven." Because he knelt to pray, and then, after the vision, found himself upon his back, it is inferred that he underwent some paroxysm, that changed the posture of his body, and that this change was the result of an epileptic fit. But Joseph explains it all — he tells what he passed through. The power of the evil one fell upon him, — pounced upon him, and endeavored to destroy him. Is it any wonder that the posture of his body changed? 

While wrestling with that dreadful power, which tied his tongue so that he could no longer speak, he continued to pray in his thoughts; for "prayer is the soul's sincere desire," and men can pray secretly as well as orally. — Joseph continued to pray, in secret, and at the moment when he felt that he must abandon himself to despair, he was delivered, he saw a light, he heard the voice, and communed in vision with those heavenly Beings. He received more than he asked for. His only desire, apparently, in going to the Lord at that time, was to ask which of all the churches was the right one, in order that he might join it. His question was answered, but it was. not the greater part of that glorious manifestation. The part that was greatest was the part that did not speak. What he saw was greater than what he heard. He beheld the Father and the Son, and they w r ere in the form of man — were , to whom he spoke, and who spoke to him; and there and then was restored to earth, after ages of absence, the lost knowledge of the true God. But the skeptical say he only thought he saw these things — he imagined he beheld these personages; and the commentator already quoted made the profound discovery that it was during a fit of epilepsy that the boy became possessed of the idea that he had communed with heavenly beings. Anything but to receive the simple truth! Anything but to accept the word of a prophet, inspired by the Spirit of the Most High. 

Did Joseph Smith see the Father and the Son with his natural eyes? No; Joseph Smith was a man like unto Moses, for just as Moses brought to the ancient world the lost knowledge of God, who commanded that men should have no other Gods before Him — so Joseph Smith brought back that same knowledge to the modern world. While translating the Book of Moses, Joseph rendered with his own mind this passage, in which Moses describes the manner and means by which he beheld Deity: 

"But now, mine eyes have beheld God, yet not my natural but my spiritual eyes; for my natural eyes could not have beheld, for I should have withered and died in His presence." Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 1, Verse 11. 

Joseph Smith being the interpreter of these words of Moses, we may reasonably conclude that the way in which he saw the Lord was the same way in which Moses had beheld him. 

Morever, Joseph himself, with Sidney Rigdon, thus testifies : 4 ( J 

"We, Joseph Smith, Jr., and Sidney Rigdon, being in the Spirit on the 16th of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two, by the power of the Spirit our eyes were opened, and our understandings were enlightened, so as to see and understand the things of God * * * And the record which we bear is the fulness of the Gospel of Christ, who is the Son, whom we saw and with whom we conversed in the heavenly vision." Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76, verses 11, 12 and 14. 

There is the explanation of it. No imagination, and no epilepsy; it was an actual vision, but one seen with spiritual eyes. Were we not all spirits before we took these bodies? Did we not walk by sight while in the spirit world, keeping our first estate, proving our right, demonstrating our worthiness to come here and walk by faith, and keep, if possible, our second estate ? 

It must not be forgotten, either, that Joseph Smith had the powers of a seer — that he was "a choice seer," one doubtless prepared from the foundations of the world, to do the work he did, and to see what he saw. There may be such a thing as inherent power of seership, inherent in the spirit, for aught I know; but at all events we may reasonably conclude that this man came into the world to see, and was endowed with power by the God of heaven for that purpose; and there need be no strained attempt at explanation. 

There is something so marvelous about it, however, and this is a day that questions marvels and miracles 

that men would fain do away with 

it. It is too wonderful for modern . Just as they would discard the divinity of Christ and do away with His miracles, so would they do away with the wonders that lie at the foundation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

And yet, it was "a marvelous work and a wonder" that Isaiah predicted, when he foretold the work of the Lord as pertaining to these days — a work before which "the wisdom of the wise" should "perish," and "the understanding of the prudent" should "be hid." Then why marvel when the miracles begin, or rather, why reject those miracles ? After reading the Bible for centuries, why is not the Christian world prepared for God's marvelous work and wonder, and why does it reject the testimony of his servants in relation to it ? It was by the gift of seership, and by the power of the Holy Ghost that Joseph Smith saw the Father and the Son. And he beheld the angel Moroni by the same gift and power, and received from him the record plates of the Book of Mormon. He saw in like manner John the Baptist, and Peter, James and John, and received from them the Priesthoods of Aaron and Melchisedek, under which authority this Church was organized on the sixth of April of the year 1830. 

I am told that Joseph Smith had such power as a seer, that after he had received from the angel those plates, he could sit in his father's humble cottage, while the record was secreted at a distance, and could read what was on the plates and relate it to those around him. 

President Joseph F. Smith, with the late Orson Pratt, the Apostle, had an interview with David Whitmer, I believe in the year 1877, and he related to them a wonderful experience of his own, when he was sent from Fayette, New York, to Harmony, Pennsylvania, to bring Joseph Smith and his scribe Oliver Cowdery to his father's home, where they might continue in peace the work of translation. David Whitmer said : 

"When I arrived at Harmony, Joseph and Oliver were coming towards me, and met me some distance from the house. Oliver told me that Joseph had informed him when I started from home, where I stopped the first night, how I read the sign at the tavern, where I stopped the next night, etc., and that I would be there that day before dinner; and this was why they had come out to meet me. All of which was exactly as Joseph had told Oliver, at which I was greatly astonished." 

Six months after the Church was organized, Oliver Cowdery, Parley P. Pratt, and other Elders started upon a mission to the Lamanites; and, coming to Kirtland, in northern Ohio, they preached the Gospel there, and gathered into the fold quite a number, among them Edward Partridge, who became the first Bishop of the Church; Algernon Sidney Gilbert, Frederick G. Williams, Sidney Rigdon, and my grandfather, Newel K. Whitney, with his wife, Elizabeth Ann Whitney. These disciples, hearing that the Church would probably move -westward, began to pray for the coming of the Prophet. I have heard my grandmother and my father relate that when the Prophet came to Kirtland he drove in a sleigh and halted in front of the mercantile store of Gilbert and 

Whitney. He sprang out, went into the store, walked up to the junior partner, and said: "Newel K. Whitney, thou art the man." Grandfather was astonished; he had never seen Joseph Smith till then — Joseph had never seen him with his natural eyes — and he answered : "Stranger, you have the advantage of me; I could not call you by name, as you have me." And the stranger then said : "I am Joseph, the Prophet. You have prayed me here. Now, what do you want of me?" 

By what power did this remarkable man, Joseph Smith, recognize one whom he had never before seen in the flesh? Why did not Newel K. Whitney recognize him ? It was because Joseph Smith was a seer, a choice seer; he had actually seen Newel K. Whitney upon his knees, hundreds of miles away, praying for his coming to Kirtland. Marvelous — but true! 

Another incident in my grandfather's experience with the Prophet shows further this power of seership. In the year 1832, after Newel K. Whitney had become Bishop of Kirtland, they went down to Independence, Missouri, where Edward Partridge was Bishop in Zion, .and while returning Bishop Whitney met with a serious accident. The coach upon which they were traveling had a runaway. The Prophet leaped from the coach and cleared the wheels, but the Bishop, attempting to do likewise was caught in the wheel and his leg broken in several places. As a result of this accident they were detained several weeks at Greenville, Indiana, where they put up at a public house; Elder Rigdon, their traveling companion, meanwhile going on to Kirtland. An attempt was made upon the Proph's life by poisoning, so that he deemed it prudent to leave the place as soon as possible, and he proposed to the Bishop that they go at once. What followed is thus recorded in the History of the Church, as compiled and edited by Brother B. H. Roberts. This is the Prophet's own language : 

"Brother Whitney had not had his foot moved from the bed for nearly four weeks, when I went into his room, after a walk in the grove, and told him if he would agree to start for home in the morning, we would take a wagon to the river, about four miles, and there would be a ferry boat in waiting which would take us quickly across, where we would find a hack which would take us directly to the landing, where we should find a boat, in waiting, and we would be going up the river before 10 o'clock, and have a prosperous journey home. He took courage and told me he would go. We started next morning, and found everything as I had told him." — Volume I, page 272. 

Instances might be multiplied, if necessary. Not only by the gift of prophecy, but by the power of seership, Joseph Smith was able to forecast the future. It was by that miraculous power that he saw the Father and the Son. It was by that wonderful power that he and Oliver Cowdery saw Jehovah, Moses and Elijah in the Kirtland temple; and by which also Joseph and Sidney gazed upon the glories of the celestial, terrestrial and telestial worlds. By that marvelous power the Prophet, in all probability, beheld the great organization of the Church of God in heaven; for while organizing the councils and quorums of the Priesthood, he said : 

"And it is according to the vision, showing the order of the Seventy, that they should have seven presidents to preside over them, chosen out of the number of the Seventy." — Doctrine and Covenants, 107 :93. 

Now, if he saw the Seventies in vision, why not the Apostles ? Why not the First Presidency? Why not the stakes and wards, with their presiding officers, and even the auxiliary organizations? Who can say that he did not see them ? Who can say that these quorums of the Priesthood, these auxiliary societies and associations, the Church of God in its entirety as it exists upon the earth, is not a reflex of the Church of God in heaven, so far as it is adapted to our present conditions,' so far as it has been found necessary to organize it here; the eventual outcome to be a perfect Church, corresponding in every particular to the Church of the First Born; and this that the will of God may be done upon earth even as it is done in heaven? 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I have never seen Joseph Smith; but I believe in him just as firmly and fervently as if I had seen him; I love him and revere his memory just as much as if I had known him in the flesh. I never saw Jesus Christ as Joseph Smith saw him. My gifts are different. I am not worthy, perhaps, of such an honor. If I have seen the Lord, it was in a dream; but it was enough — it was powerful enough for me. I saw Him, and I conversed with Him, and He told me what to do — but it was only a dream. I used to think that if any good boy would go and pray, the Lord would show Himself and speak to him just as freely as He did to Joseph. It was a childish thought, and when I became a man I put away childish things. We all have access unto God. We can all receive revelation from Him, as President Smith has assured us; but men are not all the same; they do not all possess the same gifts, the same powers, the same privileges. There is one Spirit, but a diversity of gifts and manifestations. And when the Lord answers your prayers and mine, He will give to us, or send to us, or speak or otherwise manifest to us, according to our gifts, our capacities — and not those of someone else. But we can all have a testimony that this is God's work. I have that testimony. I believe this to be the work of the Lord. My name may be cast out as evil for that belief; I accept the issue; I believe this to be God's work; I know it is God's work; and I know that God knows that I know it; and I cannot and would not deny it for all the world. Amen. 

Brother Leslie Hickman sang the sacred selection "Hosannah." as a tenor solo. 

ELDEK DAVID 0. M'KAY. 

Simple faith of the child should be emulated. — Surprising continuation of canards against the Church. — Utah publicity movement commended. — Advantages of residence in Utah enumerated. — Tribute to high character of Utah's "Mormon" citizens. — Futility of efforts to destroy the Church. 

My heart is filled with joy for the rich outpouring of the Spirit of God during these meetings. Seldom if ever have I been more deeply impressed with the glorious and beauteous possibilities of the gospel of 

Jesus Christ than I have during the sessions of this most successful conference. Oh, I am thankful to the Lord for my membership in the Church. I appreciate the fellowship and brotherly love of the servants of God. I have rejoiced at the glorious truths so eloquently portrayed to us by my beloved brother Whitney. I was particularly impressed with the simple remark that he used to believe, as a 'child, that he could go to God and talk to Him as he could talk to his earthly father or to an associate. In my soul I said, "and you could." I know that the simple faith of a child is answered by our kind Father in heaven in blessings and comfort to the little child. I will bear my testimony to that before this vast congregation. I know that God hears and answers the prayers of the child. I remember lying one night, trembling with fear. As a child I was naturally, or unaturally afraid of the darkness, and would frequently lie wondering about burglars "buga-boos" and unseen influences. So I lay this night completely unnerved; but I had been taught that God would answer prayer. Summoning strength I arose from the bed, knelt down in the darkness, and prayed to God to remove that feeling of fear; and I heard as plainly as you hear my voice this afternoon, "Don't be afraid nothing will hurt you." Oh, yes, some may say — "simply the imagination." Say what you will, I know that to my soul came the sweet peace of a child's prayer answered. That is the faith which is inculcated into the minds of the Mormon boys and girls in every Latter-day Saint home throughout the land. I submit that where children are brought up in  communion with our Eternal Father that there can not be much sin or much evil in that home. When a little suffering child burning with fever, will look up to his father and in simple faith say, "Papa, bless me," I want to tell you that from such homes arise the strength and the glory of any nation. Such are the homes of Latter-day Saints. 

Why, then, do people revile the Church Why do they think that we are not true Christians, that we are not loyal citizens, that we are not true men and virtuous women — and virtuous men, for there is but one standard of virtue in the Church of Christ for man and woman. We can exclaim with the prophet Joseph Smith, "Why persecute, for telling the truth?" Well, men and women who investigate the doctrines of the Latter-day Saints do not revile them, do not slander them; it is the men and women who are ignorant of what the Church is and what the people of God stand for; and their ignorance is played upon by malicious vindictive men who try to make capital out of the unpopularity of "Mormonism." 

I have wondered recently at the means that have been brought to bear against the reputation of this Church, the most powerful known to this advanced twentieth century. First, the power of the pulpit. Almost universally, men who stand as guides to the people have felt it their duty to denounce the doctrines we advocate, to denounce the revelations of God through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Occasionally we have men come here who get a clear insight into what the Church is doing, who recognize the strength of the teachings as applied in the home life of the people, and who are brave  to declare to the world what they find. One of our brethren in Ogden, the Rev. Mr. Fisher, was brave enough to enlighten his fellow workers recently as to what he finds here. But, generally speaking, I say, the power of the pulpit has been arrayed against us. Following that, the power of the press. Has there ever been, in the history of the Church, such a wide spread attack, from the standpoint of the press, as there has been within the last few months ? And it still continues, the latest being one of the London papers to publish to the world a lie against our state. And a stronger means of disseminating knowledge, even than the press, has been brought to bear against us. I refer to the motion picture show. When you read a book you depend upon the printed page for your mental pictures. If those characters are readily interpreted the reader will probably get the idea or the picture which the author intended to express; but when you may sit and see it acted, see it portrayed as naturally as though it were being enacted in the every-day life, then the mental pictures are given as definitely and as rapidly as the motions of the actors can portray them. I have here an excerpt from a letter of a young man who went into the missionary field a few months ago. He is the grandson of the late Apostle Franklin D. Richards, and is laboring in the mission from which so many of the founders of our church came, and among them his grandfather. He writes to his father Pres. Chas. C. Richards as follows : "For the last ten days, the moving picture entitled. "A Victim of the Mormons" has been put on at different houses. Like the rest of the pictures you have read about in the News this one is quite offensive to the 'Mormon' Elder. It is a foreign film, and portrays a 'Mormon' Elder enticing a young girl away from her home, taking her to Utah, eluding- officers, etc. She tries to escape, and is rescued by her brothers, at which the Elder shoots himself." Continuing, he shows the inconsistency of it — the foreign officers, the foreign uniforms, the fake temple, and all that; and then says : "It is a shame that the men and women composing the national board of censorship for moving pictures cannot see the untruthfulness of the picture and reject it. Satan is surely filling the hearts of men and leading them astray from the true life. Last week we received a letter and a notice from the Evangelical Alliance of Greater Boston, called The Interdenominational Organization, to attend their service Monday, at 10: 30. The subject for discussion — 'The Mormon Hierarchy!" He and his companions accepted the invitation and listened to the remarks of two women whose attitude should be characterized as malicious, if it were not so pitiable. Commenting on the meeting he says : "You read her articles in the papers I sent you in December. It was just a repetition of that. Poor thing, she is getting worse every day. She will end in the mad house yet, I am afraid. Another woman took up the subject of 'Missionary and political activities of the Mormon Church,' repeated the same old lies about the missionaries, but praised Senator Smoot — said he was the greatest money senator in the Congress; that he was a very frequent caller at the White House; that he  helping rule the nation; that Wall Street worshiped him — all told to emphasize her point that the Mormon Church was a great political machine, and if the people did not put it down, in a few years it would govern the country. She admitted that Senator Smoot was such a powerful man his influence was felt in Massachusetts legislature;" and so on. That is but one illustration. I cannot help but think of the attitude of that young man against those three forces which are being arrayed against his people. He and the two thousand other young men, who are in the field known that these ministers and motion pictures are defaming the character of the people of the Mormon Church. 

Now, in view of these conditions, I hail with delight the movement now becoming popular, expressed in the slogan that hangs opposite the south gate of the temple block, and which I hope every man and woman in this State will echo from the bottom of his or her heart; it reads: "I am for Utah." It behooves every man and woman to be true to the standards of this State; and if we can be, we need not fear for any of these attacks from the outside. Eighty-three years ago this month the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith, by way of comfort, and through him all the little Church, or the people who composed the Church at that time: "Fear not. little flock: do good; though all earth and hell combine against you, if ye are built upon my rock they cannot prevail." Just consider those few words, "Fear not little flock; do good." That is characteristic of the attitude of this work today — a calm, a dignity, .an independence that puts it above all these trifling, yet sometimes disgusting attempts at persecution, at reviling, and slandering. Indeed the attitude of the Church is wholly in keeping with the admonition given bv the apostle Paul : 

"Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. 

"If it be possible, as much as in you lies, live peaceably with all men. 

"Avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath : for it is written, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord. 

"Therefore if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink : for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. 

"Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good." 

That is just the effort that is now being put forth by the men who are back of this Utah movement, I believe. I was delighted to hear that the publicity bureau of this state is now sending out two hundred letters daily. I suggest that they keep in mind* this statement, "Provide things honest in the sight of all men." 

What, are some of the honest statements that may be made about our State? When a man seeks a place for a home, he naturally asks the question: What will it do for me and my family in a material way? What may I obtain in an educational way? What does it offer socially? What is the spiritual standing of that community ? Utah already ranks among the highest in all these features. In productiveness Utah's soil ranks among the first; indeed, for the production per acre, of the staff of life, Utah ranks second among all the States in the Union, and that too in the face  the fact that three-fourths of the land producing wheat is what we call dry land that is, the wheat is produced on dry farms; and yet in the productiveness of the soil, she ranks, among all the states, second. In regard to the other cereals she ranks alternately first and second, oats, barley, potatoes; first in the production of sugar beets. Utah was the first State in the Union to raise a sugar beet on irrigated land. Utah was the first State in the Union to build a sugar factory, by machinery manufactured in the U. S. Utah ranks high, too, in offering advantages in stock-raising, mining, and fruit growing. How does she stand educationally? In the school year 1909-10 the state spent over three million dollars for the education of the boys and girls. The school property of the state is worth over six and one half million. The state institutions the University, and Agricultural College rank among the best in the country — The School of Mines in our State is among the best, I am informed, in the United States. From the School of Arts and Sciences, from the School of Law and Medicine, the students are admitted in any of the Universities of this country on an equal basis 'with the graduates from their own schools. Our Agricultural College, particularly, with the extension course, is an inspiration to all the farmers and stock raisers throughout this land — none better anywhere can be found. In addition to the excellent public school system, the Church is supporting a system comprising twenty-eight high schools, at an additional expenditure of over three hundred and sixty thousand dollars annually, thus furnishing high school training to nearly ten thousand students. No better general educational advantages can be found anywhere, no matter where you go; and the result of it is that there are more people in this state who can read and write than can be found in any other state in the Union excepting, possibly, three. It is a little difficult to ascertain just the standing of Utah in regard to that. There are three ahead and I think one other on an equal basis. 

Socially, how does she stand? Why, let this answer: a testimony of a United 'States consul concerning the boys whom he has met. Now, you know who these boys are. They are from your home, farmer. They are from your home, business man. They are from your home, school teacher. They are picked up from all parts of the Church; and so their standing is a fair index to the social conditions of the people. This is what he says. 

"It is fair to state that for a clean, moral, economic life, for gentleness, and courtesy, and for a proper appreciation of their position as visiting foreigners, they form aside from their religion, the truest and most worthy types of the modern American citizen. They make no display of money. They do not talk of the power of the United States and backwardness of Europe. They seek the beautiful and the good, and take back with them to their homes the ambition for better and greater things for their people and for their country." 

And of whom does he speak thus ? As an illustration of the men he met, he says : 

"Of five missionaries interviewed by me, one young man came from a position as clerk in a clothing store in Logan, Utah; another had been an ordinary painter in Ogden; another a carpenter in Salt Lake City; the fourth  been a country school teacher; and the fifth had come from high school." 

Socially, what kind of men and women may we meet? I have just been thinking of the presidencies of stakes, the bishoprics of wards, the young men and young women comprising the stake boards, the army of priesthood working in the high council — aggregate those workers and where in all the world can be classed a purer set of men and women? I am not given to say repeatedly that we are the best people on earth, and all that; because we have so many weaknesses, and we fail to reach our pretentions; but in these officers, we have a class of men and women who will compare socially and morally with any group of men and women in the world, the percentage of purity, I am sure, ranking near ninety-eight or ninety-nine per cent. I know them and so do you. Where do these men and women come from? Why, from the homes of the Latter-day Saints, representing all the people, wherever you find them located — no specially picked men. It is true, they are chosen because of their service and their ability to serve others; but they are generally representative of the social standard of the people 

Finally, what is the religious condition? Here, we find the headquarters of the Church of Jesus Christ, an organization where every man is a minister of the gospel; nearly one hundred thousand men and boys holding the priesthood, everyone of whom should be a minister, everyone carrying responsibility or doing good" to his fellow men — and that too in an organized systematic way. Go into the homes; there you will find the true Latter Saint and his family kneeling down before he partakes of his breakfast in the morning, gathering his wife and family around him and offering up his petition to his God. There the children take their 'turns in prayer. The same scene you will find at night, From these families men go out to preach the gospel — special men? Yes, special men like the one picked out from a little southern town here' a short time ago. A prosperous business man received a call to go out to preach the gospel. He left his business, left all, and went to his missionary field so far away from his home that, to use the expression of one of the elders, if he had gone any farther he would have started back home. Down here in Thistle, only a week or two ago, I met his son a young man who had in charge several cars of cattle. He introduced himself; he said, "I heard you a few weeks ago, while visiting a conference." During the conversation I learned that when his father received the call to go on his mission, with only thirty days notice, it devolved upon the son to lead in the support of the family, and to keep his father out in the missionary field He said, "I was not equal to running his business, yet, I am doing my best;" and he added "We are succeeding;" and he is. The more I think of that circumstance, the more deeply impressed I am with it — the father out preaching the gospel. Why, Because he knows the value of life; because he knows the Gospel of Jesus Christ is restored, his only motive being to preach that truth to the world — And here is his boy assuming the responsibilities of manhood, carrying on the work, supporting not only himself, but his father's family,  his father in the mission field. Talk about development! Thank God for the Church that picks its young men up that way and puts responsibility upon them. For Utah ? Yes. For the Church of Christ? Always. And if we can only be true to what we know is right, to what we know is the gospel of Jesus Christ, "Though all earth and hell be arrayed against us, they can not prevail." 

God help us to go forth from this conference imbued with the Spirit of the Lord, that every man and woman who has an opportunity to work in the Church — and that means all — may be determined to live a life of virtue and purity that will command the strength of the world, and the admiration of it. In short, let us provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, so far as in us lies, let us live peaceably with all men — not overcoming evil by evil, or being overcome by evil, but overcoming evil with good. Then will . the Church stand as a light to the world. That is her destiny; and though enemies may hurl their shafts to destroy, they will fail just as the beetles and the moths fail to obliterate the electric light in the street. Once in a while, perhaps, you have seen the light flicker when one would fall and be consumed; but next morning if you walked past, there on the ground you saw the beetles and the moths. They lost their lives in their vain and blind attempt at striking out the light. So must it inevitably be with those who oppose the Church of God. Men, misguided and ignorant may hurl themselves against it; but after all, if the members of the Church will only be true when the mists of ignorance and prejudice shall have cleared away, and we stand in a true light, we shall find that every shaft that has been hurled against Zion has fallen; every tongue that has been raised against her has been confounded. God help us to be successful, to be true to the testimony; through Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I realize that it is a little late; but as this is the sixth day of the month, the anniversary of the organization of the Church, I would like to have presented the authorities of- the church, for the action of this conference, at this meeting, before we adjourn. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins Joseph F. Smith, Jr. and James E. Talmage. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies; Seymour B. Young, Brig H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church" Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August W. Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young. 

Auditing committee, William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Tos S. Wells. J ' 

Tabernacle choir: Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor: John J. McClellen, organist; Edward P.' Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, asistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, librarian; and all the members. 

Duncan M. McAllister, as Clerk of the Conference. 

Trustees of the Brigham Young University: President Joseph F. Smith, Jesse Knight, Wilson H. Dusenberry, Susa Young Gates, Reed Smoot, Stephen L. Chipman, Lafayette Holbrook, Jonathan S. Page, Richard W. Young, Willard Young, Joseph R. Murdock, Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the congregation assembled in Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I would like, also, to say this, that Brother Hyrum G. Smith, who has been selected to fill the vacancy resulting from the death of the late Patriarch John Smith, is a literal descendant of John Smith, but he is his grandson, and not his own son. The grandson has been a clean, pure, intelligent boy; he has been faithful and exemplary throughout all his life, and has never been addicted to any habits that he had to abstain from, to be in harmony with the principles of the gospel. The question of looking over the children and grandchildren of the Patriarch was submitted to the twelve apostles, as it is the duty of the twelve apostles to look after, and select, and ordain evangelists in the church; and after due consideration, they have unanimously recommended the grandson of the late Patriarch to fill the place of his grandfather. 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS. 

The title of the beautiful anthem that will now be sung by the B. Y. U. choir is "The Lord hath brought again Zion." 

Brother Arthur Shepherd's attention being called to the poetic character of this passage, he seized upon it, under a seeming spirit of inspiration, and wrote the music in which the words are set. When his composition was submitted to the music-publishing house in Boston, they asked him, by letter, where he found those beautiful passages of scripture. 

I may say that in this anthem there is a concentrated expression of the great and true principles and message of God in the great last and new dispensation. There are two parts, the first of which is rendered in a solo; the second part as the chorus. The first part is recitative in its nature, and comes at the close of a solemn declaration of the Lord to the effect that those who reject His servants reject Him. And now the words of the anthem : ( See Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 84, verses 99 to 102). 

The choir then rendered, in splendid style, the anthem referred to, Prof. Charles R. Johnson singing the tenor solo parts. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I think it is generally understood, by the congregation, that the choir which has furnished us music today is the Brigham Young University Choir. Brother Anthon C. Lund is the leader. We feel to thank them for the most exquisite music they have furnished during the two sessions of this day; and we pray that the Lord will bless them henceforth and forever, in the good work that they are doing. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph R. Shepherd. 


