Overflow
07 04 1912

An overflow session of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., Sunday, April 7th, 1912. The services were presided over by Elder Hyrum M. Smith. 

The Twentieth ward choir, under direction of David J. Watts, rendered the musical exercises. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

My God, the spring of all my joys, 

The life of my delights, The glory of my brightest days, 

And comfort of my nights! 

Prayer was offered by Elder Joseph A. Buttle. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

He died! the Great Redeemer died, And Israel's daughters wept around; 

A solemn darkness veiled the sky, A sudden trembling shook the ground. 

ELDER MILTON H. WELLING. 

(President of Bear River Stake.) 

I am sure that the sweet influences of the Spirit of our Father in heaven which has attended the previous meetings of this great Conference of the Church has been a source of inspiration, satisfaction, and pleasure to all of the Latter-day Saints who have attended the meetings. I eranestly trust and pray that, during this service of the Conference, the blessings of the Spirit of the Lord will attend us, as asked for by the brother who opened this meeting. I am very sure that not anybody here could feel more keenly the need of the inspiration of the Lord than I particularly feel at this time, and I pray that nothing I may say will in any way detract from the blessings that we have already received during the different sessions of this Conference. 

The Lord has been very good to His people in placing in their midst inspired men, to direct and teach them the principles of the Gospel of Christ. I do not believe that any people in the world's history have ever been more favored with the personal ministry of men inspired of the Lord than are the Latter-day Saints. When I coniemplate that truth, it is not a surprising thing to me that many thousands leave their work, semi-annually, to come up here to the center stake of Zion and partake of the influence of these teachings. I have great satisfaction in the fact that we have these men in the Church to instruct us. I hope that the teachings we receive at this Conference will be taken to heart by us. I believe that if we follow their instruction, and accept their testimony, we will become the greatest people upon the face of the whole earth; such is our destiny. 

I have the honor to preside over one of the stakes of Zion, and I know that we out there in our homes appreciate the ministry and the blessings of these brethren of the General Authorities of the Church, who come to teach us from time to time. I appreciate the opportunity of standing here for a few moments this morning as the representative of near thirty-five hundred 

Latter-day Saints who live in the Bear River Stake of Zion. I believe that they are a good people, and that they are striving to serve the Lord. 

We have in our stake sought, during the last year or two, to emphasize the value of personal ministry of the ward teachers in the homes of the Latter-day Saints, and I want to bear my humble testimony to you that I believe there is no influence in the Church today that is more potent for the good of the Latter-day Saints than the regular visits of the teachers into their homes from month to month. We have found that to be true in our stake of Zion. The wards in which the homes have been properly visited by the teachers from month to month are the wards that are giving us the very best results. They are the wards that furnish the largest proportion of brethren and sisters to partake of the Sacrament regularly upon the Sabbath day. I testify to you, particularly you that are engaged in this teachers' work, that there is no greater calling in the Church today than that embracing the obligation and opportunity of entering the homes of Latter-day Saints and teaching them the principles of the everlasting Gospel. More than 85 per cent of the Latter-day Saints in my stake of Zion are visited regularly each month in their homes. We have maintained that record for a year past, and I do not believe there is a single phase of our religious activity that has not been benefited, augmented, and strengthened by the visits of these brethren in the homes of the people. 

President Lyman was in attendance at our conference, three or  weeks ago, and he asked what the results of this labor were in the homes and in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. He asked if we were going to the people simply for the purpose of making a record of having so visited them; or whether our visits were accomplishing anything that was worth while. He wanted to know if we were causing the people to pray in their families, or causing any other uplifting influences to be manifest in their lives. I promised President Lyman, when he left us, that we would inquire of the Latter-day Saints in our stake how many of them were prayerful in their homes, and I brought down to him the information, last Saturday, that of the 3,500 people in the Bear Lake Stake of Zion, more than 72 per cent had family prayers in their homes regularly. I take it, my brethren and sisters, that this is a fair average. I hope that all of the Church is observing that great law as faithfully or more faithfully than we are doing there. We went into the homes of all the people, and where we ascertained that they did not pray, the teachers are trying to get them to pray. Where they did not attend the Sacrament meetings, our brethren are inviting them to come to these meetings, and we are teaching them the obligation that rests upon Latter-day Saints to meet together often to partake of the Lord's supper, and renew their covenants with their Father in heaven. 

I have great pleasure in saying that this work in our stake of Zion has given us the satisfaction of feeling in our hearts that the Latter-day Saints are living today more nearly up to the principles of the 

Gospel of Christ than they were living yesterday. The testimony of the brethren who have spoken previously in the Conference, the testimony of President Smith at the opening of the Conference, that the Latter-day Saints were better organized, and were better disciplined today in the principles of the Gospel of Christ, in the principles of right living — for this is what I esteem the Gospel of Christ to be — that they were better prepared to cope with the adversary than they had ever been in the history of the Church, that testimony found a responsive echo in my heart. I do believe that the Latter-day Saints are living their religion today as well as they ever did before. I do believe that the young men of Israel will be faithful to the teachings and the testimony of their fathers. When I think of the trials, when I think of the hardships that my father and my mother endured, that my feet might be firmly established here in the tops of the mountains, I feel that no disgrace could come to me so distressing in its nature as to reject their testimony, and I believe that spirit and feeling very largely predominates in the hearts of the young men of Israel today. 

We get a testimony of the truth in the mission field, when we come in contact with conditions as they exist in the world. We then feel the need of drawing near to our Father in heaven. The army of faithful men that are coming back from the various missionary fields today are a continual source of inspiration to the Latter-day Saints who are at home. Our mothers are praying for these boys who are out in the world, and they obtain for themselves a testimony that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true. I am glad, as Brother Whitney said in the Conference yesterday, that these boys are teaching the Gospel through the power of example, and through the power of their simple testimonies. I believe that it has always been preached most effectually in that way. I believe that the Prophet Joseph Smith convinced the people of his day by the power of his simple declaration and testimony. All the leaders of this Church have taught it to us more in that fashion than in any other way up to this time. Our boys are simply following the dictates and promptings of the Spirit of God, when they go into the missionary field and declare the truth of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, without the spirit of controversy, but simply having a desire to proclaim the truths of the Gospel. 

I know that the Gospel is true. I know that it has been restored to the earth for the salvation of the souls of the children of men. If the young men of Israel reject this truth and turn away from the testimony of their fathers, nothing can come into their lives that would more disgrace or dishonor their name or their memory. I testify that those who lead the Church, and those who go out into the different stakes of Zion to teach the Gospel to the people, are servants of the Lord. I never feel when they come to our stake but that they have brought to us the things that we have most needed for the particular occasion, and I am sure that is the experience of the Latter-day Saints who are here this morning. The thought that is in your heart is answered, and you are filled with a  of rejoicing and thanksgiving when these brethren visit you in your homes in the different stakes of Zion; that also has always been to me a strong testimony of the divinity of the work of the Lord. 

May God help all of us to profit by the efforts that are being put forth by the Priesthood of the Lord to direct us in the path of righteousness and truth. May we all be faithful to the testimony that we have received, and hand it down to our children untarnished and undiminished in its power to redeem the world of mankind, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN I. HERRICK. 

(President of Western States Mission.) 

I heard a lady say as I came into this building, in answer to a question, "Were you not able to get a seat?" "O yes, I had a good seat, but I am coming over here to hear a speaker that I know." I do not know whom she referred to, though I do not think it was myself, for I do not know the lady; but I trust that we all came here today with the full purpose of heart of hearing the word of the Lord regardless through whom it comes. Much has been said, during this conference, tending to remind us of the obligations that we owe to the Church, that we owe to ourselves and to our neighbors. I would like to read a few verses of a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith regarding this thought, from section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion or in any of her stakes  are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the head of the parents; for this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion and of her stakes which are organized, and their children shall be baptized for the the remission of their sins when eight years old and receive the laying an of hands; and they shall also teach their children to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord. And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. And the inhabitants of Zion shall also remember their labors, inasmuch as they are called to labor, in all faithfulness, for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord." 

There are three kinds of responsibility : first, parental, then collective, and then individual. This revelation from God teaches, commands in fact, that parents should have a regard for the careful teaching and training of their children. This training and this work, the influence of it, should commence even before the birth of the child, in order to have the most beneficial effect. We all know that it is a law that cannot be refuted, that if a child is properly taught in its youth when it becomes old it will not. go astray. It is true that we all know of some individual cases where, perhaps, children have had the best of training, and yet have fallen away from the truth; but if we shall heed this commandment to Israel, we will rid ourselves as parents of the responsibility that God places upon us in bringing children Into the world, a responsibility that cannot be evaded. And then, too, it should extend not only to our children, to our family or families, but to our neighbors, for we do owe something to them. The example that we give  only to our nearest neighbor but to him who is afar off, if he chances to be here, stands for good or evil for this great Church. As our influence and our acts, if they be righteous, redound to the credit and to the glory of our Church, so do those things which are not pleasing in the sight of God, which are wrong, cast discredit and dishonor upon our Church. 

The individual responsibility comes after the child is accountable, and only then, and we should endeavor to teach them the principles that have been made known by revelation, by word of mouth, to Israel, by the leaders of this Church in this conference, tnat they should keep inviolate the instructions that are given from time to time, be pure and chaste, be honorable and honest and fair in all things. In this connection, we should give careful thought, it seems to me, to a regard for doing whatever we are called upon to do. "The inhabitants of Zion also shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, [and we are certainly all appointed] in all faithfulness," and that means whatever may be the calling, whether it be a deacon or a high priest, we should fulfill that obligation to the best of the ability that God gives us. 

I call to mind a legend of the great man, the great warrior, who had conquered nations and who had it in his heart to conquer the world, and he inquired wanting to know whom he should serve in order to serve the greatest thing there was in the world, because he had conquered nearly all. "Why," it was said to him, "there are more people following Satan than any one else, and therefore you should serve him. So he began and served Satan, with the same determination and purpose as he had conquered nations. But there seemed to be something - lacking. He did not get the consolation that he thought he would, and finally he inquired again, and he got this reply: "Serve Jesus Christ, for it is His teachings that will bring mankind and raise them from their sin, and elevate them in the world, and save them in eternity." And he began to serve, or he would serve Jesus. And when he inquired what he was to do, he was told that beside a river, on the opposite shore, an altar had been erected where those who would come to Christ could go and pray, and it should be his duty to carry all such on his back through the waters when they applied to him. "Know you who I am?" said he. "I am Alpha, that has conquered nations, and should I be called upon to do such menial service?" "Yes, if thou wishest to serve thy master, thou must do this thing." And he began and he carried many, many across the rocks, cutting his feet on the sharp stones. The work was hard, but he was strong in body and mind, and he kept it up; year after year did he do this service, and he became old, and was unable to proceed, as he thought, to go any farther, to carry any more across. Finally a voice came one day, "Alpha, T want to pray." He paid no heed, because he thought he was unable to assist. "Alpha, I want to go and pray;" and he looked, and beheld a child, and he determined ro make the last effort, and he did. He took the child in his arms and started into the water; the swift current almost took him down, but he struggled until he gained the opposite shore  placed that child on the altar, and through exhaustion following his effort he was almost ready to give up the ghost, when he heard this commendation : "He who doeth these things to the least of mine hath done it unto me." And he died. 

Regardless of what duty comes to us, my brethren and sisters, let lis seize upon the opportunity and do our full duty to our Church, to ourselves, to our neighbors and to the world. Then will God's blessing be with us to crown our efforts with success, and may we have the satisfaction to have that plaudit, "well-done," that we can get in no other way. 

I bear you witness today that God's work is established in the earth, no more to be taken away, that this people whom we call Latter-day Saints are those who are destined to fill the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. May God add His blessings to us, that we may be faithful in performing the duties that devolve upon us. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A soprano solo, "The Palms," by Faurier, was sung by Sister Irma Pendleton. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. EOBINSOff. 

(President of California Mission.) 

It is indeed gratifying, my brethren and sisters, to meet with those who agree in faith and in doctrine. Frequently in the world, we meet with those who have diversified views, who teach different "principles of salvation," or who teach none at all. Recently I had the privilege of addressing a club whose members say they believe in neither 

God, Christ, hell nor the devil, and yet this body of men and women employ and honor a chaplain. It struck me as peculiar, and had I not been acquainted with some of their tenets I should have wondered at their appointment: but even they contended for this fact, that there is some power, some subtle influence in prayer and pouring out the soul of man to the Universe, as they call it. It brings a surcease from disappointment and pain, makes hope glow anew from the ashes of despair, and, with faith, man may again face the problems of life and follow them to successful fruition, all through the strength of prayer. While addressing this audience I had occasion to speak of the Lord Jesus Christ, my theme being particularly the immortality of the soul and the hope of the resurrection, aye, its very assurance. 

At the close of my address there was half an hour given for questions and for adverse opinions and criticisms, and this chaplain arose and said unto me : "Elder, you have mentioned the name of Jesus Christ; I would like to know if there is any evidence in history, whatsoever, that would prove that such a man ever lived." That may sound strange to you my brethren and sisters, who have come together here to pay homage to Jesus, the Christ, to revere His name, and to worship Him as one of those who have made it possible for this earth to be, for our lives and for our eternal progression. My answer to this man (knowing full well that he would not accept the testimony of the eight witnesses in the New Testament nor the testimony of the socalled early Fathers of the church) was something like this: At the  of His advent and birth, according to the testimony of Tacitus and Suetonius, two pagan historians, the whole east was in a ferment of expectation, for tradition and precept and sacrifices from time immemorial had testified that there should be a king born to the Jews; a son and a child should be given them, upon whose shoulders should rest the government, and He should be the Prince of Peace, and should be worshiped 'as the Lord God Almighty Himself; and that, at the time of His advent, wise men of the east, others than those three spoken of in the scriptures, gave token of the fact that the time had arrived. And after and during His ministry, there arose men contemporaneous with Him who bore testimony of the fact that he did live and minister to the souls of men. Josephus, a Jew — and the Jews were prejudiced against Him, full of bitter prejudice at the time he wrote — mentions Him in his writings. He even said of Him; "If it be lawful to call such a creature a man, to speak of Him as man," testifying that He had lived among the Jews and ministered unto them as a prophet. Again Pliny, the younger, spoke of Him and His ministry, with Publius Lentulus, procurator of Judea, for just as consuls report to the home government anything of moment and interest to the home country, so did this procurator report to Caesar and the Roman senate, and reported that one Jesus Christ, a Nazarite, was living amongst the Jews at that time, who he said, "is accepted of the Gentiles as a true prophet, but by His disciples and followers as the very son of God." And this man Lentulus described the Master, using these words : "'His hair is the color of a filbert when fully ripe, plain to his ear, whence downward it is more of Orient color, curling, waving on his shoulders; in the middle of his head is a seam, parting His hair after the manner of the Nazarites. His forehead is plain and delicate; the face without spot or wrinkle, beautiful with a cornel}' red; his nose and mouth are exactly formed; his beard is the color of his hair and thick, not of any length but forked. In reproving he is terrible, admonishing courteous, in speaking very modest and wise; in proportion of body, well shaped. None have seen him laugh. Many have seen him weep. A man of surpassing beauty, excelling the children of men." 

So the testimony of these three in particular can be cited aside from the tradition of the ancient church and from the testimony of the apostles and disciples, bearing witness that Christ did live and reign among the sons of men, or at least minister among the sons of men, in such graciousness that secured Him in the affections of His followers, and made Him even beloved and revered by those not of His own nationality; for the Centurion who came to Him, saying that he had a son afflicted in his house and begged of the Master to say but one word and he should be healed, said unto Him, when the Master said "I will go unto him at once," "I am not worthy that you should enter my house; I am a captain in Caesar's household, and T say to this man, do thou this, or do thou that, and it is done; and if thou wilt but say the word, I know that my son will be healed." And the scriptures record the fact that Christ marvelled, for no such faith had He known, no not in all Israel; and He spoke the word and the boy was healed from that hour forth. So it shows, this example, the regard in which He was held by this man  of His own household, not of the nation of Israel. 

Today all Christendom is singing anthems of praise, praise and hosannas, as we do here today, because the Christ lives; and this day, to Christendom, means the day of His resurrection from the tomb, joy coming into the hearts of all men who believe in Him, because in Him they know they have a Redeemer from the tomb, and Savior from death and hell. We might, if our imagination were but keen enough, recall this glad Easter morning, at its first inception, when, after His hurried burial in a stranger's grave (for His death had not been anticipated and His tomb was not prepared, and so the tender women and His friends laid Him away in the grave of Joseph of Arimathea, until they could further care for Him and provide for Him a last resting place as they thought.) It was their Sabbath day. and it was forbidden by the law of the Jews that His body should remain longer upon the cross. It was taken down, and as I have said, hurriedly buried. And then, because of the conduct of Pontius Pilate, that none should come unto it for a certain time, the tomb being sealed by the seal of Caesar of Rome, none were permitted to come to pay Him homage or respect until that period had passed set by the law; and as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene early to the tomb before it was yet light, bearing bandages and myrrh and spices to further prepare His body for its final burial. When she came to the sepulchre weeping, the stone had been turned aside, the seals broken, the soldiers dispersed, and as she looked in to the sepulchre she be an angel, who declared unto her, "He is not here, He is risen." In her great grief she did not understand all that this message meant and would have conveyed had she known what we know of the resurrection. Sadly she turned away, in hope still that she might find His resting place. A personage approached down the path. Without lifting her tear dimmed eyes, thinking it was only the sexton or the gardener so early abroad, she said : "Where have they laid Him?" He spoke to her in a voice that made her fond heart thrill with joy untold, because she recognized the voice of her Redeemer and Lord, when He cried unto her "Mary!" and she lifted her eyes, and when she would have embraced Him He said : "Touch me not, for I have not yet ascended to my Father; but go to my brethren and say unto them. I ascend unto my Father and your Father and to my God and your God." And with winged feet she flew along the roadway to carry this glad message to the faithful hearts who had been bowed down in such distress and grief, because their Lord and Master, their leader, had been crucified. 

Then for a time He walked the earth with them, and taught them, meeting them upon the holy day a week later, and still another week later, inviting them, upon His first visit, because they were afrighted and thought they saw His spirit, to handle Him, to observe the wounds in His hands and in His feet and side, and see that He was not a spirit; and He asked them if they had any meat there, and they gave Him a fish and a honey comb, and He ate of it to convince them that it was really and truly their Savior or  Master with whom they had labored and with whom they had suffered. A week later He comes to them when they have met to praise Him again, to bear testimony of this glad Easter morning when He arose from the dead. But one who was doubting, one who had not been present, one who had heard only their testimonies, one who believed only in what he could see and handle, material-minded and hardheaded after the manner of most men, he said, "Why, you have seen His spirit, but the dead live not again; the body of man cannot rise from the tomb. Lazarus was brought back to life, and so with the daughter of Jairus, but the dead who are laid away as He has been do not live again." And as he contended with them in this fashion against their knowledge, the Master, even in His glorious resurrected manhood and immortalized state, stood before them, and He said, Come hither, thou doubting one; thrust thy hand into my side and feel the prints of the nails in my hands, and handle me and see that a spirit hath not flesh and bone as ye see me have. And Thomas fell and worshiped, exclaiming, "My Lord 'and my God!" The Savior mildly rebuked him in these words : Thomas thou hast believed because thou hast seen. Blessed are they who believe without seeing, who believe upon the testimony of these my brethren. Therein showing the key. the touch-stone of virtue and faith, for we are to walk by faith. 

And so "Blessed today is he who cometh in the name of the Lord." Blessed and praised be the Lord, as was sung. "Hosanna unto Him who bringeth salvation." Blessed indeed is he who believes, having never seen, and into whose heart has entered the peace of Christ which surpasseth the understanding of the souls of men, that peace which gives them an assurance of things as they were, as they are, as. they are to be — truth, the "sum of existence." In the mind of that man or that woman there is no doubt, no misgiving, no fear, no apprehension of the future, if they but keep the faith, that God will give to His flock the kingdom, that the Christ will reign over them, and that when He comes "they shall be like Him," for so said John the beloved. In this assurance the grave is robbed of its victory, and death of its sting, all swallowed up in the assurance of eternal life and immortality. 

We cannot ourselves circumscribe the powers of man. When we see an infant upon its mother's knee, we know that, all things being propitious, it shall grow to manhood's estate, to enjoy the full powers and capabilities thereof, and that so long as, undimmed by years and unhurt and unbroken by disease or accicident, he will learn to show and perform great things. We do not know to what heights he may arise in his special field, unless we may see it in prophetic vision; but we , know that what man lias done man may and can do. But, cut short from his progress and achievement by death, then when you contemplate eternal life and immortalitv, who can circumscribe the possibilities of man, who can say how far lie may go, or how short he may fall? The great pagan philosopher, Socrates, said that "this is the whole, end and aim of man, to be like God, and he who follows Him shall become like Him." So the Prophet Joseph Smith, in this age,  added to this truth by the assertion that "As man is God once was, and that as He is man may become," because He is our Father, and like begets like, and inherent within us are the attributes of divinity that shall lead us into perfection, which Christ intended His Saints to attain unto. John says : "When the Master shall come into whose hands He hath given aU power, both in heaven and earth, who trampled death and hell under His feet, and solved the secret of the grave, we shall be like Him, if we love His appearing and keep His commandments." O. the blessedness of such a thought! How full of inspiration! What an incentive to try for correct living! What a power is given us to bear under and forebear, when we know our real destiny, if we but keep the faith, if we but believe in Him and do His will, if we but keep ourselves unspotted from the world; and not only for us but for all the sons of our Father who will come unto Him, both those who are alive and those who are dead, for the Master whose body lay in the tomb "went and preached to the spirits in prison," and one can imagine when he reads the words of David, pronounced outside the gates of hell, "Lift up your heads, ye gates, and be lifted up, ye everlasting doors; the king of glory shall come in." And again, how all hell sat up with astonishment at the end, breaking in upon their solitude from without, when they had been "gathered together as prisoners in a pit" since the death of the first man cast out from Eden; how, when the time came and the doors were opened and the Master stood before them, Isaiah would arise and say: "Did 

I not tell you that after many days we should be visited, and the sun of righteousness should arise with healing in his wings, and give gifts to men, and lead captivity captive and the prisoners from the prison house." And David, the king and poet, would say: "Having testified unto you, O Israel, that He would not leave my soul in hell nor would He suffer the Holy One to see corruption." Then might Isaiah say: "Did I not prophesy unto Israel, Thy dead shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust, for their dew is as the dew of the earth, and the earth shall cast out its dead, some as Daniel said, to everlasting shame and contempt, because they are filthy still; some to shine in the firmament as the stars forever, because they have constrained men to acts of righteousness." 

Let us, my brethren and sisters, be among those who "fight the good fight," who "keep the faith," who "constrain men to acts of righteousness," that we with the love of the Lord shall shine in the firmament as stars forever. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, 

But with joy wen'd your way; Though hard to you this journey may appear, 

Grace shall be as your day . 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

While listening to the remarks of our beloved President in the opening of this Conference, and hearing his statement concerning the wilful  of certain individuals who have had it in their hearts to destroy the influence and the character of the Latter-day Saints, by manufacturing from the whole cloth lies and falsehoods, for the purpose of deceiving the minds of the honest and of those who would, if they only saw the truth, receive it, I was led to think of a story I read, many years ago, concerning a man who lived by the side of a mountain. He came out one morning and found the earth enveloped in a great fog. He could see only a short distance ahead of him, but heard crackling sounds on the mountain side, the breaking of the bushes, but could see at first no object. He drew nearer to the location of the sound, and then, in the. dim mist and fog, thought he saw a monster of unusual proportions, steadily creeping toward him. He became alarmed, but still desired to see more of this supposed monster. As he drew nearer still, he discovered to his astonishment, instead of it being a monster, it was a human being, a man, and, as it came still closer, to his great surprise, he found it to be his own beloved brother. I have thought how truly this represents the blinded condition of our brethren and sisters in the world with respect to the Latter-day Saints. Through the misrepresentation and falsehoods that have been manufactured, that have created the cloud or fog that has obscured the minds of men, they have been led to believe that we were monsters of some unusual proportions. In the times that are passed and gone, men were taught to believe that we actually had horns, and were unlike other human beings; that we were seeking the lives of our fellowmen, were nothing short of cut-throats and robbers. Even now there are persons who quietly whisper as they come within the precincts of this city, to the first stranger they meet, "Will you please show me a Mormon?" The chances are they are already addressing a member of our Church. But the impression has been disseminated so generally that we are unlike everybody else, that we are possessed of such evil propensities, and are such monsters, from that which has been represented concerning us, that we are not even human beings. 

Thank God, the mists that 'have obscured men's minds do not cloud them today as much as they did formerly — notwithstanding, a great effort is being made to manufacture more mist, more cloud, more fog to obscure the minds of men. The old system won't work so well today as it did formerly. The world is drawing nearer to the Latter-day Saints. The hundreds of thousands who are passing through this city, coming in contact with the members of the Church here, and observing it in its actual working operations are changing their minds, and we are coming closer to them. When I think of the representatives of this Church, the two thousand missionaries, or near that number, who are going from door to door, making themselves known as representative members of the Church, I am led to believe that their influence is causing a change of sentiment. Many times our missionaries have been denied the privilege and opportunity of living in the homes of the people, when it became known that they were "Mormon" Elders. Persons who have rooms to rent often turn our Elders away, or , with much misgiving, receive them. In some instances the Elder does not let his religious belief be known until after he has secured his lodging and accommodations, where he is going to pay for his room; and then, when it is found out that he is a "Mormon" Elder, they are almost ready to turn him out of their door. But, I have not yet found in my experience, with hundreds of Elders, where a "Mormon" Elder stayed for thirty days in the home of a person who had the greatest prejudice, but that person has become a friend of the "Mormon" people. Some have said to me, as I have asked those with whom the Elders stay — as I go about among them from time to time — "What kind of men are these 'Mormon' boys? The answer is, they are the best, cleanest men we have ever met in our lives. When they come to say good-by, there are tears shed by some of those who first were doubtful of receiving them; and they have said to me, "Don't take them away from us! or, send some others back to us." I say again, as we are coming out among the world and letting them see what manner of men we are, and as they are coming nearer to us, the fog is disseminating, and they are recognizing us, not as the monster, but as human beings after all, like unto themselves. As they come still closer to us, and learn the intent and purpose of our hearts, they will find, too, that we are not only human beings, but that we are their beloved brothers, having the welfare of mankind at heart, and doing more for the world today, without earthly consideration, . than any other community in the world. 

"What greater love hath any man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friend?" Our Elders, when they leave their homes, have no fear whether they shall lay down their lives or not. They have the spirit that was in their fathers when they sang, " And should we die before our journey's through, happy day, all is well." The same spirit burns in the hearts of their sons and daughters, who leave their homes and take their lives in their hands. They, too, can say, "And should we die before our journey's through, happy day, all is well." It has been my sorrow to have to bring home two of our missionaries who died in our field, one since our last conference, and to have the great sorrow to bring them home to father and mother and other loved ones who had anticipated their return in life with all fondness and affection. The last one referred to had been out two years except two days, when he was stricken down and taken away from us, and we had to bring his body home. But it did not shake the courage of the brethren who remained, nor did it daunt the feeling of the parents and brothers and sisters at home. No the Elders are willing to go; and fear not the consequences. Not long ago, I stood by the side of a father, who went to San Francisco, to receive his son who was returning home because of sickness that he had contracted in the islands. He was being brought home to be nursed back to health again. The father stood on the pier, waiting for the ship to arrive, and when it steamed into the harbor the sad news was broken to him that the son, whom he had expected to receive and take home to nourish to health, had died and  been buried at sea. Oh! the great load of sorrow that was cast upon his aching heart! He was to return to the family at home to bear that message to the mother of the boy; and he said to me, with tears streaming down his cheeks, "I loved him as I loved my own life; I have seven other sons, yet if I knew every one of them would come home or end their mission like that, I would give every one of them to the service of the Lord." What greater love has any people in the world than this, that they give their sons, their own lives, their means, and their all for the welfare of mankind. These Elders as they go from door to door have burning in their hearts a warm love and affection for their fellow men. How can they travel uphill and down, in the rain, in the snow, or in the mud, sometimes sleeping out of doors, seeking the souls of men, without begetting love for the children of our Father? I want to say to you, that the world will discover, as I have already observed, that we are their best friends, their own beloved brethren. 

Not only will they discover this, but they will discover that they need us, and need also the message that we have to bear to the world; and that they cannot get along without it. Their great efforts to stem the tide of infidelity, to stop the ravages of that spirit of unbelief that is undermining the churches, destroying the ministry, and making vacant the pews, seem to be unavailing. Out in the city of Portland, Gypsy Smith, one of the greatest revivalists the world has today, held a series of thirty meetings, where thousands of people listened to his eloquence and came under the spell of his power. During that time, some three thousand persons came forward, and signed cards that they would affiliate with some one or other of the hundred and ten chuches that joined in that great revival. After the meetings were over, the choir of a thousand voices had been disbanded, the tabernacle was silent, and the men and women were left to themselves, a sad wail comes from the hundred and ten ministers who joined in the revival, that less than 10 per cent, of those who signed cards actually became identified with the church. What is the matter? O, there is that something lacking that took possession of the souls of men when they cried out on the day of Pentecost, "Men and brethren, what shall we do to be saved ?" and the answer came from that authorized servant of God — not come here and sign cards or come here and give me your hand, but — "Repent of your sins, every one of you, and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." That is what the world is lacking today; and they are trying to hold their fort, to maintain their cause, without those powers and blessings that come from the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ; and they fail. 

A great religious movement has been inaugurated looking to interesting men in the church. Few men attend churches in the world. There is only a scattering few in the midst of a comparatively large attendance of women; and a movement, that has behind it millions of dollars, is being pushed from city to city to interest men in the church. When I have thought of this, oh, how my  goes out in gratitude to the God of heaven who has given us the key by which this great question can be solved. If they ever solve it, they will have to copy us, and learn of us. For, behold, the Church provides something for every male member to do — the Priesthood received by them placing a portion of responsibility upon each individual member. No man will be interested unless he works. The Lord has solved that question for us; and the world is trying to solve it without His aid and assistance; if they ever solve it, it will be because they have imitated "Mormonism" again. 

A few weeks ago, I had the privilege of standing, with some of my brethren, in a sacred spot in the western part of New York, in the sacred grove. As we lifted up our voices in song, where Joseph knelt and poured out his soul unto God, my heart was melted and softened within me, and I felt then as I never have before in my life, that Joseph told the truth, the absolute truth, that indeed he did have the glorious vision, that the Father and the Son did stand before him, that he saw them and heard the voice of the Son of God. My heart went out in thanksgiving to have the assurance that Jesus, the Savior of the world, who died for men, who gave His life for us, who is the life and the way, still loves our Father's children, still has interest in them, and did come in the age in which you and I live, and spoke to man again. 

Calling your attention to the remarks of President Robinson, that a great number of educated men disregard all the evidences that have been given with respect to the ex of Christ, throw it aside and disregard it, and even among those professing to believe the Bible there is a lack of faith that Jesus Christ was the Son of God, possessed of the powers He exhibited, according to the testimony of the writers of the Scriptures; I felt to say yes, we could repudiate all that, and yet "Mormonism" would establish the fact that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, that He lives, and that He did, in our own day, appear and talk to men in the flesh. That is our witness and testimony. Although all other evidences may be destroyed, we have this knowledge of Him, that He lives, and that He is the resurrected Son of God, that He is the life and the way. We do not know the means and ways by which He shall bring about the resurrection from the dead, neither do we know the means nor ways by which nature's products, that a few months ago seemed dead, are brought back. The flowers withered, the grass decayed and lying flat upon the earth; no evidence of life in the trees; they all seemed dead; yet, behold, by the magical powers God has organized in the sunlight, and the power of other agencies, here is new life springing up; the tree puts forth its bud, its leaf, the grass springs up again, and there is a complete renewal of that which was apparently dead. I have thought, in this connection, of the fathers and mothers, husbands and wives who have laid their loved ones away stilled in death, the lip that once spoke loving words speaks no more, the hand that fondly caressed us drops with no sign of life in it, and we say they are dead. They shall as surely live again as the tree that slumbers  winter. While they shall not come forth by the light of the sun, that shines and gives life to vegetable nature, yet they shall live again just as really, truly, and certainly as these flowers shall grow again, when He who has the power of life within Him, even the Son of God, the Master of element, exercises that power to raise men from the dead. There is no doubt about that. The world needs the testimony that Jesus is in very deed the Christ, and that our Father in heaven is a reality, a tangible being and not a myth. 

The world also needs the knowledge concerning baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, with the multitude of doctrines and principles relating to this matter! O, what a clearing up of doubt there 1 was on this subject when, 83 years ago, John the Baptist appeared and laid his hands upon the heads of men, conferring tipon them the Aaronic Priesthood, and told them the way and manner by which they should baptize by immersion for the remission of sins, and gave them authority to commission others. I say the world needs this knowledge; the people are wandering in darkness and ignorance without it; and they will never obtain the blessings they seek except by obedience to the law of the Lord, and the authority of Jesus Christ. Neither shall they be able to organize the Church of Christ, and give it all its officers, organization and working perfection, unless they receive authority from heaven, and adopt that method, pattern and system which was given to the Prophet Joseph by the revelations of God. They are seeking to solve the question of finance, for maintenance of their churches. They are not able to do it except they shall take a lesson from "Mormonism." The great Baptist convention in the city of Portland a few months ago spent two days discussing this subject. I had a visit from two of the leading ministers who asked me to explain the system of tithing as adopted by the Latter-day Saints; after hearing my explanation, they readily conceded that it is the only thing. Again, I say, they need "Mormonism" to solve that question. 

Also, in connection with the observance of the fast day. (In this relation, I desire to impress upon the Latter-day Saints at home and everywhere, that we are not, according to the report that has been made by the Presiding Bishopric, doing our full duty in this respect). How can the poor be provided for, and be properly taken care of? The Lord had devised the way and the means, through each and every one of His Saints fasting one day each month, that thereby they may feel the pangs of hunger, and sympathize with the hungry; that they may also be brought to realize, in this experience, their- indebtedness to God for the food they have, and for the other comforts of life As they experience these things, they gratify their feelings in giving to the poor that which they have saved by fasting, and this becomes a blessing to them both spiritual and physical, cultivating magnanimous and generous attributes, by denying themselves and ministering to those who are in need. Instead of our Church showing, in fast offerings.an average of only 17 cents per capita a year, it ought to show, at least, ten cents per member per month; there we would, by complying with this, have saved the Church in the neighborhood of $200,000 last year, that was taken from the tithes to help the poor. Let us set that example, brothers and sisters, in this respect to the world, that they may see how the poor may be provided for; for, if each individual in all the world fasted ±rom two meals once a month, the money thus saved could provide ample' means to care for all the poor in all the world. Let us maintain that standard the Lord has given, so that the world may see the beauty of this thing. . 

So, in my heart, I feel confident as I live that the world needs "Mormonism," and will come to understand it better as the years pass by. I hope that you and myself, and all members of the Church living in obscure wards, or stakes, or elsewhere, that we shall live up to the standard the Lord has given; and by our example, preach a sermon that our words cannot convey. I repeat what I have said before : If we ever convert the world, it will be through our lives, and not through preaching our doctrines, for they will be attracted to our lives long before they will appreciate the truth of the principles that have made our lives what they are. 

God help us, my brethren and sisters, to appreciate these blessed privileges that have come to us, and let us be conscious all the day long that we are pioneers for the rest of the world. This Gospel is for all men, and God has called you and me, and our fathers and mothers, to pioneer the way, to fix the standards, to maintain the cause, come what will or what may, that eventually we may prove a bless not only to our own posterity, but to all the world, as God intended we should, even to aid in the salvation of the souls of men. 

May the Lord help us in this grand and noble labor, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Lo! the mighty God appearing, From on high Jehovah speaks! 

Eastern lands the summons hearing, O'er the west His thunder breaks. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder M. M. Steele. 


