Afternoon
07 04 1912


ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

Easter significance — The Resurrection a matter of faith — Missionary work among the dead — The fathers and the children — "Mormonism" an up-to-date religion — Pre-eminently a Christian church . 

It is with feelings of genuine g'ratitude that I stand before you to add my testimony to those to which you have listened. A more inspiring sight than that before me could scarcely be imagined, and certainly could not be desired. It is doubtful if anywhere else in this great land a larger gathering graces this Easter day. I feel that the Latter-day Saints have manifested most praiseworthy interest in their religion, most commendable sincerity, and genuine devotion to the cause of truth in the attention they have given in this Conference. 

This is indeed a day of days to all Christians. While it is true that the Easter celebration has its counterpart in many pagan customs, nevertheless Easter stands today for Christian belief, profession, and hope. It is the gladsome day of the year; and we believe that in this present year the anniversary comes at very nearly the actual and correct date. It is the anniversary of the greatest event in all history, the most effective miracle known to man — a miracle surpassing all that the mind of man could of itself conceive. It was upon the day we now commemorate that victory over the tomb was proclaimed and the glad tidings of eternal life were made known. 

The Latter-day Saints believe in a literal resurrection of the body. They accept the biblical doctrine 125  all its beauty and simplicity. They do not invest it with foreign mysteries, nor do they read into the sacred record interpretation and meaning not inherent therein. The Latter-day Saints believe that this life is a necessary part of the education of the soul, that it is a stage marking advancement and progression; that only those of the sons and daughters of God who were worthy were permitted to take upon themselves mortal tabernacles upon the earth. They believe that death is just as much a part of the divine plan as is birth; and that death is but a passing from one necessary stage to another yet more advanced. They believe, without question or doubt, that the body and the spirit shall again be united in a literal resurrection; and be it remembered, the resurrection of the body is the controlling thought and the central idea of Easter service. The man who believes in the resurrection of the body must base his belief upon revelation; and the man who so believes is inconsistent if he questions the truth declared in absolute and literal revelation from God. 

It is a fact that we look around in nature vainly for any analogy of the resurrection. I have never been in harmony with the attempts of some to find analogies in nature where they do not exist relating to this great event of such surpassing importance. The egg, which is exhibited as the Easter symbol, has been pointed to as an instance of life after death. It has been said that the coming forth of the bird from the tomb-like recess of the egg is an instance of the return of life from death. The analogy is faulty; the example is not good; for be it  that the egg that can hatch or may hatch is not dead; and if it be truly dead, it does not again come to life. The bursting forth of the buds in the spring time, the putting on of their foliage again by the trees, has been strained by some and pressed into service as another instance of a resurrection from the dead; but I believe that this is equally faulty, for the tree that is dead does not put forth leaves in the spring, and the plant that is dead does not again bear blossoms. The sleep of the insect by which it passes from the crawling larva into the death-like, corpselike chrysalis, from which, after a time, the winged imago comes forth in all the glory of maturity, has been used by others as an instance of the resurrection. But, again, this is faulty and untrue, for the chrysalis is not dead and if it were it would not burst forth into the winged beauty that crowns the sequence of insect life. When we accept these natural occurrences as analogies of the bodily resurrection from death, we are lead to regard favorably also that analogy which some attempt to affirm, that the crucified Christ was not dead, but that He was in a state of coma, or trance, and came out from that condition by a simple process of revivification, and was seen again of men, not as an immortal Being but as a man who had been revived from a faint. Jesus died upon the cross. His spirit was literally and actually separated from His body; that body was not in a state of suspended animation, while still alive, that body was dead in the sense of being an untenanted tabernacle of clay, and it was only by the power of God that it could be GENERAL CONFERENCE.  brought to life. Let us not deny the literalness of the resurrection as made known through the revelations of God. We believe that we shall in very truth die, and that the spirit — that immortal part of man, which existed before the body was framed, and which shall exist and continue to live after that body has gone to decay, that spirit shall take upon itself again this tabernacle of earthly element, immortalized, however, and destined to serve it as a fit garment through all eternity. 

The Latter-day Saints have been charged with great literalness, with astounding simplicity, and as one critic put it to me, with a brutal materiality, in their doctrine. We acknowledge the charge in the sense in which it was meant, although we may object to some of the adjectives. The Latter-day Saints are just so simple-minded that they are willing to believe the Lord when He speaks, and take Him at His word. We rejoice in the hope and the assurance of a glorious resurrection. We rejoice in the work that was inaugurated at that first Easter period, for and in behalf of the dead. For while the body of the Christ lay in the tomb, as we learn beyond question, His spirit went to the spirits in prison, to those who were held in bonds because of their disobedience, to those who had not been privileged to learn of the redeeming efficacy of the Gospel; and He introduced and inaugurated there a missionary labor that has been going on ever since — a missionary work compared with which that which we attempt to do here upon earth, with our two thousand missionaries out in the field, is not even as a drop compared to the . Men are needed for missionary service among the dead. Who are the dead but those who once have lived? God is Lord of both the living and the dead; and all live unto Him. If it be true that the man who is now living cannot hope to enter into the Kingdom of God unless he complies with the simple law and requirement laid down by the author of our salvation, namely, that we must be born of water and of the spirit, that applies equally to each and every one of the uncounted myriads who have lived and passed beyond. 

The doctrine of salvation for the dead came as a revelation to the earth. It had to be made known anew; for while it had been' known of old, it, like many other of the saving doctrines of the Gospel, had been lost sight of and forgotten. The labor in behalf of the dead was cited by Paul, an apostle of old, as an argument and evidence of the resurrection; said he : "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" Throughout the centuries of the deep night of the apostasy, not a single ordinance was performed in behalf of the dead. Yet, the ranks of the dead at that time were increasing by uncounted thousands. We are greatly behind in the work, but the Lord has provided a means by which it shall be done, and by which it is the privilege of those who come in at the door themselves to hold that door open to admit others, others who were once among the living and are now among the dead. 

To me there is special significance in our assembling upon this block, by the great temple that is conse127  mostly to the work for the dead. For be it known that this great , labor of temple-building, for which the Latter-day Saints are so well known and so widely famed, is very largely, though not entirely, a work in behalf of the dead. They are not giving of their substance to erect these great buildings for themselves, for aggrandizement, nor for the beautification of earth. The temple-building spirit manifested among the Latter-day Saints is the spirit of absolute unselfishness; it is the spirit of Elijah, the spirit by which the feelings of the children are turned toward the fathers, and the feelings of the fathers are directed toward the children; for no man stands upon this earth alone. We talk of independence. No man is independent. We are all interdependent; and we shall only rise as we carry others with us, and as we are assisted by others. My own mind is led to that great subject, and I have thought .of it much as I have sat through the exercises of the morning, because of the fact that it was at the glorious Easter time the work for the dead was inaugurated; it was at this season the great missionary labor in the spirit world was begun, and the doors were there opened and a means of deliverance preached unto those who had been sitting in darkness, some of them even from the days of Noah. 

I feel particularly gratified in this opportunity of bearing to you a humble testimony of the divinity of this work, of the sacredness of the labor for which the Church stands. As we heard yesterday, testimony is ofttimes more effective than argument, ofttimes more potent than reasons, as man counts reasons, and  them and collates them, and analyzes them; for, after, all he can only base the correctness of his results upon the assurance that his processes are free from error. Whereas, one who is able to stand forth and say "I know," testifies of himself, because of the knowledge that is within him; and that knowledge is given him of God. This people believe in testimonymaking, in testimony-bearing, in testimony-speaking; and while they do not believe that the testimony of one man shall of itself convict or condemn another, they do believe that a man's humble, sincere testimony is entitled to respectful consideration. The Latter-day Saints tell you that they know that the Gospel is true, for that knowledge has been given unto them; and when a man is able to say, as said the chief of the apostles of old of the Christ, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God," to him does the answer apply, "Flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee, but the Father who is in heaven." And, let that testimony come in what way it will, it has a saving power for man; this is the kind of testimony that abides and abounds in the hearts of this people, and they manifest it in their lives. Jesus came with His testimony, and the people were astounded at His doctrines, not because He brought them something that was essentially new in all particulars; for He used their scriptures; He brought into service their proverbs, and referred to the things which they well knew; but He gave to all of this a new application and a new meaning; and they said: "He speaks as one having authority, and not as the scribes." His discourse was no GENERAL CONFERENCE  compilation of passages. He did not base His doctrines upon what the prophets who had gone ahead of Him had said, though He referred approvingly to many of their inspired utterances; but He spoke from the knowledge He had within Him, and He spoke by reason of the authority that He held; and thus was He distinguished among the teachers of the day, and therefore did He compel attention. 

Such, in a measure is the testimony of the Latter-day Saint Elder. He goes forth in humility. He may, perhaps, not be eloquent. He may be far from learned, as the world reckons learning; yet he is not ignorant, when he is able to stand forth and say, "I know that this Gospel is true." We look upon the scriptures of the past with reverence. We believe that they are necessary to the building up of the church in this day; but we do not depend upon them for our authority, nor for the interpretation we place upon the messages from God. 

We do not believe in living wholly in the past. We believe in an upto-date doctrine, in an up-to-date church, an up-to-date religion, a religion that is ever enriched by new revelation, a church that is in direct communication with headquarters, a church that is receiving through revelation the word of God today, pertaining to the affairs of today. When the proclamation was first made, that direct revelation from God was a feature of modern times, there was consternation in the ranks of the churches of the day; for be it known that when this church was established in the nineteenth century, there was not on earth a church sacred to the name of Christ. There were churches in great variety,  that bore the names of men, organizations as well as buildings established and erected to the name of Peter, and Paul, and Moses, and Elias, churches named after peculiarities of their worship, Presbyterian, Congregational, Episcopalian; churches named after men who had devoted themselves to their establishment — there were the Lutheran church, the Wesleyan church, the Calvinist church. But when it was proclaimed that there was now upon the earth a church sacred to the name of Christ there was fear and trembling manifest among the professors of religion. Consternation entered their souls when that banner was raised; and yet,what other name is appropriate ? The profession of this church is set forth in its name. It is not the church of Joseph Smith, nor of Brigham Young, nor of Joseph F. Smith, nor of any other man or combination of men. It is not the Mormon church, though we do not object to that term which was first applied in derision, except for the possible error that may accompany its use; for it is not the church of Mormon! it is the Church of Jesus Christ. If the name, the Church of Jesus Christ, has been assumed authoritatively, it is of itself ample explanation of the phenomenal rise and development of this church; and if it has been assumed without authority, it is the most glaring instance of blasphemy the world has known. No greater challenge can be given to the world than the name borne by this church. I testify to you that this is the Church of Jesus Christ, that the power of the Christ is in it, the very Christ that lived as a man, that died as a God, the one who was ressurrected, who 129  forth from the tomb with the very body that had been pierced and laid there; that He has again spoken in this day and age of the world, even as had been declared He would speak, that He has again established His saving Gospel among men, and has opened the way by which men may attain salvation and eternal life in His presence and in that of the Father, the only way under heaven by which salvation and exaltation may be attained, the only name under heaven by which man may be saved. 

Strange, is it not, that some have said, in their ignorance, that this Mormon Church is not a Christian church. Not Christian when it bears by authority the name of Christ, who is the author of all that is best in Christianity ? Not Christian — when its great mission is the preparing of the earth for the coming of its King, that same Lord, Jesus Christ? Not Christian — when it is setting before the world an example of self-sacrifice never before known, and all in the interest of Christ and His work? The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is preaching the same doctrine that was preached in the church of old, and is proclaiming- the same great message, Repent, repent; for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. We say that Christ will return to the earth, and literally reign here in Person, that it is His right to reign; and that the church is preparing for His coming. The testimonies to which we have listened, the testimonies to which we do listen in smaller gatherings than this, in the various stakes and wards in the Church, all have the same sound, the same truth and divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the di of the work of the man who was the instrument, in the hands of God, in establishing this Church on the earth in the dispensation of the fullness of times; for this is that dispensation, to which the prophets of old have been looking, for which they have yearned, toward which their desires have gone forth. It is the dispensation of fullness, it marks the ushering in of the great finale of this drama of the Lord. Right thankful should we be that we are privileged to have a name and standing in the Church in this day and to take part in this great work. I am thankful for that name and for that standing, and for the privilege of testifying to you today, as the last and the least of those who have been called to stand before the world at the present time as the special witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ, who verily lives and who verily shall come as hath been predicted, to take His place upon the earth, amongst His people. May His spirit ever guide us, through all the scenes of life, to make us worthy of our name, worthy of our promised destiny, I ask, in His name, Amen. 

"O Divine Redeemer," a sacred song, was rendered by Sister Olive Nixon. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

"The angel said that my name should be had for good or for evil throughout all the nations of the earth." These were the words which fell from the lips of a young boy, a little over three-quarters of a century ago, in the northern portion of the State of New York; and they brought a sneer and a laugh from GENERAL CONFERENCE.  who heard of the words. At that time this western civilization was unknown. I see before me today a sea of faces of individuals who, I doubt very much, could have been gathered together in these valleys of the Rocky Mountains had it not been for the message that that young man had to deliver to the world. No doubt, there are many nations represented here before me today, people whose fathers and mothers prayed for many years, before they gathered to this land, that God would open the way that they might say successfully, "Come let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, where we can learn more of His ways and walk in His paths." 

Seven hundred years before the birth of Christ, God had a prophet upon this earth to whom He opened a vision of the future, and He saw the valleys of the Rocky Mountains. He saw the time when the mountain of the house of God would be established in the tops of these mountains, and that house would be the inspiration that would gather people from .all nations under the sun. When that dispensation was opened, through the visions given and through the inspiration bestowed upon the young man, in the State of New York, it was the beginning of the restoration of all things spoken of by all the holy prophets since the world began. 

During the sessions of this conference, the inspiration of the different speakers has been to bear testimony to the divine mission of the prophet Joseph Smith, and the great missionary work that is going on throughout the length and breadth of this earth. The scene before us strengthens the testimony  President Smith, as he gave it to us at the opening of this conference, concerning the increased strength of this work, arid the falsity of the accusation made by enemies that Mormonism was in a weakened condition or on the wane. There is no weakening manifest when a body of people as numerically small as the Latter-day Saints, through the faith they have in the everlasting Gospel, and in the divine mission of the prophet Joseph Smith, maintain in the nations of the earth, at their own expense — I mean the expense borne by the fathers, mothers, sisters, brothers, and 'wives of the missionaries themselves — an army of missionaries two thousand strong, and are not afraid to send them out among all the churches of the world, with no fear that they may possibly find a religion more true than that which God Almighty has given to our fathers and to us. 

All kinds of weapons have been used against this Church, but God has so arranged matters that every attack, every such weapon has and will contribute to the advancement instead of the destruction of this work. It cannot be destroyed. Its mission is to fill this earth with the righteousness of God, to bring about the celestialization of the earth itself, and to save mankind in the Celestial kingdom of God. From the day of its organization, taking all of the revelations that God Almighty gave to the boy prophet, from that day until now it has been unlike the other churches of the world, it has never seen the necessity of revising its creed. Among those who have made attacks against this work, of recent days, are men who are looked upon as 131  the most eloquent and deeplylearned of men, as well as weapons used in the hands of the most ignorant. Not long ago, a very eloquent, learned bishop of the Episcopal church, in speaking before an audience in New York City, by way of easing the fear of the people that "Mormonism" would amount to something, and as an argument that it would not, stated that there was not a scholar among the Latter-day Saints. (I believe that he did give Elder B. H*. Roberts the credit of knowing a little bit; but he said that very easy indeed.) I don't know what that individual would have done, or would have said, if he had lived when Christ Himself dwelt in mortality, and as He went along His way saw the illiterate fishermen drawing in their nets and had witnessed the Master call His ministry, saying to Peter "Come, I will make, you a fisher after men." If the good bishop is here today, I would not have him think for a moment that I say this by way of a reflection upon his great wisdom. I only make mention of it that he might perceive how little Christ knew about how to call men to the ministry. The Almighty has always taken the simple things of the earth to confound the wisdom of the mighty. The principal education He requires is the education of humility, of meekness, of faith, and of purity, with these qualifications wisdom will follow. These are the materials the Almighty can handle. And some of these ministers who are so much concerned about this thing, how much better would be their position, if they are really anxious for the salvation of our souls, if they would ask for the privilege of occupying this pulpit, and from  word of God try to show the Latter-day Saints that faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is an obnoxious doctrine, that repentance from sin is not true, that baptism by immersion for the remission of sins is not a doctrine of Christ, that the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands was not taught by the ancients; these are principles ,of Mormonism. You do not hear from their lips arguments against our faith, but tirades of abuse against our good, humble, and great leader, and others who have been leaders in this Church. 

Brother Talmage quoted the words of Christ to Peter, "Whom do men say that I am?" And after Peter had named the different characters who had lived upon the earth whom men said that He might possibly be, and when Christ had asked him directly "whom sayest thou that I am?" which brought forth the answer, "Thou art Christ, the Son of the living God," then said Jesus, "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto you, but my Father which is in heaven; and I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock" — this knowledge that came to Peter that Jesus was the Christ, the means whereby He received this information — "upon this rock will I build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." The Catholic world says that it was built upon Peter; the "Mormon" Church says it was built upon that principle that conveyed to Peter the knowledge, the truth that Jesus was the Christ. This Church is built upon that foundation of revelation from God, and we have the promise from our Father that it shall stand forever, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to be thrown down or given to another people. I tell you that it cannot be broken to pieces. 

The difference between this and all other faiths is that one man in this Church has just as much right to know that God lives, to know that Jesus is the Christ, to know thaj: Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, as any other man. It is built upon that testimony; and that is the reason we are so strong. To the stranger who may be present, I will say that if this question should be placed to this congregation, How many know for themselves, just as well as the President of the Church here knows, that Juseph Smith was a prophet of God, — oh what a testimony would be presented to that stranger; at least nine-tenths of the congregation would respond that God Almighty had revealed to them the truthfulness of this Gospel, and that they do not rest upon the testimony of any other. That is where my testimony is planted. I know for myself that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that this is not the work of man. I know that we are living in the dispensation of the fulness of times, when God has promised that a people shall be prepared for the reception of His Son, when He comes to the earth to reign in glory. This is my testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM G. THACHER. 

(Late President of Holland Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, it is certainly a pleasure to me to have this privilege of bearing my testimony to so many Latter-day Saints. I trust, the short time I stand before you, that I may be dictated by the 

Spirit of God. I desire your faith and prayers that I may say nothing contrary to the doctrines of Christ. I realize and sense fully the words of the Apostle Paul when he said, "Though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other Gospel unto you, than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed." 

I have been very much instructed by the remarks of those who have spoken today. I have been built, up in my faith in the Gospel of Christ. I know that this is the Church of Christ. I realize that Jesus came upon the earth, that He lived, and that He preached repentance unto the children of men. 

Today, hundreds of thousands ot Christians are celebrating the anniversary of His resurrection from the dead, but many thousands of £hem do not believe in a literal resurrection of mankind. Though they are celebrating His resurrection, yet they do not understand that mankind will be raised from the dead with bodies of flesh and bones. Christ told us that He was an example for us in all things; and while these professed Christians claim to believe in Jesus Christ, yet they deny that mankind will again stand upon the earth, in bodies of flesh and bones as tangible as that which we now possess. "If the dead rise not all, then why are ye baptized for the dead," said the Apostle Paul. You know that the tenor and burden of testimony of the apostles of old, after the death of Christ, was that He was raised from the dead; that, after He had preached to the spirits in prison. His spirit and body were again reunited, and He appeared unto Mary and unto the apostles, also that He 133  unto a multitude of others, and taught the disciples that they should go among the nations of the world and preach repentance, and belief in God and in the Son of God, Jesus Christ. 

We, as Latter-day Saints, have been gathered out from the four quarters of the world. We have accepted the message that Jesus Christ has again spoken from the heavens, that the Gospel is restored, and again the authority of the holy Priesthood is bestowed upon mankind. This authority is here in our midst. We have come here, gathered from the nations of the world, and now I ask you, my brethren and sisters, is it worth while living in accordance with this Gospel, this Gospel which is said to be the power of God unto salvation? Now that we have been baptized, now that we have received the gift of the Holy Ghost, is it worth while keeping the commandments of God? Too many of our young men and young women, and even some older ones, are becoming indifferent to this Gospel message. I have been told that at meetings held in one of the eastern cities, against this people, erstwhile members of this Church are attending those meetings every Sunday evening. They have become cold to the Gospel, and are seeking the bread of life from a place where no such bread can be had. Oh, my brethren and sisters, I would that I had the voice of an angel to cry unto you the necessity of living the Gospel according to the doctrines therein taught unto us. This Gospel is the power of God unto salvation, if we will live it. It is given to help us to reach the celestial kingdom of God. Shall we  away this means of salvation, and fall short of that high place which God in His tender mercy has provided for us if we will obey His commandments ? I tell you that the reason some of our young men and young women are indifferent to the Gospel is because they have not obtained a knowledge of it. Fathers and mothers, teach your young people in your homes, teach them to acquire a knowledge of the Gospel, teach them that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that Joseph F. Smith is a prophet of God, and that the Apostles and those who are in authority in the Church are men of God, holding the keys of this dispensation. If you will instill knowledge into their hearts, while they are young, they will not go astray as they grow up. 

The Gospel in the Netherlands is progressing. There are many thousands of honest souls in that land; and while there is much prejudice among that people, because of the slanders traducing the chraracter of this people, it is difficult to bring a knowledge of the Gospel to them. Yet they are generally charitable, and will listen unto you. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that there is a great future for that mission. There are thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands there who will yet receive the Gospel. Never have I found a people in any land or nation, or among any people, apparently so well prepared to receive the Gospel as Hollanders are, or so willing to listen to the message of repentance and salvation. I want to say to these fathers and mothers who have sons in that mission, that there is no better place on the earth GENERAL CONFERENCE.  they can labor. Every opportunity is given to them to develop in a knowledge of the Gospel, and to work and progress in ability to proclaim it. I say unto you that there are many who will be raised up to befriend your sons who are doing missionary work there. Encourage your boys to work energetically, and they will see fruits of their labors. The present president of that mission, Bishop Eardley, is a man of God, and he is a man with whom you can trust your young men. I look for the work in that land to grow even faster than it nas grown in the past. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel well in the Gospel. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and I know that Joseph F. Smith also is a prophet of God. I have known him, I have seen his work, and I know whereof I speak. I know that these men who are called to be Apostles, and Seventies, and High Priests, in this work, are men of God, and that they will lead you in truth and righteousness into the celestial kingdom of God, if you will give heed to their counsel. 

I pray God to bless you and bless this work, that it may grow, and that the day may speedily come when rigteousness will reign supreme upon the earth; and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

Later generations in the Church as faithful as the first — Jesus Christ the type and evidence of the resurrection — Obscure passage of Scripture explained — Individual identity retained  eternity — God's blessings invoked upon Priesthood and people. 

I say, in all candor, that I am sorry we can not have another day or two in which to continue our Conference, but it would not be wisdom to do so, under all the circumstances. There are many of our brethren whom you would delight to hear, and who are indeed a tower of strength in testimony and knowledge of the principles of the Gospel, who would be delighted to address you, if opportunity would permit. Our brethren of the presiding Seventy, will be deprived of the opportunity during this Conference of speaking to you, which I regret quite as much as you or they do, and I am sure you all regret not to have the privilege of hearing them; but I cannot see how the time could have been more wisely, or earnestly, more intelligently, or profitably, spent than it has been. 

We have had testimonies here from those who mark the third generation of Latter-day Saints, anc^ I am satisfied that there is no one other, perhaps, than the Prophet Joseph Smith himself who could have borne more powerful testimonies of the truth or could have told the truth more clearly, plainly and forcibly than it has been told by these young men who are of the third or fourth generation of Latter-day Saints. I want to say to you that there are thousands of young men in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints of the third and fourth generation of members of the Church who can bear to you, as firmly and as strongly, their testimony of the divinity of this work, the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and of the mission of the Son of 135 

God, as any of their fathers or fore- fathers could have done. 

When men predict evil concerning the children of Zion, they become false witnesses before God. It may be true that many of the children of the Latter-day Saints will lack understanding, will fail to improve their minds and their opportunities. It is not at all unlikely that many of the children, whose parents have neglected to teach them in their childhood, will grow up in a measure indifferent to the work of God, but those who are taught the truth will receive it and will abide in it; and there will be sufficient numbers of these to carry on the work of God, to leaven the whole lump; that the leaven of the Gospel shall be carried, as it is being carried today, to the uttermost bounds of the earth, and every nation, kindred, tongue and people, will yet have the privilege of hearing the Gospel from the mouths and from the inspired testimonies of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth generations, of the children of this people. It is the duty of Latter-day Saints to teach their children the truth, to bring them up in the way they should go, to teach them the first principles of the Gospel, the necessity of baptism for the remission of sins, and for membership in the Church of Christ, teaching them the necessity of receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, which will lead them into all truth, and which will reveal to them things that have passed and things which are to come, and show to them more clearly those things which are present with them, that they may comprehend the truth, and that they may walk in the light as 

Christ is in the light; that they may have fellowship with Him, and that His blood may cleanse them from all sin. 

Speaking of the resurrection, the subject on which so much has been said during this Conference, and appropriately said, too — we distinctly believe that Jesus Christ Himself is the true, and only true type of the resurrection of men from death unto life. We believe there is no other form of resurrection from death to life; that as He rose, and as He preserved His identity, even to the scars of the wounds in His hands and feet and side, that He could prove Himself to those that were skeptical of the possibility of rising from the dead, that He was indeed Himself, the Lord crucified, buried in the tomb, and raised again from death to life. So it will be with you and with every son and daughter of Adam, born into the world. You will not lose your identity any more than Christ did. You will be brought forth from death to life again, just as sure as Christ was brought forth from death to life again, just as surely as those who ministered to the Prophet Joseph Smith had been raised from death to life — therefore, in the same manner in which Christ has been raised, so will life, and the resurrection from death to life again, come upon all who have descended from our first parents. The death that came into the world by Adam's transgression has been conquered, and its terror vanquished by the power and righteousness of the Son of God. He came to redeem man from the temporal death, and also to save him from spiritual death if he will repent of his sins, and will beGENERAL CONFERENCE.  on the name of Christ, follow His example, and obey His laws. You may read it in the greatest plainness in the Book of Mormon, in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, as well as in the New Testiment, and in the predictions of the ancient prophets concerning the coming of the Son of God and His resurrection from death to life. Paul used the argument that has been recited here a number of times : "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all ? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" 

Why did Jesus teach the doctrine that there was no marrying, nor giving in marriage in the other world ? Why did He teach the doctrine that marriage was instituted by the Father and designed to be accomplished in this life? Why did He rebuke those who sought to entrap Him when they brought to Him the example of the fulfillment of the law of Moses, for Moses wrote the law that God gave him, that if a man married in Israel and died without issue, it was the duty of his brother to take his widows and raise up seed unto his brother; and when seven of these brothers — ( which is doubtless a problem that these men put to the Savior in order to entrap Him if they could) — had taken her, to whom should she belong in the resurrection, since they all had her? Jesus declared to them, "Ye do err, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God." They did not understand the principle of sealing for time and for all eternity; that what God hath joined together neither man nor death can put asunder." (Matt. 19:6); they had wandered from that principle. It  fallen into disuse among them; they had ceased to understand it; and consequently they did not comprehend the truth; but Christ did. She could only be the wife in eternity of the man to whom she was united by the power of God for eternity, as well as for time; and Christ understood the principle but He did not cast His pearls before the swine that tempted Him. 

Why has the Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in this dispensation, that great and glorious principle of baptism for the dead, the principle of turning the hearts of the children to the fathers, and of the hearts of the fathers to the children; that the fathers could not be made perfect without the children; that the children could not obtain a fulness of happiness and joy, nor become perfect, without the fathers? Why did He teach us the principle of eternal union of man and wife? Because God knew that we were His children here, to remain His children forever and ever, and that we were just as truly individuals, and that our individuality was as identical as that of the Son of God, and would therefore continue so worlds without end. So that the man receiving his wife by the power of God, for time and for all eternity, would have the right to claim her and she to claim her husband, in the world to come. Neither would be changed, except from mortality to immortality, neither would be other than himself or herself; but they will have their identity in the world to come, precisely as they exercise their individuality and enjoy their identity here. God has revealed this principle, and it has its bearing upon the evidence that 137  possess of the actual, literal resurrection of the body, just as it is and as the prophets have declared it in the Book of Mormon. Now, that is the faith of the Latter-day Saints, and that is the doctrine of this Church, as taught in the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, the Bible and the Pearl of Great Price; and we are willing to stand by it; and our children, and our children's children after us to the latest generation, will abide in this truth, for it is founded on revelation from God. 

Now, this is my testimony, and I know, just as my brethren know and have said, not any better than they do — for some of my brethren who have spoken here have told my own faith and my own testimony, and my own conviction, better than I could do it myself; for they have had the language and power of expression, to convey the truth better than I ever could have done it myself, and I believe their testimony — I know they have told the truth. The Spirit of God bears record of it in my heart. And when I hear my brethren teach these things, when I hear them bear testimony of the truth, it melts my soul, and I glorify my Father in heaven for the truth he has put into the hearts of my fellow-servants and co-laborers, in this great and glorious cause of human redemption in which we are so earnestly engaged. 

Let me conclude by saying to you what I have said many times, and what I hope I will ever stand by. I would a thousand times rather go to my grave as I am, with the convictions that I possess, than to falter for one instant in that which God has revealed to me. It is more than mortal life to me. My stand in the Church is worth to me more than this life — ten thousand thousand times. For in this I have life everlasting. In this I have the glorious promise of the associations of my loved ones throughout all eternity. In obedience to this work, in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, I shall gather around me my family, my children, my children's children until they become as numerous as the seed of Abraham, or as countless as the sands upon the sea shore. For this is my right and privilege, and the right and privilege of every member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints who holds the Priesthood and will magnify it in the sight of God. Without it there is death and desolation — disintegration and disinheritance; without it there may be a chance to become a ministering spirit, a servant unto servants throughout the endless ages; but in this Gospel there is a chance to become a Son of God, in the image and likeness of the Father and of His only Begotten Son in the flesh. I would rather take my boys and my girls to the grave, while they are innocent, than to see them entrapped in the wickedness, the unbelief, and the spirit of apostasy so prevalent in the world, and be led away from the Gospel of salvation. 

I have lived here some seventy odd years, and I have had a purpose in life, and I have been steadily plodding on toward the accomplishment of that purpose. I have not been able to do any great thing. I do not feel capable of doing any great thing. Whenever, if ever, I say a word that is acceptable to God, whenever I speak His truth, it is by the presence and influence of His Spirit, and it is to His honor GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to His glory that I do it. I never have taken any honor unto myself. I want no honor; I claim none except that of being a member of the Church of Christ, the honor of having a standing unsullied, undented, unshaken, and immovable, in the kingdom of my God and His Christ. That is all I want; and I mean to have it, by the help of God. I have gone too far on this road to turn back. I have held the plow too long to look backward in the furrow. I am going on and up, by the help of the Lord, and to the best of my ability, until 1 fill my mission and accomplish my work, whatever that may be. I thank the Lord for the Gospel; I thank Him for the testimony of it that I possess, and for the testimony that my brethren possess. That, to me, is worth more than gold, or silver, or precious stones. It is worth to me more than all the honors of the world to know that my brethren have the testimony of this Gospel in their hearts and that they know the truth, as they have said it here. There may be those who know it much better than I do, if only they have larger conception and comprehension of the truth, and greater capacity to receive and comprehend it. They may go much farther than I can, perhaps, in this world; but I hope to live long enough in eternity to catch up with them, if I can. 

May the Lord bless this people; and in the name of the Lord, and by virtue of the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood, which holds the keys of all the spiritual blessings of the Church, I bless the Latter-day Saints and our friendis '(gathered here, and also the Latter-day Saints and the people of God everywhere,  the intermountain states and throughout all the world. God bless His people — make them rich in the knowledge of the truth, in humility, in meekness, and willingness to obey the word of the Lord and keep His commandments, and help them to keep pure and unspotted from the world, and at His own pleasure and time those afar off may be permitted to gather to the house of the Lord where they may enter and administer not only for their own temporal and eternal union and exaltation, but where they may enter and administer for the salvation and exaltation of their kindred who have died without the knowledge of the Gospel. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

President Smith then read the report of the auditing committee, as follows : 

AUDITORS' REPORT. 

Joseph F. .Smith, Anthon H. Lund and Charles W. Penrose, Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ cf Latter-day Saints: 

Dear Brethren — We, the auditing committee of the Church, beg leave to report that we have examined the books and accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust, the Presiding Bishop's Office, as well as other institutions of the Church, for the year 1911, and are pleased to report that we have found the books and accounts methodically and accurately kept according to the most approved style of modern book-keeping. It is also our pleasure to say: That in our opinion the revenues of the Church were expended for the 139  that are strictly legitimate, and along the lines that are for the welfare of the whole community. Respectfully, 

W. W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Joseph S. Wells, Heber Scowcroft. 

President Smith then made the following comment : 

And this is but a very brief report, of their full report, which covers thirty-two pages of data and commentation in relation to their researches into the financial affairs of the Church; and in every respect this simple report is corroborative of their report in detail. 

It was announced that the daily recitals on the great organ, to which the public is admitted free, will be resumed on 22nd Inst. 

The anthem, "Heavenly Father, we would worship," composed by 

Prof. Joseph J. Daynes, was sung by the choir, Sisters Margaret Summerhays, and Esther Davis rendered the solo parts. 

Benediction was prononunced by Elder James Duckworth. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the conference meetings in the Tabernacle, on the 5th and 7th, and Prof. John J. McCellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the ' discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. 

Duncan M. McAllister, 

Clerk of Conference. 

HISTORY OF THE 

Church 

Compiled by the Church Historians and published by the Church. 

SIX VOLUMES NOW READY 

Completing the First Period. 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the History by the First Presidency to secure the widest possible circulation. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth — Embossed, per vol $1.50 postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per vol. 2.50 

Half Calf— Gilt Top, per vol 2.50 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge, vol. 4.00 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 

THREE IMPORTANT 

NEW BOOKS 

The Restoration of the Gospel 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE, A. M., Principal of the Latter-day Saints' High School. With an introduction by Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the Twelve. 

Adopted by L. D. S. Correspondence School for Missionaries. 

Bound in cloth, 75c post-paid. 

How to Teach Religion 

By JOHN HENRY EVANS, A. B., Instructor in English at the L. D. S. High School, Salt Lake City, Utah; Author of "One Hundred Years of Mormonism," and P. JOSEPH JENSEN, A. B., | Head of the Department of Education at the | L. D. S. High School, Salt Lake City, Utah. Endorsed by the Quorums of Priesthood through their committee. Cloth binding, 75c, postpaid. 

Joseph Smith's Teachings 

A classified arrangement of The Doctrinal Ser^rnons and Writings of the Great Latter-day Prophet. 

Compiled by EDWIN F. PARRY, from the authorized History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Cloth, 75c, postpaid. 

Deseret News Book Store 

No. 6 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







