Second Overflow
07 04 1912

Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder Heber J. Grant presided. The Twentieth ward choir again furnished the musical exercises. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Hark! ten thousand thousand voices 

Sing the song of jubilee! Earth, through all her tribes, rejoices— 

Broke her long captivity. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Richard K. Thomas 

An anthem, "The Holy Temple," by Joseph J. Daynes, was sung by the choir. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

Our beloved President Joseph F. Smith, said, in the beginning of this Conference, that every faithful Latter-day Saint was entitled to the spirit of revelation to guide and  him in paths of righteousness, and to instruct him pertaining to the Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in his early ministry, declared in power to the people who listened to him a similar doctrine, that every one who would repent and be baptized for the remission of his sins should know that he was a prophet, and that this work was of the Lord. This is in harmony with the Master's words recorded in the 7th chapter of John, beginning with the 16th verse: "Jesus answered and said, My doctrine is not mine but His that sent me, and if any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of Myself." This doctrine of revelation has been true in every age of the world when the Lord has had a people upon the earth, or servants commissioned to do His will. It is true in this day when the glorious promise has been given that there will never again be a time when there will not be men and women who will have and enjoy the spirit of revelation, and know that God lives, and that His Church and Kingdom is in the earth. 

In the meridian of time our Savior established His Church. He delivered the principles of life and salvation to all who would listen; but the world was not ready for the consummation of all things. The Church and the officers established by the Master were changed, and the ordinances, of the Gospel also were changed. Instead of Apostles, Seventies and Elders, popes, cardinals, and other officers were created. Instead of the simple principles, much of heathen religion was grafted into the church. Following the primitive days came a time of darkness, and after the darkness a day of reformation. The Lord inspired mighty men, Luther, Calvin, Huss and others, who arose in behalf of religious liberty and gave to the world much light and much freedom all in harmony with what was predicted should come to ' pass. Through many great men, and much tribulation, the world was prepared for the light of the restored Gospel and the establishment of the Church in the last days. Closely following the reformation, the Pilgrim and Puritan fathers came to this glorious land of liberty, that they might worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience; but though these Puritans, Pilgrims, Baptists and others like them came to gain liberty in worshiping God, they quarreled among themselves, and separated in religious factions; but in their jarring they learned much that has been good for us in this day. After gaining liberty from England, following a long struggle, good men and wise were selected to form the Constitution of the United States. Some of those men were so illiberal in their ideas pertaining to religion that, for a time, they refused to have a prayer offered in the constitutional convention; but the motion of John Adams finally prevailed, and a good churchman was selected to offer a prayer, that their minds might be moved upon to frame a constitution that would secure liberty to all who would come to this land. 

As Latter-day Saints we believe that our Father in heaven looked down in tender mercy with an answer, and that the Constituion of this glorious country was inspired  God. Our Father prepared this nation and inspired its laws, that He might establish a people in the land of promise that would teach principles of truth and righteousness. He likewise sent His heavenly servants to ordain men to the Holy Priesthood to officiate in the things of God. Since the establishing of this work we have been under persecution, notwithstanding our right to worship as we please. Satan has done his utmost to thwart the purposes of our Father, and from the time he attacked the Prophet Joseph in the woods, during that first prayer, he has attacked almost every other thing that has been done under inspiration from heaven. The Prophet Joseph, in his day, had gone through so much persecution that he said, when he was in Nauvoo, that "puny man might just as well put forth his arm to stop the Mississippi river in its course as to try to stop this glorious work of our Father." Men cannot stop it. It is not man's work; it is the work of the Lord. He has established it. He is at the helm, and has ruled and overruled all things for its onward progress. 1 am thankful, my brethren and sisters, that I know that it is decreed that this work will be bigger tomorrow than it is today. Every Latter-day Saint who has kept the commandments of our Father, and done His will, knows of the doctrine. The young men of Zion who go into the world, with little experience, just as soon as they do the will of the Father, or strike a blow for truth, learn that this is the work of God. They stand forth boldly before the world, and proclaim it to their fellow men. They proclaim it in power and simplicity, and their  cannot be refuted, for it is the truth. 

On one occasion a gentleman said to me, "Where did you get your authority, Mr. Ellsworth?" I told him I was ordained by so-and-so, who was ordained by some one else, and he was ordained by . Joseph Smith, and Joseph Smith was ordained by Peter, James and John. "I don't believe it," he said. I responded, "That does not affect the truthfulness of the ordination; and may I ask, can you trace your authority so far? I have a connecting link to heaven, while you trace your authority transmitted by a few men, and they self-ordained." These young men who go out from Zion bearing testimony that God has established this work, may not be believed by the world in general, but it is true nevertheless. The Latter-day Saints, both at home and abroad, can lift up their heads and look the world in the face and rejoice in the glorious truths that have been given, and rejoice that they are privileged to be Latter-day Saints is very deed. I think it is a privilege and a blessing above all blessings that have been given upon earth to the children of men. We have a right to sing a new song, to rejoice in the truth, and put forth our best efforts in our work. 

The Book of Mormon that was given to the world has been one of the greatest witnesses concerning the divinity of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. While the world at large, has not accepted it, yet they cannot disprove its divine authenticity. Every man who has distributed that book, by selling it or otherwise, has sowed good seed. It carries a strong power of testimony and conviction of the truth, and  in the world who have received that book in their homes have been softened in their feelings towards the Latter-day Saints. I am thankful beyond words for the opportunity that I have had in distributing this great testimony concerning the divinity of Christ. In the Doctrine & Covenants, we are given an admonition not to forget it, and not to forget the teachings given therein, and those who do will be under condemnation. I firmly believe that book is one of the greatest witnesses our Father has given in the last days to bring the world to believe in Christ, the Lord. Our friends in the world profess a belief in Christ as the greatest religious teacher; but it is truly a revelation to them to tell the story that Jesus Christ, who was born of Mary, was, in fact, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh. The Book of Mormon is most powerful in its testimony concerning the birth of Christ and His divine origin. It will help the world to know Him, and to receive the spirit of revelation in their hearts. It will help them to know that our Father has a work in the world that will save His children if they will but listen and obey. The last few years, in the United States especially, there has been a great work done in testifying of the truth of the Book of Mormon, and I rejoice in the spirit that has been manifested, and the work that has been accomplished. There have been upwards of 175,000 copies of the Book of Mormon distributed in the United States alone, and it is pleasing to know that the spirit of the book follows it in to the homes of the people. In almost every home where one of these books has been left, our Elders find if not a friendly feeling that the spirit of animosity and hatred has been much lessened. 

I rejoice to know that the work in the Northern States mission is increasing and that the people are looking with much favor towards the west and towards the Latterday Saints. They are singing our praises concerning the material work that has been done in this part of the earth; and while they do not know that religion is the foundation of this great material success, yet in a few years, I am firmly convinced, they will discovei that true religion has been back of and underneath this great movement. That it is God and His power and influence that have been the cause and motive power permeating all this wonderful work. 

The world has not been able to destroy the work. The time is past for that, and the time is fast coming when they will be led to see that the truth is with us. The world contains many honest people, and their hearts are warm towards any good work that has gone forth in the world. They are doing much to care for the sick and afflicted, and the poor among them. They sympathize with the distressed and those who mourn, and they seem to be feeling after the truth. I believe we can look in favor upon them, and let our hearts, go out in love toward them. Though we were driven from Missouri, and banished from Illinois, we can continue to send our sons and daughters, fathers and husbands back to them, with hearts full of love, and plead with them to repent, and worship God, and believe in his Son Jesus Christ as the Savior of the . We will continue to do that, for we can never convert them in any other way. Thousands who have reviled us have done it ignorantly, and thousands of those who have persecuted us have thought that they were doing God's service. The Latter-day Saints have no animosity in their hearts. They are sending their sons and daughters back to the very homes from which they were driven, and to the very states that banished their fathers and mothers. 

I rejoice to have the privilege of laboring in that part of the world from which we were driven. We have found many honest men and women there, whose hearts are true, and we are growing more and more to love our brethern and sisters in the world, and to labor among them with hearts full of compassion and sympathy. Our Elders have gone to those cities, states, and counties from which we were driven, and the honest men and women are listening to their message, and receiving, by the spirit of revelation, a knowledge that this is the work of our Father in heaven. 

I have had the privilege of laboring with about a thousand young men, and a few young women missionaries, and I do not believe that I can put my finger on one that has gone astray. Almost without an exception they have proven themselves true, and their testimony has gone straight to the hearts of the honest, and they can stand, rejoicing, this Easter Sunday, in the presence of a risen Redeemer. I feel in my heart thankful that we have a testimony of the truth, and have the privilege of bearing it to the children of men; that we do know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that He has spoken in these last days to His servants and given unto us a message of salvation. 

May we appreciate the position that we occupy in the world; and may the prophets of the Lord who stand at our head live a long time upon the earth, and be magnified in the eyes of the people. May they be given power over the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, that we may attain the full standard in the work that God requires. May the mothers in Israel impress their sons and daughters with the feeling that they are indeed the children of God, and that upon their shoulders rests the responsibility of proclaiming to the world that Jesus is the Christ, that He has started a work, a marvelous work and a wonder, the work of our Heavenly Father for the salvation of the souls of men, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM M'LACHLAN. 

(President of Pioneer Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very grateful, indeed, for the privilege of being a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. Upwards of fifty years ago I became attached to the "Mormon" Church; and from the year 1863, in which I arrived in the City of Salt Lake, I have been a steady worker, though not so active as I would like to have been, in the Church. In the light of fifty years experience, or over, there is only one regret upon my mind, that Is that I have not done more good, and been more useful in the hands of the Lord in helping to establish His work. 



We are told by the Redeemer of mankind that "no man knoweth the things of God save by the Spirit of God," and that is the only means through which we receive a testimony and knowledge of the truth of this work, If there was no other evidence today that Joseph Smith was a prophet, that would be sufficient to convince me that he was sent of God. The doctrines that he taught, the promise that he made to the people, that if they would do the will of the Father they should know of the doctrine whether it was of God or whether he spoke of himself, is also 'convincing proof to me. I can testify for myself that, after being baptized for the remission of sins, I received a knowledge of this work, that it was of God, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet sent of God, and that every revelation that is recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants is evidence of the divine mission of that man. I have never in my life from the day I was baptized into the Church until now, read anything that would compare with the revelations given in the book of Doctrine and Covenants and the Book of Mormon. The light, the intelligence, the wisdom and the understanding that are communicated in these revelations to Joseph Smith, in his early youth, are inspiring to me. He grew rapidly in wisdom, and accumulated knowledge and understanding that were surprising, beyond anything that we have on record outside the history of the Redeemer of the world. 

Men and women, if they will live their religion and keep the Spirit of God, will not deny the truth of this work. Men or women when they sin will lose the testimony of the Spirit of God, it won't stay with them, and we are ourselves to blame if we get into this condition. It is not the Lord; it is not His servants or any one else, but the agency that we received from God is the cause of it, in that we were given to do as we please, and that agency permeates the spirit and genius of this work. When we come up before the Almighty to receive sentence for the deeds done in the body, how will men stand who have borne testimony of this truth and afterwards denied it? Can they say that they never had this testimony? N<§t so, but they will come under heavy condemnation from the Lord. 

There is everything in this work to encourage men and women to be loyal and true to it. We will grow, we will increase in faith, in humility and in every good work, while we cherish and cultivate the Spirit that comes from the presence of our Father. Let us be faithful; let us be true Latter-day Saints. Let us look after our children There is an immense work to be done in this city and in all the stakes of Zion. There are many thousands that need to be looked after, We want to save our posterity, our boys and girls, by setting before them a good example, teaching them correct doctrine, and leading them, by the influence of the Spirit of God, in the path of life and salvation. May God help us in this work, that our boys and girls may grow up in the faith of the gospel, and become mighty in the hands of God in the establishment of His great work in the earth. This is the greatest desire of my heart, to see the children grow up to be true and faithful Latter-day Saints. 

God bless the Latter-day Saints, and bless our bretheren who stand at the head to direct the affairs of this work in which we are engaged. I pray that God will sustain them in the future, and bless them even more abundantly than He has done in the past. I have all the faith and confidence possible in these men, I wish to sustain them by every word and deed of my life, because I know that they are men of God, and that they seek the interest and welfare and blessing of the people, not only of the Latterday Saints, but, as Brother Ellsworth has told us, they seek the salvation of all mankind. This spirit of liberty and tolerance should exist in all of us, to labor for the benefit of the children of men. The mission that we have today is broad and deep, and it takes into consideration the whole human family, no matter what race they belong to. We have got to labor for their redemption. It is the work that the Savior commenced, and that is handed down through Joseph Smith to you and to me. May God help us to faithfully perform the work that He has assigned to us, individually and collectively, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN F. TOLTON. 

(President of Beaver Stake.) 

It may be somewhat surprising to the stranger within our gates that, during the proceedings of our conference this day, there have not been more references made to the occasion which the world recognizes as one of the greatest events in the whole year that of Easter Sunday, commemorating as it does, in their minds, and in their forms and man of worship, the rising of our Lord and Redeemer from the grave. We recognize as a people the importance of that great event. We recognize it as one of the essential principles in the redemption of the human family, for without the resurrection from the grave there would be no salvation for the sons and daughters of men. We do believe that the great event celebrated on this occasion should overshadow others, for we recognize in it, as I said, one of the essential principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. To our minds it adds testimony and truth to the divinitv of this work; and we believe that all men should ever bear in mind, not only on this one occasion of the year, but every day of the year, the life and divine mission of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, for He came into the world and gave His life that men might live. 

We believe in the divinity of Christ. We believe that He was ordained to come forth in the meridian of time, to establish His work in the world, that men might understand the great plan of salvation which His life represented to them. We believe that in the establishment of His church He gave unto the world a set of principles that are not only calculated and intended to make better men and women in this life, but also to prepare us for the great life that lies beyond the veil. If we consider but one instance or one principle in the great catalogue that has been given unto us, we are not doing justice unto those other principles which are essential for the salvation of the human family. This day is being recognized, as I stated, by all Christendom, and all the sermons, perhaps,  the Christian world that are being delivered from the pulpit today, are based upon that one great and divine truth, that Christ is risen from the grave, that He has burst the bands of death, and- that He has brought to man immortality and eternal life if we will live according to the gospel which He established in the world. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that there is one failing that some of the Latter-day Saints manifest, that is lack of Sufficient interest in gaining a perfect understanding of all the principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe that many are becoming lax, in a manner, with regard to our duties, with regard to understanding the great principles of eternal life; "for this is life eternal, that we may know thee, the only true and living God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent," Without that knowledge we cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. So in this world of enlightenment, in this age of the world when men are following the lines of least resistance, many are seeking after the pleasures of this world and forgetting the responsibilities that rest upon them as the servants and handmaidens of God. 

We are given a mission in life, and that is to understand the purposes for which we were created, what our earthly mission is, and what is the destiny of man. We cannot understand these things without first seeking for light and truth, without studying the scriptures that have been given unto us for our edification and information. In the early rise of the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave unto his people, and unto the Elders of the Church, some of the cardinal principles by which they were to be governed in seeking for light, and knowledge, and intelligence. We have been accused by the world of being an exclusive and ignorant people, of being a people who inclined to not reach out into the revelations of science and thought according to modern age and usage. The fact is, if we would follow the instructions that have been given unto us b> the Prophet Joseph Smith, there is no people in the world who should be broader minded, or be better prepared to understand the conditions and purposes for -which mankind have been created, and placed upon the earth, than the Latter-day Saints. Let us read one declaration and see if that bears a spirit of exclusion. The Prophet Joseph gave unto this people this exhortation : 

"That you shall teacn one another the doctrine of the Kingdom; teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; of things both in heaven and in earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land, and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms." 

Now, if we attempt to follow out this injunction, and prepare ourselves as Elders in Israel, as ministers of the gospel, as teachers of righteousness, as followers of - the meek and lowly Jesus, there is a vast deal of labor in which we may engage, wherein we may secure our vindication and the conversion of  world. Are we doing that, my brethren and sisters? Are we following those injunctions that have been given unto us by our prophet? 

If we examine the character of amusements and entertainments that are being presented to us today, I fear that we will find we are falling short in the performance of our duties in this respect. There is a wonderful change that has taken place during the last decade, or so, in the character of the amusements that are being provided for us in the various communities in which we reside. The day of the legitimate drama has almost become obsolete, and in its stead has sprung up the numerous moving picture shows and vaudeville. Many of our people, citizens of this and other states are wont to waste their time and means in frivolous amusements. Much of our time might be better occupied in studying the history of nations, the wars and the perplexities, and the different subjects expressed in the injunction that I have read to you, rathei than following the frivolous pursuits that many of our people are now indulging in. Pursuit of pleasure accomplishes nothing that is desirable, those who indulge therein show that they are at least mentally inactive or mentally lazy. I am afraid many are not studying the scriptures as we ought, not studying history, and not informing ourselves upon the great plan of salvation that God has revealed for the salvation of His children. We should be faithful and energetic in our lives remembering that we are not living for ourselves alone, but that we should be working also for the betterment and the conversion of the world to works of righteousness. If we are God's , as we claim that we are, then we are like a light set upon a hill that cannot be hid; the world is looking at us, and we should honor and magnify our calling. We should teach the gospel of Jesus Christ, not only by precept but also by example. 

I pray the Lord to bless us, to strengthen us in our work, give us a living testimony of its truth, that we may not only bear record on this one day in the year, that Jesus Christ has risen, but bear that testimony each of the 365 days of the year, that our lives may be examples of righteousness, and that our skirts may be clear from the blood . of this generation, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

O, say what is truth? Tis the fairest gem 

That the riches of worlds can produce; 

And priceless the value of truth will be when 

The proud monarch's costliest diadem Is counted but dross and refuse. 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I trust my brethren and sisters, the few moments that I occupy this position that I may be influenced by the Spirit of the Lord, that our time spent here may be of mutual benefit, that we may enjoy the privilege we have of meeting together. 

I have listened with interest to the remarks of my brethren all during this conference. Out in the Central States, one of the worst winters that has ever been known in that country has just closed. From Dec. 

25th until two weeks ago we have had snow almost over the entire country, with the exception of the far south. In Independence, Mo., snow fell 26 inches deep two weeks ago this morning; it fell in a little more than twenty hours. These conditions have handicapped the missionary work in that section of the country to some extent. The people are suffering greatly. The southeastern portion of Missouri was, and I suppose it is now, under three feet of water, overflow from the Mississippi. The entire south land along that great river, unless something takes place in a few days to prevent, will be under water everywhere. The levees close to Memphis, Tenn., have given way. People are fleeing to the high ground. 

My thoughts at the time I visited in that section, concerning the conditions that exist there, along lines of industrial affairs were like these : How beautiful it would be if people living in this country understood the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and would migrate to a land where there is no danger of overflow, where they would not be tried and tempted with starvation. I tell von, in the homes of these people there are thousands that are not many meals ahead. Commercial clubs and other associations are gathering the people upon higher land, little knolls, and carrying them from there to places of safety. The Lord has greatly blessed the "Mormon" people. When He gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith revelation to lead this people to the Valleys of the Mountains, He understood exactly the conditions that would exist and the events that would happen, during the time that the members of His Church would be working in order to prepare a people to receive Him. Joseph Smith's prophecies are being fulfilled. He said that the people would have to come to Zion for safety, and this is taking place. Men are leaving their homes for some cause or another, and lots of them are coming to this western country, because of the spring flood that is sweeping all through that country. People here do not understand what deep water is, really know nothing about it. When a stream of water as large as the Mississippi river bursts its banks it carries everything before it, covering ten or fifteen miles of land, in some places 15 feet deep, Men, women and children have to leave everything that they have on earth, including their homes, perhaps forever, for when they return they may find them to have been swept away and the face of the country changed or removed entirely. 

As I contemplate these things, I wonder if we realize and understand the blessings that we enjoy here in this part of the country. The Saints have been given special privileges, revelations, and commandments that enable us to otercome evils that prevail elsewhere; and that we may live according to the light of truth the Lord has placed Prophets, Seers and Revelators among us. He has placed officers in the church for the benefit of our children and for our benefit, that we might better observe the law and walk in the ways of the Lord. The Lord gave unto Moses commandments, and told him to teach the Israelites that that which the Lord had revealed was for them and for their children forever and ever, that they might observe the . We send out missionaries in great numbers, and give much time and attention to the establishment of the purposes of the Almighty in the earth, both at home and abroad, but show me a man or a woman who has ever taken an active part in the "Mormon" church, for the establishment of the principles of righteousness, that has ever been the loser, either at home or abroad. I tell you the man who labors either in his ward, in his stake, or in the missionary field, enjoys the spirit and the power of the Lord that is not known among the children of men at all, they do not know what it is, they cannot comprehend the sweet spirit and influence that accompanies the Elder of Israel. 

During the past winter some Elders in the Central States, who had faith that they could preach the gospel entirely without money, have lived out among the people in the severe Winter weather. When it was 20 degrees below zero, we told our boys to come into some town, and take care of themselves. I know some Elders who had faith enough to deliver the message of glad tidings and great joy, during this past winter labored all the time out in the country districts, and have not used any money, and have been taken care of all the time. We had two Elders awav out in Western Kansas, who had been sent out there by the conference president to visit some people who had written for the Elders to come to them, and the trains were blockaded and had not been moving for a week, and these boys went on sometimes as far in two days as a passenger train would run in one. It was a very remarkable thing. They were  in the country absolutely without friends, so far as they knew, but the Lord took care of them. I don't know of any people in the world who have greater evidences of God's favor given to them than have the Latter-day Saint Elders, either at home or abroad. I want to refer you to the 84th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord has made a promise therein that is very wonderful, and that applies to any man who is called to carry the testimony of this Gospel into any land or clime, and under any circumstances, if he will do his duty as- a servant of the living Lord. He says : 

"Behold, I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous 'deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come; and whoso receiveth you there will I be also, for I will go before your face, I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my spirit shall be in your hearts and mine angels round about you to bear you up. Whoso receiveth you receiveth me, and the same shall feed you and clothe you an'd give you money, and he who feeds you or clothes you or gives you money shall in nowise lose his reward." 

Again : 

"Any man who will go and preach this Gospel of the kingdom and fail not to continue faithful in all things shall not be weary in mind, neither _ darkened, neither in body, limb nor joint, and a hair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed; and they shall not go hungry neither athirst." 

Now, the Father and the Son, appeared unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, and he has testified to us and to the world that he saw two heavenly personages, and the one addressing the other, said: "This is my Beloved Son, hear Him." He testified this unto men who lived in  day. Men living in this day have heard these men testify that they heard the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He has recorded his statements, and the Lord has given us this book of commandments for your good and for mine. When the call comes to go into the ward or abroad, no matter where, (to use a modern expression) "it is up" to that individual to receive the call, to prove whether he believes the word of the Lord or not, whether he is sincere or otherwise. 

I repeat, the "Mormon" people are the most blest of any people under the sun. This land of ours produces beautiful crops in abundance, that are not surpassed in the world. The valleys of the Nile are not any richer, if they are as rich as these valleys of the mountains. The Lord took His people out from Missouri, and He took them over the Mississippi and westward to this country, for a purpose, that He might establish them here, that they might grow in numbers and increase in faith until He could accomplish through them His work of redeeming the souls of men from their fallen state. He sends forth men, at home and abroad, to bear testimony of Him, and declare the message of repentance and remission of sins. He gave unto Hyrum Smith this commandment, that he should teach nothing but repentance unto this generation, and T tell you that the longer I live the more need I see for that doctrine to be preached. The Lord loves His children, men and women, in all the world. He organized the earth, and placed us here, and sent His Son, who did rise from the dead, that He might be Lord of the living and of the dead, and estabGENERAL CONFERENCE.  through Him the laws and ordinances by obedience to which we might return unto the Maker, by which we might govern our lives, and prepare ourselves for eternal life. 

The commandment and law contained in the 18th chapter of Matthew gives us to understand that there is more rejoicing in heaven over the return "of one sinner than over ninety and nine righteous. He spoke it in a parable so that we might understand it more easily. He said, I love mercy and not sacrifice, I came into the world not to call the righteous but the sinners to repentance. As long as there is one son or daughter of His, one man who will listen unto His Gospel there will be His servants to preach it, for He loves His children more than any man can conceive. There will be no happiness in earth or heaven, among men or angels, without the redemption of the whole human family, and men can be redeemed only through becoming acquainted with what the Lord lias for us to do, as made known in His Gospel. He said, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that no man can be saved in ignorance, and that that person who receives more knowledge and intelligence than another in this world would have that much the advantage in the world to come. All men will stand before God to be judged of the deeds done in the body. No man can escape the judgment of Almighty God, and that His judgment may be just, He has sent His Gospel that every living creature and every one who is in the spirit world, may receive the Gospel if they desire it, that they might learn for themselves and intelligently select either to their ex or their condemnation. We are told that some are resurrected unto life and some are resurrected unto condemnation, according to their works. The Savior said, "By their fruits ye shall know them; a .good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither a corrupt tree good fruit." 

I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that the longer this work continues in the earth the stronger it grows. Our boys and girls at home, who may be a little careless, some may say, are worth taking care of; they have been located in this blessed land, and they are precious in the sight of God. I do not think that things happen by chance, or come by chance. I believe that the spirits of our children were ordained to come forth in this day and age of the world; that it was understood by our Father in heaven, and their "times and their habitation," according to the Apostle Paul, was "aforetime appointed." None of us come here by chance. These boys and girls who grow up here in this atmosphere, in this glorious land, are worth caring for. The principle of charity must and shall be exercised among our people until we shall be able to govern and control in righteousness. It is doubtful if any man would go astray if he knew in his own heart absolutely that it would result in his damnation, that it would destroy his soul. Men are influenced by environment, and by others of stronger will power, and often he himself is undoubtedly too easily led; but the Lord is not willing, so Peter says, that any should perish, but that all should come unto Him, for, He said, "God is no respecter of persons, but in every 101  he that feareth Him and worketh righteousness is accepted of Him." 

I bear testimony that I know that God does live, and that Jesus is the Christ, and that the work of God is established here in the earth; and I know those men who stand at the head of this Church are God's noblemen. They were "aforetime appointed" among the great spirits that the Lord saw, according to Abraham, gathered together, when He said, "These I will make my rulers and my leaders." And I tell you they work. I saw an example of that in what Brother Grant did last fall, when he rode nearly across the continent to make one little speech, but an important one, that took him about an hour only. He left a field of labor where he was needed, and rode a long tiresome journey to fulfill another appointment whereunto he had been called. By their works these brethren keep you and me in line, and help us to grow better, and establish faith among the children of men. You should pray in your hearts that they may be sustained by the Spirit of the Lord. Men and women in a ward should pray for their Bishop, that he may have power, that he might have revelation given unto him for their benefit and the benefit of the ward, that all may enjoy the spirit of the Gospel as Latter-day Saints. Pray also for the president of the stake. Pray for the Church, and for the work of the missions in the world, that those who sit in darkness and unbelief may be led to the knowledge of the truth. Pray that we may leave nothing undone that would assist in bringing about the redemption of mankind, and particularly  nothing may be done on our part that would hinder them from receiving the Gospel. Elders rejoice to know that you are praying for them. Some of them, when they go out unlearned and unaccustomed to meeting men, are inspired by your faith in your pleading to Almighty God. I pray that they may be brave fearless and strong, men of wisdom and of power, that they may feel the authority of their office and calling to the glorification of the Church, and be blessed of God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Wlliam H. Russell sang the hymn, "Joseph the Seer," as a baritone solo. 

ELDER FRANK Y. TAYLOR. 

(President of Granite Stake.) 

I have enjoyed exceedingly the sessions of the Conference, that which has been said, and the spirit that has accompanied the brethren who have been making remarks. The thought that has caused me to rejoice very much at this Conference has been that suggested by the words of good cheer and hope that have been given us relative to the beauties of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I feel that there is, everything that is good, noble, pure and blessed connected with the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I think that we ought to appreciate it, and comprehend it : and we ought to give glory to the Lord for the many blessings that we receive under the teachings that come from the Gospel. 

I like the spirit that is optimistic about anything; I am not impressed GENERAL CONFERENCE.  a spirit that is pessimistic. I like to hear things well spoken of, and to hear men and women well spoken of. I have met very fewpersons in my life but what I could see something good in them, some act they have done that was commendable; and I have met this kind of a person in the world, who has the happy faculty of seeing the bright side of people's nature, and the good that is in them. How much happier we would be if we would practice this in our lives, and if we would do as Brother Bennion said we should do, speak well of those who preside over us. I think that we should never forget, on the Sabbath day or any other day, to speak about some of the beautiful things that are connected with the Gospel to those that we come in contact with. Especially ought this to be so in our family circles. There is virtue and beauty enough in this Gospel to delight everybody. When I get a little blue, and want to be cheered up, I go to the Scriptures, and I invariably get consolation and happiness reading the life of our Savior, for His life is enough to cause everybody in this world to rejoice, and see the beauties and blessings that life holds forth for us. I frequently take the Bible, or the Book of Mormon, and read of His mission upon this earth, of His ministry, and of His goodness; and it seems like that, in almost every word that He utters, there is a sermon that will benefit us in our lives, and we can at least find something there that will apply to us, for we need building up and increasing in our faith. 

I enjoyed the remarks of President Smith, in the beginning of this Conference, wherein he showed  to this people the beauties of this Gospel and the grand character of the man whom the Lord honored in establishing it here in this generation, the Prophet Joseph Smith; and when the song was being sung so beautifully by Brother Russell relative to the Prophet Joseph (it happened to be my father, President John Taylor, who wrote this poem) when he said he "loved to dwell on his memory dear," how true that was! While I have never seen the Prophet Joseph Smith, yet I believe that I have had his personal appearance, even the color of his hair, pictured to me until, if I were an artist today, I believe I could paint his picture from the impression that my father gave me of that grand and noble man, when I was a little fellow at my father's knee, and as I grew older in years, because I dearly loved him. I never heard my father speak of him only as the most noble man that he had ever seen or known. I thank the Lord that he painted this picture to me, for I know from the impressions that he gave me, and from the Spirit of the Lord, that the Prophet Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of the Lord our God. 

I am thankful that, around our fireside, my father was accustomed to magnify the servants of the Lord in our sight, so that we love them, and honor and respect them. I thank the Lord when I look back upon the life of Brigham Young, that I saw in him everything connected with his life that was' meritorious. If I could onlv practice the things that he taught and examphfied it would make me a good man in life. I delight to know that around our fireside, the Prophet Brigham Young was magnified in 103  sight until we love his memory, and admire the beautiful characteristics of his soul. It is true also that, at my father's fireside, the other men that have held positions in the Church, were always held up to us as true and good and noble men. 

I want to say to this congregation I believe it would be a good thing if we, at our firesides, were to magnify the men who are called to hold positions in the Church over us, so that the young people will be more likely to appreciate them. I testify that you will find enough that is good in these men, you find enough that is praiseworthy, so that you will save your boys and girls if they will be influenced to walk in their footsteps. I think we should follow this practice of seeing the good that is connected with the Gospel and the Priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ, and not take the statements of the world against our leaders. We should testify, ourselves, to the goodness that is within us, and let our boys and girls who are growing up in these valleys of the mountains know and feel that we have the truth, the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that has been revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in its purity, and that there is everything in it to save them and make them noble and good, if they will follow in the practice thereof. I do think that it is right and proper that we should always, around our firesides and at our gatherings, speak of that which is good in our leaders, particularly before our children, and we ought not to be guilty of magnifying the faults, or imaginary failings, of these men or women before our children and young people to their detriment or hurt. 

We should hold them up before our. young people so that when our boys and girls meet them on the street, or any place they may see them, they will look up to them and respect them. If we will do this, it will be a blessing to our children, and it will be pleasing in the sight of our Heavenly Father. I know, as far as I am concerned, that I have never at any time known men to speak ill of any of our leading brethren, but it has left a bitter taste in my mouth. I have pleasure in standing up for these men, because in them I know I can find virtue and truth, and I have rejoiced when I have stood up in their defense, for I felt like a man in doing so, and I feel that if I would be guilty of speaking evil of and defaming these men I would be a coward. 

We should teach this kind of principle in our gatherings, so that the Latter-day Saints who are holding positions in the Church may be sustained, that they may have our faith and prayers, and that our young people should look up unto them with pride and respect. I can remember when I was a little fellow, when President Brigham Young used to take trips down to southern Utah for winter, and come back up here in the spring, with what pleasure, as Sunday school children, we used to line the streets and welcome back the prophet of the Lord. We were taught to look upon him as a prophet, and always honor him as such; and I feel that this kind of faith should exist throughout the Latter-day Saints in all the world. We should not give credence to the reports of our enemies in connection with this people; on the other hand, we should take pleasure and happiness in extolling their virtues, and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  goodness, so that our boys and girls might point to them with pride, and seeing one of them can point to him and say, "That is an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ," and honor him in his place — "That is the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a noble man." When our boys and girls are taught thus to look at him and see him, they will honor him in his place and in his position. 

I feel that it would be a splendid thing if, in all the households of the Church, all the people would honor those who preside in the Church, particularly in regard to our Bishops, men who are laboring faithfully and truly for the good of the people, who have no other object or purpose in view only the salvation of souls and the good of the people, How a Bishop would rejoice, and how he would enjoy his ministry, if all the people living within his ward would continually be patting him on the back and saying good things of him. He may have done many good things, but many of us are so critical that we observe only the bad thing that we imagine he has done; if he stubs his toe he is sure to be noticed. We should set an example by which these men should be magnified in their position in the minds of the people. I was in one ward where the young people had been taught to take off their hats when they met the Bishop, and I thought how respectful it was when they met the Bishop on the street that they doffed their hats to the Priesthood — not to the man who occupied that place so much, but to the position and Priesthood that he held. I felt that they honored him in his place, and I tell you this Bishop had joy  happiness in his ministry, and he felt that the people were backing him as they should vlo. We owe it to them, my brethren and sisters, that we sustain, honor, and respect them, and that we labor with them to the very best advantage we can for the advancement of the work of the Lord. 

I think it is a splendid habit to get into, to say good things of our people, to say good things of our country, of our nation. I was recently visiting a stake of Zion where the president of the stake has the happy faculty of seeing the pleasant side of everything in his stake, of the soil, of the people', of the horses and cows, of the climate and everything there is. I rejoiced to see that he had that kind of a spirit. I was recently in one of his meetings, and he pointed to a young man, and said, "Do you see that young man there?" "Yes." "He is the finest baritone singer in Utah," Pointing to another he said, "There isn't the equal of that young lady in playing the piano." And he saw the virtues of all of his people. He was visiting my home a while ago. He had a horse. He said, "Do you see that horse; it is the best puller in all our county." He had the habit of saying good things, and of seeing the good in all that surrounded him. The result is that he sees the good that is in his people, and the nice things in all the young folks around him, and he is not accustomed to pointing out their faults and mistakes. I am sure there is enough virtue and goodness in people's lives here upon the earth that might make us happy all the time, if we will see it. There is enough virtue in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that we can have much 105  in our lives if we will contemplate it and point it out. 

I think the Latter-day Saints ought to be reading these Scriptures at their fireside. They ought to be reading the history of the Prophet Joseph Smith, so that our boys and girls may comprehend the goodness that was in him, and not be taken up with the falsehoods that are told about him by the people of the world, as well as about others of our leaders, which we read in newspapers, magazines and so on. I feel that we should offset this by showing up the virtue and the goodness of things around them. This should apply to our home, and all of our daily surroundings. What a beautiful home it should be, where the father is accustomed to appreciate the beauty, pleasure, and happiness of his wife, and speak of it to his children, and magnify in his home, at his fireside, the virtues and graces of his wife. What a splendid thing it is when the wife is accustomed to stand up in defense of the husband, and speak of him in honor before the children, so that the children shall be accustomed to look upon their father with pride, to look up to him as the choicest and best and most noble man in the wide world. If we will do that, the Spirit of God will be in that home, peace will abide there, and the blessings of our Heavenly Father will attend the inmates in that which they have. There is goodness and virtue enough in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Within these valleys of the mountains there is enough good soil and good principles for all of us, if we will only accustom ourselves to seeing them, happiness may thereby radiate from us all around. I like to see a man honor his home and honor his . I like to see a man that is "for Utah." When I go out from here, I tell you I feel thankful when I re-cross the line and return to the home of my birth,. I am for Utah; I am for the valleys of the mountains; I am for the Latter-day Saints; I am for the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I am for all that is virtuous and good and true and noble in the world. I hope that I will not be guilty of pulling down my country; I hope that I will not be found guilty of speaking against those who preside in the nation; I hope I will not be guilty of pulling down those who preside in the state, or the city wherein I dwell. I can find enough virtue and goodness in them so that I can magnify them and help them out in their positions in my humble way, and I believe that this is what the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ expects of us. It is expected that the Latter-day Saints shall be happy in the land where they dwell. It is expected that they shall dwell in peace and happiness with their neighbors and friends. I hope that they will always seek to find in their neighbors, and in their friends, and in the land where they dwell goodness and virtue; if they will, they will always be possessed of happiness within their soul. 

I hope that the Lord will give us of His Spirit, the spirit of this Conference, that we may go to our homes and speak good of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and that we may see and speak of the virtue in those who preside over us. I am sure that we can see splendid character in the man that presides over us at the present time. I love to be in his society. I love to see his pleasant countenance, and to observe his GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and his exemplary life. I know that he is a man of God, worthy of our faith and worthy of the support and defense of every man in Israel. I stand up for him; I feel proud of him, from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet, and so with the others of our leaders in this Church. I feel proud that we have a man to preside over us who is like the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am proud of our young men, our Utah boys. I don't care where these boys may be found, whether upon the s^a or upon the plains, or upon the mountains, or wherever their footsteps may take them, every boy that belongs to the Church of Jesus Christ will hold up his head and say, "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ." They feel that it has power and spirit within it, and feel proud that they belong to such an organization, and that they are associated with such a people as this. 

May the peace and blessings of God abide with us. and may we have a testimony ever burning within our souls, that this is the truth. I know that Jesus is the Christ; I know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, and that this work that we are engaged in is God's work, and will never fail. In the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDEE HEBER J. GRANT. 

The Father and the Son positively revealed in this age — The Spirit, and testimony of the truth, withdraw from transgressors. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly in the testimonies that have been borne to us during our Conference. I feel that we have had a time of rejoicing and that the Saints have been fed the bread of life. I rejoice in a  of the Gospel and of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. I rejoice that we have the testimony of the risen Redeemer given to us by men who have lived in our day. 

We find recorded in the 76th section of the Doctrine and Covenants the following testimony: 

"For we beheld the glory of the Son on the right hand of the Father, and received of His fulness, and saw the holy angels, and they were sanctified before His throne, worshiping God and the Lamb, who worship Him forever. And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of Him, this is the testimony last of all, which we give of Him, that He lives, for we saw Him even on the right hand of God, and we heard the voice bearing record that He is the Only Begotten of the Father; that by Him and through Him and of Him the worlds are and were created and the inhabitants thereof, and begotten sons and daughters of God." 

We are not dependent upon the testimony of men who lived many hundreds of years ago, but we have the testimony that is given to us from the Prophet Joseph Smith, and from Sidney Rigdon that they saw the Son, that they heard the voice declare from the heavens that He was the only Begotten of the Father, that by Him and of Him the worlds were created, and that He lives, for they saw Him. 

We rejoice in a knowledge of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We rejoice in those who have been faithful and diligent in serving Him, and in knowing that each and every individual who keeps the commandments of God grows in the light and knowledge of the gospel. We rejoice in knowing that no man or woman ever loses the testimony of the divinity of this work in which we are engaged who keeps the com107  of God. To me one of the greatest and strongest evidences of the divine character of the work in which we are engaged, (so far as the natural faculties with which God has endowed me are able to comprehend and understand) is that as men become careless, become indifferent, as they break the Word of Wisdom, as they neglect their meetings, as they fail to teach their children by precept and example the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that they turn away from the faith, the Spirit of God is withdrawn from them, and they are left in darkness. If men and women could neglect the duties devolving upon them, if they could do those things that are forbidden, and still grow in the knowledge of the Gospel and the testimony burn in their hearts, it would stagger the reasoning facculties with which God has endowed me. On the contrary, I have discovered that when men serve Him and keep His commandments, that they grow in the knowledge of the truth, that they grow stronger and brighter through the rich outpouring of His Holy Spirit. 

I pray that all the remarks which have been made during this conference for the benefit of the Latterday Saints, the instructions and admonitions that have been given may sink deep into our hearts, that we may live honest lives before God, in "the payment of our tithing and meeting all our obligations to God and man; that we may support and uphold our institutions to help build up the manufacturing interests of our state, and that we may be Latter-day Saints in very deed, that the world, seeing our good deeds, may be led to investigate the Gospel and embrace the truth. 

I pray that all these teachings and instructions that have been given for the betterment of the Latter-day Saints may find a lodgment in the hearts of those who have listened, and that the Saints may go forth from this conference with a determination in their hearts that they will serve God with more diligence in the future than they have ever done before; this is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"Send out Thy Light," by Gounod, was rendered by the choir. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Wilford Woodruff. 


