Morning
07 04 1912

Conference adjourned until Saturday, April 6th, 10 a. m. In the Tabernacle, Saturday, April 6th, 10 a. m. 

Conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

The Brigham Young University choir, of Provo, and soloists, under direction of Prof. Anthon C. Lund, with Prof. Claire Reid at the great organ, rendered the musical numbers at the morning and afternoon sessions of the conference, this day. 

The B. Y. U. choir sang the hymn : 

O awake! my slumbr'ing minstrel, Let my heart forget its spell; 

Say, O say, in sweetest accents, Zion prospers, all is well. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Hugh J. Cannon. 

The choir sang an anthem, entitled "The earth is the Lord's." 

ELDER HYRTJM M. SMITH. 

Gratifying condition of mutual confidence in Church Leaders and members. — Utah people urged to sustain Utah products and manufactures. — Vital statistics of Church evidence superiority of its members. — Physical power or weakness of parents transmitted to offspring. — Long life and health insured by keeping God's laws. 

I am very desirous my brethren and sisters, of enjoying that good spirit, while I speak, that the brethern have enjoyed who have already spoken in this conference. My heart has been full of gratitude,  I have listened to the words which have fallen from the lips of the Lord's servants. It is a splendid thing to have presiding over us, men of undoubted integrity and unswerving faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and the utmost confidence, as well, in the Latter-day Saints, who have taken upon themselves the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and have covenanted with Him to serve Him and keep His commandments, and to labor to build up His kingdom and to spread a knowledge of the everlasting gospel among the children of men. It must certainly inspire us, as a people, with confidence in the leaders of the Church when we hear them bear such fervent testimonies of the truth, when we are unable to detect the least degree of doubt, or unbelief or uncertainly in their remarks concerning this great latter-day work. I rejoice to have part with them in the work of the Lord, and to be numbered with the people of God in this dispensation. I rejoice because of the general faithfulness of the members of the Church, and because of good works that the Latter-day Saints have done and are doing, and I live in hopes that the work shall progress in the future, and that our accomplishments shall be greater in the cause of Zion as time goes on. 

My mind has been occupied with a great many thoughts, since the conference convened, and it is a little difficult to gather such of those thoughts as would perhaps be the most beneficial to utter. However, I suppose, that a Latter-day Saints general conference, would not be entirely complete unless some few words were spoken about our home industries. I have visited the "Utah Products Exhibit" that is now on display in the Vermont Building, and I presume very many of you have likewise been through that building, looking at those products of our state. I was gratified in seeing what has been accomplished by way of producing here at home the necessaries and comforts of life. I was filled with a little greater pride in our State and in the people whose industry has brought about these results. We are certainly a favored people, in this part of the earth. The Lord has given us an incomparable climate; He has planted our feet upon the richest of soil. We have, the climate and the soil, and the water,and through the favor of God the proper blending of the elements that make for the production of those things that are beneficial and necessary to sustain life. Of course we have to make preparation. If we are tillers of the soil, we have to fertilize it, plow it, cultivate it; we have to select the seed and plant it with care, and watch it during its term of growth; and when this is done, almost invariably, our harvest is bounteous and our labors prove profitable. The fruits of our orchards are unsurpassed in excellence. Nowhere in our country, or in any other country, can there be produced better fruit than here in the valleys of the mountains; and the products of the farm, and field, and of the flock and herd, likewise, cannot be surpassed. 

We are yet in our infancy with respect to the mill and the factory r and yet our mills and factories are now making many of the essentials and luxuries of life, which should fill us with gratitude to know that they are being manufactured here — things which have been imported very extensively heretofore. Now, I am a believer in producing at home everything necessary for our comfort and welfare as far as it is possible, and I am not a believer in importing those things which we ourselves can either produce from the garden, or the farm, or the orchard, or can manufacture in our various industries. I feel that those who have made this exhibition are worthy of commendation, and that no higher commendation could be paid them for their energy than to mention the good work they are doing, in a conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I noticed the sign in the cabinet containing the products of the Knight Woolen Mills of Provo. It states that if every citizen, or individual who lives in the State of Utah would purchase one yard of the fabrics manufactured in those mills the company would not have to go out of the State for their business. I am satisfied that you cannot go out of the State and purchase better fabrics than are being manufactured now in the Knight Woolen Mills. I am satisfied, too, that everything that bears a Utah label is, or ought to be, the equal of, or an improvment upon a similar product no matter where it may be raised, manufactured, or put up; and the time should come — it ought to be here now, and should have come long ago — when the things produced at home will be sought after and accepted, and demanded before anything else. Then it will be the same with respect to every industry, every home product, as with the woolen mills at Provo, that if we were to patronize them and support them, and use the products of our State, all of our present manufacturers, and many others, who will go into the manufacturing business, will find a splendid field for their operations. I commend again to the people of Utah, "Utah products" and I repeat the old old story that has been so often told from this stand, Let us patronize, support, and sustain our home industries, our home made goods, and give encouragement to those who have the determination or even the inclination to go into the business of producing at home the necessaries of life for the support and sustenance of our bodies and the making of our homes comfortable and pleasant. 

Now, much more could be said upon this subject but time will not permit, inasmuch as I would like to say a few words upon another subject which, also, except it was touched upon by some one of the brethren during our conference, the conference in my opinion would not be exactly complete. I want to speak just a word or two upon the question of the Word of Wisdom, another old story among the Latter-day Saints, but one, notwithstanding that it is "an oft told tale," has not altogether been learned to the extent of being remembered and practiced by all of the Latter-day Saints. 

I was greatly interested last evening at the Priesthood meeting in hearing the report of Brother Wm. W. Riter, chairman of the Auditing 

Committee of the Church, and of Presiding Bishop Nibley, concerning some of the statistics pertaining to the Latter-day Saints. I wish to refer especially to those statistics which had to do with the birth rate and the death rate among the Latter-day Saints. These statistics showed that the birth rate was high when compared with the birth rate of the country at large, and that the death rate was correspondingly low among the Latter-day Saints when compared with other peoples. It was stated that there are thirtyeight births per one thousand members of the church. I presume these figures refer to the stakes of Zion. It was also said however, that the rate is not as high as it ought to be among the Latter-day Saints; still it is high; but as long as it is not as great as it ought to be, I desire to encourage the Latter-day Saints more faithfully in fulfilling this great law that God has given, viz. multiply and replenish after our kind. To beget children, and rear them in the fear and admonition of the Lord, is one of the chief purposes of our being. The statistics show that, if we have thirty-eight to the thousand born in the Church, last year it means there were more than 12,500 children born among the Latter-day Saints. Then it was shown that six percent of these children died before they were one year old. We were likewise told that the death rate among children under one year of age, in civilized countries, was twenty per cent, and that 25 percent died before they reached their fifth year. 

Now six percent is very low when we merely consider the percentage; but if there were more than 12,500 children born in the stakes of Zion last year and six percent of them died within the year what does it mean ? It means that nearly 800, or well on towards a thousand of our little children, died before they were one year old; and that, after all, is a great calamity, a serious condition nearly a thousand children among us dying before they reach the age of one year. Untold sorrow and suffering have been endured by the fond fathers and mothers and families of these little ones who are taken from them in their infancy. Now, in my opinion, this is a far greater death rate among little children than should occur in the midst of the Latter-day Saints, and I believe that if the Saints would more fully serve God and keep His commandments — in other words, observe the laws of life and health — that far fewer of their children would die before they are a year old. A great many of them who now die would live, not only till they are a year old but live to grow and mature to manhood and womanhood, and become a strength and a power in the midst of the Latter-day Saints. 

Our death rate was 8.6 per one thousand of our members. And that is a very low estimate, when compared with the deaths occurring about us in our country. When we look at the figures it means that two thousand eight hundred forty one Latter-day Saints died last year — of numerous complaints, various kinds of diseases, and by accidents and other causes, many of which troubles might have been avoided or overcome if the laws of God had been more faithfully obeyed. Thus an army of Latter-day Saints were destroyed last year largely as a re of disobedience to the laws of health. 

Out of this number it was stated, however, that three hundred ninetyeight (398) died of old age. It was held up that this is a very remarkable showing, nevertheless it is not the showing that we ought to make and must eventually make as a people. 

Our death rate must become much lower than that; and the percentage of those who die of old age must be greater than that. The time must come, and will come in proportion as we begin to serve God and keep His commandments, observing the laws of life and health which He has given, when most of those who die among the Latterday Saints will lay down their bodies of old age, after they have fulfilled the full mission for which they have been created. We had a very renowned lecturer in our midst a short time ago, who declared that the three great plagues that decimated the race and destroyed life were : war; lust; and narcotism; and that the latter was destroying more lives than war. Now we are exempt from death to a very great degree, as a result of war. We are at peace, thank God. We are a peaceful people. We abhor bloodshed. We desire peace, that it shall prevail among men. And the second plague, I also thank God from the bottom of my heart, is not the cause of very many of the deaths among the Latter-day Saints, namely lust, which causes unspeakable misery and the death of untold thousands of people in our country and other civilized countries of the world; for as a result of evil and immoral practices children are born subject  disease and are unable to cope with sickness when attacked. They come into the world handicapped. They are, some of them, deformed, some of them blind, many of them deaf, some are lame, and a great many are imbecile as a result directly of the immorality and lust of their progenitors. I say thank the Lord that this cannot be charged among the Latter-day Saints as the cause of many of the deaths in our midst. But I am not so sure about the third plague, namely narcotism, the rise of so-called alcoholic beverages, intoxicants, the use of tobacco, and various drugs, and the use of tea and coffee. 

I believe it can be shown that a great part of the little children, who die among the Latter-day Saints are born of parents who have transmitted to them, before their birth, the elements of weakness and disintegration as a result of their disobedience to the commandments of God, in partaking of the things forbidden in the Word of Wisdom. It is folly for men to suppose that they can break the commandments of God and that they will not suffer for so doing. Immoral practices of every kind stain and corrupt and defile those addicted to them, and likewise leave their mark upon the children; and their children, thus handicapped, have not the vitality, they have not the power to resist the inroads of disease and infection, and various kinds of trouble when they break out in our communities. On the other hand children of parents who have been true and faithful to God, in the keeping of His commandments, are endowed from their parents with stronger bodies and greater vitality and ability to with more successfully by far these things when they are attacked.- "The iniquities of the fathers shall be visited upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me," saith the Lord. The men and women who can be called them that hate God are the men and women who repudiate His laws and break His commandments, and defy Him by their disobedience. "But I the Lord will show mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments." Therefore those who serve the Lord and keep His commandments, walking in His paths, observing the laws of life, transmit to their children the vigor, power, and strength to live and to grow, and to complete and fulfill the object for which they are sent into the world; and that object is to live. 

God is the author of life, and not of death. He wants His children to live. Why, we are told that His very glory is to bring about the life, even the eternal life of man; and the Lord is anxious that we live in mortality successfully and long, and thus be better prepared to enter into eternal life in the hereafter. I would like to see the children of the Latter-day Saints so born — and they are entitled to be so born — that they may be exempt from these contaminating things and these destroying diseases that take away so many lives from among men. I am satisfied that only in the keeping of the commandments of the Lord can this be brought about; I am satisfied that by the keeping of the commandments of the Lord the prophecy of God shall be fulfilled, that in due time as the result of obedience, children born shall live to be as old as a tree. None shall die until they die of old age, having fulfilled the measure of their mortal creation. Therefore, I exhort again the Latter-day Saints to live the law of God known as the Word of Wisdom, that they may enjoy and receive the promise of health and long life, and marrow in their bones, the power to endure, to run and not weary, to walk and not faint, and to put themselves in the condition where even the angel of death shall pass them by; for so the Lord has spoken. 

I would like to suggest' to the Relief Society sisters that they keep the Word of Wisdom; and I would like to commence at the very head of the Relief Societies in the Church, and go down through all the Relief Society sisters in the Church and plead with them who are the mothers, and the sisters who will be the mothers, of the children of God, to keep the Word of Wisdom that their children may be endowed with strength and power and vitality and energy, that they may live and not die. Besides, if you observe these laws, your faith in God shall be increased, and by virtue of your faith, you will have great power in the Lord to prevail in all the righteous desires of your hearts, even to the healing of the sick when perchance members of your household may be afflicted with disease, or accident, or trouble that threatens their lives. And what is more important than all, in addition to strong, vigorous bodies and active, bright minds, your children will grow up mighty in faith and the knowledge of the Gospel. 

I would say to the elders in Iswho hold the Priesthood, keep the 

Word of Wisdom; cease taking into your bodies forbidden and destroying things, such as narcotics of all kinds, that you may transmit to your children bodies strong and undeformed, and not weakened by disease or afflicted by deformity, or blindness, or deafness, or other disability. That you may be examples of righteousness before your children and before all men. I want to say to all you elders of Israel, and I can say it with the utmost thankfulness, that, so far as my knowledge goes — and I believe I know — the general authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, from the President down, are men who are setting an example before the people of faithfulness and obedience, with respect to the law of God known as the Word of Wisdom. They are not smokers of tobacco, nor drinkers of alcohol, nor of tea or coffee. They are exempt and free from those things, and they set us a good example. Let us follow that example and serve the Lord, and keep His commandments, that our children may be blessed unto the latest generation. 

Now, may the Lord bless us and pour out His Spirit upon the Saints may we accept — oh, that the Lord could put into our hearts a willingness to accept — the advice and counsel that may be given to us from time to time, and fill our souls with a desire, above all, to serve the Lord, that we may live to fulfill our mission, work out our own salvation, train up our children in the way they should go that they may be prepared to spread the Gospel to the nations of the earth, and thereby become saviors of men, to call all men to repentance and to plead with them to turn from their  and serve God and keep His commandments, that they likewise shall be entitled to eternal life. May the Lord bless our brethren who shall follow in addressing this conference, pour out upon them that good Spirit, and use them as His servants, to speak to the assembled Saints, to their edification and advancement, to the strengthening of their faith and to the building up and promoting of all the glorious interests of Zion, is my prayer in the the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"Lord God of Abraham," a baritone solo, was sung by Brother Lynn Gibb. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Profound reverence for Jesus Christ and His mission — Resemblances in the life of the Savior and Joseph Smith— Unimpeachable evidences of the truthfulness of Joseph Smith's claims. 

I sense very keenly, my brethren and sisters, the responsibility resting upon me in occupying this position, where I am expected to lead this vast congregation in profitable thought. I have absolute confidence in the power of the Lord to assist me, and believe that the faith and prayers of the Saints will avail much with the Lord. I therefore ask you, my brethren and sisters, to give me your faith and prayers, that I may be blessed and that you may be blessed. 

The acoustic properties of this magnificent building are such that, if there were perfect quiet, a pin dropped on the stand could be heard in the most remote part of the building. That reminds me that we often, unconsciously, by the moving  our feet, coughing, and moving about, disturb the congregation and make it impossible for some to hear. It also makes it necessary for the speaker, especially if he have a weak voice, to raise his voice so far above the natural tone that he disturbs himself. 

I can bear witness to the truth of all that has been spoken thus far in this Conference, and I am thankful for it. I am sure that the faithful Latter-day Saints have received the same witness that I have had with reference to this matter. 

In the hearts of the Latter-day Saints there are two names very closely associated, and very dear to us — the name of our beloved Savior, Jesus Christ, and our dear Prophet, Joseph Smith. The mission and labors of these two were not entirely unlike. We look upon the former as the noblest of all the sons of God, as the first born of our Eternal Father in the spirit, and the only begotten of the Father in the flesh, the Creator of all things, under the direction of the Father, the Redeemer and Savior of the world who voluntarily gave Himself to a life of sorrow and affliction, of trial and temptation, on whom was heaped all manner of indignities, who resisted all temptations to do evil, who denied Himself everything that was forbidden in the law of the Gospel, of which He was the author. He did all things that were required of Him. doing the will of the Father under all circumstances, and finally gave His life, a martyr, sacrifice upon the cross of Calvary, for all of our Father's children. This He did that we might be redeemed from the original sin, that we might live again immortal beings; that after we have laid off these mortal bodies, our spirits shall take upon themselves again bodies which shall not be subject to death, nor to suffering as here in the flesh; also that we might be redeemed from the effects of our own sins and transgressions, and be saved with Him in our Father's kingdom, through obedience on our part to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. We do love the Lord, Jesus Christ, our Savior. We love His name, and hold it most sacred, and we would not profane it. Only the base or the ignorant would do that. 

We look upon Joseph Smith as one of the noblest of the sons of God, reserved in the spirit to come here upon the earth in these last days to be a prophet; yea the great prophet of the nineteenth century, of the dispensation of the fulness of times. His life was subject to sorrow and suffering, for his people, and he experienced constant anxiety and interest for the welfare of the Latter-day Saints and the children of men. He was persecuted as was the Savior, and was wont to swim in deep water, all the days of his short life; he was prosecuted in the courts, some thirty-nine different charges having been falsely brought against him, and he was as many times acquitted, for Joseph Smith was an innocent man. When the persecution became so rife, and he had thought to flee from it, that he might be of service perhaps for many years to come unto this people, whom he loved better than his own life, some supposed friends intimated that it was cowardice on his part to leave the people under these circumstances, and Joseph Smith remarked: "If my life is of no further value to this people it is not  me;" and he returned. As he was going to Carthage, or about to go, he made this remark: "I am going like a lamb to the slaughter, but my conscience is void of offense toward all men;" and he met his death bravely. He was martyred and sealed his testimony with his blood. And we love him; he is our prophet, the prophet of the dispensation of the Gospel when we have figured, when it has been our privilege to tabernacle in the flesh. He has been the instrument in the restoration of the everlasting Gospel to earth, in the establishment of the Church and Kingdom of God, in the restoration of the Holy Priesthood, that power and authority to minister unto the children of men in the ordiances of life and salvation, and to preach this Gospel in all the world. The many revelations which the Lord gave through him to this people, for our enlightenment, for our comfort and joy, and our guidance through life, these all we appreciate, and it makes us to love more and more our dear and departed prophet, Joseph Smith. 

We have received the witness of the Spirit, which has been promised to those who will do the will of the Father and yield 'obedience unto the ordinances of the Gospel. Through the Holy Ghost we do know that Jesus" rs indeed the Christ, the Savior of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, and that this work in which we are engaged is the work of the Lord, the power of God unto salvation. While we cannot transfer this knowledge and impress of the Spirit of God to others, or transmit it to our offspring, yet the promise is to al! that if we will  obedience unto the commandments of God we shall receive the Holy Ghost; and it is the office and mission of the Holy Ghost to bear witness of both the Father and the Son. No man can know that Jesus is the Lord but by the Holy Ghost; and by the power of the Holy Ghost we may know the truth of all things. So we promise to the people of the world that they, too, may obtain a testimony such as we have obtained, in the way in which we have obtained it; but there are other evidences, external evidences, I may say, which will appeal to the honest thoughtful man and woman, of the truth of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I would like to refer to one evidence, which I think is one of the strongest evidences that we have of the truth of these things. I refer you to the time when Joseph commenced his ministry. He was living with his father's family in the township of Manchester in the State of New York. It was in the spring of the year 1820, and there was in that neighborhood at that time a great warmth of religious feeling; indeed, a revival of the various religious denominations. I give credit to that condition for the activity of the Prophet Joseph, in a religious way, at that particular time, for he attended their meetings, he read the Scriptures, and he was wrought up in his feelings. Being a virtuous, pure-minded, and conscientious young man, religiously inclined, he had a desire to join the church which would be recognized of the Lord, and to do his part; but it was difficult for him; in fact, impossible for him to determine which one of all these religious denominations was right. One day, while  the Bible, he came to the first chapter of James, reading the fifth verse, as follows : "If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him." Joseph felt that he, indeed, needed wisdom from the Lord, at that particular time, and he believed in the Scripture, and was impressed with the truth and importance of that statement, perhaps as much as was the author himself when he made it. He decided to approach the Father in prayer. Accordingly, ne went out into the woods, and there for the first time offered a vocal prayer unto the Lord. It was a prayer of sincere faith, and it brought an answer. He tells us that there appeared above him a light which far exceeded in brightness the noonday sun, and that as the light fell upon him he saw two heavenly personages standing in the light, immediately above him, in mid-air, whose brightness and glory defy all description; that one spoke to him, calling him by name, and said to him, pointing to the other, "This is my Beloved Son; hear Him." Joseph, remembering what he had come to ask and to pray about, asked the simple question which of all these religious denominations was right, that he might know which one to join. To his astonishment, he was told that they were all wrong, that those religious professors were corrupt, that they preached for doctrine the commandments of men, having a form of godliness but denying the power thereof, and that their creeds were an abomination in His sight. 

Now, this story told by Joseph was either true or false; and upon the truth or falsity of these statements "Mormonism," so-called, must stand or fall; for, if false, then would Joseph Smith have been stamped as a base deceiver of men, an imposter whom God never could have thereafter honored in the way in which Joseph Smith claims that He was honored and recognized of the Lord. Had the Lord any righteous work to accomplish surely He would not have chosen an imposter to represent Him. On the other hand, if true, then we might expect further manifestations of a similar character unto the Prophet Joseph; and so Joseph tells us that he did have other manifestations. He tells us of his receiving the golden plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, and with those plates the urim and thummim, or the holy interpreters, by the use of which and by the help of the Lord, through His Spirit, Joseph was able to interpret the engravings upon the plates; and by the assistance of Martin Harris, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer and others he was able to publish the Book of Mormon. In that book, in the fifth chapter of Ether, is a prediction by the angel Moroni when he sealed up the records, that when the book should come forth the Lord would raise up witnesses to testify of its truth. And the Lord did raise up witnesses; but, in the meantime, on the 15th day of May. 1829, Joseph and Oliver say that the angel, John the Baptist, appeared and, laying his hands upon them, conferred upon them the Priesthood of Aaron, and that later Peter, James and John came and conferred upon them the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood, with power to build up the Church and 

Kingdom of God upon the earth — to seal on earth and it should be sealed in heaven, to loose on earth and it should be loosed in heaven. Now, what I want to say is this, that if it can be proven that any subsequent event related by the Prophet Joseph, of a divine character, was true, then that evidence will prove the truth of all the events which preceded it, and must of necessity prove that the first vision which he had and what the Lord told him was true. I will refer you to the three witnesses of the Book of Mormon. I will not read their estimony, it is familiar to most of you, it is found in the front part of the Book of Mormon. Those three witnesses, who were raised up by the Lord, and whose testimony was published unto the world as a savor of life or death, according as the world should receive or reject their testimony, they certify that an angel of God came down from heaven — this was in the latter part of June or possibly in the month of July, in the year 1829 — and that he brought and laid before their eyes those golden plates from which Joseph Smith had translated the Book of Mormon. They saw the engravings upon the plates, and they heard a voice from heaven saying that they had been translated by the gift and power of God, and they bear their testimony that they do know that the Book of Mormon is true. 

Now, the angel had told Joseph that this book contained a history of the ancient inhabitants of this continent, and also the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, as it was taught by Jesus Himself unto that people. We have affidavits referring to the character and the tes of these men, many years after their first testimony, which go to show that they maintained their testimony to their dying days, notwithstanding two of them, Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer, left the Church. If time would permit to bring forth this evidence, it does seem to me that it would be convincing to the honest in heart. Now, here is the thing, brethren and sisters, this point, these witnesses to the Book of Mormon, their testimony, and also the testimony of the eight witnesses that they saw the plates in the hands of the Prophet Joseph, and they hefted them, and handled the leaves which had been translated; these testimonies are also proofs that Joseph Smith's first story was true, that he saw the Father and the Son, and also that he heard that which he says the Son told him of existing conditions. They are also evidences of the truth of the statement that John the Baptist appeared and conferred the Aaronic Priesthood upon Joseph and Oliver; they are also evidences of the truth of the statement that Peter, James and John conferred upon Joseph and Oliver the Melchizedek Priesthood. They are also evidences of the truth of all those sacred and important revelations which Joseph Smith received as recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, prior to that date. This, I think, is logic which must be accepted. In order to disprove any feature of all those statements it is necessary to disprove the testimony of the three and the eight witnesses to the Book of Mormon, which cannot be done. This is evidence of the divinity or the divine origin of the Book of Mormon, and evidence of the divine origin and  of the Holy Priesthood, the establishment of the Gospel of the Lord, Jesus Christ, upon the earth. 

We have joy in contemplating these things, and we say to the world that there are a multitude of similar external evidences which will appeal to you if you will but investigate. No man can hope to find out the truth without investigation. No man can hope to find out God without investigation, but the promise is thai if we will turn unto Him, He will turn unto us; and if we ask in faith, and seek with a determination that when we obtain the light we will yield obedience to it, the Lord will lead us by His Spirit until we have a perfect knowledge and testimony of these things. I thus bear you my witness and testimony to the truth of these things, and pray God our Father to bless you my brethren and sisters and friends, one and all, that all may be brought to the light of the everlasting Gospel, and eventually to salvation in His kingdom, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"The song of Ruth,-" a soprano solo, was sung by .Sister Anna Newell. 

ELDER THOMAS E. M'KAY. 

(Late President of Swiss and German Mission.) 

Never before, my brethren and sisters, have I felt so keenly the necessity of the Spirit of the Lord to direct me as at the present time. I am very thankful, however, for this opportunity of making a few remarks upon the conditions that exist in the Swiss and German mission. I am thankful for the opportunity I have had of laboring among the people in the nations embraced in that mission. I am thankful because it has helped me to appreciate more than ever my beloved parents, my brethren, and my sisters. I always did love my father and my angel mother, but never before have I fully sensed the blessing that it is to a son, or to a daughter, to have such noble parents; and if any credit i's due me for the laborsthat have been accomplished during the past three years in the mission field, I wish today, before you, my brethren and sisters, to give the honor to my noble father and to my angel mother. I thank my Father in heaven for such parents. I love, also, and appreciate my brothers and my sisters for the influence that they' have had upon me. 

I appreciate the brethren upon this stand. I am sorry, too, and have not yet become accustomed to being in a Conference here without seeing our beloved Patriarch, John Smith, upon the stand. This is the first Conference that I have ever attended without seeing him here, and also our beloved president, John Henry Smith. I am reminded, by the changes during the past three years, that the responsibility of carrying this work forward will soon devolve upon the young men and the young women of this Church. 

I thank my Father in heaven for the privilege I have had of associating, during the past three years, with such noble young men as we have had in the Swiss and German mission. Your sons, over four hundred of them, passed through the mission office while I was there; and I am pleased to bear testimony to the integrity, the honesty, and the loyalty of these young men. 

They are pure; they are living moral lives. Out of over four hundred and twenty young men who have labored there, only two have not been able to receive honorable releases, and one of them, since he has returned, is making good. I am pleased that I can make such a report. I am pleased also to state that, through the efforts of these young men, and the other young men who have been there before, and especially through the efforts of such men as Presidents Arnold H. Schultess, Hugh J. Cannon, Serge F. Baliff, Levi Edgar Young, and others who have presided over that mission, the mission today is in splendid condition. During the last three years over two thousand five hundred souls have been added to the Church. 

It is true we are having some trouble in some of the cities in Germany, but this trouble, I believe, has been exaggerated. The people at home do not quite understand just what a "banishment," for example means. Some of the mothers who have sons there, think, perhaps, of Siberia when they read that word "banishment;" but I wish to correct that impression. My brethren and sisters, we are better protected in Germany today than the Elders are in Great Britain, or than the Elders are in our own America. The officials of the German government are not personally opposed to our missionary work. It is true they banish us once in awhile, but they do it because of complaints that are made against our missionaries, by some ministers, so-called. The officials who must act upon the complaints, as a rule, treat our missionaries quite courteously; in fact, they sometimes apologize for having to banish them. I wish to say  that because of this trouble many of these officials, today, are investigating the Gospel. Our missionaries have been polite, courteous and pleasant to these officials. They have borne testimonies to them, and have given them our literature; and today many of these officials are doing all they can to favor our missionaries. As one told me, who had become acquainted with two of our missionaries who were banished, he said : "I have learned, through this investigation, that your young men here are the most moral young men with whom I have ever come in contact. Through their example I have become interested in your Church, and I wish to tell you, Herr McKay," taking my hand in both of his , as I said good-by, "that I will do all in my power to assist your missionaries and your members in their work in this nation. They are doing a good work. I would to God," he said, "that all our people were like your members in this country of ours." 

In Hungary, which is also a part of our mission, we have freedom,and I wish to say also that that freedom was gained, very largely, through the influence of a young man who was at first prejudiced against us, and became interested in order, as he thought, to protect his sister. She was an "Israelite," as she called herself, a bright young woman who became interested in the Gospel, attended our meetings, and attended our choir practices. She and her brother were living together — orphans. Her brother became alarmed, and called her to task for visiting these "Mormon" meeting so often. She asked him, "Why do you object to my going to these meetings?" "Why," he said, "haven't you heard what kind of  the 'Mormons' are ?" "Yes," she said, "I have." "Well, then, why do you continue to go?" She said, "Where did you get your information regarding them ?" "Why, I have read about them." "Who wrote those articles," she said, "friends or enemies of the 'Mormons'?" "Why," he said, "I read an attack that was written by a minister who has lived among them." "Do you believe," she said, "all the stories that have been written about us as Jews? Would it not be better for you to come to these young men personally, and visit their meetings, and find out for yourself what kind of people they are ?" He said, "I will do so." The result was that he became interested in our meetings, and in the missionaries. After the first meeting he came to the missionaries and said : "Why don't you hold these meetings publicly? The people don't understand you; they are laboring under wrong impressions." He was told that we did not have the privilege of holding public meetings, that they had to be held as private meetings. He wanted to know the reason. The result was he made an investigation. He was a young lawyer, and through his efforts we obtained — and the efforts also, I may state, of our American consul — we received our freedom in Brossau, on the boundary line between Hungary and Roumania. This young man, who is now an attorney corresponding to our district attorney, made a trip from Brossau to Budapest, a twelve hours' ride, and would not take one penny for his services. 

Other examples could be given to show you that the officials of these nations are not personally opposed to the "Mormon" missionaries. I wish to state also that our American consuls throughout Europe, or that part of Europe belonging to the mission — Roumania, AustriaHungary, Switzerland and France — treat us as American citizens, and, as many of them have told me, "It makes no difference to us whether you are Jews, Gentile, Mormon, or what your religion is, we will treat you as American citizens." In Budapest we have our main Hungarian branch. Through the efforts of Elder Hill, who labored there, a number of tracts have been translated into that language, and a number of our songs; and the work is being carried on, now that Brother Hill is released, by Elders Spry, Parker and Johansen. These three young Elders are learning, and Brother Spry has made great progress in the Hungarian language. I am also pleased to state that progress is being made in France. We have a branch in Lyons, southern France, and several Elders in Menz; and now in Paris we hold regular services on Sundays, sacramental meetings for students and friends; and each Thursday evening a public lecture is given, and a musical program by our students. On Washington's birthday, there were fifteen of our people gathered at our meeting place in Paris. Elder Barker of the B. Y. University is rendering great services for us in Paris. 

The work in Germany is progressing, especially in the last two years, largely through our Sunday schools and choirs. In one of our Sunday schools, one of the last I visited, there were two hundred and twenty-two present, and out of that number seventy-five were children of non-members. These children become interested; they are placed upon the program, on the reviews  their parents attend; in this way we meet the parents, and many of them are investigating the Gospel. Our choirs are making good progress, we have one organized in nearly all of our branches. I am pleased that I can make this report, and also to report that the people there, especially our members, are taking care of the Elders, and the members are paying tithing. I was told by one of the brethren, who had looked over the record, that our mission has a larger percentage of members upon the tithing record than any other mission or ward in the Church. The people are honest, and when they accept the Gospel they try to live it, and because of that they are being blessed and prospered. We are trying to keep them where they are; and because the majority of them are remaining, our branches today are larger than the average ward at home — that is, many of our branches. In at least fifteen branches we never have less than two hundred present at the meetings, and ninety per cent of our members attend the meetings. 

I am thankful for the associations that I have had, especially with these four hundred and twenty young men. They have strong testimonies; they know, as I know, my brethren and sisters, that this Gospel is true; they know, as I know, that Jesus is the Christ. Thousands are asking the question today, and among them many socalled ministers : ' 'Did Jesus ever live?" or, "Is Jesus the Christ?" My testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, is that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. I know it as I know that I live. I know further that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, and that Joseph F. Smith, who  at the head of the Church today, is also a prophet of God. I thank My Father in heaven for this testimony, because I have received it from H;im, through inspiration; and for that testimony, my brethren and sisters, I am ready not only to spend six years in the mission field, but to devote my life in order to show Him my thankfulness. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters; God bless our missionaries, and those who have returned, that they may remember always that they are missionaries, representatives of the Church of Jesus Christ. God bless you all. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I would just like to bear my testimony to you that the testimonies of my brethern, which have been so impressively spoken here today, and at other times, with reference to the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and of the gospel of Christ, and of the Son of God are true — for I know they are true. 

The ' choir sang the anthem "Daughter of Zion." 

President Smith read a telegram from John W. Young, expressing good-will to the Church and its leaders. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Stephen L. Chipman. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


