Morning
05 04 1880



ELDER BEIGHAM YOUNG. 

We have been highly edified during our meetings in this hall, and I am thankful for the privilege of meeting with the Saints in this beautiful building. It is certainly a great improvement upon those brush boweries that we once occupied, and even upon the old tabernacle that formerly stood in this corner of the block. If we are improving as Latter-day Saints in spiritual things, and in union in temporal matters, as we are improving in wealth, in architectural taste, and in all of those amenities that make life agreeable in a temporal point of view, no doubt it is well with us. I presume that we are advancing in the knowledge of God, and that we are preparing ourselves for a future life and exaltation in the kingdom of God. But when we examine ourselves closely, it is evident we are not making the progress in the knowledge of the things of the kingdom of God that we should make, as the representatives of the Almighty in this whole earth. Of all the millions of people that inhabit this globe the Latter-day Saints alone, so far as I know, represent the kingdom of God upon the earth, represent the great latter-day work — the restoration of all things — and are in possession of those ordinances which reach into eternity and which are of so vital importance to the future existence of all mankind. Do we truly realize the importance of the position we occupy? We have had revelation; we are receiving revelation constantly. God has placed us in a position that we may communicate with the heavens, that we may receive inspiration of the Holy Ghost and be actuated thereby in all the labors of this life. But in our daily avocations we fail frequently to enjoy the free flow of that Spirit that comes from above; our humanity too often steps in between, and when this is our condition we become more or less subject to other influences whose work is to deceive and lead astray. There is a principle of revelation which all Saints are required to understand and observe. It is not our province to have angels of God visit us, as they certainly did the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he laid out the broad foundation of the kingdom of God upon the earth. In his case their visits were actually necessary; for nothing short of direct communication with the heavens could have enabled him to do the work he did; in ours it is different. The foundation is already laid according to divine approval and the work of building fairly on its way; revelations communicating the will of the Lord have been given for our profit and general guidance, and it remains with us to carry ft on to completion. But there is a principle of revelation in the heart of every Latter-day Saint which, if cherished and encouraged, is calculated to lead us safe in all the minor affairs of life; and we should live, and it is our privilege to so live, as to be operated upon by the influences of the Spirit of God through all our labors until the whisperings of that Spirit shall be constantly with us. Man is in a fallen condition; we realize this every day. He looks hither and thither; he casts his eyes to the right and to left, and desires this thing and the other thing, and wishes and hopes to obtain them; and thus follows after those earthly possessions, paying heedless regard to more weighty things of the kingdom. Now, the principle of revelation should be in the breast of every Latter-day Saint; it should be there and continue to grow and increase and expand in the hearts of the people until they are thoroughly imbued with that Spirit. It will not come in a day nor perhaps in a year, nor in a series of years; it will take years and years of faithfulness on the part of the Latter-day Saints before their minds can be wholly and fully absorbed by the spirit of revelation, so that every thought and every act will be prompted by the influence of the Spirit of God. It is our duty to encourage that Spirit until it absorbs the whole being, until all our thoughts and actions shall spring from that pure source which comes from above. 

Now, that our acts do not comport with this teaching at all times, I am aware; but it is expected of us to grow unto these things; and in order to grow unto them, it is necessary for us to take a course to nourish and cherish this Spirit in our every day associations and conversations, that nothing may obstruct the free flow of the Holy Spirit unto us. 

We listen to many things that are pleasing to the ear, but which are not profitable to the mind. This should not be. The things of the world should have no place in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. If I place myself in a condition to receive the things which are outside of this Church and kingdom; if I associate with people who have denied the faith and who acknowledge not God, who will not bow in obedience to the principles of the everlasting Gospel, and who are, say, spiritualists and infidels — if I associate with such men, I must to a greater or less degree partake of their influence. 

Our associations have a great deal to do with either the encouraging or discouraging within us the principle of revelation. For instance, I hear of people calling themselves Latter-day Saints who make a practice of taking their wives and children to beer saloons, and while in such places they get so happy that they shout out the songs of Zion, and seem to enjoy themselves to a great degree. Does anybody know of circumstances of this kind? Yes; we cannot deny it. Who are these people ? Are they Latter-day Saints? I should not think so, indeed; although to hear them sing one might be led to believe them the best of people, for they select the choicest ot hymns, and they shout them out before men who make a living by selling intoxicating liquors. To my mind it is casting pearls before swine. Perhaps you may think that is a little strong; but that is the view I take of it. I am aware that all the people do not do this; I am aware, in fact, that they are very few, comparatively speaking. I am not censuring those people who do not do this thing, but there are some people who call themselves Latter-day Saints whose conduct in this respect is censurable. To associate with the drunkard is not the way to encourage the principle of revelation. Every Latter-day Saint is bound to encourage this principle if he desires to attain the blessings that accrue from the everlasting gospel. But there is but one way, one road, and the end thereof is life everlasting. 

Now, what shall we do, Latter-day Saints? We are aware of the fact that society is sadly mixed up in this city; and that every engine and power of  having a tendency to win away the hearts of our sons and daughters, and to allure the weak-minded is at work endeavorjing to lead them down to destruction. These local affairs should engage our attention until these evils are rooted out from our midst. And let the line be drawn between those that live their religion and those that do not. The very best way to show them up in their true colors is for us to live our religion and let people see by our works that we are for God and his kingdom. 

My prayer is — and I presume it is the prayer of all Latter-day Saints — that God will inspire our hearts to do right, to walk in his paths, and help us to overcome evil with good. Let us have charity. I believe in charity, I would like to have more of it; but I do not consider it is charity for me and mine to indulge in the society of those that are apostates, that are wicked in their hearts, and will deny the covenants which they have made before their Father and God; I do not think itis charity for me to throw pearls before swine. I believe in charity, and at the same time I believe in entire cxclusiveness, so far as mixing up my interest and striking hands with the unbelievers is concerned. 

That God may help us to cultivate and develop within us the spirit of revelation, until every thought shall be inspired from on high, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

While listening to Brother Young, my mind reverted to one or two passages in the early revelations given to the Church, which would seem, from the testimony we have had from him, to be somewhat applicable at the present time as well as at the time the revelations were given, and I thought I would refer to, and perhaps read a few of these passages, so that we can reflect upon them ourselves. [The speaker then read from the first to the tenth verse of the revelation given to Joseph Smith June 22, 1834, page 377 of the new edition of Doctrine and Covenants; also from a revelation given De'cember 16, 1833, first to the nineteenth verse, same book, page 349.] 

I realize that I am speaking to people that have joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and as members of that Church, profess faith in the Gospel as it has been revealed in this dispensation. It would seem, sometimes, almost superfluous to keep preaching upon these plain and simple principles, which all ought to understand and be anxious to carry out. Nevertheless we find it necessary, and therefore we continue to preach, expound, exhort and to plead with the people, our brethren and sisters in the covenant of the Gospel, to keep the commandments of God which they have covenanted to keep. The Lord keeps pleading with us; he has to forbear with us, to extend mercy, kindness and forgiveness day after day. For we are very forgetful, careless, indifferent and thoughtless of our duties. It is only when the Spirit of the Lord is upon us that we can really sense the responsibilities that we are under to God and to each other. When we are engaged in the daily avocations of life our minds are occupied with other things; we are thinking how to make means, or get wealth, how to provide for our necessities and to make our families comfortable. These thoughts take possession of our minds and exclude reflections upon the commandments of God which we have covenanted to keep, and which, by keeping, we would avoid all the errors, evils and follies that have been referred to by Elder Young, to which so many of us are liable, notwithstanding we are professedly Latter-day Saints. It was said by our Savior, to those who professed to be his disciples, "Except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the Scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." Now, when I see a Latter-day Saint, or, rather, a person who professes to be a Latter-day Saint, guilty of drunkenness, of profanity, of dishonesty, or cheating his neighbor, or of bearing false witness against his brother, I say in my heart that that man is two-fold more a child of hell than as though he had never been baptized; for "to him thatknoweth how to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin," saith the Apostle James. And verily it is true in relation to those who profess to be Latter-day Saints, who should know to do good, for they have covenanted to do that which is right and forsake that which is evil. That covenant has been made with God, and is recorded in the archives of heaven as well as upon the earth. If we take a course to violate our covenants, we declare our unworthiness before him with whom those covenants are made, who understands the nature of the covenants and of the obligations we are under, and must regard us as transgressors, far more worthy of chastisement than those who have never entei'ed into covenant with the Lord to keep his laws. Is not this correct, sound, just and reasonable doctrine? Is not this the way in which we would judge ourselves and regard one another? Do we not look upon our neighbor, who has made a promise to us and has wilfully and intentionally broken that promise, as untrustworthy, as untrue to his word, and unworthy of our confidence and esteem? Certainly. Then how much more will God, who is perfect, who sees clearly the end from the beginning, look upon us with disfavor, who have received the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, and therefore the means of knowing the way of life, if we turn away from the truth and disregard our vows and covenants with God and each other. Are, we not, under the circumstances, worthy of condemnation and chastisement? If the wicked, who will not repent of their sins, and who therefore know not God nor keep his commandments, will be destroyed for their wickedness, how much more worthy of destruction will they be who. having once repented of their sins and learned the way of life, have turned from their righteousness again to their evil practices and ways? 

It is said here, in the language that I have read, "Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom, otherwise I cannot receive her unto myself." In other words, those who profess to be Latter-day Saints must become acquainted with the laws of the celestial kingdom, must abide by them, must comply with the requirements of heaven and hearken to the word of the Lord, in order that Zion may be built up acceptably, and that we may partake of the benefits and blessings of this labor. For it is a labor which devolves upon those who have been called out from the midst of the world in this dispensation. We have been called, and so far as we will be faithful we are chosen to do this work. But notwithstanding we have been called, if we do not prove faithful we will be rejected. I do not speak this in reference to the whole Church, but in reference to individual members of the Church : for it is my implicit faith and belief that this work will never cease, that it will never be given to another people, and that the  and designs of God will be accomplished, for he has decreed it. In one sense we are not doing this work, for it is not the work of man, neither individually nor collectively, nor of any single quorum of the priesthood, nor of all the quorums combined, except God is with them. In other words, it is God Almighty who will accomplish this work, and he will use such instruments as he can find for its accomplishment, and those instruments will be honored and blessed of the Lord, and will share in the rewards, exaltation and glory of Zion. Yet the honor, glory and power must be ascribed unto the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, now and forever, for it is God's work and not the work of man. We often hear it said that if such and such a man should lead the Church that he would lead it to destruction. I will say, in the name of the Lord, that if any man were to lead the Church of Jesus Christ he would lead it to destruction; that is, if the Church would follow. But I will say, on the other hand, that if God Almighty chooses a man to lead the Church, God will speak through that man. It will not be the man that will lead the Church, but it will be God that will do it through that instrumentality, and we will give the honor to God; we will not arrogate the credit or the honor to ourselves. 

But we cannot build up Zion except upon the principles of righteousness. Men must forsake their wickedness, their lusts, covetousness, greed, and love of the pleasures of the world, and bring themselves under the laws of God, or they never will partake of the blessings and glory of Zion. And that is not all. It is said in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, that we must be willing to make a sacrifice of everything that we possess in the world for the Kingdom of God's sake, and the man or woman that presumes to lay claim to the gift of eternal life, who is unwilling to make this sacrifice, will be offering an insult to the dignity of the Creator. (See Sixth Lecture on Faith.) It is written that we must love the Lord with all our hearts, and our neighbor as we love ourselves. When we reach this point, we shall not be liable to the accusation of loving the world more than we love God. It will then be easy to make any sacrifice for the sake of truth, though it be the sacrifice of life itself; that is, this present life. Jesus said: "Fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul; but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell." Rather fear God than man. Rather fear to offend the Almighty than to offend mankind. Rather fear to trangress the laws of God than those of men. 

There are some few, so called, very good Latter-day Saints, who have formed the acquaintance of those who are not members of the Church, and because of these associations they are led into saloons to drink with them, not daring to refuse for fear of offending their friends! I say a man who is so weak as to do that is not fit to be an Elder in the Church of Jesus Christ, nor to be fellowshipped, or held as in good standing in the ward in which he lives. Why? Because his example is bad. He shows weakness and unworthiness before the Lord and mankind. He has not the strength of character to refuse to join his friend in doing an evil, for fear of offending that friend. The same principle would lead him, and, by his example, others perhaps, to gambling, stealing, profanity, whoredom, or anything else in the catalogue of crime. I love a man who dares refuse to do wrong, no matter where he is nor what the wrong even to drinking hot drinks, or neglecting the " Word of Wisdom." Many of our good people have become so weak that, according to the "Word of Wisdom," they are not worthy to be called Saints, for it is "adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all Saints who are or can be called Saints." But says one, " If I am offered a cup of tea or a cup coffee I cannot refuse it." Then, according to the word of the Lord, you are too weak to be a Latter-day Saint. 

It has been said that Brother Joseph F. Smith is "radical." Perhaps so, for when I give my word I expect to fulfil it; I always have felt so, and always have endeavored to keep my word whenever I have given it. Those to whom my word is given have a right to expect and demand its fulfilment, or a justifiable reason for failing to do so. And if ever I fail to fulfil my word, I hope to be able to give a sufficient reason for it. I do not presume that I am better than the Lord, I do not think that man can be better than God; I therefore suppose that when God has given his word that he will fulfil it; I suppose that when he makes a requirement of men he expects them to comply therewith, and doubly so when they have agreed to comply, and if they fail, I am simple enough to believe with all my heart that God Almighty will demand satisfaction. Does any one call me radical for that? If so, then I confess that I am radical. When I read the laws of God in this good book (the Bible), that the liar, the hypocrite, the sorcerer, and the adulterer, cannot enter the kingdom of heaven, I understand that that is what is meant. I can give it no other construction or meaning, therefore I believe that liars, adulterers, drunkards, sorcerers, &c, &c, will not get into the kingdom of heaven, without they repent and make restitution for the wrongs they have done; God has opened the way of escape for those that will hearken to and avail themselves of" the privileges of the Gospel. " Who is there," says the Lord, " that hath understanding, that I have not called to repentance." There is not one that God has not called to repentance, which means the forsaking of sin, a departure from evil to do righteousness and walk in the way of life and salvation. I understand that unless we do this we will be weighed in the balance and found wanting. Can you take any other view of these matters? How can a man excuse himself for drunkenness, when he knows that it is injurious to himself, to his family and others, and is forbidden by the law of God, and is a violation of the most sacred covenants he can make? How can a man excuse himself under these circumstances? What reason will he be able to give before God? How can he escape the damnation that awaits the wicked? It is written that " not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven." No; but those who keep the commandments of God, who walk righteously before him; they shall say "Lord, Lord," and the Lord will hearken unto them. 

The cry of the angel was, "Come out of her (Babylon), my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues." The doom of Babylon is sealed. The judgments of God will be poured out upon her; they are at the door; the wicked will perish; Babylon will fall, for God has decreed it. They have rejected the prophets, and have shed the blood of the Saints and of those who brought life and salvation unto them. They have cast out the Church of Christ from their midst and have called it evil; they have blackened the character of those that have taken leading parts in the 

Church and Kingdom of God. Therefore, the cup of her iniquity is about full, and the cry is, " Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues." Now what will it avail us to come out of Babylon, if we bring Babylon with us, or continue her practices in Zion? It does not look to me as though it would be much benefit. I read, in the sixth chapter of the second epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, something that is applicable to some of us in our present condition. Paul says: u Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers; for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? And what concord hath Christ with Belial? Or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the Temple of God with idols ? For ye are the Temple of the living God; as God hath said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore, come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you, and will be a Father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty." Do you want any stronger language than that? Do you want any stricter command? for it is the word of God to us, although it is recorded here in the Second Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, and written eighteen hundred years ago, or more, to the ancient Saints. It applies equally to us. The Bible contains the law of God to this people. The Lord says: "Thou shalt take the things which thou hast received, which have been given unto thee in my Scriptures for a law, to be my law to govern my Church, and he that doeth according to these things shall be saved, and he that doeth them not shall be damned, if he continues." Thus you see the Bible is in force, and this is the word of the Lord to the people, " Come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing." Do not assimilate to their ways, but forsake them, and in the name of reason and humanity, for the sake of the kingdom and for your own sakes, do not let it be necessary for an Elder of Israel to repeat on the stand what has been stated this day in your hearing by Elder Brigham Young. Let it not be necessary to proclaim these evils among the Latter-day Saints at a Conference of the people; let it be possible when we come together for the Elders who speak to testify of the good works of the people, of their increasing faith in God, of the power of God manifest in their midst, and to exhort the people to continued faithfuluess and progress in the right path, until Zion shall be redeemed, the world subdued, and evil put under foot. Zion must be built up on the principles of righteousness, truth, and obedience to the laws of God; not an ignorant nor a "blind obedience " or submission to the requirements of heaven or the dictates of the priesthood, but an intelligent submission to the laws of God; for the Lord has said that he " requireth the heart and a willing mind, and the willing and the obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days; and the rebellious shall be cut off out of the land of Zion, and shall be sent away, and shall not inherit the land." 

May the Lord bless us as a people, and help us to be united, to be more faithful and upright, to live our religion, so that our righteousness may exceed that of the Scribes and Pharisees of this dispensation, and to keep aloof from the wicked and ungodly, is my earnest prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. COUJNTSELOB DANIEL H. WELLS. 

I have ever felt loth to bring before a public congregation the misdeeds of a few, lest a credulous public be led to suppose that evil is more prevalent among us than it really is; and for this reason, perhaps, if for no other, I feel ashamed that such things as have been referred to should exist. I have felt rather that people should turn away from evil and cleave to the Lord, and maintain that better character before him, before one another and before the world. It would seem as though it were necessary to bring up such matters, on the principle, perhaps, that a wound in order to be healed should be probed. But it would seem, too, that such things that have been referred to to-day, if they do exist in the church, that while they should not pass unrebuked, there is certainly a more proper time and place to deal with them than before a public congregation. 

We are gathering out from the midst of the people of the earth to be taught in the ways of the Lord, and to walk more perfectly in his paths, that we may learn righteousness, and come to a knowledge of the the mind and the will of our Father who is in heaven. God has decreed that he will redeem the earth from sin and wickedness, and establish his own rule and dominion thereon. And it is necessary in order to build up the kingdon of God on the earth that the Lord should have a people prepared with whom he can work, and who will be submissive and ready to do his will. We pray to our Father, saying, "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth, as it is done in heaven." Now, how can this come to pass until the Lord has a people who shall be willing to do his will, and who shall be desirous to walk in the path that he marks out for them. Do we realize how very far we are from the Lord's ways; how we have been instructed in the ways of the world through the traditions and false teachings of generations that are passed, and which we have inherited. We had been taught the precepts of men instead of the commandments of God. Now, however, it is plain that the Lord is endeavoring to work a reformation in the midst of his children; and for this purpose he has made known his laws again, laws which are calculated to redeem the people from the thraldom of sin and iniquity so prevalent in the world; and he has made them applicable to this generation, hence they are in force upon the human family. He has brought them home to our senses, and it is with delight that we behold them in contrast with the erroneous teachings we have received from men who have professed to be the teachers of religion, who have professed to be the servants of God, who have professed to stand in holy places and to lead the people in the way of life and salvation — I say, they have proposed to do all these things, whereas they have neither the authority nor the knowledge to do so, because they have not been called of the Lord for that purpose, nor have they the revealed will of heaven to direct them. They have sought to teach their own will; they themselves are blind, and they lead the blind, and they must sooner or later fall into the pit together. Our minds, however, have been touched with the Spirit of the living God, made manifest unto us. And this is what inspired us to come out from the midst of the world to these valleys of the mountains, where the Lord has appointed to build a Zion unto his holy name, where he has condescended to establish his authority, and also to build temples in which to attend to the ordinances of his house. We have  gathered from the midst of the nations with this object in view, under the inspiration of the Almighty, to do his will and to bring to pass his purposes and establish his purposes upon the earth. Is not this what has actuated us and brought us together to these valleys? If there was any other motive or design I do not know what it was. There are places more desirable to men than these sterile valleys; there are places where the land is richer and where better seasons prevail, and where more profitable results can be obtained in many respects; for this is not so very desirable a country, in fact a great portion of it is very undesirable and unprofitable to man for settlements. But it is not for the sake of wealth that we have come here; it is to be taught in the ways of the Lord, and to walk in his paths; it is to keep his commandments, to do his will that it. may be done on earth as it is done in heaven. 

Reference has been made this afternoon to the words, "Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins and that he receive not of her plagues." Now, we have gathered bodily, but if we have brought with us the evils that are so prevalent in the world, have we gathered in the spirit as the people of God should gather? No. We might just as well have stayed in the world, and it would have been better indeed to have done so, than to drag the evils of the world into the midst of Zion. Any people who will corrupt their ways before the Lord are bound for destruction, according to the words of the Lord through the prophets. The principles of truth and virtue, and of temperance and honesty are the foundation of exaltation, and just as certain as people will practise them they will be exalted; and just as sure as they indulge in iniquity, it will lead them down to death and destruction, and that, too, upon natural principles. There is the way of life, and there is the way of death set before us, and it is for us to choose the course we will take; it is through obedience to the principles of life we shall obtain an exaltation in the celestial kingdom and upon no other. If a person ever inherits a celestial glory can he inherit it upon any other principle than that of obeying the laws of that kingdom? No; because all kingdoms have laws, and a person can only attain to the glory and benefit of that kingdom, the laws of which he observes to keep. This is the way I read and understand the revelations of the Lord. 

Now, would it not be better to endeavor to find out the will of God outHeavenly Father concerning ourselves, and live so as to enjoy the light of his spirit to guide us in the duties of life ? I think it certainly would. The best investment a man can make is to give his all into the kingdom of God, to hold himself on the altar ready for the Master's use, to place his ability, his time and means at his command to further the purposes of his Father in Heaven, and thus accomplish his design and purpose in bringing him into this state of existence. It is no haphazard matter that we have been born in this day and generation, a day in which God has revealed his mind and will to the children of men. He has withheld these spirits to come forth when he should again reveal the laws, that peradventure there might be those upon the earth who would receive his laws and assist to bring to pass his purposes and designs, because it is through the instrumentality of his children that he will bring forth his kingdom and prepare the way for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ to rule. For he will rule, even from the rivers to the ends of the earth, For the earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof; it belongs to him; it is his right to rule, dictate, and lead forth; and it is only a question of time when he will do so. 

I teel well in this work. I cannot express the gratitude that I feel to the Lord that he has made manifest unto us his law, his will, the principles of the holy gospel, and that he has brought them home to our understanding. We have the privilege of learning to know God, whom to know, the Apostle says, is life eternal. Now, if to know him is life eternal, we cannot attain to eternal life without a knowledge of him. And how can we become acquainted with God unless he reveals himself? He has, however, revealed himself to man in this our day. We have partially become acquainted with him; we know who he is, and who we are, and we know his purpose and design in bringing us into this state of existence. It is for us to learn the will and design of God our Father concerning us as his children in this probation, that we may fulfil the full measure thereof, and be worthy to return into his presence from whence we have come. No second or third rate glory will satisfy the Saints of God. Nothing short of a full and complete salvation in the celestial kingdom of God, can answer their desires and aspirations. But how do we expect to attain to that glory ? As I have already observed, there is no other way save that of keeping a celestial law. This is plainly set forth here in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, it having been revealed to the servant of the Lord in the day and age in which we live. We do not go back to the mysterious ages in order to attain this knowledge. God has revealed it to us in this our day; and although we do believe in the Bibie, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants, nevertheless we have also the living oracles here day by day to teach us in the ways of truth and righteousness. Can we govern and control ourselves? We can partly, but I can conceive that in a great many instances we could do much better. Many of us, no doubt, are doing as well as we can, and yet we are not doing as well as we know how. We, perhaps, know a great many things which may be utterly impossible for us to bring into actual practice owing to surrounding circumstances; but yet many are doing the best they can, and we should all the time try to do as well as we know how. Our struggle should be to progress in the knowledge of God and the things pertaining to eternal life, that our course may be onward and upward until we "all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ." It is true we are imperfect; the traditions of our fathers are upon us, and I know of and could point out a great many things that are erroneous which our fathers in their ignorance taught and practised. But there is one thing that people who live in this day will have to account for, and that is, their presuming to administer in sacred places the precepts of men instead of the ordinances which pertain to the house of God, thereby leading people away from the truth. 

We live in a peculiar age of the world. We live in a day when the God of heaven is establishing his kingdom to bring to pass his purposes, preparatory to the millennial reign. We live in a day when we are building temples in which a work may be performed for those who have died in ignorance of the gospel, that they may also be saved. The gospel plan reaches out to and includes all the children of men; it is ample to save all who will bow and live  obedience to its teachings. If a person has not had an opportunity of receiving the gospel in this world, he will have an opportunity of doing so in the next, in the place of departed spirits. And the labor of the Elders of Israel who die and pass into the Spirit world, clothed upon with the authority of the holy priesthood — is to preach to them the principles of the holy gospel, that they may live according to God in the spirit and be judged according to men in the flesh. But there are ordinances which have to be performed for them on the earth. It is for this purpose we are building temples. 

Well, I pray God to help us to live our religion, because in it there is life and salvation — I was going to say, in this world, as well as in the world to come. And so there is. The principles of the gospel are calculated in their nature to elevate mankind in the scale of human existence, and are fraught with salvation to men in this time as well as in the time to come. I pray God to bless all those who seek to work righteousness in all the earth, and espeially to remember the household of faith, I pray that he may preserve us from stepping into bye and forbidden paths; that we may be instruments in his hands in bringing to pass his purposes and in upholding the principles of truth, because there are but few who are disposed to do this. The great tendency of the age is to wickedness and corruption, and there are but few comparatively who will receive the truth. Let us sustain these principles like an unbroken phalanx, standing shoulder to shoulder, that the enemy may not make an inroad in our midst. In union there is strength. If therefore we can carry out these things unitedly, we will be able to exert a greater power not only in the world but before the Lord. 

May God bless us to this end is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang an anthem. 

Elder Erastus Snow dismissed by prayer. 
