Afternoon
05 04 1880



PRESIDENT JOSEPH YOUNG. 

He recollected the day when the Church consisted of a mere handful of people scattered over two or three States of the Union. In traveling to visit them an Elder was greeted with the sound, " There goes a Mormon!" Now, from Idaho to Arizona, through hundreds of miles> the settlements of the Saints extend and the people greet an Elder with joy and friendship. It was the work of the Lord and caused astonishment. He was the Author of it, and his hand was over all, guiding the destiny of the greatest, and caring even for the sparrow. By his Spirit we were guided, and it was to carry the tidings of his work that we traveled or sent our brethren to the ends of the earth. The speaker described the condition of the world in regard to religion, referring to the ignorance and fallacies that prevailed. He portrayed the Spirit of Christ and its effects upon the human heart, and expressed his full confidence in the Lord and the triumph of this work. Exhorted both young and old to plant within their hearts a reservoir of truth, and to live so as to know that God lives, and that they were accepted of him. Whenever Christian sects had enjoyed a portion of the spirit of truth, and rejected this Gospel when it came to them, they had lost the measure of the spirit previously bestowed. Those who had accepted this work received the power of God and a testimony of the truth and lost the fear of death. He bore testimony that the time was near when God would shake the earth and all things would tremble, and none but the righteous could stand. He wanted to know that his brethren and sisters were taking a course that was pleasing in the sight of God, staying themselves on the promises of God, training their children — the hope of Israel — in the fear of the Lord, so that when the terrible things predicted by the Savior and the prophets take place before their eyes, they may be on the watch tower and prepared for every emergency. 

ELDER A. O. SMOOT 

Expressed his pleasure at the instructions that had been imparted during these meetings. Referring to the sharp reproofs administered in the forenoon to some of the Latter-day "Mormons," it occurred to him that there were others at fault besides the drinkers and swearers. He asked himself where were the priests and teachers when these evils were taking place. If the teachers were aware of these things, had they discharged their duty towards the transgressors ? If they had done this, and failing to work a reformation, had they reported those cases to the Bishops? If so, they had done well, and the fault would lay with the Bishop, unless he attended to these evil doers. He would ask, why not apply the remedy? Let the erring brother who would not reform go in peace and no longer be held in fellowship to spread the evil example. He thought perhaps some of the officers slept upon their rights and duties, and neglected the injunctions of the revelations concerning these matters. If we allowed these evils to exist, their influence would be demoralizing. All are subject to weaknesses, but when we are once overcome thereby, it should prove a warning, and we should take care not to be ever again overtaken in a similar way. In the course of forty years' experience he had seen men holding official position in the priesthood committing the evils spoken of, and their faults had been let slip. Why were these cases not alluded to ? Why was not the inside of the platter cleaned? There was a fault somewhere; he would leave others to say where it was. God had commenced to establish his kingdom on the earth, and had so organized his priesthood that these irregularities could be checked and wickedness purged out. The speaker bore testimony that this was the kingnom that Daniel saw] in spite of their imperfections, this was the people whom the Lord cherished; this was the priesthood that would regulate all things according to the heavenly pattern; and many before him in the congregation were destined to be priests and kings unto the Most High God. He had nought but blessings in his heart for the faithful,  he besought the Lord to preserve them from the evils that predominate in the world, enable them to magnify their calling, that Israel might triumph and the enemy be placed beneath their feet. 

ELDER JOHN" VAN COTT 

Referred to the prophesies concerning the redemption of the remnants of Jacob, and rejoiced to hear of the work which was being accomplished among them. While Elder Orson Pratt was speaking, he remembered that he (the speaker), when a boy of sixteen, had the privilege of witnessing the baptism of Elder Pratt, and was the only member of the Church now living who witnessed it. It was forty-nine years ago last September. It was some years" after that he himself was baptized, but at that time he received a witness of the truth, and it never left him wherever he went. If it were not for that testimony he would not be here this day. It was a similar witness that had induced the Saints from every part of the earth to gather to these mountains. It was time that we should become united and prepared for those important events predicted which were near at hand. We should refrain from evil, obtain the power to discern the signs of the times and of the coming of the Son of Man, cultivate the spirit of meekness, forbearance and long suffering, and seek to God for wisdom that we might be prepared for the great change that is to come on the earth. 

The choir sang an anthemBenediction by Elder Orson Pratt. 