Morning
08 04 1880


ELDER LORENZO SNOW. 

We, as Latter-day Saints, profess to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, in the restoration of the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, in the restoration of the Holy Priesthood, with its privileges and powers, and in the restoration of the authority to administer to the sick, and to receive, through the medium of this Gospel which we have espoused, supernatural gifts and blessings, the Holy Spirit, which communicates a knowledge of things past, of things present and of things to come. And when we received this Gospel, we covenanted before God that we would be led, that we would be governed, and would follow the suggestions of the Holy Spirit, that we would follow the suggestions of the principle that gives life, that gives knowledge, that gives understanding of the things of God, that communicates the mind of God; and that we would labor for the accomplishment of the purposes of God in the salvation of the human family, adopting as a motto of life, " The Kingdom of God, or nothing." How far we have kept these covenants during the past fifty years, and followed the dictates of the Holy Spirit, we ourselves must be the judges. So far as we have done this, so far have the blessings of the Almighty descended upon us, and our minds have been enlightened, our understandings enlarged, and we have moved forward in the path of holiness, in the path of perfection, and which enables us this day to stand in the knowledge and power of God, and in the intelligence of heaven, just in proportion as we have observed the spirit of those covenants which we made at the waters of baptism; and just so far as we have failed in our faithfulness, in our adherence to our engagements, just so far have we been losers in this enterprise in which we have engaged to obtain eternal life, to obtain wisdom and knowledge and divine intelligence sufficiently to stem the tide of evils and temptations that surround us. And just so far as we have followed the suggestions of this divine spirit, have we experienced peace and joy to our souls, we have discomfitted the enemy, we have laid up unto ourselves treasures that moth and rust cannot destroy, so far have we forwarded ourselves in the path of the celestial kingdom; just so far have we secured ourselves the^blessings and privileges that pertain to the celestial law. When these things were opened up to our view — the principles of the Gospel and the glory of the celestial worlds — it was then our privilege to enjoy its blessings to a certain extent, just as though we had been translated into the celestial worlds; it was our privilege to enjoy a certain amount of the blessings that pertain to those laws. And just so far as we have conformed to these laws that pertain to our temporal salvation, just so far as we have obeyed the instructions given to us in regard to our temporal union, just so far we stand in prosperity before God and before the world; just so far as we have been induced to open our hearts to display the principles of philanthropy in the exercise of our religion, just so far do we stand this day approved of the Almighty God; just so far have we secured the implements or the means to defend ourselves against the approaching evils; just so far in all our settlements, cities, towns or villages, as we have observed these laws that pertain to our temporal obligations, just so far has prosperity attended our exertions, and just so far as the spirit of union prevailed in our midst, and we have advanced ourselves in these principles. And just so far as we have ignored these things, just so far do we stand weak to-day before God and before the world. 

A sufficiency of information has been placed before us in the revelations of former days, in the revelations to us at the present time to guide us in all of our affairs, both spiritual and temporal, to guide us even to the celestial kingdom to receive of the fulness of the Father. If, after the expiration of fifty years, we as a community do not stand in that high relationship to God that we could wish, the fault is not in the Lord, it is not for the lack of information placed before us, but that lack is in ourselves; it arises from our ignorance or neglect, or from a desire, peradventure, to serve the spirit of the world instead of the Spirit of God. 

It is true, when we look upon the temporal position that thousands and tens of thousands occupied at the time we received this Gospel, and when we take into consideration the spiritual fetters by which we were bound, and the ignorance that attended us in our spiritual affairs at that time, we certainly may feel very thankful to the Lord for the progress we have made when comparing our present position with that we sustained when we received the Gos; there must arise in our hearts the deepest gratitude to the Almighty for so far redeeming us spiritually and temporally as we find ourselves this day. For the progress we have made we are indebted to the blessings of God attending our diligence and faithfulness. And we should renew our covenants before God and the holy angels, that we will, God being our helper, serve him more faithfully during the ensuing year than we have in the past, that our public and private life, our actions and the spirit and influence we wield may be in keeping with the motto, "The Kingdom of God or nothing." I trust, my brethren, that we may devote ourselves entirely to the service of our God in the establishing of his Zion on the earth, zealously laboring in the interest of truth and righteousness on the earth, until it shall become a joy to us to be so engaged, that it may become second nature to us to serve God and keep his commandments, and to observe the celestial law, and that we may so enjoy the Holy Spirit in our hearts that we may overcome the world and establish the celestial law in our minds and establish it in our practice; that we may so understand ourselves and our privileges that we may in this life secure a considerable portion of the blessings that pertain to the celestial law, and which are to be enjoyed in the celestial glory. That so far as God gives us power in the earth, so far as he gives us possessions, houses and lands, flocks and herds, that these possessions shall become sanctified by our doings and actions and the manner in which we exercise o'urselves in relation to them, that they may become sanctified, and that we may show ourselves worthy of the priesthood we possess, in establishing God's work, in establishing his laws and everything that pertains to the celestial glory, just so far as God gives us this power, that we may show to the heavens that we are worthy of this Gospel and this confidence that God has placed in us, in restoring to us the fulness of the holy priesthood. 

And now I will close my remarks by bearing my testimony to the knowledge of God that I have received in relation to this work. It is true. I received a knowledge of the truth of this work by a physical administration of the blessings of God. And when receiving the baptism of the Holy Ghost I knew I was immersed in a divine principle that filled my whole system with inexpressible joy; and from that day to the present has blessing crowned my labors. And when baptizing people and .administering the ordinances of this holy priesthood, God has confirmed those administrations by imparting the Holy Ghost, giving a knowledge to the individuals to whom I administered, convincing them that the authority was delegated from heaven. And every Elder who has gone forth to preach this everlasting Gospel, and acted in the spirit of his calling, can bear the same testimony, that through their administrations in these holy ordinances the glory and power of God has been made manifest in a convincing manner upon the heads of those to whom they have administered. This is our testimony; this was the testimony fifty years ago of a certain individual who stood forth and claimed that God had authorized him to baptize people for the remission of sins, and lay hands upon them for the reception of the Holy Ghost, which should impart unto them a knowledge from the eternal worlds that he had this authority. This person was Joseph Smith; and he conferred this authority, which was given unto him by holy angels, upon others who were sent forth to bear testimony to the world that those who would receive those holy ordinances, should receive the testimony from the Almighty that they were thus authorized to so administer. And this is our testimony; and this is my testimony before this people and before the world. 

And may God bless us; may he pour out his Spirit upon the Latter-day Saints. And may we be faithful in all of our labors, having the motto indelibly stamped upon our hearts, "The Kingdom of God or nothing." Amen. 

ELDER WILFORD WOODRUFF. 

"A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one a strong nation: I the Lord will hasten it in his time." This is the word of the Lord through the Prophet Isaiah. Fifty years has made this little one not only a thousand, but more than one hundred thousand, and I do not think it will take half of fifty years more to make a strong nation: and if it were not for offending the ears of the Christian world, I would quote a word or two from the Prophet Daniel, where he says : "Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out of the mountains without hands, which smote the image upon his feet, that were of iron and clay, and break them to pieces. * * And the stone that smote the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. * * * And it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever." I know it becomes offensive sometimes to the Christian world to quote the Bible, therefore I think I will not quote much more of it. But I wish to say this is the destiny "of the kingdom of God which is planted here in the mountains of Israel. But I will take the liberty of asking a question; I would ask it of the Gentile world; I would ask it of the whole Christian world if I had a chance and an opportunity, and that is this: If this is the work of the Lord, and if the God of Israel has set up a kingdom, undertaken to establish a Church and a Zion, I wish to ask — can the inhabitants of the earth help it? Can they hinder it? Can they stay the hand of the Lord? I wish the world to reflect upon these things. Or will the unbelief of the world make the truth of God without effect? Judge ye. Joseph Smith, while in Liberty Jail, while in chains and imprisoned, prayed to the Lord — you will find it in the latter part of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, page 383 — he prayed to the Lord and the Lord answered his prayer. He. told him a great many things, among the rest that all things should be revealed in the days of the dispensation of the fulness of times, according to that which was ordained in the midst of the Council of the Eternal God of all other Gods, before the world was — all these things should be revealed in the latter days. Now, says the Lord, "How long can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri River in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pour-  ing down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints." The powers of earth cannot stay the progress of his Church and kingdom, for God has decreed it. And I wish again to say a word or two that is upon my mind with regard to my present condition. I have read the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants a good many times, and they have brought me to a condition that I love to trace these revelations like the pyramidal histories that have written to the world thatjcomes to an end pretty . And I am about in the same position as the farmer that sees his harvest ripe for the sickle. What must he do? He must go to work and cut it, or else it will go back into the ground; and that is the way I view the world to-day. It is fifty years since these revelations of God were revealed to man. Is not the world ripe? Is not the whole earth covered with whoredom, murder, blasphemy and abominations of every kind, until it rises up in the face of high heaven and before the Lord? What will be the result? The crop must be reaped; the harvest is at the door, it is ripe. The Lord said fifty years ago to Orson Pratt and others, " The field is ready for the harvest. Now, thrust in your sickle and reap, and any man who will may thrust in his sickle and reap." If we are not approaching a change, if the judgments of God are not to be poured out upon Babylon, and if there is not a change awaiting Zion, then I am at a loss concerning the fulfilment of the revelations of God; I have got about as far as I can go unless these changes are at the door. The coming of the Son of Man is near. The signs of heaven and earth have indicated this for many years; that is about where I am to-day; as an Elder of Israel, as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, I can see no road before me unless I am looking for the judgment of God to be poured out upon the wicked, and the judgments will begin at the House of God, and it will go forth from them to the world. 

Now, a few words with regard to what Brother Taylor said. In the first place, these Apostles here are in the same position that Ezekiel was. The Lord said unto him, "Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the House of Israel; therefore, hear the word of my mouth and give them warning from me. When I say unto the wicked, thou shalt surely die; and thou gavest them not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniqity, but his blood will I require at thine hand. Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul." So I say with regard to the Apostles here, as well as the Seventies and High Priests and Elders and Priests — they are set here in these latter days upon the walls of Mount Zion as watchmen. I tell you we are under a mighty responsibility to God, and I tell you we cannot afford, as Apostles, as Seventies, as Elders, and as High Priests, to sit still and know that sin reigns in our midst, and not rebuke it; we can not do it, and be justified before the Lord. Another thing, if we as Apostles, bearing the holy priesthood, use that priesthood for any other purpose under heaven but to build up the Kingdom of God, if we do our power will fall like lightning from heaven. A good many men have undertaken this — men high in the priesthood, even the Apostleship— to build themselves up upon the authority of the priesthood. And where have they gone ? You may say amen to their power and authority. They have lost their Bishopric and Apostleship. Let us reflect on these things. I say the same to myself. I say the same to the Apostles, Seventies and High Priests. You cannot u&e the priesthood for any other purpose under heaven but to build up the kingdom and do the will of God; and when you attempt to do otherwise your power will be taken from you. 

I wanted to say so much, and now I desire to say another thing. It is our jubilee year. I want to give an exhortation. I have heard things during this Conference that have had an effect upon my mind. I want to say to old and young who have been in the habit of doing anything that is not pleasing in the sight of God, it is time for us^to lay aside these things. It is time for us to lay aside our whiskey, our tobacco, our drunkenness, and everything that lies in our path to hinder us in our duty, or we shall be under condemnation. High Priests, and Elders, and Apostles, or any other man, cannot bear this priesthood on the earth and revel and drink with the drunken. You cannot do it, it is too late in the day; if you do, your power will fall from you. I felt yesterday, while Brother Taylor was rebuking these things, to say, Amen. I know that Brother Taylor, as leader of this Church and Kingdom, can no more sit and hold his peace while these things are going on in Israel, than he can live without breathing. It is time for us te repent and turn away from all our evils. The responsibility of carrying forward this Kingdom is upon the shoulders of the Latter-day Saints. 

Now I will say a few words more, and then I will close. I have often been asked the question, what condition should a man be in in order to receive a recommend to go through the Temple of the Lord? I will tell my feelings in regard to this matter, and if they are not correct, President Taylor and others of the Twelve can correct me. I believe it is too late in the day to send men to the Temple who make a daily use of whiskey, or other strong drinks, tobacco, &c, and there perform the ordinances for their dead; it is not acceptable in the sight of the Lord God of Israel. If we are going to be saved, let us build up the Kingdom of God, let us be reasonable and live according to what we preach; let us live our religion. I do not believe that a man is fit to go into the temples of the Lord to administer these ordinances for the living and the dead, who will make a practice of drinking strong drinks. What do you drink? Whiskey? No; you drink strychnine; you drink tobacco and a great deal of abysinthe, "blue ruin" and death; you drink anything under heaven but pure liquor. It can scarcely be said to exist in the land. The "stuff that is sold deprives you of your agency, and gives the devil power over you; it does so with anybody who makes a practice of using this liquor and other intoxicants. No one who uses them is fit to administer in the ordinances of the House of the Lord. My own faith is that no one is fit to administer the sacrament, baptize the children of men, or administer in the House of God, unless he in a measure keeps the Word of Wisdom. The Spirit of God will not dwell in unholy temples. 

If we are going to build up the Kingdom of God, it is time we commenced to keep the commandments of God and live by every word that proceedeth from his mouth. Our responsibility is great. It is the Kingdom of God, it is no more nor less. It is the Church of Christ; it is the Zion of God that every prophet who has ever lived since the world began has seen in vision and declared our future history. The revelations of God in the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants are being fulfilled. We are fulfilling them. And while we are here let us be faithful to God, the Great Elohim, the God of the Jews as well as the Gentiles. He looks to us and to nobody else. He looks to the Latter-day Saints. Why? Because nobody else has received the fulness of the everlasting Gospel; nobody else has taken hold to build up this kingdom. My faith and feeling about this matter is that we were appointed before the world was, as much as the ancient apostles were, to come forth in the flesh and take hold of this Kingdom, and we have it to do, or be damned. That is our position to-day. The eyes of the heavenly hosts are over us; the eyes of God himself and his son Jesus Christ and all those apostles and prophets who have sealed their testimony with their blood are watching this people. They visit you, they observe your works, for they know very well that your destiny is to build up this Kingdom, to build up Zion, sanctify it, sanctify the earth and prepare the world for the coming of the Son of Man. The judgments of God are at the door of the wicked; they cannot hinder them. The Lord will hold all men and all nations to an account for the deeds done in the body, and as Isaiah says in speaking of Zion, "The nation and kingdom that will not serve thee shall perish; yea, those nations shall be utterly wasted." These are tremendous sayings. There are hundreds of the revelations of God, all of which are going to be fulfilled upon the heads of the inhabitants of the earth in the generation in which we are living. Be prepared, therefore, for that which is to come. There is a change at your door. There is a change at the door of this generation. The Lord is watching over you, and he will sustain his work. 

May God bless you. May he bless the Apostles, and clothe them with his power and with the revelations of Jesus Christ, for I will say as Brother Snow has said — I know this is the Kingdom of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and he sealed his testimony with his blood. That testimony is in force upon all the world, and it will cost this generation just as much to shed the blood of the Lord's anointed to-day as it has cost the Jews for shedding the blood of Jesus Christ eighteen hundred years ago. The Jews have been scattered, they have been under the bondage of the Gentiles for all these years, and they have until recently been denied all political rights. 1 But the Lord is about to restore them. This is the Kingdom of God. It is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The heavenly hosts are preparing themselves to help the fulfilment of the revelations that are recorded in these records. 

The Lord raised up President Young to lead this Church, which he led for a generatfon. He has now passed behind the vail, where he labors with other Apostles who have furnished their testimony on the earth. The Lord has raised up President Taylor. The spirit of wisdom is with him. The Lord is blessing him and blessing his brethren. The Lord will stand by us and sustain us if we keep his commandments. 

I pray God to bless you and to bless Zion, that we may have power to bring these principles home to our hearts, to comprehend in a measure the responsibilities resting upon us, for I will say there never was a generation since the creation in which the responsibility of the Apostles and Elders was greater than that in which we live. 

I am thankful that I have lived to see this day. I have sometimes said I have felt lonesome. I look around me and find Joseph and Hyrum and a great share of the Twelve have been taken away. They are now in the spirit world. We soon shall go there too — myself, Brother Taylor, Brother Pratt and many of us are getting grey-headed — we shall soon pass to the other side of the vail; but let us do our duty while we are here, and all the rest, old and young, that we may inherit eternal life through Jesus Christ. Amen, ELDEB OHSON PRATT. 

I do feel with all my heart to thank the Lord our God for the blessings conferred upon this people. Our year of Jubilee, if we may so term it, is past. We entered upon it the sixth day of April, 1879 — ^ ast Tuesday was the end of it. We are now living in the fifty-first year of the organization of this Kingdom. At the close, or near the close of this first half century, the Lord has been very kind and merciful in behalf of the poor; he has put it into the hearts of his servants to administer liberally and bountifully for their good. It is to be hoped that the fiftieth year will not close up those great and good acts, on the part of the Church, as well as on the part of individuals in the Stakes of Zion, for and in behalf of the poor: but that the good work may continue, and that all the poor and the needy may be supplied, so far as circumstances will permit, with the necessaries of life. So much upon that subject. 

In regard to the future, it has been a duty devolving upon me, in connection with hundreds of others, to declare not only the Gospel, but to portray before the people future events. There are great things in the future, and we are sometimes apt to forget them. We have been looking, for some time past, for the Lord to accomplish and fulfill the times of the Gentiles; or the times allotted to them, during which the testimonies of his servants should go forth among them; or in other words, the times of the warning of the Gentile nations, the gathering out of their midst, a few here and there, of the believing Gentiles, away from the corruptions of Great Babylon, preparatory to the destructions that are to be poured out without measure upon the Gentile nations. These things have been sounded so long in the ears of the Latter-day Saints, that I have sometimes thought they have become like a pleasing song, or like a dream, and that they scarcely realize that these great events are at hand, even at the doors. But if we can depend upon the word of the Lord, if we can depend upon the predictions recorded in the Scriptures of truth — if we can depend upon modern revelation which God has given — there is a time of tribulation, of sorrow, of great judgment, of great wrath and indignation, to come upon the nations of the earth, such as has not been since the foundation of the world. And these things are not far off, but are near at hand, and who, in that day, that has any sympathy in their hearts, any feelings of humanity, but will mourn and sorrow over the calamities that will fall upon the nations. I know that these things are true. I have known these things ever since the autumn of 1830; and I know that God will fulfil his word, and that the day is almost at our doors, when God will pour out his indignation, without measure, upon the nations of the earth; and they will be swallowed up with judgments and calamities of all kinds and descriptions. 

I have sometimes reflected upon a new witness that the Lord seems to have brought to light, by the opening of the Great Pyramid of Egypt. There are many things revealed by the opening of that Pyramid, nearly 3000 years after it was built, that are great and marvellous, so far as I can understand them. There seems to be a prophetic spirit running through the construction of all that vast superstructure, pointing forward to the very end. Among the great events clearly portrayed by that Pyramid, was the organization of this Church on the sixth of April, 1830. This is expressed in the construction of the " Great Step," in the Grand Gallery of that Pyramid. Time was measured  that ascending gallery by sacred cubit inches. The measurement from the birth of Christ to the upper edge of the " Step," which terminates the ascending passage, was exactly 1829 cubit inches, and the fraction of another inch; that is, a little over the twenty-sixth hundredth part of an inch. Allowing one year to a cubit inch, it gives the sixth of April, 1830, as the exact time, corresponding to the upper edge of the " Grand Step." At this point the Gallery ceases to ascend, and the passage becomes horizontal. This points out the very period of time when the Church was organized, and the very day and month and year. Sixty-one cubit inches are measured off, from that point in a horizontal direction, until you come to the great impending wall r the end of the Gallery. What that means, I do not pretend to know. It may mean the closing up of the times of the Gentiles. Sixty-one years from the organization of the Church brings us, according to pyramidal testimony, to the end of something. Whether these pyramidal symbols are divine or not, there is one thing that I do know is true, namely, that the generation in which the fulness of the Gospel — the Book of Mormon — was brought forth, is the generation that will close up the times of the Gentiles. That I know, if I do not know much about the Pyramid. I know the former by revelation. I know that the days of the Gentiles are but very few; the end of the dispensation to them is now drawing very near to a close. God has revealed this work. His arm was made bare in the restoration of this Church. His arm was made bare in sending his angels from heaven to restore the everlasting priesthood and authority to the children of men. His power was made manifest in the organization of the Kingdom that must stand forever. These things are not a matter of opinion with me. I know them to be true. God revealed them to me in my youth. I have known them from that day to this. And the work of God will prosper, will prevail, will accomplish that whereunto it is sent, until every nation under heaven shall receive sufficient warning, and then will come the terrible, the dreadful downfall of Great Babylon. Awake, therefore, O ye inhabitants of Zion! Awake to the importance of your duties! Awake to the duties of the everlasting priesthood which has been conferred upon you by the servants of the living God. Seek after God with all your hearts, with all your souls, and with all your might, mind and strength, that you may be prepared for the events that are in the future, not only to be preserved when the great desolations of Babylon shall take place, but also to be partakers in all the blessings ordained to be bestowed upon Zion in the latter days. Awake for the redemption of Zion is very near, when this people shall possess again their inheritances upon the promised land; when this people shall erect unto the Lord a house and build up that city called Zion, wherein the glory of our God shall be made manifest upon all the inhabitants that are counted worthy to dwell in the midst thereof. 

May God bless this Conference and the Latter-day Saints everywhere — upon the mountains, in the valleys, and throughout the Territories where they dwell; that the Spirit of the living God may be with us, with our wives, with our children, and with all who desire to serve the living God; that the destroyer may be rebuked from our midst, and that we may rise up as the children of Zion, and do the work which the Lord our God requires at our hands. Amen. ELDER CHARLES C. RICH. 

I am thankful for the opportunity of making a few remarks before the close of the Conference. The Lord has certainly poured out upon us a goodly degree of his Holy Spirit, and we have received instructions which, if observed and carried out in our lives, will be of everlasting benefit and salvation to us as Saints of the Most High God. 

There are certain things that we are in duty bound at all times, to bear in mind and never lose sight of, and one of those things is, the requirement of the Lord that his Saints should become one. This lesson has been taught to us from the very beginning until now, and in it is involved the strength of this people. It is a lesson that should first be taught and acted upon in the family of every Latter-day Saint; and whenever difficulties arise between neighbors, families, or settlements, the first step to be taken by all the parties concerned should be to amicably settle the same, and from that time seek to do better, to be more respectful to another's feelings, and to really become united as Saints of the Most High in the bonds and the covenants of peace. Therefore, my beloved brethren and sisters, let us take this matter in hand and see to it; see to it that we labor, every man in his individual capacity, to become united, and this, too, by laying aside our faults, our follies and our imperfections; and as far as possible seek to build up the Kingdom of God on the principles revealed unto us from heaven. For most assuredly he will not accept of us or our labors on any other terms than those which he himself has dictated. 

And, again, among other things of importance required of us, as a community, and which is the work of to-day, is the building of temples in which to receive certain blessings essential to our salvation and exaltation in his celestial kingdom. He has ordained from before the foundation of our world, and has revealed this fact to us in our day, that his people can only receive from him certain blessings in certain places — having a special reference to those sacred buildings we call temples; and for this reason are we required to perform this work. We have been reminded that the time of the end draws near, so near, indeed, that there is no time to spare : and this labor is required of us and will have to be performed in a proper time. The Lord said to this people at an early day, that if the Saints did not perform a certain work by a certain time — referring to to the building of the Nauvoo Temple— that they should be rejected, and also their dead. Inasmuch as we were not rejected, and now have time and opportunity, let us use the time and improve the opportunity to the best advantage and of our ability to perform the work which he requires of us, and labor while it is called to-day. I feel that we are a blessed people, that the Lord has poured out upon us choice blessings in rich abundance, and inasmuch as we prove ourselves worthy to receive them on the terms which he has proposed, we will find that our Heavenly Father is abundantly willing and able to bestow, for surely there is no good thing that will then be withheld from us. But I have sometimes thought, judging from the actions of some, that they expect to realize the much desired blessing of the future on their own terms, as it suits them; it would seem that this was the case with some of our brethren, who seemingly want to do nothing unless it suits their individual feelings, overlooking partially, if not entirely, the great fact, that we have enlisted to do nothing but the will of our Father as it is and shall be s 9 

. made known to us through the proper authority. Nor does it matter to us, as his faithful servants, what that will may be, whether to build temples or anything else, we should engage with our whole heart in, the work required of us. 

The results of the labors of this people for half a century are before the world, which, although wrought in much weakness, and ofttimes in poverty and distress, have been, under the blessing of a merciful,. a just and allwise God, crowned with success; and on this, the occasion of our jubilee year just closed, I, in common with my brethren, raise my heart and voice in praise to him who lives and rules in the heavens above, and in testimony to this being his work, even the work to be developed in the latter days, so often spoken of in holy writ. And I repeat what has been said that the judgments are nigh, even at the door, and this work is going to be fulfilled. Let us open our eyes and ears, that we may see and hear as the wise virgins, that we may rightly comprehend the nature of the work to be performed, not in some other generation, but in the generation in which we live. 

I bear my testimony to the the truth of what we have heard in relation to the judgments of God that are to come upon the earth, as well as in relation to the truthfulness of this latter-day work. This testimony was given to me many years ago, having embraced the Gospel as early as the year 1832, when the Lord opened' the vision of my mind and manifested to me that it was of him, and that it was the commencement of that work which should eventually "fill the whole earth." I know this to be true to-day, and have known it and testified, whenever opportunity afforded, to its truthfulness ever since that early day: and I bear testimony of it this day before you, my brethren and sisters, and to all the world, that this is verily the work of God, and that he will fulfil the words that have been spoken to us his Saints concerning all things coming on the earth. And to the Latter-day Saints I would say, inasmuch as we treasure up in good and honest hearts the principles and words of life which God has revealed, and live in * consonance with them, we have nothing to fear; on the contrary, the faithful will rejoice, not in the downfall of the disobedient and wicked, but in the realization of the promised blessings in which they will rejoice, both in time and eternity. 

Then, my beloved brethren and sisters, let us awaken to the warnings we hear from tune to time, and especially cherish the Spirit, and ponder over and improve upon the instructions of this Conference, for they are true and faithful, and to this you, as well as I, can testify. And when we go to our homes let us carry with us and impart the spirit of this Conference to our brethren and sisters of the several Stakes who have not been present, that they also may take warning and square their lives according to the principles of the everlasting Gospel, laying aside everything that is wrong, and doing that which is right in all things pertaining to our religion, as Saints of the Most High God. And that we may pursue that course which will guarantee unto us all the blessings of the new and everlasting Covenant, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ERASTUS SNOW. 

St. Paul once said, "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable." He said this to the ancient Saints in reference to the spirit of hatred and persecution raging in the world against the Apostles and their followers. I have sometimes thought, when we hear and read of the vituperation and lies abroad in the earth concerning this people, when we see how they are misrepresented and slandered, it would seem as if the flood gates of hell were opened to swallow them up, and we might at times almost despair were it not for the assurance that we feel that God is with us, that the Lord of Hosts is our God, and he has led us until the present time, and we are encouraged to continue our efforts and labors with the feeling and assurance that he has not departed from us, that he has not cast us off, notwithstanding our follies and the many evils in our midst, and notwithstanding that the servants of God are called upon to speak by way of reproof and ofttimes to rebuke with sharpness. God has spoken by one of the ancient prophets in this wise: " Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful." The word of the Lord, though it be sharp like a two-edged sword, has salvation in it. It is the power of God unto salvation to all them that believe, and by the sharpness of the word of God are we brought to comprehend ourselves, to see ourselves as God sees us, and to purge evil from our midst. And it becomes us to lay to heart the word spoken, and it should begin with the Apostles, Presidents of Stakes, Bishops, the Presidents of Quorums, and heads of families and run through all the organizations of society, and the spirit of repentance, of reformation and of purification should flow in our midst, flow through the people in all our organizations until every man, woman and child shall feel that the Spirit of God rests upon them; we should put away evil, and endeavor to overcome the world, to withstand the influences of the hosts of hell, to resist the example of evil minded persons, to resist temptations of pride and vanity, and cease to be hypocritical; in other words, to be honest before God and one another, for his eye is upon us. Our ways are openly known unto him. I,t becomes not his people to seek to hide their ways from the Lord. Hypocrites*do this. Many of the Gentile Christians do this, as did many of the ancient Jewish Pharisees, for which they were rebuked with severity by the teachings of the Savior. None of us need think that we shall be benefitted by covering up our uncleanness and expect that we shall be sanctified by the outer ordinances of the temple of our God, when the inner man is corrupt. There is power in all the ordinances of God's house to all those whose hearts are clean, who accept the ordinances of God in faith and with purity of purpose. The Gospel of Christ is a savor of life unto life to all those that receive it in honest hearts, while it is a savor of death unto death to all those that reject and handle the truth in unrighteousness. So with all the ordinances pertaining to the priesthood. They bring condemnation to the hypocrite and evil doer, while they bring sanctification to those who are clean in spirit. And the priesthood which we have received with the keys and ordinances thereof can only be received and handled in connection with the powers of heaven, and on principles of truth and righteousness. The Lord has restored all the keys of this priesthood unto Israel in the last days through his servant Joseph by the hands of the ancients who held the priesthood before him, who bore the keys of the kingdom when they were upon the earth in ancient times; the Apostles Peter, James and John, and John the Baptist, from whom he received the priesthood pertaining to the gospel of re and baptism for the remission of sins and the promise that this priesthood should not again be taken from the earth until the sons of Levi should be purified and all that was promised Israel should be fulfilled; and however much individuals may fall away from Zion and forfeit their blessings, however much men may apostatize from the truth, and iniquity abound, and the love of many wax cold, yet the Lord will work in the midst of his people, turning and overturning, rebuking and cleansing, until he has performed all he has promised. And when the times of the Gentiles shall be fulfilled, the power of God will be made manifest in the redemption of the House of Israel. As it is written, "And so all Israel shall be saved. There shall come out of Zion the Deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob." Knowing this, the Apostle Paul says to the Romans, who were Gentiles, "Be not highminded, but fear: For if God spared not the natural branches, take heed lest he also spare not thee. Behold, therefore, the goodness and severity of God; on them which fell severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off." This is the work which God has commenced on the earth, to fulfil the promises made to Abraham concerning his seed, and the promises made to Joseph concerning his seed, the degenerate sons of America, among whom God is working in his own marvelous and wonderful manner, preparing their hearts for the changes that await them in accordance with his promises, when the cup of iniquity shall be filled up in the midst of the Gentiles, and his jndgment shall be poured out upon them to break them in pieces as a potter's vessel is broken. 

We are witnesses of these things and know the things whereof we speak, and we rejoice in the manifestation of the spirit bearing witness of these things among the people of God, and though there are many who are negligent in duty, dark in their understanding, covetous in their hearts, worldly minded and cling to this world and are more or less beset therewith, yet the Lord is working in the midst of his people; for poor, frail, feeble, faulty, sinful as we are, taken as a whole, we are the best the Lord has been able to find, and ►therefore he is not disposed to cast us off, but to reprove, admonish and instruct, that he may make us what he has called us to be in deed and in truth, saints of the last days. 

May God help us to keep our covenants, cleanse ourselves from sin, our hearts from all hypocrisy, our persons, our habitations, our towns and our cities; and may our municipal officers as well as our ecclesiastical officers have wisdom, strength, power, nerve, and energy to stem the current of crime, to check the progress of drunkenness, whoredom, profanity, and all manner of abomination, and execute judgment and justice in the land with firmness, vigor, and strength; and may God bless every officer of the law who magnifies his calling with soberness, diligence, and honesty, and every Apostle, President, Bishop, Elder, Priest, Teacher and Deacon who labors to put away evil from himself, his household and the community, and every mother in Israel who teaches her children righteousness and faith, and every organization for the improvement of the rising generation. May grace and peace be multiplied upon them through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, Amen. FIFTIETH ANNUAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS."! 

Forty-two years next June I had become convinced of the truth of the principles of the Gospel that had been taught to me, at the age of seventeen years; having received the word from the testimony of our aged veteran Joseph Young, sen., president of the Seventies, in my native State, Massachusetts. I found the principles of the Gospel very harmonious to my feelings, although very much opposed to the views of my friends and neighbors. It offered to me the ancient blessings restored, if I would but receive them. I considered the matter carefully and prayerfully, and ascertained that there was but one way of finding out positively whether the Gospel was true or not, or whether what was taught to me as the gospel was indeed such; and that the whole subject was made to turn upon the saying of the Savior, "If any man will do His (the Father's) will he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." And finding that there was only one way to come to a demonstration of the matter fairly and honestly, I concluded that if those gifts and blessings were restored to the human family, which were anciently given God's people to enjoy, I wanted to obtain them even at the risk of expatriation from my family, my friends and associates upon rendering a penitent obedience to the ordinance of baptism for the remission of my sins. The Lord answered my prayers, blessed me with an outpouring of the Holy Spirit, and gave me a certain revelation therewith, which made me to know that he took cognizance of me personally, and that this was none other than the great work of God. From that time I have never seen the moment that I doubted or felt uncertain or fearful concerning the progress of the work, or the ultimate triumph of its outcome. I have not only received such testimony, but also many of the various manifestations of the Spirit recorded in the Bible and promised in the revelations which mankind have a right, through obedience and faithfulness in this mortal life, to enjoy. 

The gifts of prophecy, of tongues and the interpretation of tongues, of healing and being healed, and a great variety that we will not take time to enumerate, even to the casting out of devils. These gifts and blessings, signs and mercies, have been bestowed upon not only myself, but upon my brethren of the Council, the faithful Elders, and the Saints generally. It is no strange thing among us that any one enjoys these blessings, ail of them having been promised unto those who believe and obey the Gospel message. It is only to be wondered at that more of us do not get nearer to God and realize more of them than we do; it is the only or greatest regret that I have to-day that any unfaithfulness on my part in the performance of my duties should hinder me from participating more fully in the enjoyment of God's favors, and advancing more rapidly in the knowledge of himself and of his ways. 

A man in this Church, who is an Elder in Israel, must have a degree of heroism if he is determined to be a servant of God, he must know what it is to be able to stand up in the spirit and power of his calling under all circumstances. God requires him to live and serve him with all his heart, with all his mind, might and strength; and to give himself wholly unto the work to which he has been called, and to have no other business, on hand except those things which are subservient to the interests of his Church and Kingdom. I want to say to the brethren, that we as Elders in Israel have come not only to  but to revelation; I testify to you that while you are sustaining the Twelve Apostles as such — as the presiding quorum, and as prophets, seers and revelators in the Church of Christ, that your faith and prayers are not in vain, that God is answering them, that he is fulfilling them in your brethren of that quorum, and you will see from time to time more abundantly the fruits, blessings and powers resulting therefrom in a greatly increased degree. Therefore, continue your union, your faith, and prayers, and God will multiply his blessings still more abundantly upon us all. There is more union among the brethren of the Council, there is more love and fellowship existing among them, they are increasing in those graces and qualities which made the bonds of brotherhood strong and powerful to resist successfully the encroaching powers of darkness, and to become strong in the name of our God — to accomplish all the work required at our hands. Those graces we see most abundantly shining forth in the ministration and counsel of President John Taylor who is our leader. 

I want to say, for the benefit of strangers present, that this work in which we are engaged, is the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, in which God has promised to gather together in one all things in Christ, be they things of heaven or things of earth, or, he might have said all persons and things, for that is the fact. All Christendom has become permeated with the belief that the second advent of the Savior is approaching and not very far off, so, also, the spirit of gathering has commenced, and if you will have your eyes open and watch the signs of the times, you will see that the spirit of the gathering is becoming more and more widespread, and is reaching Israel in all their abidings; they are becoming interested in and waked up to the importance of their gathering together. It is not only an item of news that the Israelites have got hold of the land of Canaan, but it is a commencement of the work that will gather the house of Judah and restore their land to fruitfulness — a land which will become glorious; and the House of the Lord which is to be built there is to be far more glorious than the former one.  

Not only that, but the heavenly tocsin is sounding to the Ten Tribes, and they are preparing themselves to come forth and make manifest the power of God and be established with his people upon the land of Zion promised. And if any of you doubt it, enquire among the Indians of our land and you will find that they are having dreams and visions from above, and are beginning to enquire after the word of God, and to wonder whether they are cast off and forsaken, and to be crowded quite into the sea, or whether the promises made to their race by their ancient prophets and patriarchs shall be fulfilled as recorded in the Book of Mormon. 

The Lord has commenced his work and it has taken a firm footing in the earth, and he has assured us that he will carry it on; and although we are frowned upon by forty millions of people who tell us that we cannot live and exercise ourselves in all the ordinances and institutions of Christ's Church in this land; let me tell you there are a hundred times forty millions in yonder heavens who are watching over and urging us to perform the heavenly requirements made to us from on high. Which do you think we shall give heed to? One of ancient times, when he thought that appearances were rather threatening, began to manifest considerable concern. And the prophet Elisha, seeing the timidity of the young man, prayed unto the Lord to open his eyes. Whereupon, we are told, that he saw the mountain on which he stood was filled with horses and chariots of fire encircling the prophet round about, demonstrating to his entire satisfaction the words of his master which were uttered just previously, namely, that "they that be with us are more than they that be with them," the forty millions to the contrary notwithstanding. Hence then, whom shall we obey? My brethren and sisters, let us obey and serve the Most High God, hearken to his counsels and keep the commandments which he has given unto us, even every word that proceeds from his mouth, including the "word of wisdom" which he in his goodness has made known to us, for anything that is worthy for him to give unto us is worthy for us to keep in the most sacred manner. 

Now let me say to the poor — for this conference has been fraught with blessing unto them — you who shall be forgiven your back indebtedness upon tithing, commence anew to tithe yourselves; be men of God, take hold of that duty and henceforth live determined to honor it with other requirements in the Church. The Savior anciently said, in speaking to the Jews, "If ye were the children of Abraham, you would do the works of Abraham." One of the most prominent features of father Abraham's life was to leave his native land, and go to a land which he knew not of, but which the Lord should show him. And having done this, there was a time when he was met by the minister of God, Melchisedek, when he was on his return from a triumphant victory over certain kings, on which occasion Melchisedek congratulated him on his success, when he, as if to reciprocate this minister's kindness, "gave him tithes of all," which law of tithing, if you please, he handed down to his generations after him. Let us regard it in like manner, for it is a standing law unto us upon this land. And if we do not live it and carry it out, with all other requirements, this, we are told, shall not be a land of Zion unto us. 

And unto the brethren who shall be released from their P. E. Fund indebtedness, I would say, lift up your hearts and be glad, take fresh courage when you are released from that obligation, and endeavor to make yourselves more useful. Strengthen yourselves in the the name of the Lord; let the weak say, I am strong; and let all the people know that the Lord Most High is our God, and let us give ourselves wholly to his service. 

Let the poor rejoice in the kindness and liberality of God and their brethren to them. Let the rich be glad that God has given unto them the means whereby they can bestow blessings upon the poor. 

God requires in his mercy that they who have an abundance shall impart with a kindly regard for the destitute, or his blessing will not rest upon them and their substance. 

My brethren and sisters, by the authority of the apostlcship God has bestowed upon me, I feel to bless you in all your interests, your wives and children and all that pertain to you, your fields, your orchards and gardens, your flocks and herds; hoping and praying that we may become more abundantly devoted to him, and that he may accept of us and lead us forth from faith to faith, and from grace to grace until the little stone rolls down from the mountains and fills the whole earth. 

May God preserve us in the faith as he has hitherto done, and help us to do his biddings so long as we dwell in the flesh, through Christ our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I can bear testimony to the discourses we have had this morning. And I can also bear testimony to the great latter-day work in which we are engaged, for I know it to be the workot God. 

In regard to the remarks of Brother Pratt, respecting the judgments of God that are about to be poured out upon the nations, if the people will take the trouble to read the predictions of the prophets concerning them, especially those referred to by the angel Moroni, when conversing with the Prophet Joseph Smith, at the opening up of this dispensation, I think they will be thoroughly satisfied and convinced, if they have any faith at all, that these coming judgments are not matters of mere speculation or supposition, nor of tradition handed down from remote ages, but that they are matters of fact, or will be ere long, when God shall consummate his designs against the wicked and ungodly of the world. For not only have prophets and inspired men declared these things, but they have been declared by the voice of the Lord, and by holy messengers sent from the presence of God, as well in modern as in ancient times. 

The Angel Moroni, who visited Joseph Smith on the 21st of September, 1823, quoted the Scriptures concerning these judgments, and declared that the predictions of the prophets had not yet been fulfilled, but that they would be in this dispensation, and that the beginning was now at hand, even at the door. Among these quotations I would like to call your attention to Malachi, second chapter: "Behold, I send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me," etc. "Bui who may abide the day of his coming? And who shall stand when he appeareth ? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap, and he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver," &c. " And I will come near to you to judgment, and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against false swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that turn aside the stranger from the right, and fear not me, saith the Lord of Hosts.'' 

And again, Malachi, 4th chapter — all of which was quoted by Moroni — " For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be as stubble, and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch." Again, Moroni quoted the nth chapter of Isaiah, in which are these words on this subject: "But wiih righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity for the meek of the earth; and he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked." Again, Acts, 3d chapter, 22d and 23d verses— quoted by Moroni just as they read in the New Testament — " A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you. * * Him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you, and it shall come to pass that every soul which will not hear that prophet shall be destroyed from among the people." Now this is strong language, and to the point. Moroni declared that this prophet was Christ at his second coming; that this scripture was not fulfilled, but was FIFTIETH ANNUAL CONFERENCE.  to be fulfilled in the literal coming of the Son of Man to reign upon the earth and to execute judgment upon the world. Moroni also quoted Joel, 2d chapter, 28th to the 32d verses, declaring that this scripture was also shortly to be fulfilled: "And I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke, &c. And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be delivered, for in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be deliverance, as the Lord hath said, and in the remnant whom the Lord shall call." 

Now, it seems to me that none of the interest or importance of this vital subject are lost in the fact that we are not left to the traditions of the fathers nor to the written word solely, nor to any uncertain means for the verification of these predictions, but rather our interest should be awakened from the fact that an angel from heaven, an actual messenger from the presence of God, has -re-iterated these very predictions to man on the earth in this generation. 

Some of these passages of scripture quoted by the angel were presumed to have been fulfilled in the days of the ancient apostles. Thus the world was in ignorance respecting them. All uncertainty upon this subject is now, however, dispelled, and the truth is made plain to all. For Moroni declared to Joseph Smith that these scriptures had not been fulfilled, but that the set time had come when they would be fulfilled, every whit, and the coming of Christ, the execution of the judgements, and the ushering in of the final reign of peace therein referred to, should be consummated in this dispensation. The power of the wicked nations of the earth will be broken. Thrones shall totter, and kingdoms fall, while Zion shall arise and shine, and put on her beautiful garments, and be clothed with power, wisdom, majesty and dominion upon the earth. Babylon must fall to rise no more. As a servant of the Lord I have received a testimony in relation to these things, and in connection with my brethren I am thankful to have the privilege of bearing that testimony, which I do in all solemnity before God and man, and am willing and ready to meet the consequences, If I continue faithful, at the bar of final judgment. And I further testify, that unless the Latter-day Saints will live their religion, keep their covenants with God and their brethren, honor the priesthood which they bear, and try faithfully to bring themselves into subjection to the laws of God, they will be the first to fall beneath the judgments of the Almighty, for his judgments will begin at his own house.' Therefore, those who have made a covenant with the Lord by baptism, and have broken that covenant, who profess to be saints and are not, but are sinners, and covenant-breakers, and partakers of the sins of Babylon, most assuredly will " receive of her plagues," for it is written that the righteous will barely escape. This is my testimony in relation to these matters. We rely upon the word of the Lord in these things, and not upon the word of man, for not only has angels, but God Almighty has spoken from the heavens in this our own age of the world, and we know his word is true. 

That we as a people may be prepared not only for the judgments, but for the glory and coming of our Lord, that we may escape the calamities to be poured out upon the wicked, and receive the welcome plaudit of the faithful servant, and be counted worthy to stand in the presence of the Lord in his glorious kingdom, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ALBERT CARRINGTON". 

In several places in the Book of Mormon you have read, or can read, that our Faither in the heavens, in revealing his will concerning the inhabitants of North and South America, made known that inasmuch as they would keep His commandments they should prosper; but inasmuch as they did not keep his commandments, they should be cut off from his presence. Do we flatter ourselves that we are naturally better than our brethren and sisters, of the numerous family of Adam, who lived in the days of the Jaredites, or in the days of the Nephites ? They were wealthy and powerful nations, and when they worked righteousness, observing the will of our kind, wise Father in the heavens, they prospered exceedingly; but as they transgressed the requirements designated for their welfare, they dwindled to destruction. 

We, as Latter-day Saints, are under the same requirements as have been all previous occupants of this continent, to whom the everlasting Gospel has been preached, to seek unto, love and serve the Lord our God, if we would be kindly regarded by Him. Do we natter ourselves that we will be so regarded in any other course? If so, we are unwisely deceiving ourselves. 

I rejoice in the great blessings we have enjoyed during this Conference. I rejoice in the strength, power and truthfulness of the testimonies we have been blessed with. I rejoice in observing the increase of that spirit of union that we must attain to, to be indeed Saints of the Most High God. And I feel to add my testimony to the testimonies of my brethren, that this great latterday work is verily the work of the true and living God, and He will carry it on to victory over all the opposition of the powers of earth and evil. This every faithful Latter-day Saint knows, whatever the world may think or imagine to the contrary; however much they may oppose in their blindness, through waywardness, stupidity and ignorance in the midst of their fancied intelligence and power. The Lord our God is infinitely more powerful than the numbers and powers of earth and darkness combined, and we have only to be careful to be His Saints, and all will be well with us. We know this, and I would that our brethren and sisters of the world would wisely realize these facts. 

When I look forward to the near future, that has been so much spoken of in this our day, and so plainly prophesied of from the beginning, and contemplate the terrible calamities that are to befall those who reject the Gospel and oppose the work of God, do I feel in the least to exult over their downfall? I feel that it will be a day of sorrow and mourning; that it will be painful even to hear the report of the going forth of the wise and just judgments of our Father upon the heads of the wicked— those of our fellow-beings who have preferred to do evil. 

I take great pleasure in being able to add my testimony to the testimonies of my brethren to the fact, which all the world cannot truthfully gainsay, that Joseph Smith was and is a true prophet of the true and living God; that he died, as he had lived, honoring and glorifying our Father in Heaven; that he laid the foundation of this great work, in which we are engaged, broad and deep, according to the mind and will of God, and consummated every requirement which devolved upon him. 

That we may be and continue faithful, and be saved with a complete salvation in the Celestial Kingdom of our God, I pray in the name of Jesus. AmenELDEE MOSES THATCHER. 

Would it not be well, my brethren and sisters, to reflect, after the close of this Conference, in reference to our individual acts during our past experience in the Church? Would it not be well to ask ourselves the question whether we shall be prepared in the future to receive that measure which we have meted out to others; whether we shall be satisfied with that judgment with which we have judged others; whether we have followed the whisperings of the Spirit of God; whether we have been humble, prayerful, faithful and true? It would be well for us, I think, to reflect upon these points, and wherein we are satisfied we have not lived up to our privileges, let us as far as possible make amends and start again, rejoicing before the Almighty. 

I am pleased to be able to add my humble testimony to those to which you have listened this morning. I know that this is the Churah of Christ. I know that we have Prophets, Seers and Revelators. I know that every blessing which the Lord Jesus Christ has promised is within the reach of this people, if they will live so that they can claim them. I can bear my testimony that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God; that he with his natural eyes saw the face of angels; that he heard the voice of God; that he heard the voice of the Lord Jesus Christ; and that he received the Aaronic and Meldhisedec priesthood. I can bear my testimony that he sealed his testimony with his blood, and that therefore it is in force upon the whole world. His brother Hyrum died by his side, and the blood of our venerated and respected President, who presides to-day over the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, was mingled with their blood, and stands also as a testimony before this nation and before this people. I know that he is led to-day by the revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I can bear my testimony that when you raise your hands to sustain him as a Prophet, Seer and Revelator, that God hears and answers your prayers. There is this spirit of revelation in the midst of the people. I know it in every fibre of my nature, Iknow it in every sense of my being, and I thank God that He has given me this testimony. I know also in reference to the judgments that are to be poured out upon the earth. Enough has been revealed to make me feel sorrowful and frequently like shedding bitter tears. I have no feeling of enmity against our government. I have no feeling of bitterness against a living human being, wicked though many may be, because their sorrows will be more than they can bear, and the judgments of the Almighty, when they come to be poured out, will touch the hearts Of the Latter-day Saints and cause them to retire to their closets and secret places and weep because of the desolation and ruin that will be brought upon this and other nations. I can also bear my testimony that the preaching of righteousness is accomplishing a great work among the remnants of Israel, and that the poor Indians, who have been despised and hated through the ignorance, bigotry, and folly of the wicked, will yet arise and stand forth in their manhood; the Lord Jesus Christ will bring them out of their bondage and fulfil all the words of the prophets concerning them, that are recorded in the Book of Mormon. 

May God bless the Latter-day Saints. May we march on to perfection, to liberty, and to the power of God unto salvation, is my earnest prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

FIFTIETH ANNUAL CONFERENCE. gg 

PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR. 

little^ W W k6 H P ° n ^ l0ng6r ' ° r Sha11 We 1 uit? 1 think we have a 

little time. We adjourned the first day of our meeting because it was rather cold and now it is not quite so cold, and we will stayt little longer. I have felt a desire to hear the testimony of my brethren of the Twelve, and that of our Counselor who is here. All of the Twelve are present except one he i at his post, attending to the interests of Zion. And we will pray for hi m that 

tliis p^l'e 6 h SUStain PreSerVG hIm ' - d 

There are a few things I want to speak upon, and I realize that while I and my brethren are speaking, we are not only speaking to this congregation, but to others-to the Saints throughout this and adjoining Territories - to the 

m nf T\l { Unit£d StateS t0 thG W ° rld ^ because our teSny will go forth to them. J 

There are many things which I wish to draw the attention of the brethren to, that they may not lose sight of them. One is Co-operation. We have a number of Co-operative institutions; we have one here, which may properly be denominated the parent institution; we have also many others, and we wish to sustain them, and to do it not nominally, but really in our hearts, and with honesty of purpose; and do everything we do on that principle, without hypocrisy of any kind, in truthfulness before God, and operating together for the welfare of Israel. But Co-operation is not a system only for importing goods and selling them; we want to co-operate in home manufactures. We have done considerable of that, and we desire to do more of it. The Co-operative Store here has, I presume, as much as two hundred men at work in all— about 140 to 150 making shoes, and about 50 or 60 making certain kinds of clothing; and we want to see these things increased, until we can make all our ovv'n clothing right here at home; and instead of having to employ tailors abroad to make it tor us, we want, as quickly as practicable— and I think it is practicable now— to make it ourselves. I mean the clothing which is imported here; and then, instead of employing comparatively only a few men, use all of our own labor; let our factories be run on double time and use our own wool at home, instead of exporting it, and thus increase the means of employment and be self-sustaining. And then if we could get some of the best machinery for the manufacture of hats, that would be another commendable enterprise, because we use a large number. I see there are a great many heads here,' and there are a great many more in the Territory, all needing hats— and if we should supply them ourselves it would be much better than to take the other course. 

Then there are some that are trying to engage in the United Order, up and down in different parts, especially far off in the South. They have our blessing and our prayers. I say God bless them in all their attempts to approach that order which is instituted of God. We have not got at it yet, by and by we will come to it; but in the meantime we will approach it as near as we can. God is pleased with the action of this people in their liberality towards the poor. Now be liberal one towards another, and help and relieve one another, and God will relieve and bless you. 

Speaking again of Co-operation we have what are called Boards of Trade, and it is expected that they will operate and co-operate with our central instiFIFTIETH ANNUAL CONFERENCE. . A meeting of that kind will be held this afternoon, therefore I do not wish at this time to say much upon that subject. 

There is a subject I wish to speak a little upon to High Councils, to Bisheps, to Bishops' Counselors and to the Presidents of Stakes particularly; but as we shall hold a priesthood meeting, what I am about to refer to can be more fully talked of then; but I will allude to it briefly here. Reference was made by one of the speakers to a revelation contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, in which we are given to understand that the priesthood is given unto us, not for our own aggrandizement, nor to advance our own interests, but to build up the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth, acting upon the principles of justice, equity and righteousness, as you are yourselves willing to be judged — and will be judged, before the Great I AM, when the time comes that we shall have to give an account of our stewardship. We want no favoritism shown to any man, or to any woman, or to any set of men, but in the administration of justice to do it as in the sight of God, with integrity of heart and uprightness; anything different from this cannot receive the approbation of God. And furthermore, this priesthood is not conferred upon men to exercise any degree of unrighteousness or tyranny, or to in any way oppress or injure anybody; but if any man use his priesthood to subserve any such purpose, God will take hold of him, as the Priesthood above him will take hold of him, and he will be removed out of his place except he repent. 

Another thing. 'The Lord has given unto us our various Courts — Bishops' Courts, High Councils, etc., and it is expected that the Saints will adjust any matters of difficulty or dispute that may arise among them, before those courts, and that they do not go to law before the ungodly; and if any do so, I will promise them, in the name of the Lord God of Israel, that they will be destroyed by the ungodly. Hear it, you Elders of Israel, and you Saints of latter days! Let us seek in the first place among ourselves to execute judgment in righteousness, and then let every man and every woman submit to them. That is God's law, and any man that acts contrary to this law cannot go into the temples of the Lord to receive the ordinances of God's house. For if we cannot submit to the law of God on the one hand, we cannot receive the blessings through his ordinances, on the other hand. Is that right? [The congregation answered, Yes.] 

Again. I have been very much interested in our Sabbath School operations, and should have been pleased to have been present at the general meeting of the Sunday School Union, last evening, but having so much labor on hand, I thought it better to rest. But I am interested in the cause of our Sunday Schools, and so are my brethren of the Twelve. God has given unto us the most precious of gifts— children, and has placed us over them as the fathers and mothers of lives. They are eternal beings, and it should be our constant care to train them up in the fear of God. And we want the Bishops and the Presidents to sustain them, which I believe they do, and all good brethren and all good sisters should take an interest in the welfare of the rising generation, and do all they can to train the children in the fear of God. And God will bless you in your labors and desires, and the youth of Zion will rise up and call you blessed. And let no man or woman shirk the responsibility of teaching the children when it is put upon him or her. IOI 

And then, our Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations are very good institutions, and the Lord is blessing them, and he will continue to bless them; and we desire to see them encouraged in their operations throughout the land, that the principles of righteousness, truth and purity may be promulgated and sustained; and that vice, evil, corruption, and infamy may be frowned upon, and the right honored and maintained; and that our youth may grow up as plants of renown and become mighty men and women in Israel, filled with the gift of the Holy Ghost and the power of God. 

Again, in regard to the Relief Societies. They are doing a great deal of good, and I say, God bless the sisters, and let all the congregation say Amen. [The vast congregation said, Amen.] Sisters, continue your labors of love, and continue to propagate good, virtuous and holy principles; teach your daughters, and also your sons, principles of holiness and purity; and seek out the poor and distressed and minister to them, and God will bless you in your labors. We thank you, and I thank you in behalf of the Twelve, and in behalf of the people, for the liberal vote you gave us yesterday in regard to supplying the poor and the necessitous with the grain that you have stored — something which we, who profess to be so much more intelligent, have not been able to do. God bless you; continue your good works and adhere to the principles of right and truth, and God will bless you, and he will bless your sons and daughters, and your names will be honored in Israel, and you will be honored by God and the holy angels. 

Again, in regard to the building of temples, we are engaged in doing a good work. Our Salt Lake Temple is progressing very nicely, and we expect it will go forward as usual, only a little more so, next season. I would say in regard to this temple — there were some remarks made about no reports having been made. This is true; the people here have been careless and indifferent, at the same time a large amount of means has been used on it, and why the report has been omitted, I do not know. And the building known as the Salt Lake Assembly Hall has been erected within a short time, at a cost, I suppose, of not less than $100,000; besides attending to other things. I have no complaint to make, only we will try and do a little better; and when you are called upon to furnish quarry hands, be a little more prompt about it, and do not be backward; and when you are called upon to furnish men to assist us here, do not be backward about it. And we will try and improve, one and all, upon our past labors in relation to these things. In Logan and Manti we have two temples under construction, and when finished they will be a credit to the people. We are trying at least to carry out the word and will of God in this direction, and he is helping us to do it. We will build our temples and administer in them, and stand forth as the priests of the Most High God, administering salvation to the living and for the dead. And then, we will continue to send forth, as we are doing, our missionaries to the nations of the earth. Although they do not, very frequently, receive us very kindly, but no matter; they did not receive Jesus, nor the prophets in ancient times, very kindly. The laws of God, nor the servants of God, never were received very kindly upon the earth, except for about two hundred years upon this continent; but the time is coming when the Saints of the Most High God will take the kingdom and FIFTU.TH ANNUAL CONFERENCE.  it, and reign for ever and ever; and he whose right it is will come and take the possession. 

I will speak a little in regard to our government. We complain a good deal about the way we have been treated. Well, we have been treated very scurvily, it is true — everybody will admit that — but we must consider the circumstances : they are not of our faith, they do not believe as we do, they have their ideas, and theories, and notions, and so have other nations as well as this. Well, what shall we do? We will do the very best we can. Do you think you could improve your condition in any other nation or under any other government, or receive any better treatment than you do in this? I tell you no, you could not. We here, at least, have the form and — I was going to say, the guarantee of liberty; that is, the promise of the guarantee. We have the form, but it is like a religion without the power. What shall we do ? Consign everybody to damnation and destruction? No. Who are they? They are God's children. Would he like to see them reform? He would; and he has told us to try to do it. If we had children that had gone astray, would we not like to see them reform? Yes, we would, and if our children do anything wrong we tell them of it, and we try to reform them. We will therefore continue to go to this nation as we have done, as saviors, with the message of life and salvation, and we will pray for the honest, the upright and virtuous, and those who love righteousness, and those who are willing to accord to men equal rights, and a great many who are not; and we will do them all the good we can. We will sustain the government in its administration, and be true to it, and maintain this position right along. And when division, strife, trouble and contention arise, we will try to still the troubled waters, and act in all honesty as true friends to the government; and when war shall exist among them, and there is no one found to sustain the remnants of liberty that may be left, the Elders of Israel will rally round the standard of freedom and proclaim liberty to all the world. These things will assuredly take place, and when they do our motto will be as it now is, "Peace on earth and good will to men." These are our sentiments and feelings in relation to these matters. But while we feel liberal, generous and kind to all men of all nations, classes and creeds, we have no fellowship with unrighteousness; we do not believe in the actions of many men, nor in their corruptions and evils; we want to purge ourselves from them and stand forth aloof as servants of God in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, and try in all fidelity, in the interests of our common humanity, to bear off the government of God triumphantly. 

I would also say a little about the P. E. Fund. While we have relieved a great many, to the amount of $800,000, of their indebtedness, which is right before God and all honorable men; there are a great many poor Saints among the nations yet. And we want those who are not forgiven — for we shall not forgive those that are able to pay and do not do it — to come forward and meet their obligations. And then, if there are those that are desirous of assisting any in this direction, who have it in their hearts to do so, and to impart a blessing to their friends in foreign lands, let them come forward and present their means to Brother Carrington, who is President of the Perpetual Emigration Fund Company, and he will see that the means are properly applied. We do not want to close up this avenue of relief to the scattered poor, I03  we wil} continue our efforts to gather Israel. And further; we will continue to build temples, and to administer in them, and we will also continue to preach the Gospel, until the word of the Lord be fulfilled pertaining to this and other nations, and then he will say, Turn to the Jews, go to the House of Israel, the cup of the Gentiles is full. This time has not come yet. 

Now, in regard to these matters, God is our God in whom we put our trust; we have nothing ourselves to boast of. Have we wealth ? Who gave it to us? The Lord. Have we property? Who put us in possession of it? The Lord. Our horses, cattle and sheep, our flocks, herds and possessions, are his gifts. The gold and the silver and the precious things of earth, and also the cattle upon a thousand hills, are his, and we are his, and in his hands, and all nations are in his hands, and he will do with us and with them as seemeth him good. And as a kind, wise Father, he will watch over their interests; and when the time of judgment comes, it will not be withheld. We ought always to remember that our strength is in God; we have nothing to boast of ourselves, we have no intelligence that God has not given unto us; we have nothing in life, or property, but what has been given unto us of the Lord. Everything we possess pertaining to time and eternity has been imparted to us by him. Let us then act as Saints of God in all humility, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. I say God bless you, and God bless my brethren of the Twelve, and God bless my biethren of the Seventies, and God bless my brethren of the High Priesthood, and God bless the Presidents of Stakes and their Counselors, and God bless the Bishops and their Counselors, and the Elders, Priests, Teachers and Deacons, our missionaries laboring in foreign lands, and all the Holy Priesthood, and God bless all the Saints. And let us all seek to do our duty and honor and magnify our calling. Fear God and keep His commandments, and the peace and blessing of God will abide with us from this time henceforth and forever. And I now testify, as my brethren have done, that this is the work of God that has been revealed by the Almighty, and I know it. And God will sustain Israel, and no power can injure us if we will do what is right; and this kingdom will roll on, and the purposes of God will progress, and Zion will arise and shine, and the glory of God will rest upon her. And we will continue to grow and increase until the kingdoms of this world shall become the kingdoms of our God and his Christ, and he will reign for ever and ever. Amen. 

Elder L. John Nuttall read the following names of missionaries, who were sustained by unanimous vote: 

Great Britain. — Robert R. Irvine, Fourth Ward, Salt Lake City; Mark Beazer, Kaysville; John Cooper, Fillmore; William R. Webb, American Fork; Edward Stevens, Payson; John Kynaston, East Bountiful. 

Sandwich Islands.— Orrin D. Allen, Huntsville. 

United States. — Peter Lauritzen, Moroni; Erik Bastel Ericksen, Mt. Pleasant; Samuel G. Bunnell, Spring City; James Sanderson, Fairview; William Clark, Lehi, and Nicholas H. Groesbeck, Springville. 

Frank Warner, Willard City, place to be designated hereafter. FIFTIETH ANNUAL CONFERENCE. 

Choir and congregation sang: 

" Praise God from whom all blessings flow." Adjourned till October 6, 1880, at 10 a. m., in the same place. Benediction by Elder Wilford Woodruff. 

George Goddard. Clerk. 


