Afternoon 
04 04 1931

The second session of the Conference commenced promptly at 2 o'clock p. m., with President Heber J.. Grant presiding. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "How Firm a Foundation, Ye Saints of the Lord." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Thomas A. King, President of the Garfield Stake. 

The hymn, "Prayer Is the Soul's Sincere Desire," was sung by the congregation. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I want to thank my Heavenly Father for the privilege of meeting with you this day. In the first place I want to endorse with all my heart and soul the remarks that have been made during the morning sesssion. I think they were mo^t timely and I wish to say to the people of the Church, no matter where they may live, these things apply to our every day life and if adhered to will make better men and better women of us. 

NOT ASHAMED OF THE CHURCH 

The examples that we set wherever we go are but one way of preaching the (Gospel of Jesus Christ. I have never been ashamed to acknowledge that I am a Mormon, if you please, a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in so doing I cannot recall one instance in my life when it has redounded to my disadvantage. When I see, as I have seen in times past, members of ' the Church shrinking in certain society or associations from letting people know that they are members of the Church of Jesus Christ, I have only pity for them. If the principles of the Gospel were lived by every man who professes to be a Latter-day Saint we would be the ideal people of the world, and 'I believe that we are even under present conditions. 

PROHIBITIONISTS 

Do we believe in prohibition ? T cannot but say, without a question of doubt, that there are a greater number of Latter-day Saints who not only believe it but practice it than in any other community of like number or any other place in all the world. It means so much to us and the world, and we profess so much for those who live it. I hope and trust that it will grow in the hearts of the people until every man bearing the priesthood of the living God dan say, "I am a prohibitionist. I am proud of it." Acknowledge it., I testify to you that there has never been a place where I have been present, in this country or in foreign lands, where it has mortified me in the least degree to acknowl it by word or action — -I not only profess to be a prohibitionist, but that I live that law and have done so all my life, thanks to that mother God gave me. 1 

ingersoll's views regarding alcohol 

There has been a great deal of talk lately to the effect that the prohibition law [should be repealed. iWould it be better for the world ? I do not believe so. No one can claim that Robert G. Ingersoll was a fanatic religiously, and I know of no one who has expressed himself upon the curse of alcohol stronger than has Robert G. Ingersoll. I would that the whole world would study what he said is the result of its use. And while this question is before the nation, if you please, and many I find, even among our people, believe it would be best to have the prohibition law repealed, I want to call your attention to what Robert Ingersoll said regarding alcohol : 

"I am aware that there is prejudice against any man engaged in the manufacture of alcohol. I believe that from the time it issues from the coiled and poisonous worm in the distillery until it empties into the hell of death, dishonor and crime it demoralizes everything that touches it from its source to its end. 

"I do not believe that any one can contemplate the object without prejudice against the liquor crime. All we have to do gentlemen, is to think of the wrecks on either bank of the stream of death, of the suicides, of the insanity, of the poverty, of the ignorance, of the destitution, of the little children tugging at ' the faded and withered breasts of weeping and despairing mothers, of the wives asking for bread, of the men of genius it has wrecked, and man struggling with imaginery serpents, I believe every thoughtful man is prejudiced against this damned stuff that is called alcohol! 

"Intemperance cuts down youth in its vigor, manhood in its strength and age in its weakness. It breaks the father's heart, bereaves the doting mother, extinguishes natural affections, erases conjugal love, blots out filial attachments, blights parental hope, and brings down mourning age in sorrow to the grave. It produces weakness, not strength; sickness, not health; death, not life. It makes wives widows, children orphans, fathers fiends, and all of them paupers and beggars. It feeds rheumatism, nurses gout, invites cholera, imparts pestilence and embraces consumption. 

"It covers the land with idleness, misery and crime. It fills pur jails, almshouses and asylums. It engenders controversy, fosters quarrels and cherishes riots. It crowds our penitentiaries and furnishes victims for the scaffold. It is the life blood of the gambler, the element of the burglar, the prop of the* highwayman and the support of the midnight incendiary. 

"It countenances the liar, respects the thief, esteems the blasphemer, it violates obligations, reverences fraud and honors infamy. It defames benevolence, hates love, scorns virtue, slanders innocence. 

"It incites the father to butcher his helpless offspring, helps the husband to massacre his wife, and the children to grind the paricidal ax. It burns up men, consumes women, detests life, curses God and despises heaven. It suborns witnesses, nurses perjury, defiles the jury box and stains the judicial ermine. It degrades the citizen, debases the legislature, dishonors the statesman and disarms the patriot. 

"It brings shame — not honor, terror — not safety, despair — not hope, misery — not happiness; and with the malevolence of a fiend it calmly surveys its frightful desolation and unsatiated with havoc, it poisons felicity, kills peace, ruins morals, blights confidence, slays reputations and wipes out national honor — then curses the world and laughs at its ruin." i Is there anyone who can deny these statements? What more trouble and sorrow could come to a mother or a father, a sister or a brother, than to have one of their loved ones addicted to the alcoholic curse? What right thinking person can believe it should be sanctioned by law ? No, God grant that it shall never come to our fair America again. i 

I do not say that the present administration of the law is perfect. I do not say that it has been enforced to the length it could be. But I do say and I do claim that it is a thousand times better than if we had today the open saloon, the hell-holes of Satan himself. 

EASTERN STATES MISSION ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

There are so many questions of vital importance, my brethren and sisters, that could be spoken of and which have been referred to by those who have addressed this Conference. If I do trespass a moment I want to make reference to the Eastern States Mission, and acknowledge the splendid work accomplished, by Brother James H. Moyle, the president of that Mission. He has made it possible to reach not only the few that come to church, but also the thousands who listen to our Elders' sermons by radio. The last two nights I have read the speeches that have "been delivered over the radio in the Eastern States Mission by our Elders. Brother Moyle tells me that the radio speeches do not cost the Mission a cent, and I have not the least doubt that they have reached tens of thousands of people who had never heard of Mormonism or had had one principle of our Gospel explained to them by a member of the Church., He informs me that almost all of these speeches have been prepared by young missionaries themselves. Many of them are masterpieces. It would do this great congregation and all the thousands who are listening in over the radio a great deal of good to hear them delivered from this stand. 

GOD AT THE HELM 

This work is growing. The God of heaven is at the helm. He has never made one prediction through his prophets in any age of the world nor in this day and dispensation that will not be literally ful. filled. I know it as I know that I live. God grant his blessings unto the President of the Church, the General Authorities of the Church, the organizations of the priesthood, and all the people of the Church. Remember, brethren and sisters, you belong to the most remarkable organization in all the world. God give us power and strength and the determination to do our part to bring about the purposes of God in establishing His Church in this day and generation, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

About 420, probably 421 of our present era, as we reckon the years, Moroni, an ancient Nephite prophet, the last of a long line, 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 27 

closed the record of his people, and left the seal of his testimony upon all that had been inscribed upon the metallic plates which were made to receive the account of the Lord's dealings with that people, from the time they had been led from Jerusalem, across the deep, to this American continent. I pray you heed these words of his : 

"And again, I exhort you, my brethren, that ye deny not the gifts of God, for they are many; and they come from the same God. And there are different ways that these gifts are administered; but it is the same God who worketh all in all; and they are given by the manifestations of the Spirit of God unto men, to profit them. 

"For behold, to one is given by the Spirit of God, that he may teach the word of wisdom; 

"And to another, that he may teach the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; 

"And to another, exceeding great faith; and to another, the gifts of healing by the same Spirit; 

"And again, to another, that he may work mighty miracles; "And again, to another, that he may prophesy concerning all things; "And again, to another, the beholding of angels and ministering spirits; "And again, to another, all kinds of tongues; 

"And again, to another, the interpretation of languages and of divers kinds of tongues. 

"And all these gifts come by the Spirit of Christ; and they come unto every man severally, according as he will. 

"And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that every good gift cometh of Christ. 

"And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that he is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and that all these gifts of which I have spoken, which are spiritual, never will be done away, even as long as the world shall stand, only according to the unbelief of the children- of men." 

THE EVIL GIFT 

And now I pass over several paragraphs of comment upon what has gone before, and read you another admonition from this ancient revelator : 

"And again I would exhort you that ye would come unto Christ, and lay hold upon every good gift, and touch hot the evil gift, nor the unclean thing." 

A very strong contrast is here drawn. The principal gifts of the Spirit are listed in other scriptures, in the Bible, in the volume of latter-day revelation, the Doctrine and Covenants; but the enumeration I have read to you is perhaps as comprehensive as any. The prophet plainly proclaims the fact that these are characteristic of the Church of Christ. Miracles, as the manifestations of such gifts are sometimes called, will not be done away as long as men are receptive to the operations of the Spirit of the Lord, as long as men are willing to receive and to heed. 

But the admonishment is : "Touch not the evil gift, nor the unclean thing." What is meant by that ? Satan from the first has been a great imitator; he is an experienced strategist. Never has the Lord set his hand to do a specific thing for the good of his people upon the earth, of outstanding feature, but that Satan has attempted to imitate it in some degree. FROM GOD OR FROM SATAN? 

The Lord manifested himself to Moses, and talked to the man face to face. Moses records the fact, and adds that he could not have looked upon the Lord with his physical eyes, but that the glory of the Lord was upon him, and he was able to see with his spiritual eyes. 

Then came Satan, the audacious, the father of lies, and represented himself as being the son of God in the distinctive sense. Moses was able to discern and perceive. 

"And it came to pass that Moses looked upon Satan and said : Who art thou? For behold, I am a son of God, in the similitude of his Only Begotten; and where is thy glory, that I should worship thee? 

"For behold, I could not look upon God, except his glory should come upon me, and I were strengthened before him. But I can look upon thee in the natural man. Is it not so surely?" 

Oh, that we all had such power of discernment. That is a gift of the Spirit, to which we are entitled and we will have it as we live for it. With that gift we shall be free, to a great extent, from the deception that otherwise might lead us astray. 

As the Lord gives revelations, so does Satan, each in his way. 'As the Lord has Irevelators upon the earth, so has Satan, and he is operating upon those men by his power, and they are receiving revelations, manifestations, that are just as truly of the devil as was his manifestation to Moses, to which I have referred. 

BEWARE OF DECEPTION 

We need the power of discernment. We need the inspiration of the Lord, that we may know the spirits with whom we have to deal, and recognize those who are speaking and acting under the influence of heaven, and those who are the emissaries of hell. Many have been led away in this Church. Go back to 1830. In September of that year, a few months only after the Church had been organized, Satan was at work, and men were receiving revelations which were put forth to offset those that were given to the Church through the Lord's chosen revelator, the Prophet Joseph Smith. He had been instrumental in translating the ancient records, and he had been given the aid of the Urim and Thummim. Hiram Page found a peculiar stone, and used that, as the devil seems to have influenced him, until the Lord had to speak and declare that that which Hiram Page had given unto the people was not of him, and that when he had revelations to give to the Church he would give them through the man who was sustained as the revelator at the head of the Church, and not through somebody else. Read Doctrine and (Covenants, section 28. 

Nevertheless the Lord makes plain in the scriptures of these days that his wondrous gifts, the gifts of the Spirit, can be possessed by those who live for them and they will be given severally, according as the Lord will, and he wills to give them unto those who will use them rightly, and not unto those who would dishonor them. 

FALSE PROPHETS 

The Lord does not work miracles to satisfy idle curiosity or to gratify the lust of the evil-doer. When you hear 3 if hear you should, of men who are receiving revelations concerning the conduct of this Church, and those men are not such as you have sustained by the uplifted hand before the Lord as your representatives with the Lord, and as his prophets and revelators unto you, you may know that those men are not speaking by the power of God. 

Now, do not be deceived. If men come to you and tell you that they have received manifestations and revelations telling of great developments that are to come, beware! So live that you may have the power of discernment. When they tell you that it has been made known to them that great wealth is to be taken out of the hills, under their direction; that they are to bring it forth with the prime purpose of using that wealth for the building up of the Church, for the erection of a great temple, toward which eventuality the eyes of the Latter-day Saints are turned, you may know that they are not of God. No temple will ever be built as the result of the gifts of a rich man, or of a few rich men. In building temples the Lord requires a specific kind of money. It must be sanctified money. It must be the money of sacrifice, and he needs the pennies of the faithful poor as much as the .gold pieces of the rich. 

We may all have part in building the great temple to which reference 'is often made, as we have all had the privilege of taking part in building the temples that have already been erected. 

SPURIOUS IMITATIONS 

Satan has tried to appear as an angel of light in earlier dispensations. He is doing so today. John the Revelator warned the people of this very day in which we live. He wrote for our warning of what would take place. |He saw evil powers, and he calls them the spirits of devils, working miracles and deceiving the people. It was so in olden time. While the Lord was speaking through Isaiah and the other great prophets of pre-meridian time, Satan "Was at work with his witches and wizards, with his soothsayers, giving spurious messages and trying to lead the people astray. 

When the Christ came in person manifesting his inherent power over men and evil spirits, [when he cast out unclean spirits that were afflicting men, there arose many who undertook to exorcise the demons, and to imitate the work of Christ so far as was possible. 'And (when the Gospel was again brought to earth, and the Priesthood restored in (this, the last dispensation, there was a great revival and increase in the manifestations called spiritualistic phenomena, in the effort to put something forth that looked like the original and the genuine, and so lead people astray. 

Oh, ye Latter-day Saints, ye men of mighty testimony, ye women of wondrous assurance, shall you, shall we, forget what the Lord has given us by way of certain knowledge, and be led away by false lights, by those who are receiving spurious revelations, as they call them, for guidance? 

SATAN A LIVING PERSONAGE 

Now, I know that it is not quite in accord with the advanced thought of the day, according to certain cults, to believe that there is a devil, a personage, a reality. Many who pose as super-thinkers seek to dismiss, with the old ideas, the old stories, fables they call them, that form the bulk of the very word of God recorded as sacred writ, the fact of Satan's existence. 

But there is a personage known as Satan. Before he was cast out from heaven he was called Lucifer. He is just as truly a personage as are you or am f, though he is not embodied. )He js in that unembodied state in which we existed prior to our birth into the flesh. And we read, as the Revelator tells us, and as Jude attests, that he was cast out from heaven because of his rebellion, and all his angels or followers were cast out with him; numbering a third of the spirit-hosts of that particular class in heaven. So they were many, and they are many. 

In the land of the Gergesenes Christ freed a man who was grievously afflicted by evil powers; but first he called upon the demon to give his name, and the spirit answered, through the mouth of the man: "My name is Legion, for we are many." If we could form any estimate of the number of a third of the hosts of heaven at the time spoken of by the Revelator, and compare such with the number of people living upon the earth at any one time, we would see that the great general (in command of them all, Satan, can assign a legion to every one of us, and to every human being on the face of the earth, to deceive and lead the soul astray, if it be possible. 

Satan foresaw what would come to pass, and the prophet Nephi realized fully the claims that would be set up in the last days, these days. Read what goes before in the twenty-eighth chapter of Second Nephi, before that which I shall read to you, and you will see that the prophet is referring to the time in which we Jive. He tells us that it will be necessary in this day that the kingdom of the devil shall shake, and he foretells that the devil will "rage in the hearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good." 

"And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security, that they will say : All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well — and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell. 

"And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell; and he saith unto them: I am no devil, for there is none — and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance." 

LATTER-DAY WARNING 

In the present dispensation the Lord has warned his people against the doctrines of devils voiced by men in the service of Satan. Read Doctrine and Covenants, section 46, especially verses 7 to 9. I trust that we may have the power of discrimination, the gift of discernment, that we may know the spirits with whom we have to deal, that we may not |forget the voice of the Shepherd but that we may know him, and follow him, and be true to our profession, looking to those whom we sustain as being our representatives (before the Lord, for through them will come whatever is necessary that this people, as a people, that this Church, as his Church, shall receive. I hope that none of us shall be defiled through dallying with the evil gift, the devil's gift, the unclean thing, which is abominable in the sight of the . Lord. I so pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Sixty-one years ago today I first beheld the light, here in this valley, and I am informed there was deep snow upon the ground. How different from that is the beautiful weather we have today for the commencement of our Conference, and how joyful it causes us to feel that we can meet together in the name of the Lord Without' animosity toward any soul, but with kindness in our hearts for all people. We have come into this sanctuary to worship our Heavenly Father, to listen to his servants as they speak to us under the inspiration of his Spirit. 

HUMBLE BUT GREAT MEN 

It is a wonderful blessing that we enjoy in these times of stress and uncertainty to feel sure of divine guidance, to have absolute faith in a personal God who is interested in us and who hears and answers our prayers. i 

I have been thinking today of the humble but' great men who have led this Church from its organization. I have known personally all the Presidents since Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Although a small child when Brigham Young passed away I knew him; I have sat upon his knee and I remember with deep appreciation his kindness to my mother and to me when father was in England as a missionary. I have been well acquainted with the other Presidents and believe that they were all men of God. It is inconceivable that our Heavenly Father would choose any other kind to preside over his Church. > 

I have known the members of the Quorum of the Twelve since I was a small boy, and since I became of age I have been intimate with all of them. They have heen a remarkable group of men. I can testify that those who have remained faithful have indeed been servants of the Lord. 

I have been acquainted with most of the First Council of Seventy, and they have been good men, of exceeding humility. 

The two Patriarchs of the Church who have served in my time have been exceedingly faithful and have indeed blessed the people. 

I have known all the members of the Presiding 'Bishopric since I was a youth and have 'been on intimate terms with most of them. They have certainly honored their 'bishopric and have sought to be what the Lord would have them be. 

It has been my privilege to be personally acquainted with most of the Stake presidents during the last forty years and they have certainly presided over the people in a way that I am sure the Lord is pleased with their service. - ( 

While I have not been personally acquainted with all the bishops of the Church since my youth, I have known most of them. They have indeed been fathers of the flock, a wonderful group of men. 

The auxiliary leaders of the Church, both men and women, have been faithful and true and have ministered for the blessing of our Father's children whom they have been appointed to serve. 

UPHELD AND. SUSTAINED BY RIGHTEOUS MEMBERS 

In addition to these leaders, I have known thousands of the rank and file of this great Church, men and women of many nations who in humility and faithfulness have accepted the Gospel to become identified with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints both here and in other lands. These, too, have prayed for and sustained their leaders during the past century, and during my experience in the Church I have yet to know of one person who has been observing the commandments of the Lord who has raised his or her voice against those who were called to preside over this Church. That is really remarkable because all have had their agency and could have refused to sustain their leaders had there been evil in the men who have been called, to direct them. Surely if they had not been good men some of this great army of people who are living near to the Lord would have discovered wrongdoing and would have made it public. As it is only those who have been cast' out because of their unworthiness or who have transgressed the laws of the Lord have raised their voices in conderfmation of the leaders of the Church. 

One of the greatest testimonies to me of fhe divinity of this work is that a multitude of people — not' . only those who assemble here in these great General Conferences but all Israel — having the opportunity in Stake Conference four times a year to express themselves by voting either to sustain or refuse to sustain those who preside over them (every one exercising free agency) continue to uphold their leaders. Surely the Spirit of the Lord prompts the faithful, humble people to sustain his chosen servants. 

I am grateful to know that' the Lord has spoken and that this is his Church, and that he will continue to support those whom he calls to minister if they will be faithful in the future as they have been in the past. 

EXPERIENCES OF EARLY LEADERS 

Within the last few weeks I have been reading a journal of my grandfather, George A. Smith who, when a boy seventeen years of , was a member of Zion's Camp. He was large in stature and slept at the foot of the Prophet's bed at night to see that no one should enter the tent who did not belong there. I have read his personal experiences, some most painful and others miraculous. In his youth he was sent out to preach the Gospel of our Lord. His was the experience of other men who have been called to the ministry. Those of evil minds made false accusations against him and his associates but he continued faithful and the Lord vindicated them and magnified them in the eyes of the people and gave them a testimony of the divinity of this work that was so positive that no task was too difficult for them to undertake for the dissemination of truth. Grandfather ,was among the group sent to England to preach the Gospel in 1839. There the adversary sought to discourage them in every way. Their journals written at the time disclose the fact that they were misrepresented by evil men and attacked by evil spirits, but ,the Lord preserved them and they performed a great labor. Eight of the Quorum of the Twelve were there at that time. Among those called to go to England were men without means to pay their way but they started from their homes on foot. Due to prolonged illness one of these men was too weak to walk two miles to take a stage coach but was helped that distance by a friend. They had faith in God; they knew that this was his Church and so they went their way and friends not of the Church were raised up to give them money and pay their passage across the ocean, where they delivered their message and many faithful people accepted the truth as a result of their ministry. 

TOOLS OF THE ADVERSARY ' 

The journals of these men inform us that even in that early day there were those who became identified with the Church who were not thoroughly converted; they did not repent of their sins, and failed to keep the commandments of the Lord. While his desires were plainly manifested unto them they refused to do what he required at their hands. They did not pay their tithing, would not observe the Word of Wisdom and were immoral. These the adversary could use and he prompted them to criticize and oppose the servants of the Lord who were unselfishly laboring day and night to disseminate the truth. 

We may not, therefore, expect the leaders of the Church in our day to escape the shafts of the adversary hurled by those who are in his service. Righteous people will have no desire to speak evil of those who are doing good but the adversary will use those who, having transgressed trie laws of the Church and the laws of the land, are themselves in darkness. 

WHILE IN A DUNGEON 

I desire to read a portion of Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants. President Grant quoted from it this morning but he did not read that which I will refer to. This revelation was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith while he was a prisoner, in a dismal dungeon in 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Liberty, Missouri. In the anguish of his soul he prayed to the Lord: 

"0 God, where art thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth thy hiding place? 

"How long shall thy hand be stayed, and thine eye, yea thy pure eye, behold from the eternal heavens the wrongs of thy people and of thy servants, and thine ear be penetrated with their cries?" 

He knew that the Lord could hear and would understand. He knew that the men he associated with were good men, that they suffered persecution and bondage, not because of wrong doing but because of enemies from without and evil men who were within the Church. The Lord answered his prayer as f ollows : 

"My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; 

"And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes. 

"Thy friends do stand by thee, and they shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands. 

"Thou art not yet as Job; thy friends do not contend against thee, neither charge thee with transgression, as they did Job. 

"And they who do charge thee with transgression, their hope shall be blasted, and their prospects shall melt away as the hoar frost melteth before the burning rays of the rising sun; 

"And also that God hath set his hand and seal to change the times and seasons, and to blind their minds, that they may not understand his marvelous workings; that he may prove them also and take them in their own craftiness; 

"Also because their hearts are corrupted, and the things which they are willing to bring upon others, and love to have others suffer, may come upon themselves to the very uttermost; 

"That they may be disappointed also, and their hopes may be cut off; 

"And not many years hence, that they and their posterity shall be swept from under heaven, saith God, that not one of them is left to stand by the wall. i ' 

"Cursed are all those that shall lift up the heel against mine anointed, saith the Lord, and cry they have sinned when they have not sinned before me, saith the Lord, but have done that which was meet in mine eyes, and which I commanded them. 

"But those who cry transgression do it because they are the servants of sin and are the children of disobedience themselves. 

"And those who swear falsely against my servants, that they might bring them into bondage and death — 

"Wo unto- them; because they have offended my little ones they shall be severed from the ordinances of  mine house. 

"Their basket shall not be full, their houses and their barns shall perish, and they themselves shall be despised by those that flattered them. 

"They shall not have right to the priesthood, nor their posterity after them from generation to generation. 

"It had been better for them that a millstone had been hanged about their necks, and they drowned in the depth of the sea." 

Brethren and sisters, history will continue to repeat itself and temptations will be presented to all of us. We should keep the commandments of the Lord that we may enjoy the discernment of spirits that we may be not led astray. 

MARKING THE TRAILS 

This is a beautiful valley in which we are now living but it was a wilderness when the forebears of many of us came here. We are enjoying the fruits of their sacrifice and labor and we should remember them with deep appreciation. 

Those early pioneers were a remarkable group of men and women, most of whom have gone to their reward. A movement has been started to mark the route of the pioneer, that those who- now travel in comfort may have their attention called to the courage of those who blazed the trail and made it possible for us to live in this favored land. Opportunity is being offered that we may all make our contribution to a fund that is intended to mark the trail over which those heroes came, many of whom are buried in unmarked graves. Others struggled into this valley, footsore and weary but with undaunted courage, because of their faith in the Father of us all. A state-wide committee has been organized to plan, and we will be permitted to participate in erecting monuments and markers in different places, to call the attention of the passerby to those who preceded us, and we should determine that they will not be forgotten because of carelessness or indifference on our part. 

GRATITUDE FOR BLESSINGS 

All my life I have been associated with this Church and its faithful members and rejoice that I have been considered worthy to be identified with them. Men and women such as are sitting in this congregation today have been an inspiration to me. I thank you, my brethren and sisters, for the joy I have had in being your associate in this work, this work that the Lord has given to the earth for the last time, for we are assured that it will never again be taken from the earth or given to another people. 

I thank my Father in heaven for the knowledge that this is his work and that I have enjoyed the benefits that have come to me as a result of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It has not been difficult for me to see how those who have observed all the counsels of the Lord as near as they could, have been happy because the more of his commandments that I have kept the happier has been my life. The most contented and the happiest people that I know are the members of this Church who are conforming their lives to the teachings of our Lord. Knowing this I am grateful beyond expression for my membership in his Church. I am thankful to be directed by men such as preside over us. I am grateful to these men who are the Presidency of the Church for the encouragement they give me. I pray that they may live long and be happy. I pray that the Lord will bless my associates in the Quorum of the Twelve, that he will reward presidents of Stakes, bishops of Wards, and mission presidents and all who are unselfishly giving their time and the very best portions of their lives to develop faith among the children of our Heavenly Father and give them a better understanding of his glorious truths. 

This is his Gospel; it is the power of God unto salvation to all those who believe and obey it. Knowing that in the not far distant future I must stand in the presence of my Maker, to give an account of the days I have spent upon the earth and realizing how serious it might be to me if I did not speak the truth, I testify to you that I know as I know that I live that this is God's work, and I bear witness of it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. , 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

There came a time, in the life of Paul, when he found the Church beset with just such difficulties as have been referred to as existing, in some instances, with some members of the Church today, and to his associate in the ministry, Timothy, he said: 

"Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. 

"For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind." 

On another occasion it is recorded in Matthew that : 

"There shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect." 

THE GIFT OF GOD WITHIN US 

Christ regarded the bestowal of the Holy Ghost upon the membership of the Church, as the fundamentally important thing he could do for them after he had concluded his own personal ministry. He would not even allow the apostles to go forth and preach without that endowment from on high; but after the Holy Ghost was come he would fully qualify them to understand the truth, he would endow them with power to preach it. And what a marvelous change came over the lives of these men when they were endowed with this power from on high! 

The membership of this Church have received that same companionship. How important it is for us today, as perhaps never before, to stir up the gift of God that is in us, that has been given us through the putting on of the hands of those authorized servants of God, that we, by the guidance of that holy inspiration, may be able in these troublesome times, as has been so well stated here this afternoon, to enjoy the gift of discernment, to see and understand the spirits that are in the world. 

LEST YE BE DECEIVED . 

In the forty-sixth section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants I read the following: 

"But ye are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you even so I would that ye should do in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving, that ye may not  seduced by evil spirits, or doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men; for some are of men, and others of devils. 

"Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given; 

"For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me, that ask and not for a sign that they may consume it upon their lusts." 

SEEK SPIRITUAL GUIDANCE 

I believe, as I have observed, that there has never been a time when we needed spiritual guidance as we need it today. This is truly a time when the wisdom of the wise has perished in material things, and the understanding of the prudent is hid. I am sure that the Lord gave the gift and power of the Holy Ghost to the membership of the Church for their guidance and comfort in all things, even as he has indicated in the revelation I have just read. i 

I believe that it is the privilege of the membership of this Church to seek^that guidance, even in material things. There is a key given in the ninth section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, which would be very profitable for the Latter-day Saints to follow even now. You remember the circumstance of Oliver Cowdery translating portions of the Book of Mormon, and then all became darkness to him and he could not proceed. He inquired of the Lord to know why it was, and the answer came that he had taken no thought save it was to ask the Lord, and left the burden of responsibility there. 

"Behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right. 

"But if it be not right, you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong" —  

that shall turn your heart away from the thing that you had contemplated, i 

You do not know what to do today to solve your financial problems, what to plant, whether to buy or sell cattle, sheep or other things. It is your privilege to study it out; counsel together with the best wisdom and judgment the Lord shall give you, reach your conclusions, and then go to the Lord with it, tell him what you have planned to do. If the thing you have planned to do is for your good and your blessing, and you are determined to serve the Lord, pay your tithes and your offerings and keep his commandments, I promise you that he will fulfil that promise upon your head, and your bosom shall burn within you if the thing you have planned to do is right, and you shall know by the whisperings of the Spirit that it is right. But if it is not xight you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought, and your hearts will be turned away from that thing. 

DECEPTIONS OF THE ADVERSARY 

I know of nothing today that the Latter-day Saints need more than the guidance of the Holy Spirit in the solution of the problems of life. I know also that that same unerring wisdom of the Holy Spirit can detect the deceptions of the adversary. I have been led recently to feelings of pity for groups of people who have been deceived by lying tongues, by deceptive spirits. 

I was in Independence the other day with Brother Bennion, visiting the mission, and stood by a foundation that has been partly made and has been filled with earth as the rains have been washing in the excavations. I conversed with groups of people who claimed to have received revelations to build a temple there, and had now come to confusion, split up and divided. Across the lot is a large building, partly completed, erected by another group who claim they have had visions and revelations, and they are in the midst of confusion, doubt and uncertainty. 

As I look back over the history of this Church, I find that the Prophet himself had to rise up against those who sought to displace him. When Brigham Young became President of this Church he said: "Let any who want to lead a party away do so, and raise their hand against God's authority. They will not prosper." His words have been fulfilled. Whether it is in connection with those factions that have broken away and gone off to Texas, or anywhere else; they have come to naught, and they will come to naught. Those who broke away in this country, under the name of Morrisites, or Godbeites, or any other "ites" — what has become of them? Oh, that men and women would be wise enough to see what will happen to those who seek to steady the ark! 

The Lord promised long ago that the majority of the leadership of this Church never would lead this people astray, and they never will, and they are not leading this people astray today. Every faction that rises will come to naught, just as sure as you and I live. 

How my soul rejoices to see this work progressing, developing, going forward, although there are these deceptions. Yes, the elect would be deceived, if it were possible, by the miraculous things that sometimes appear among others. There were those, in the days of Christ, who healed the sick and followed not after him, and some of the disciples wanted to know if they should not rebuke and restrain these who were thus manifesting certain power. Christ told them to leave them alone; they were not competitors of his. 

It does not disturb me to see evidences of this character today elsewhere, because here is the light, here is the truth, here is the power of God, and here is the authority of the holy priesthood. I am sure that every Latter-day Saint who is observing the commandments of the Lord, not seeking for these things, to consume them upon his own lusts, will have witnesses and testimonies of the Holy Spirit that will guide him to detect the falsehoods, to detect the deceptions that are at work. 

USING NEW METHODS 

We are in a period of peace, so far as the Church is concerned, from the outside. You who have been attending these Conferences  for the last few years have been hearing the warning from this stand, that when the time of peace came to the Church, and there was no enemy from the outside, we should not be lulled into a sense of security, feeling that the battles were all fought and won, and that the enemy had quit the field; for he would pursue new methods in seeking to destroy this work. He has not succeeded in injuring it by mob violence. 

I went over part of the trail with Brother Bennion the other day, where Zion's camp traveled during the Missouri troubles. I stood at the spot where the Prophet, chained, uttered that great rebuke to the guards; I stood at the shrine erected to General Doniphan, who was ordered to execute the Prophet, but had the courage and manhood to refuse to do it.; As I contemplated the struggles and sorrows and difficulties - and the journeys and the hardships of the hundred years, my soul rejoiced that under all these trials the Church was not shaken. There stood men and Women in its ranks with clear vision, with understanding, and with determination to stand or to die for the truth. iThey stood like beaten anvils, unafraid, and have preserved to us our heritage, blessings and privileges of faith and standing in the true Church until this hour. 

But the enemy is not arraying persecution against us from the outside just now. Nevertheless, he is at work, seeking to deceive within, for he will by new methods try to destroy this people; but he shall not succeed any more than he succeeded through persecution or mob violence. I am sure that the great heart of this Church is sound, that we are of a sound mind, and that there is no fear for Zion, for her future is glorious. 

|A PERIOD OF GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT 

My visit to two. missions since the last Conference inspired me with the thought of great things that are to come to this Church. We have not begun to die, but we are entering into a period of growth and development that will be extended, and thousands, yea, countless thousands of the blood of Israel who have not yet been touched, will be found. God is opening the work among the nations of the earth. More people have been listening to our messages than ever before. Places are being thronged, and I see him at work preparing for the fulfilment of his great purposes, for Zion shall arise and shine, and those who seek to stop her progress will be as helpless as the dogs that bark; while the Church, the mighty caravan of God, goes on majestically towards its destiny. No power can retard its progress. 

The only fear that I have is for us as individuals. The work will go on. It will succeed. It. will fulfil its holy purposes. The great secret is, shall I keep the light burning clearly in my own soul, to see and understand the course that I am to take; that shall keep me on the good ship Zion, and not fall overboard or run off with some whim or will or notion of someone else. MEN OF GOD 

I declare to you, with all sincerity of heart, that I know, personally, that the declarations that President Grant made concerning the honor, the integrity and the faithfulness and devotion of these leaders, are true. I know it. They are men of God. They are not living double lives. They are living what they have taught the Latterday Saints to live, and thank the Lord you know it. We don't need to argue it with you, for you have a witness, a testimony in your hearts, that convinces you that it is the truth. 

Yes, glorious things await Zion, and the evil one knows it, and he will try, if possible, to stop the work, try to divide our ranks. He will try to disturb us, but he shall not succeed. These little disturbances will pass. The work will go on. God's glorious purposes will be accomplished. I am as sure of it as I am that I live. I bear witness and testimony of it to you this day, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

It is a matter of great satisfaction to me, my brethren and sisters, to find that my feelings are in complete harmony with those expressed by the speakers in this Conference, both this forenoon and this afternoon. I know that they have spoken the truth, that they have counseled us in righteousness, and if we will obey this counsel our lives will be happier and we will be more secure in our salvation. 

MEN OF GOD 

I have known all of the Presidents of the Church except the Prophet Joseph Smith. I was sixteen years of age when President Brigham Young died. I have been personally acquainted with his successors, and with many of the noble men of this Church who have been associated with them in the conduct of the affairs of the Church. 

I have seen the work prosper and grow, and truth triumph, and I know that these men have been men of God, including those who stand at the head of the Church today. I am glad to be associated with them and to be in harmony with them, because I know they are worthy servants of God; I know that they are trying to live their religion, to live by the principles and the doctrines which they teach. I hope that you will not discover in my remarks anything that would lead you to think otherwise than that I am in complete harmony with them. 

I want to say that although I did not have the privilege of knowing the Prophet Joseph here in the flesh, yet I know, just as well, that he was a prophet of God, divinely called and inspired, and the work which he brought forth is evidence of that fact. 

SEEKING SALVATION 

I know that the Gospel is true. I have proved it from many , to my entire satisfaction, and have had the seal of the Spirit of God to impress the truth of it upon my mind. I rejoice in this testimony and in the knowledge I have that there are thousands of men and women in this Church who are faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord and in doing his will, who know the truth of the work and are trying to work out their salvation in fear and trembling before him. 

I remember hearing a president of a Stake, while speaking from this stand at one of our General Conferences, make the remark that in his Stake there were people who were candidates for every degree of glory. That no doubt represents the conditions in the Church today, hence the necessity for our speaking of certain simple principles and truths, over and over again. 

A STRONG ARGUMENT 

A strong argument in favor of prohibition was brought forth this afternoon by Elder Smoot, who read from Robert G. Ingersoll's declaration of the evil results of strong drink. I thought, in that connection, that there is a stronger argument to present to Latter-day Saints than all that — one that appeals to me, at any rate, more forcefully and convincingly — and that is that it is the expressed mind and will of our Father in heaven that we abstain from the use of intoxicating drinks. Then too, there are other things referred to in the Word of Wisdom which our Father has told us we should not indulge in. Tobacco is one of them, and others are strong drinks and hot drinks, which have been interpreted by the Authorities of this Church, whom we have sustained as prophets, seers and revelators, from the days of the Prophet Joseph down to the present time, to include tea and coffee. I accept the interpretation of the Word of Wlisdom made by these, the servants of God, just as much as if tea and coffee had been mentioned in the Word of Wisdom. To me, our Father in heaven has spoken and said : "It is my will that you do not use tea and coffee. It is my will that you do not use intoxicating drinks. It is my will that you do not use tobacco." Have I any respect for the will and wishes of God, my Heavenly Father? if I have, and have faith in him, and in the revelations that have come to us through the 'Prophet Joseph Smith, I will keep that Word of Wisdom as I understand it, and as it is interpreted by the Authorities of this Church. 

There are thousands of men and women in this Church who regard this matter just as I do, and who are keeping the Word of Wisdom, but I am sorry to say there are thousands of others who seem to have very little respect for the will of God as he has given it to us in this important revelation. 

WAR IN HEAVEN 

We read an account of a war that took place in heaven. It is recorded in the twelfth chapter of the book of Revelation — that a third of heaven's hosts, rather than do the will of God, were drawn away in rebellion, and were cast out and down, and are not permitted to have 

42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

bodies for their spirits, or to obtain any degree of glory. On the other hand, those who stood with our Captain, our King, our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, on the platform: "Father thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever," are here enjoying the blessings of this life and are in the way of salvation. One might say that platform pertained to the spirit world. It did pertain to the spirit world, but it pertained as well to this, our second estate. 

THE WILL OF THE FATHER 

The Savior repeatedly, while here in life, made the declaration that he came not to do his own will, but to do the will ofj his Father who sent him. After his death and resurrection, when he appeared to the ancient inhabitants of this, the American continent, and established his Church, and preached the Gospel to them, he renewed that statement in a very forceful way, as recorded in the twenty-seventh chapter of III Nephi, verse 13. He said: 

"Behold I have given unto you my gospel, and this is the gospel which I have given unto you — that I came into the world to do the will of my Father, because my Father sent me." 

Then he goes on with his comments, and in the twenty-seventh verse we have this further expression of our Lord : 

"Therefore what manner of men had ye ought to be? Verily I say unto you, even as I am." 

I associate the two expressions, that he came to do the will of his Father who sent him, and that we have come also to do the will of our Father who has sent us. And what manner of men ought we to be? Even as he was. If we do the will of our Father, as he did it and as he taught it, it will make us like him, and will save us with him in our Father's kingdom. If we do the will of our Father it will not only be the keeping of the Word of Wisdom, but every commandment which he has given will appeal to us as the will of our Father, which we must observe. Every law of the Gospel will have the same appeal to our souls. 

OTHER REASONS FOR OBSERVING WORD OF WISDOM 

This is the strong appeal : If we will not abstain from the use of tobacco, from tea and coffee and intoxicating drinks, because of their evil effects upon our bodies, and upon our minds and our spirituality; thai, for the love of God, our Father, and to be in accord with his mind and will, we ought to observe that Word. 

There is another responsibility in connection with it, devolving upon us, and that is, we owe something to our parents. Men 'and women, boys and girls, who have been born in this Church of faithful, true, Latter-day Saints, are under obligation to their parents to honor them; and when we do not keep -the Word of Wisdom but indulge in these things, we not only do not honor them, but we dishonor them, and that we have no right to do. 

God has set his hand to save his children and invites us to assist him in this great and glorious work, and when we live contrary to the teachings of the Gospel we hinder instead of helping his cause, and some of us perhaps will do more injury to the cause than all the good we do. None of us, at any rate, can afford to deviate from the word and will of the Lord. 

I know that this work is true. I know it is good. I thank God that I have lived as well and as nearly to his laws as I have thus far, and I hope and pray that I may so continue and make improvement as long as I live upon the earth, so that I may be accounted worthy to dwell with the sanctified and the pure, so that I will not be disappointed when life here is ended. I would like you, my brethren and sisters, to enjoy the same blessing. 

In closing, I appeal to those who have not been keeping the Word of Wisdom, in the name of the Lord and for his sake and consideration, that you hereafter do not use tea and coffee, that you do not use tobacco, that you do not use strong and intoxicating drinks. I appeal to you in behalf of the President of this Church, God's mouthpiece unto us, and those associated with him, that you do the things that will please them. If you would uphold and sustain them, observe these things. That will give them more encouragement than anything else that we can possibly do in this mighty work. 

May God add his blessing unto us, each and all, according to our need, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Temple Block 

Mission 

An American prophet, King Benjamin, whose history we read in the Book of Mormon said on one occasion: 

"And again I say unto you as I have said before, that as ye have come to the knowledge of the glory of God, or if ye have known of his goodness and have tasted of his love, and have received a remission of your sins, which causeth such exceeding great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should remember, and always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God, and your own nothingness, »nd his goodness and long-suffering towards you, unworthy creatures, and humble yourselves even in the depths of humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in the faith of that which is to come, which was spoken by the mouth of the angel. 

"And behold, I say unto you, that if ye do this ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a remission of your sins; and ye shall grow in the knowledge of the glory of him that created you, or in the knowledge of that which is just and true." 

Then we have the words of Jesus as recorded in the thirteenth chapter of Mark, the Evangelist, which read: "My words shall not pass away." The words and teachings of Jesus Christ, our Lord, shall not pass away. They shall live jn the hearts of mankind forever. From; Jesus Christ as from no other teacher in the world's history men have gathered an idea of God and his teachings which have proved themselves to be the greatest teachings in the history of civilization. They have endured the changes of time and survived the vicissitudes of life. "In him as in no other being, humanity has found an ideal of character before which men of all generations bow their heads." We are living in a changing, dynamic age. It is called the greatest age of the world's history. There are so many influences leading mankind into all manner of theories and interpretations as to what life means. I have faith, however, in the youth of the world; I believe in humanity. There is much more goodness than wrong; much more righteousness than evil. Man is divine, and all are children of the same God. The iknowledge of the divine will always remain to guide us to better spheres. Yet I am not unmindful of the fact that there are ills besetting human society. 

There is today an unprecedented challenge to law and authority. There is a prevailing hatred between_ nations; men and men. There is a growing aversion to work. There is an excessive thirst for pleasure, and a gross materialism seems to be growing; and as the materialism grows man is forgetting the spiritual life that has been taught us by Jesus the Christ, and those who have taken up his work and his cause. These ills have become common to human society, but there is a power in the- world that is destined to overcome them and that is the power of God, manifested in the mind and the soul of man. 

When Elder Ballard in his sermon quoted the words of Paul to Timothy in which Paul declared that God had not blessed us with the spirit of fear, but with power and strong minds, I was reminded of Stevenson's lovely story entitled "The Lantern Bearers." In this story, Stevenson describes a boyhood game, which consisted in carrying beneath one's coat a bulls-eye lantern. Those admitted to the society were permitted to carry lanterns, and when the members met on some hill or desert waste to talk with each other, their lanterns were the bond of fraternity. It united them all as by a sacred cause. When one member met another, he would ask: "Have you your lantern ready?" Then would come a responsive "Yes," and their coats were unbuttoned and the glow of the light revealed. From this (Stevenson derived his philosophy of life. I wonder if we have our lanterns aglow and ready to show the way. 

I believe that the message of Christ is slowly, gradually, and surely touching the hearts of mankind. I believe that ultimately righteousness will prevail over wrong; and the Gospel of Christ prevail. Men will stand in the dignity of their divinity, and not only live, but declare by their lives the great work and power of the Master. 

Boys and girls in our universities are confronted with all kinds of ideas, hut ideas that have been advanced (by men who are sincere. If the boys and girls will keep themselves clean and pure and unspotted, and look to their best selves, and the best that is in life,  will be safe, and they will come to a knowledge of the great truths of God. 1 i ' . ' 

I remember once in passing the large gate of the University of Denmark, in Copenhagen, noticing a beautifully carved eagle above the entrance. I suppose it is there to this day. I remember the Latin expression beneath the eagle, which reads in English: "The eagle is looking toward the celestial light." Every time a University student passes through the gate he takes his hat off, looks up to that eagle and to the motto, and with thoughtful mind says: "This day may I look toward the celestial light." 

This has been the teaching of our fathers and our mothers, to look toward the celestial light. In that light, in that illumination which is and may become common to us all, there is happiness, and peace, and sunshine, and all in life we may ask for. 

The pioneers of Utah, our fathers and mothers, understood the joy of divine illumination, for they were men and women of toil, and of great faith in God. They understood life, for as they conquered the elements, the finer instincts of altruism and generosity and ilove swelled in their hearts. They grew in a knowledge of earth and heaven. They knew the worth of life. They had their lanterns ever ready I and never did they fail to keep to the light which never failed. 

The light of life is Jesus Christ, our Lord. He has told us to deal direct with God through his name. The soul is to be unafraid. We are to love God. That love becomes tremendous and real. It becomes an infinite power. "If thou canst believe," says Mark the Evangelist, "all things are possible to him that believeth." And again in Mark we read : "Have faith in God." "The time is fulfilled." "The Kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the good news." Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have received the following greeting from President Castle Murphy of the Hawaiian Mission : 

"Aloha to the leading brethren and sisters and the Church in general, from the missionaries and the good people of the 'Hawaiian Mission. May you have a wonderful outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord in every session of the One Hundred and First Annual Conference of the Church, is the fervent prayer of each of us who labors in this choice land of love, music and flowers — Hawaii." 

The congregation sang, as a closing hymn, "Do What Is Right." The benediction was pronounced by Elder Harold ,B. Lee, President of the Pioneer Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock Sunday morning, April 5th. 

SECOND DAY 


