Morning 
06 04 1931

The fifth session of the Conference convened at 10 o'clock, Monday morning, April 6th, 1931. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah." 

Elder Almon T. Butterfield, President of the West Jordan Stake, offered the opening prayer.! 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Israel, Israel, God is Calling." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I feel as I have always felt relative to the Church of Jesus Christ of Lattar-day Saints. I have no doubt in my heart that this is the work of the Lord. Surely we who have faith believe that the .Lord's arm is not shortened, that he is amply able to direct and carry On this great /work. 

I realize the responsibility coming to any person who is called to speak to this people. I have sat on the "anxious bench" now for two days, and I feel this morning that everything I have heard and read and know has oozed out of me. I want you to know that I antedate in age and in service as one of the First Council of Seventy all of the Council of the Twelve who sit in front of me. I feel honored and have always felt honored to associate with the General Authorities of the Church. I desire to say to the people, the presidents of Stakes and their counselors, the high councilors, the bishops and their counselors, you have always extended to me the greatest courtesy and respect, and whenever I have attended a conference and returned home I have felt that I amounted to something. But after I wandered around here in Salt Lake I sort of lost that feeling, .sometimes, and felt like a stranger among strangers. 

I desire to refer back to a time when I was about thirteen years of age, when Heber C. Kimball sent word to my brother, Joseph Kimball, who is now in the Church (Office Building, and myself, to come to his office. When we arrived there, mere boys, he said to us : "If you want your father's blessing you be at the endowment house in the morning and have your endowments." 

Of course we were frightened nearly to death. I do not know how people feel when they are going to be executed, but that is the sort of feeling I had, not knowing and having no conception of what it all meant. However, we were there and we had our endowments. I did not remember much of that which transpired, but I was awed, and the impression was burned into my soul of the sacredness of that place, and the sacredness of the covenants which I had entered into when almost a child. When I was fifteen years old our father passed away, and we were left as many children are left to wander and fight our battles as best we could. 

My father, Heber C. Kimball, trained fourteen years in the military service. In an excerpt which I have copied from his biography he remarks with honest pride that he was never brought before a court martial for neglect. He further says : "I was a Free Mason at the age of twenty-two in the Lodge at Victor and received the first three degrees of Masonry." He said: "I have been as true as an angel ,to my covenants with the Masons. No man was admitted into the Lodge unless he bore a good moral character and was a man of steady habits. A man would be suspended for getting drunk. I wish that all men were Masons and would live up to their profession. The world would be much better for it." This was said at least ten years prior to his baptism as a member of the Latter-day Church. 

Now the point I want to reach if I can, if the Lord will give me his Spirit, is just this : Heber C. Kimball made the following statement which deeply impressed me: "I would that all men and women who enter these holy temples could be made to understand that we are placed under obligations to God." Whenever we are permitted to enter the holy temples and perform those ordinances 'We make covenants with the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost." 

I cannot conceive of a more sacred covenant made by mortal man. That is the impression I desire to impart to you good people, especially those who hold the holy priesthood, and I think it is high time that every man who is so honored of God should understand his office and calling. I understand my calling as one of the First Council, a Seventy in the Church of Jesus Christ. 

President Brigham Young said at a priesthood meeting in Logan, the same year that he died, that the Prophet Joseph Smith said to them in early days: "Brethren, you are going out to ordain Seventies, and you are to ordain them to the high priesthood. You are to ordain them to the High Priesthood and ordain them Seventy-Apostles." 

President Young said: "That is the language I use, and that is the way." I think none of us would question President Brigham Young, who was privileged above most men to associate with the Prophet Joseph Smith. I understand what it all means. It means that we Seventies are under the direction of the Twelve Apostles and the First Council of!the Seventy, lit means that they are to open the doors to all the nations of the earth and proclaim the truth; that we are under their direction, and "whenever they need assistance they are to call upon the Seventies instead of any others." It simply means that Seventies have the apostolic calling as witnesses and preachers of the Gospel of Jesus Christ to all the world. 

I am not ignorant of the fact. I know what the trouble is. I want to convey that idea to you. We have 185 quorums  Seventy. They tell me that they number 10,741. There are Seventies by the hundreds in this Church who can be prepared to go out as witnesses for the Lord and preachers of righteousness under the direction of the Apostles, but the fault is not wholly with men, it is a financial question, almost entirely a financial question, because the rule is that many of the Seventies have filled missions and their sons, also. A number of Elders have filled missions and have come home and been ordained Seventies who have married wives and cannot for the present go on a second mission. That is the chief reason. Any time the Lord moves upon his servants to call upon the Seventies, I assure you they will respond for I am as familiar with the quorums of Seventy as any man in the Church. I have labored among the Seventies for nearly forty ryears, and I love the work and 'God has given me the spirit of my office and calling when laboring among them. 

It is not my province nor intention to preach. I have something here that I would like to read to you but time will not permit. It is scripture; it is the word of God, and I would advise myself and every other man and woman in this Church to read the Bible. It is not read as much as it should be. The same is true of the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. You will find within the lids of those great bocks many prophecies and revelations, and if you will go to God and ask him in humility if these things are true he will give you the testimony and you will know. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I very greatly rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord has permitted me to be in attendance at this wonderful Conference. But I think that most of all I am thankful for the fact that I find myself in every way in harmony and agreeing with the admonitions, counsels and teachings of this splendid Conference. It has certainly been an inspiration to see the wonderful attendance yesterday and the day before. It is not so large today, due, I feel sure, to the fact that many of our brethren and sisters from this city and nearby settlements are under the necessity of returning home and taking up their labors in the pursuit of a livelihood. 

But as I have meditated upon the matter the thought has come to me, surely there have been great multitudes who have listened to the teachings of this Conference, for through the instrumentality of the radio, many thousands have been brought in touch with the advice, counsel and admonitions that have come to us from the Lord through his chosen servants. / 

As my mind has gone back over the history of the Lord's people from the remote past to the present, I have reflected that it has been the disposition of men to stray away from the paths marked out by the Lord and of some to prefer to walk in bypaths. It has always been necessary for the servants of the Lord, through him inspired, to admonish the people, to counsel them, to reprove ithem and bring them back, if possible, into the right road, where they would walk in the ways of the Lord and seek after him and keep his commandments. 

It is true, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord has given us our free agency. iWe are not forced, but we are admonished and taught. So it seems to me there is no excuse for us if we stray away. 

The Lord, in speaking to his prophet, Ezekiel, reminded him that when the people set' up a watchman to watch over their interests — and the Lord admonished him that he had been called as a watchman over Israel — and that watchman saw the enemy coming and danger threaten the people, it was his duty to sound a warning and blow his trumpet and advise the people of the impending" danger. Then he goes on to say that if he does so and warns the people, if danger comes and they are overtaken in their sins and perish, the responsibility shall be upon their own heads. But if the watchman discharges not his duty and ' warns not the people, and danger comes and they are destroyed, and even if they die in their sins, yet will the Lord hold responsible the watchman that he has placed over them. 

, Truly, my brethren and sisters, as a people we have reason to rejoice that the Lord has placed watchmen over us who, in times past, and particularly during this Conference, have advised the people of impending danger, and in no uncertain terms. Surely, with no equivocation, we have been told where we might walk with safety and wherein danger lies; so that the responsibility of our actions in regard to the things spoken of during this Conference, I take it, now rests upon the people, upon each of us individually, and my hope and prayer is that we may walk in the way of the Lord. 

It has been my experience throughout my life until now that the Holy Spirit, if left to operate freely in our lives, will most surely make known to us what is true and what is false; and it is only by quenching that Spirit that man can be led away. I admonish the people to seek for the Spirit of the Lord, to stir up, as Paul says, the gifts of God that are in you through the laying on of hands of the Elders who have confirmed you members of the Church and who have bestowed upon you, after your water baptism, the Holy Ghost. It is the witness of the Father and the Son. It is the witness of all truth, and its mission is to reveal unto us all truth as pertaining to things past and present, and it will make known and reveal to us that which we should know pertaining to things that are yet to come. * 

All true things might be duplicated. In the history of the Lord's people we have found that miracles wrought by his servants and by his power have been so closely duplicated by the evil one that they are hard to detect from the genuine. And in the last days, as a sign of the coming of the Savior of the world, we are admonished by him that there should be false teachers, that there should be false prophets,  there should even be false Christs; and they shall work wonderful and mighty miracles, even to the extent that they shall be able to call ' down fire from heaven and deceive if possible the very elect. So that it is not safe, brethren and sisters, for us to tie our faith to miracles. But I believe sincerely and firmly that there is one thing that Satan cannot duplicate, and that is the witness of the Holy Ghost, the witness that burns within us and makes us know when a thing is true. That witness is yours to have if you will live in harmony with the teachings of the Gospel of 'Jesus Christ. 

As I said in the beginning, I am happy to find myself in harmony and in accord with the teachings of the Church, in accord with the Gospel as it has been restored through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith. I have not one word or thought of criticism to offer as to the policy of the Church now or in times past. I feel perfectly secure, 'my brethren and sisters, in following the teachings of those whom I bear witness to you are prophets, seers and revelators unto this people. And it is a serious and a dangerous thing for us to set up our desires or our judgment contrary to that which comes through the servants of the Lord, particularly when spoken, as have been the admonitions of President Grant during this Conference. 

I bear you my witness that the Gospel is true. I am happy in my ministry. I shall be delighted to continue as long as the Lord sees fit to use me as an instrument in the spread of the Gospel among the nations of the earth, and I am particularly happy to be laboring among the Lamanite people. I rejoice to bring to you greetings from them, particularly from our people in the far-off land of Mexico, where for nearly six years now they have not been permitted to have the association and the ministrations of the Elders from Zion. But they are happy and are growing and progressing in the work. The local priesthood have risen to the occasion, and our district presidents, our branch presidents and our missionaries from among the people of that land, who are actively engaged in the land of Mexico, are doing a wonderful work, and their ministry I am sure is acceptable to the Lord. They are building meeting houses. Since this crisis has come in the affairs of Mexico that has kept' us from sending our Elders there and made it impossible for us to hire halls freely in which to hold services, due to the fact that the law requires that 'services must be held in a building dedicated exclusively as a Church building, our Saints have erected four meeting houses near the vicinity of Mexico City and are endeavoring to provide themselves with places in which they can worship the Lord freely and not be handicapped in any way. 

There is no disposition on the part of the Mexican government to prohibit our work as long as we comply with the law of the land. There is no disposition to trv to prevent the spread of Mormonism, or for that matter the free exercise of any religion in the land. They do require, however, that those who minister in churches in Mexico be citizens of the country and that they register with the government, also that all places of worship be dedicated as such and be registered with the government.! 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may continue with his people everywhere, that the Gospel may spread, and that the Church may grow until ultimately the cause of right shall triumph in the earth. This is my prayer, which I ask humbly in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

of the First Council of Seventy 

My heart is full, made so by the spirit of this great Conference, for we have been fed the bread of life. 

My thoughts have been led to consider the holy scriptures, the word of the Lord, and I shall take the liberty of quoting a few of those precious words which are found in Holy Writ. 

Let me start at the beginning : 

"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. 

"And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of- the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. 

"And Gcd said, Let there be light: and there was light. 

"And God saw the light, that it was good; and God divided the light from the darkness. 

"And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day." 

What a glorious beginning t'o the great work of creation! What tremendous forces were turned loose with the utterance of that great command: "Let there be light!" 

It seems from this passage of scripture that light played a most important part in the creation of the heavens and the earth. How was that all accomplished? The Apostle Paul gives us a little idea of it, for he tells us, this great Apostle to the Gentiles, in his letter which he wrote to the Hebrews, not only how it was done, but' also how it was not done. Says he: 

"Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear." 

No, they were not made in this way. This is man's way. When we build our homes to house our families, our wives and children and see our home in its completed form, we conclude at once that it has been made out of the things which do appear ,around about' us. We gather the rock — quarry it from the mountain side. We hew the timbers from the forests, we gather the sand and slack the lime to make the mortar, and we gather clay and make it' into bricks; and thus  we build our homes. But not so with God. He has a better way — a more effective way — in creating the home of his children. 

In the very beginning God created the heaven and the earth. What for? He created „the worlds t'o become the habitation of his . When, therefore, he considered us who were born of him in the spirit before the world was, as he stood in our midst he said unto those who were with him : "We will go down, for there is space 'there, and we will take of these materials and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell." (Abraham 3:24.) The materials were not created; they were already there, but they were without form and void — the elements are eternal, but God understands the constitution of matter and the forces of the universe;. so, looking out upon the great expanse, he says : 

"Let us go down and make an earth whereon these may dwell." "These" meant you and me, my brethren and sisters, and the many millions who inhabit this globe, and the many other millions that have inhabited it from the very beginning of time. 

And how did he do it? By the word of God, through faith. "Let there be light," was the beginning. There must then be something in this light possessing creative power. Let us seek a little more light by quoting more scripture: 

"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God and the Word was God. 

"The same was in the beginning with God. 

"All things were made by him; and without him was not anything made that was made. 

"In him was life; and the life was the light of men. 

"And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehendeth it not." "That was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world." 

This then was the Word that was with God in the very beginning and by whom, through his unbounded faith, the worlds were framed, and without whom was not' anything made that was made, and in whom was life itself, and this life was the light of men and is the "light that shineth in darkness." This light even penetrated that darkness that was "upon the face of the deep" and there are ninety-three million miles of it between us and the sun, and how many more millions of miles there are between us and the dwelling place of God, where "He sits enthroned in the midst of all things in the bosom of eternity," we may not even guess. Science teaches us, however, that utter darkness prevails throughout the boundless space; but when God says: "Let there be light," it penetrates it all and shineth in it but the darkness comprehends it not'. 

Again I quote from the first chapter of John: "No man hath seen God at any time." This was quoted and properly explained yesterday by Apostle Orson F. Whitney in his excellent address, by citing these words added by the Prophet Joseph Smith : "unless quickened by the Spirit of God." Surely this clarifies it and makes it harmonize with the scriptures wherein are recorded the many appearances of God to his servants the prophets. And yet, I think there was another thought in the mind of the beloved disciple John when he wrote this paragraph which I infer from the remaining part of this verse. Let me quote it in full: "No man hath seen God at any time; the, only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him." 

Who was it that created this world ? Have we not read it was the Word that was with the Father in the very beginning, and that all things were made by him and without him was not anything made? He it was then that created the heavens and the earth. He it wais then who, under the Father, created Adam and Eve and placed them in the Garden of Eden. He it was, this Son of God, known then as Jehovah, who appeared to Abraham upon the plains of Mamre. He it was who called Moses up into the mountain and delivered unto him the law of the Lord, ,the law of carnal commandments. He it! was who came in the meridian of time and was born of the Virgin Mary. Thus he was made flesh. This Son .of God, the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth, who now sits at the right hand of the Majesty on High from whence proceed eth the light to fill the immensity of space, even "the light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things." (Doc. and Cov. 88:13). So John to whom the heavens were opened, seeing these wonderful achievements of his Lord and Master but having God the Father in mind, declares "No man hath seen God [that is the Father] at any time; the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him." 

From these scriptures which I have quoted and. many more that might be cited, it is evident that our Redeemer, known to ancient Israel as Jehovah and to us as Jesus Christ, was the One who appeared to the prophets and although the voice of the Father had been heard as at the baptism of the Savior: "This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased," not until the spring of 1820 do we have any account of the appearance of the Father, when both Father and Son appeared to Joseph in the , Sacred Grove, when this latter-day Prophet, then less than fifteen years of age, being transfigured before them and quickened by the Spirit, not only beheld them both, observing that' the one was the express image of the other, but also heard again his voice declaring: "This is my beloved Son, hear ye him." A most wonderful vision which, although most unusual, was doubtless made necessary in order to dispel forever the false conceptions of the modern religious world regarding the personality of God. 

What unanimity there is in the utterances of the inspired apostles and prophets of God! One of the characteristics by which we are able to recognize all true prophets of God is this : They all teach the same thing — they do not contradict each other but uniformly bear witness to the same fundamental truths. Let me now call your attention to some of the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith and we shall discover that same unanimity, the same incontrovertible evidence that he too was a true prophet of the living God. Let me read : 

"He that ascended up on high, as also he descended below all things, in that he comprehended all things, that he might be in all and through all things, the light of truth; 

"Which truth shineth. This is the light of Christ. As also he is in the sun, and the light of the sun, and tne power thereof by which it was made. 

"As also he is in the moon, and is the light of the moon, and the power thereof by;which it was made; ' 

"As also the light of the stars, and the power thereof by which they were made; 

"And the earth also, and the power thereof, even the earth upon which you stand." (Doc. and Cov. 88:6-10). 

If the former prophets and apostles have been even in the smallest degree obscure regarding the "Light" and the part it performed in the creation and as to who that Light was, then these paragraphs which I have just read remove all dubiety and declare unequivocally that Christ was that Light which animated the universe and by which through faith the worlds were evolved or framed by the Word of God. 

Now let me read a little more from John: 

"And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father) full of grace and truth." 

And again : 

"He came unto his own, and his own received him not. 

"But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name; 

"Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God." 

Here we are told that power was given to them that believe on him to become the sons of God. That applies to all true believers. What was that power to which he refers ? It was the Gospel of Jesus Christ, through obedience to which we may become both sons and daughters of God; thus as iPaul tells us the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation. But how are we to become his sons and daughters, we who were born "not of blood nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God ?" No, there was only one that was thus born, "the only Begotten Son;" he was the only one 'begotten in the flesh but we were also born not of flesh nor blood but of God. Clearly this can only refer to our pre-existence where we were born of God in the spirit, but he gave them that believe on him the power through obedience to his (Gospel to become his sons and daughters, both in body and spirit, and members in his household. I 

He came to his own and not only did they reject him but they crucified him, and on the third day he rose ifrom the tomb, having overcome death and the grave, thus becoming the Redeemer of mankind. And how was that' accomplished? The answer is plain: The principle of life was in him by which he became our Creator, for "in him we live and move and have our being." By that same power he becomes the resurrection, overcomes death and makes alive again for "as in Adam all men die so in Jesus Christ shall all be made alive again." The incident recorded in the eleventh chapter bf John makes this plain. It will toe remembered that Lazarus, the brother of 1 Martha and Mary, the friend of Jesus, died when the Savior was in another part of the country; tout when he came up to the home of Martha and Mary, Martha came out to meet him and isaid this : 

"Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died." "Thy brother shall rise again." 

"I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day." Then the Lord makes this declaration : 

"I am the resurrection, and the life; he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. 

"And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this? 

"She saith unto him, Yea, Lord : I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world." " 

Now let me give one more illustration of the perfect' unanimity among the prophets, but in this instance as between this statement made by the Savior which I have just read and a revelation given to Joseph Smith wherein the ILord makes known to him the same truth. It is told in entirely different language and was given under entirely different circumstances and yet it sets forth in great plainness the same truth : 

"And the spirit and the body are the soul of man, 

"And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul. 

"And the redemption of the soul is through him that quickeneth all things." 

In other words, he is the resurrection and the life. Here we also learn that the redemption of the soul which is the resurrection from the dead is through him who quickeneth all things, or in other words, it is through him who is "the light which is in all things which giveth life to all things, Which is the Jaw toy which all things are governed, even the power of God," as I have already quoted from Section 88, of the Doctrine and Covenants; or as John states it : "In him was life and the life was the light of men;" and as we read further in the. Doctrine and Covenants, he is also the light of the sun, the moon and the stars and the earth upon which we stand and is the power thereof by which they were made; and when we look out upon this beautiful world and behold the splendor of the starry heavens, the morning and the evening red, the different forms and colors of the clouds and particularly at this time of the year when we see the swelling of the touds, the unfolding of the leaves, the (blossoms and the flowers and all nature bursting into life, we may know from these numerous quotations which I have read from the revealed word that all this is through him who was in the beginning with the Father, even the Lord, our Savior, the Redeemer of mankind. As we contemplate these things let our hearts rejoice, let us lift up our souls in grateful adoration to God that he has so beautifully and inimitably adorned his great creation work. Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Western States Mission 

I had not expected to be called on to address this Conference, but I do appreciate the privilege and the honor that is bestowed upon me in thus being called. 

What President Wells has said today has been in my mind and heart throughout the Conference. The thought that the light shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not is apparent in all the world.  

When the treasurer of the queen of Ethiopia was returning from Jerusalem, to which place he had gone to worship, he was reading from the prophet Isaiah. Phillip, an inspired servant of God was impressed to come near unto him and inquire if he understood what he read, to which he replied, "How can I, except some man teach me?" 

Around the Eunuch was this spirit which has ever shone in darkness. Being unable to get into contact with it, he could not understand the word of God. But this servant of God, endowed with the priesthood and the authority to teach, was able to make that which to him was darkness, plain and as light. 

As I conceive it, that is the responsibility of the missionary. The light shineth in darkness in all the world, and there are honest souls reaching upward for the light. It is our earnest prayer that the Lord will bless us and inspire us and help us to seek them out and find them and bring them to the light, that they may see the truths of the Gospel and rejoice in them. 

We feel in the missions — I am sure that all the missions feel alike— that the prayers of the Saints and of our brethren are the great sustaining influence behind us in our work. Therefore, I make this appeal to you this morning, to continue your prayers in behalf of the missions, that the Lord may inspire his servants who have the task of seeking out those who want to know the truth. There are many of them. We do not know how to find them except we be led to them. Will you pray for us ? Will you continue to sustain us as you have done ? We in turn will do the best we can to carry the message. 

I am happy to be able to say that the mission over which I have the honor ko preside seems to he doing very well. The Saints are faithful, the missionaries are faithful, and they are all enjoying health, strength, . happiness and joy. 

May the Lord bless you. May he bless Zion and his servants who preside over the Church, and help them to be strong. May we love and sustain them, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus, Amen. ELDER CHARLES E. ROWAN, JR. 

President of the Texas Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I feel grateful to my Heavenly Father for this opportunity of being associated with you and enjoying with you this wonderful Conference. 

As I look over the strength of the Church and observe that all the General Authorities whom we love, revere and sustain are here, and that we have had an opportunity of listening to the inspired words as they have come from the lips of these living oracles of God, my heart has swelled with gratitude. I feel indeed grateful to my Heavenly Father for the many blessings that have come to me in my life. 

It has been my pleasure to labor for ten and one-half years in a Stake of Zion, and during that period I have learned to love and revere each and every one of these brethren whom we sustain as our General Authorities. I have learned to respect and admire those who stand at the head of the various auxiliary organizations, and I feel greatly honored of our Heavenly Father in being called at this time to help carry this work into the nations of the world. 

I am happy to say to you, brethren and sisters, that I bring greetings from the Saints and missionaries of the Texas Mission. Our Mission comprises the States of Texas and Louisiana. The Mission covers approximately 314,402 square miles, or is about as large as Utah, Idaho, Wyoming and Nevada. We have 22,990 square miles more than Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia and Ohio combined. Within the State of Texas we have 253 counties, fifty-seven of which are larger than the State of Rhode Island. And yet in that great field- 1 find that the people generally speaking are anxious to meet the servants of Almighty God, and I am happy, my brethren and sisters, to say to you that each and every missionary laboring in that field is enjoying good health; that they are all enjoying the spirit of their calling; that they are laboring zealously and earnestly to disseminate the Gospel truths; and that the people are receiving their message in a very fine way. 

I am happy to be with you, and I bear you my testimony in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ that I know that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ; that I know that he lives, that God our Father actually exists, and that we have been created in his image. 

May the Lord bless you and may he bless us. May you in Zion so live that the tourists as they come into our country may see that you are absolutely sincere, that you are genuine in the things that you believe; and then I am sure you will make it more pleasant and more fruitful for the missionaries in the world. God bless you all, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

If Brother J. Golden Kimball, with all the years of experience he has had and the many times he has been in this stland, has been "upon the anxious seat" during the past two days of this Conference, you may know to some extent how I feel at the present moment. 

I am reminded, while standing here at this west end of the tabernacle, that some fifty-four years ago I sat in ithe gallery of this house in the first seat just behind where the clock is now fastened. At that time I was an |immigrant boy, just over from far-off Stockholm, Sweden, unable to speak the language. The only words of the language I knew were "yes" and "no". 

Remarkable as it may seem those two words have been of considerable importance in my life. It is a matter of regret that I have not always been able to say No when that was the answer that may have been required, but I appreciate and am |thankful to my Heavenly Father that I have been able to say No as often as I have done; Ithat I have been able to (retain the faith and the testimony of the> Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that has come to me. 

It is a matter of still greater appreciation that every time when I have been expected to say Yes I have been able to do so. I do remember also in my life that there was a time when I very much desired a "yes," and she gave it. For the past forty-six years we have been living together in love, affection and happiness. 

I have been upon two missions, one in the Southern States, and one in England. On those occasions I had to go as it were alone, except for the assistance of my Heavenly Father, which I need as much now as ever. This time I have the privilege of having her with me, and it is a pleasure and a matter of wonderment to me the way she has taken to this work and this mission. 

I rejoice in the privilege of accepting the call that has come to me to preside over the Canadian Mission. I recognize the responsibility and I feel very humble in seeking to follow in the footsteps of those who have preceded me in that work, when I see the labor they have performed, the work that has been accomplished. 

i I cannot enumerate the number of States that could be covered by the area that comprises the Canadian Mission, but I did learn this much, that if one should take the lands within the Canadian Mission and divide them up between the men, women and children that comprise the membership of the Latter-day Saint Church in the Canadian Mission, each one would be entitled to 700,000 acres. From that you can decide whether the mission is extensive or whether the membership is small. As I find it, both are the case. 

I rejoice in the work, and I do pray that the Spirit of God may be with me in that work, that in the labors that come to us that Spirit may. ever attend us; that a love for the children of God shall be in our GENERAL CONFERENCE; that we shall spare no effort, no labor, no toil, in getting to them the message of life and salvation which has come into our hearts and has given us joy, happiness and satisfaction. 

When we see the hundreds of thousands of people gathering at shrines in other churches, we regret the fact that it seems to us they are as yet impervious to the message of the Gospel that we have to give them, which would give them more truth than they have now, more light and knowledge, and greater opportunity for advancement, progress, glory and salvation in 'God's kingdom. But all we can do is to seek our Father for the strength he can give unto us and bend every energy to cleanse our garments of the blood of this generation by neglecting no opportunity to preach the Gospel unto them and give them the opportunity to reject or accept, to have joy and gladness come into their hearts, or to have to wait another time and for other methods by which to receive it. 

We pray our Heavenly Father that he may inspire the hearts of the fathers and the mothers who are here at home that they may feel to sacrifice and send their sons and daughters into the missions, that we may not go as short-handed as we are at the present time. We have at present fifty-two missionaries in the Canadian Mission, while we had eighty-two last year, a loss of thirty. We have five District Presidents who are at present working alone. In the State of New Hampshire we have but two missionaries. The field is great and the laborers are few, and we depend upon the brethren and sisters at home who have a love for the work and an appreciation of the responsibilities that are upon us, to carry the message of the Gospel to the world. May we do all that lies in our power to discharge this responsibility. 

I bear my testimony to the truth and the divinity of this work, that that which the world calls "Mormonism" is indeed the work of the Lord, restored to us in these last days, which gives to the world an opportunity of knowledge and understanding and a better conception of God and our relationship unto him, the purpose of our being here and what we may accomplish. May we be blessed with his Holy Spirit to give unto them that message, and to discharge our duties and responsibilities in humility. That God may give us strength to that end, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

It seems necessary at times that we must have skirmishes from the enemy to serve notice on us that our forces must be well organized and well trained if we hope to make the battle of righteousness decisive, The proceedings of this Conference so far have impressed me with this thought. We have in the Church an unlimited amount of defensive material at hand, and each day increases our store. 

At the Priesthood Meeting Saturday evening, President Ivins called 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH . 101 

our attention to an article published in the Popular Science Monthly of January, 1930. His watchful eye is always looking for such information. The mere mention of the ancient American inhabitants will immediately attract his attention. He is always happy to talk about them. His knowledge of and interest in them has been a source of inspiration to me. He called my attention to this article soon after its publication. I quote : 

"With records cut in imperishable stone the Mayas suddenly made their first appearance upon the historical scene on August 6, 613 B. C. On that remote day — the oldest date in American history — they put into operation a workable and astonishingly accurate calendar system which has been the marvel of the scientific world since it was deciphered. Why on August 6, 613 B. C. ? Where were the Mayas on August S ? Had they lived, tilled the soil, developed their wonderful astronomy and admirable architecture, pursued their other arts and sciences on this continent before they carved that first inscription? If so, for how long? If not, whence did they come? Nobody knows. Step by step, along trails of tangible remains, science has been able to trace the evolution of the Egyptian and other ancient peoples back to their earliest and crudest beginnings. But not so in the case of the Mayas. So far as any concrete evidence is concerned, they might as well have dropped down from Mars or some other planet on the morning of that 6th day of August, 2,542 years ago." 

Nephi, the historian of the Book of Mormon, tells us that in the commencement of the first year of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, there came many prophets to Jerusalem prophesying unto the people that they must repent or the great city Jerusalem must be destroyed; and that his father, Lehi, was warned to take his family and flee into the wilderness. He also tells us that according to the word of the angel, the God of Israel, whom men should trample under their feet, would come in 600 years from the time his father left Jerusalem. Nephi stated that he would not write all details, for said he, "It mattereth not to me that I am particular to give a full account of all the things of my father, for they cannot be written upon these plates, for I desire the room that I may write of the things of God." To me these statements of Nephi answer the question, "Where were the Mayas on August 5, 613 B. C. ?" To get the full story, one must read the Book of Mormon. Recent years have brought forth many evidences to support this claim. 

I have only a few minutes in which to address you, and during this time I desire, if the Lord will help me, to mention some of these evidences. Through the writings and traditions of the ancient Americans, historians and archaeologists have preserved for us a most wonderful story, a story that harmonizes perfectly with the story of the Book of Mormon. I shall not attempt to make a detailed comparison. My time will not permit. 

Nephi tells us his record is written in the language of his father, which consists of the learning of the Jews and the language of the Egyptians. (1 Nephi 1:1-2.) Compare with the following: 

"The Mexicans had more than one method of writing. Not only did they use hieroglyphic signs 'figurative and symbolic,' but like the ancient Egyptians they had also phonetic signs representing not a thing, an action, or an idea, GENERAL CONFERENCE  a sound. From thence to the alphabet is but a step, or, rather it is the alphabet already; but they made far less use of the valuable discovery of phonetic signs than did the Egyptians. They confined themselves almost entirely to the figurative and symbolic. The result was that the writing had to be greatly aided by the memory." ("History of Mexico," Claverijo, Volume 2, page 43.) 

Lehi had four sons. Nephi became the leader. Baldwin in his "Ancient America," on page 264, makes the following statement : 

"It (this civilization of South America) was originated, he says, by a people led by four brothers who settled in the valley of Tuzco and developed a civilization there in a very human way. The youngest of these brothers assumed supreme authority and became the first of a long line of sovereigns." 

"They believed in God. Human in form and feeling, and yet most divine, were the gods and deities of the ancient Seneca and other Iroquoian peoples. While the divine, social, and political organization was necessarily, for psychological reasons, a close reflex or replica of the human, and although both gods and man derived descent from an original first parent, yet the first divine ancestor was a self-existing god and the first man was the creature of one of these divine powers." (Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1918.) 

"They believed the soul to be immortal. They distinguished three plans for the soul when separated from the body." ("History of Mexico," Claverijo, Volume 2, page 3.) 

"They believed in an evil spirit, the enemy of mankind, which they called the rational owl, and said that he often appeared to men for the purpose of terrifying or doing them an injury. The Mexicans, with all other civilized nations, have a clear tradition, though somewhat corrupted by fable, of the creation of the world, of the universal deluge, of the confusion of tongues and of the dispersion of the people; and had actually all these events represented in their pictures." (History of Mexico," Claverijo, Volume 2, page 2.) 

"The Aztecs believed that two persons survived the deluge, a man and his wife. Their heads are represented in ancient paintings, together with a boat floating on the water, at the foot of the mountain, a dove is also depicted, with the hieroglyphical emblem of language in his mouth which he is distributing to the children of the survivors. The people held the further tradition, that the boat in which their Noah escaped, was filled with various kinds of animals and birds. After some time a vulture was sent out from it, but remained feeding on the dead bodies of the giants which had been left on the earth as the water subsided. The little humming bird was sent forth and returned with a twig in its mouth." ("Conquest of Mexico," Prescott, page 385.) 

Speaking of the pyramid of Cholula, Prescott says : 

"Popular tradition in regard to its building is that it was erected by a family of giants who had escaped the great inundation, and designated to raise the building to the clouds : but the gods offended with their presumption, sent fire from heaven on the pyramid and compelled them to abandon the attempt." 

Referring to Quetzalcoatl, they say : 

"He it is that was born of the virgin that is called Chimalmar in heaven. This Quetzalcoatl was he who they said made the world, because, they say, that this supreme god who resides in the most high heaven, when it pleased him, breathed and begot this Quetzalcoatl. To this being they built the round churches that have no corners at all. They say that it is he who made the first man. A god that was called Titlalacomac, sent a messenger from heaven with a message for a virgin that lived in Tula, that was called Chimalmar. This virgin conceived a son without knowing a man, the which was called Quetzalcoatl, and they say he is the god of the air." (Cortez Mess. Rios, No. 3738, page 25.) 

"Quetzalcoatl was among the Mexicans and all other nations of Anahuac, the god of the air. He was said to have once been high priest of Tula. They 103  him tall, big, and of fair complexion with an open forehead, large eyes, long black hair and a thick beard, from a love of decency he wore always a long robe. He was thought to possess the greatest industry and to have invented the art of smelting metals and cutting gems. He was supposed to have had the most profound wisdom which he displayed in the laws which he left to mankind; and above all to have had the most rigid and exemplary manners. Whenever he intended to promulgate a law in his kingdom, he ordered a crier to the top of the mountain near the city of Tula whose voice was heard at a distance of 300 miles. All his subjects were rich, and to sum up all in one word the Mexicans imagined as much happiness under the priesthood of Quetzalcoatl as the Greeks did under the reign of Saturn." ("History of Mexico" by Claverijo, Volume 2, page 14. Compare with 3 Nephi 11.) 

"Quetzalcoatl after being twenty years in Cholula, resolved to pursue his journey to the imaginary kingdoms of Tlapatla, carrying along with him four noble and virtuous youths. In the maritime province of Coatzacoalco he dismissed them and desired them to assure the Cholulas that he would return to comfort and direct them." ("History of Mexico," Claverijo, Volume 2, page 12. See 3 Nephi 18:38, 39.) 

Referring to the destruction at the time of the death of the Savior, we have the following statement : 

"There had been a very great error among these natives and very general throughout all this new state, for they said that this world had had two endings and that the one had been by flood and tempestuous waters, and that the world had been turned upside down and that those who at that time had lived had been giants whose bones are found in the broken places, and thus, they say also that there had been another ending of the world by wind and hurricane that were so great that all there was in it was destroyed, even the plants and trees of the highest mountains, and that the men of that time were seized and taken up from the ground until they were lost to sight, and that a few people of those that escaped were converted into monkeys and lost the use of reason and lost their speech and became as we now see them. They believe as certainly that there is to be another ending and that it is to be by fire." (Historiatlaxcola Mexico, 1892, page 153. See 3 Nephi 8.) 

"Some Mexican writers are persuaded that the gospel had been preached in America some centuries before the arrival of the Spaniards. The grounds of that opinion are some crosses which have been found at different times which seem to have been made before the arrival of the Spaniards; the fast of forty days observed by the people of the new world; the tradition of the future arrival of a strange people with beards." ("History of Mexico," Claverijo, Volume 2, page 14.) 

In referring to the first visit of Cortez to Yucatan, Prescott says : 

"The houses were some of them large and often built of stone and lime. He was particularly struck with the temple in which were towers constructed of the same solid material and rising several stories in height. In the court of one of these he was amazed by the sight of a cross of stone and lime about ten palms high. It was the emblem of the god of rain. Yet, it must be regarded as a curious fact that the cross should have been venerated as the object of religious worship both in the new world and in the regions of the old world where the light of Christianity had never risen." 

Concerning the belief of this people that their god Quetzalcoatl, when he departed, promised to return again at some future date, Prescott makes "the following statement : 

"In a preceding chapter I have noticed the popular tradition respecting Quetzalcoatl, that deity with a fair complexion and flowing beard, so unlike the Indian Physiognomy, who, after fulfilling his mission of benevolence among the Aztecs embarked on the Atlantic Sea for the mysterious shores of Tlapallan. He promised on his departure to return at some future day with his posterity and resume the possession of his empire. That day was looked forward to with hope or with apprehension, according to the interests of the believer, but with general confidence throughout the wide borders of Anahuac. Even after the conquest, it still lingered among the Indian races 'by whom it was as fondly cherished, as the advent of their king Sebastian continued to be by the Portugese, or that of the Messiah by the Jews. A general feeling seems to have prevailed in the time of Montezuma, that the period for the return of the deity, and the full accomplishment of his promise, was near at hand. This conviction is said to have gained ground from various preternatural occurrences, reported with more or less detail by all the most ancient historians." ("History of Mexico," Prescott, 218.) 

"At the arrival of the Spaniards on the coast of Anahuac, the Mexican governors of those coasts were confounded at the sight of vessels so large and men of so strange an aspect and figure." 

Nephi calls our attention to the fact that his people built large buildings of cement and stone. Historians have preserved for us the following statement : 

"In many other ways the Mayas uncannily anticipated modern methods. They discovered the use of concrete in the construction of buildings. It appears that they erected wooden forms against which were laid blocks of stone, cut smooth in front only, to serve as a facing. Then a mixture of crushed rock and liquid mortar was poured into the space between the facing and the inner wooden form. This produced a strong monolithic wall. In their painting, they embodied the principles of perspective and foreshortening, and even developed a certain technique in presenting a three-quarters view. And devotees of the Sunday comics may be surprised to learn that the Mayas, in their carvings of human figures in conversation, originated the 'speech-balloon' without which no modern 'funny' is complete." (New Clues to the Mayan Riddle, Popular Science Monthly, January, 1930.) 

"The pyramid is nearly 30 feet high and at the base measures about 100 by 120 feet. The flattish summit preserves nearly its original dimensions, having been protected by a firm cement floor and measures 60 by 80 feet. Resting on this is a low mass of earth about 5 feet high having near the middle remnants of a Spanish building, probably a church. This massive pile is composed of stone of various sizes and shapes imbedded in adobe as in many of the north side structures, but we cannot at present say whether the facings were of stone or cement. The most noteworthy feature of this pyramid is the cement or concrete floors of the terraces which are so firm and fixed as to stand out in places far beyond the crurnbling slope." ("Ancient Cities of Mexico," Holmes, Vol. 1, page 275.) 

"Mortar, made of lime and sand, and cement-like mixtures composed of mortar tempered with gravel, pounded stone, etc., were extensively used and their durability is remarkable. Numerous floors and roofs are still preserved." ("Ancient Cities of Mexico," Holmes, Vol. 1, page 25.) 

We are told that upon the arrival of Cortez on the coast of Yucatan the people were greatly alarmed when they saw the large ships with white sails. Cortez, having heard of the tradition of the people, it is said, caused his cannon to be fired. This had the effect upon the natives of making them believe Quetzalcoatl, god of the air, had returned as promised. The smoke ascending into the heavens, the roar of the cannon, the appearance of the white men with beards, seemed to bear out this fact. Claverijo records this in the following statement: 

"Montezuma was extremely disturbed on hearing their account; but, to 105  any rash step in an affair of such consequence and alarm, he held a council with Cacamatzi, king of Acolhuacan, his nephew, Cuitlahuatzur, lord of Iztapalapan, his brother and other twelve personages his ordinary counselors. After a long conference they concluded unanimously, that he who had landed upon that shore, with so great an army, could be no other person than Quetzalcoatl, the god of air, who had for many years been expected in that country; for there prevailed among those nations, as we have already mentioned, an ancient tradition, that such a deity, after having, by his beneficence and innocence of life acquired the esteem and veneration of the people in Tatlan, Cholula, and Onohualco had disappeared to them, promised to return after a certain period to govern them in peace and render them happiness." 

After a long conference with Cortez, it seems the natives had not been favorably impressed with their doctrines or teachings regarding God. Montezuma made the statement that their god was similar to that described by the Spaniards. 

"But," says Prescott, "there seems to have been much division of opinion in that body. Some were for resisting the stranger at once, whether by fraud or by open force. Others contended that if they were supernatural beings, fraud and force would be alike useless. If they were, as they pretended, ambassadors from a foreign prince, such a policy would be cowardly and unjust. That they were not of the family of Quetzalcoatl was, argued from the fact that they had shown themselves hostile to his religion, for tidings of the proceedings of the Spaniards in Tabasco it seems had already reached the capital. If Montezuma had resisted their visit to his capital it was because he had heard such accounts of their cruelty, that they sent the lightning to consume his people or crushed them to pieces under the hard feet of the ferocious animals on which they rode." (Prescott, page 221.) 

Yesterday, on these grounds, a few descendants of these Lamanites held a short service. They sang and prayed in English and their native language. Nephi saw in a vision that through wickedness his people should become a dark and loathsome people. He also saw that in the day when this book he was writing should come into the hands of the Gentiles and should be delivered to his people they should again become a white and deirghtsome people. These Lamanites, whom we met. yesterday, are dark like their forefathers, but their souls are white. They have faith in the living God, that faith which leads to eternal life. 

In conclusion I shall read a statement from Lord Eingsborough concerning these people. He gives the following reasons why he believes they are descendants of the Hebrews : 

"Because of their division into tribes; their worship of Jehovah; their notions of theocracy; their belief in the ministration of angels; their language and dialects; their manner of counting time; their prophets and high priests; their festivals, fasts and religious rites; their daily sacrifice; their ablutions and anointings; their laws of uncleanness; their abstinence from unclean things; their marriages, divorces, punishment of adultery; their several punishments; their cities of refuge; their purifications and ceremonies preparatory to war; their ornaments; their manner of curing the sick; their burial of the dead; their raising of seed to a deceased brother; their choice of names adapted to their circumstances and the times; their own traditions, the accounts of our English writers, and the testimonies which the Spanish and others have given concerning primitive inhabitants of Peru and Mexico." 

A song of their ministral as interpreted seems to have been prophetic. To us it is prophetic. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Enjoy the fragrant flowers that spring 

Around thy kingly state; A day will come which shall destroy Thy present bliss — thy present joy — When fate the scepter of command Shall wrench from out thy royal hand 

Thy moon diminished rise; And as thy pride and strength are quenched From thy adherents shall be wrenched 

All that they love or prize. When sorrows shall thy truth attest, 

And this thy throne decline — The birds of thy ancestral nest, 

The princes of thy line — The mighty of thy race — shall see , The bitter ills of poverty — 

And then shall memory recall Thy envied greatness, and on all 

Thy brilliant triumphs dwell; And as they think of bygone years Compared with present shame, their tears 

Shall to the ocean swell. 

And those, who, through a royal band, 

Serve thee for crown, or plume, Remote from Culhuacan's land 

Shall find the exile's doom, Deprived of thee — their rank forgot, Misfortune shall o'erwhelm their lot. Then fame shall grudgingly withhold Her meed to greatness, which of old 

Blazons and crowns displayed; The people shall retain alone Remembrance of that triple throne 

Which this our land obeyed." 

My brethren and sisters, I am thrilled when I read the Book of Mormon. The more I study it the more I see in it of worth. It is one of the most wonderful evidences of the divinity of this work which God has placed in our hands. I plead with you to read it and study it with a prayerful heart. Read the last chapter first. Follow that instruction to the letter, and the Lord will be with you, for he has so promised. 

God help us in our efforts to carry on in his great work, is my prayer, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission. 

I earnestly pray that the word of the Lord that has been delivered to us at this Conference will take hold of us. It seems to me, brethren and sisters, that the beauty and power of this Gospel are revealed in the lives of the Latter-day Saints as much and probably more than they are revealed in the books. 

Two or three days ago I saw a happy mother walking along Main Street. Her face beamed with maternal pride, for at her side, walking 107  her, was her son, a manly young man who had been recentljy: honorably released from filling a mission. With every step that mother took she seemed to say, "I am the mother of this boy." 

These wonderful mothers in Israel are not astonished at the gratifying progress their splendid sons and daughters make in the mission field, because they know that the testimony of the Gospel and the power to preach it were born with them. These mothers believe in their sons and daughters. My brethren and sisters, we cannot do very much with young people except we show them that we do believe in their integrity and power to fill their missions. 

Recently a married man came into the Mission. After he had labored for three or four months he received the sorrowful news that his only child, about two years old, had died. The bishop comforted the griefstricken mother and told her that if it would help her to bear her grief he would send for her husband. But she replied, "No, bishop. Ever since we have been married I have prayed and worked and saved in order that my husband could fill a mission, and if he were to come home now the happiness he would bring me would not equal the joy that fills my heart because he is preaching the everlasting Gospel." 

Such a spirit, brethren and sisters, is unconquerable. It is invincible. And in that spirit of sacrifice, devotion and self-denial this glorious Gospel is being preached. 

A Presbyterian minister said a short time ago : "The church that evangelizes America will be the dominating factor in evangelizing the world." Noble words. Magnificent ideal. The mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to preach the Gospel to every nation and kindred and tongue and people, to bring about the glorious consummation, when every knee shall bend and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ. And how will the Church accomplish thSs? "Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, saith the Lord of Hosts." 

God help us all to work in the spirit of sacrifice and devotion. Let us send out our splendid sons and daughters to "wake up the world for the conflict of justice," I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR GAETH 

President of the Czechoslovak Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters, I bring you greeting from the smallest mission in the Church, consisting of thirteen of your sons and eleven members. I am happy to be here to enjoy the spirit of this Conference, happy that I was able to come and obtain a companion who will return with me, so that we can continue in pur work in building up that mission of the Church. 

We are happy to be able to labor among the Slavic people — among the Czechs and the Slovaks — a people who have been religiously persecuted for centuries. They first received Christianity in the ninth century, when two Slavs, missionaries of the Byzantine church, came GENERAL CONFERENCE  them, and under the reign of Wenceslas, that famous Christian king in whose honor we sing one of our religious songs, they were practically Christianized. From that time on Christianity was a powerful factor in their history. But so well did the predominant church know how to inculcate the ideas of its religion into the lives of those people and into th&r affairs that by the fourteenth century it controlled practically one-third of all the lands, and most of the people were serfs and peasants under its dominion. 

It was said at that time that the Archbishop of Prague controlled one-third of the Province of Bohemia, and he had a large retinue of priests and f ollowers who spent a good deal of their time in riotous living. This greatly incited the feelings of honest men and women who believed in the message of Christ. 

One of these was the famous reformer, John Huss, who began to preach against the corruption within the Church. He gained a following among the common people and the movement became so powerful that the attention of the Popes in Rome — and at that time there were two — was attracted to this movement. Huss was asked to come to trial on the shores of Lake Constance. His friends warned him and told him not to go, but he had a motto, the motto of the Bohemian people today, "Truth will conquer." 

And so with two or three followers and with a promise of safe passageway from the king of the Empire at that time, Sigismund, he went on to Constance. There, at a mock trial, he was condemned to death and was burned at the stake. 

Huss died, but his spirit lived on among the people, and for two ' centuries after that they were a Protestant nation. But at the beginning of the Thirty Years' War the Catholic forces came into the country and at the battle of White Mountain the Bohemians were defeated and were put in bondage. There were more than two million Bohemians living in the country at the beginning of the Thirty Years' War, and at the close, thirty years later, that number had dwindled to less than one million. The rest had been killed or forced into exile. For three hundred years after that they lived in bondage, spiritually. They were forced to accept teachings for which they had no desire and in which they did not believe. But slowly these things became a part of them, and the mass of the people became members of the Catholic church. 

Then the World War came and that people succeeded in gaining their freedom and in establishing religious liberty. The educated people began to break away from the church. They began to go off into the paths of skepticism and agnosticism. The masses still remain in that church and are remaining so probably because they feel they must have some kind of a cloak and that the cloak they are wearing now is probably as good as any they could get. But the leaders and the educated people are opposed to organized religion. They want nothing of it, because the experiences they have had with organized religion have taught them that it has meant bondage to them. 

We are laboring among the more educated people of the country, 109  skeptical people who weigh everything and who are paying attention to teachings and investigating them because they are interested in the development of their people and their country as probably no other leaders in Europe are today. They have gained their freedom. The spirit of liberty permeates their souls and they work and slave and accomplish. That is why the country of Czechoslovakia has made more progress in re-establishing and reconstructing since the war than any other country that participated in the war, except probably France. 

We are proud to be engaged in service among those people. We are thankful to our Heavenly Father that we can work there, and we feel that the time will come when the teachings of the Church, because they are practical and can be applied in every day life, will take hold among those people and we will be able to bring many of them into the fold of the Church. We are only a small group, fourteen of us laboring among fourteen million seven hundred and twenty-five thousand people. We feel that we have a great mission and that we need help. (We ask the Lord to bless you here at home so that you may be able to send your sons and daughters out into the world to preach the Gospel, where they can gain the experiences so valuable to life, and at the same time preach the true and everlasting Gospel to the many nations of the world who are hungering for truth. 

May the Lord bless you and help you, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 

President of the North Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I too rejoice and am grateful with all my heart for the privilege and honor that has come to me as a missionary of this great Church, and for the opportunity of bearing my testimony along with those already borne at this Conference. 

In the North Central States Mission we are well, and busy, and happy in our work, and the Lord is blessing our efforts. Last year, despite its many handicaps, we had more baptisms, more tithing paid, and more people paying tithing than ever before in tour history. This year (1931), notwithstanding a reduction of more than one-third (from SO to 50) in our missionary force,!we ifeel and hope results may be even better. We are proud of our missionaries and of our Saints and friends. All that we need is more of each. There are many good people in the world. Given more missionaries, for whom we hope and pray, we shall strive earnestly to find them, and 'with the help of the Lord, to teach them the truth. 

A book has been written by Bertrand Russell and others entitled, "If I had ibut one sermon to preach." If we of the North Central States Mission had but one sermon to preach to the world it would be an humble testimony that God lives, the same wise, kind Heavenly Father, who in the beginning "Created man in his image," and who continues to be interested in all his children; that Jesus of Nazareth GENERAL CONFERENCE , a resurrected, immortalized, glorified member of the Godhead; that Joseph Smith, the prophet of this dispensation, was privileged to converse with these two heavenly personages, Father and Son, and of them was instructed in the manner of the organization of the only authorized Church of Christ upon the earth today; that this is that Church; that in it, under the administration of President Heber J. 'Grant, seventh in succession from the Prophet Joseph, are held and exercised all the keys of authority in the priesthood that characterized it in the early days. 

Such, my brethren and sisters, is our testimony to the world. And if, as upon one occasion long ago, some should be "pricked in their hearts" and should isay, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" the answer is ever the same: 

"Repent and be baptized every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. For this promise is unto you, and unto your children, and to all they that are alar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call." (Acts 2:37-39). 

If we could preach but once to the youth of Zion it would be, in humble adaptation of the third, great commandment: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God IN VAIN." In vain? What do we mean — In vain? 

Consider for a moment the splendid oath and promise of the Boy ScoUt : 

"On my honor I will do my best to do my duty to God and to my country, and to obey the Scout Law; to help other people at all times; and to keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straight." 

Suppose the Boy Scout, having given this splendid commitment to service, should go his way forgetful that "A scout is Trustworthy, Loyal, Helpful, Friendly, Courteous, Kind, Obedient, Cheerful, Thrifty, Brave, Clean and Reverent." He shall have taken the Boy Scout Oath IN VAIN, shall he not}?; 

Let us not, my young brethren and sisters in particular, take the name of the Lord our God, in vain. Who cares to become a deacon, a teacher, a priest, an auxiliary worker, or a missionary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints IN VAIN ? Nobody. Last of all the youth of this day and age in the Church. 

"O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind, and strength, that ye be found blameless before God at the last day." 

Such, my young friends, the vision toward which our fathers wrought; 

Such their proud hope and faith in us, that we should carry on, 

Nor carry on IN VAIN, the work by them begun. 

So shall we prove ourselves in very deed their sons. 

So shall we prove to skeptic friends, "This is the Place;" 

This is his Church; and this the greatest day, 

(Though perhaps also the most critical and dangerous of days), 

That ever yet has dawned. 

God bless and keep the youth of Israel. God bless and magnify 111  missionaries in every land and clime. God bless and save the world, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 

Singing by the congregation, "Come, All Ye Sons of Zion." The closing prayer was offered )by Elder Joseph F. Merrill. Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 

THIRD DAY 


