Morning 
04 04 1931

The first session of the Conference commenced at 10 o'clock, Saturday, April 4th, 1931. 

All the brethren of the iGeneral Authorities of the Church were present and seated on the stands, and the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries were filled, the attendance being unusually large for a week-day session of Conference. 

President Heber J, Grant presided and announced the opening hymn, "Now let us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation," which was sung by the congregation. 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Wilford A. Beesley, President of the Salt Lake IStake. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "O Say, What Is Truth ?" 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I do not recall that at a first session of a General Conference held on a week day I have ever seen as large an attendance as we have here today. I rejoice in the interest of the Saints in our Annual and Semi-Annual Conferences. It is a remarkable thing for people by the thousands to come from all parts of the United States, also from Canada and Mexico, to these meetings. It shows the interest, the faith and the love of the people for the Gospel of Jesus Christ that has been revealed in our day. On behalf of the General Authorities of the Church I welcome you here. I earnestly and sincerely pray that while we are assembled together we may be blessed of the Lord, that those who speak and pray and sing may do so under the inspiration that comes from our Heavenly Father. 

It has been customary for very many years to read to the people a statement of expenditures and statistical matters at our Annual Conferences. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

The expenditures by the Church for the year 1930 are as follows : Stake and Ward Purposes: 

There has been returned from the tithes to the Stakes and Wards for the construction of Ward and Stake meeting houses $ 887,678.43 

For Ward maintenance expense 590,792.34 

For Stake maintenance expense ' 271,983.42 $1,750,454.19 

Education : 

Expended for the maintenance of Church School System. . .$811,622.19 

Temples : 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of Temples. .$196,898.81 Charities : 

For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable pur, including hospital treatment $203,091.41 

Missions : 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions $916,543.59 

I believe I am safe in saying that at no time in the history of the Church has there been so much expended in our Missions as during the past two or three years, including the year that has just closed. The grand total of these appropriations from the tithes and resources of the Church is $3,878,610.1° 

These funds have been taken from the tithes and Church investments and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the Stakes and Wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities and mission activities. 

Other Charities: 

In addition to charities paid from the tithes as before named, there has also been disbursed the fast offerings, other charities and assistance rendered by the Relief Society in the sum of $464,404.39, which amount, added to the $203,091.41 paid from the tithes, makes the total charity assistance rendered by the Church $667,495.80 

There has been collected by the various Wards of the Church 

and paid to missionaries to assist in their maintenance. $100,685.08 

STATISTICS AND OTHER DATA COMPILED FROM THE ANNUAL REPORTS FOR 

THE YEAR 1930 

We have at the present time: Stakes of Zion, 104; Wards, 926; Independent Branches, 74; Dependent Branches, 33; Total Wards and Branches in the Stakes of Zion, from Canada to Mexico, 1033; Missions, 30; Mission Branches, 873; Districts, 246. 

CHURCH GROWTH 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in 

the Stakes and Missions 20,021 

Children baptized in the iStakes and Missions 15,313 

Converts baptized and entered on the records of the Stakes and 

Missions 6.758 Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 1930 1,889 Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 1930 52 Number of local missionaries 107 

Total number of missionaries on foreign missions . . . 2,048 Number engaged in missionary work in Stakes 1,000 

Total missionaries 3,048 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary 

Home 812 

Persons recommended to the temples from the Stakes and Missions 69,109 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate, 29.7 per thousand. 

Marriage rate, 13.9 per thousand. 

Death rate, 7.6 per thousand. 

Families owning their own homes, 68 per cent. 

CHANGES IN STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS SINCE LAST OCTOBER 

CONFERENCE 

Stake Presidents Appointed : 

Anthon E. Anderson has been appointed president of Logan Stake to succeed Oliver H. Budge. 

Harold B. Lee has been appointed president of Pioneer Stake to succeed Datus E. Hammond. 

Jesse W. Richins has been appointed president of the Twin Falls Stake to succeed William A. Hyde. 

J. Emmett Bird has been appointed president of the Kolob Stake to succeed George R. Maycock. 

Almon iiT. Butterfield has been appointed President of the West Jordan Stake to succeed Joseph M. Holt. 

Thomas A. King has been appointed president of the Garfield Stake to succeed Charles E. Rowan, Jr. 

Francis W. Stratford, has teen appointed president of the North Weber Stake to succeed John V. Bluth. New Mission Organized : 

Texas Mission, with headquarters at Houston, Texas. ew Mission Presidents : 

Charles, E. Rowan, Jr., has been appointed president of the Texas Mission. 

Charles H. Hart has been released as president of the Canadian Mission, and John V. Bluth appointed to succeed him. New Wards Organized : 

Ogden 21st Ward, Ogden Stake. 

Wilmington Ward, Los Angeles Stake. 

Maywood Ward, Los Angeles Stake. Stake Presidents who have passed away : 

George R. Maycock, president of the Kolob Stake. 

Joseph M. Holt, president of the West Jordan Stake. 

I attended the funerals of these two Presidents and the tributes paid to them were of the most excellent character. Their labors were splendid and their families have our sympathy and our prayers that they may follow in the footsteps of these two splendid men. Bishops who have passed away : 

William T. Harkness of the Magna Ward, Oquirrh Stake. 

John L. Fish of Lakeside Ward, Snowflake Stake. Others who have passed away : 

Peter G. Johnston, one of the Church Auditing Committee for many years. 

Benjamin Goddard, formerly manager of the Bureau of Information from its inception until just prior to his death. 

George C. Smith, secretary for many years of the Tabernacle Choir. 

Zina Young Card, daughter of President Brigham Young, and active in Church work from her young girlhood days. 

Brigham Morris Young, son of Brigham Young, loyal and true all the days of his life to the Church and its interests and a worker in the Salt Lake Temple from the day it was dedicated until the time of his death. 

Evan Stephens, formerly director of the Tabernacle Choir, and one of the men tb whom we owe so much — to him and Brother George Careless, perhaps more than almost to any other men — for writing our beautiful hymns and for taking such a deep interest in all of our musical affairs. 

DECRIES PROPAGANDA 

I desire to bring to the attention of the members of the Church some very regrettable and most annoying circumstances. I have taken occasion in times past to denounce the conduct of persons both within and without the Church who have palpably sought to bring disgrace upon the Church and reproach to its leaders in the circulation of propaganda for and the unlawful practice of pretended "plural marriage." Notwithstanding the positive, unequivocal declarations which I have made from time to time on this subject, and in, spite of the vigorous and unvarying prosecution within the courts of the Church, from the tribunals of the bishops to the Council of the Twelve Apostles, of cases arising out of violations of the law of the Church forbidding absolutely the practice of plural marriage — notwithstanding all these efforts on the part of the authorities of the Church to suppress the unlawful practices and propaganda of these people, we find that there are still a number, relatively small we hope, who persist in teaching the doctrine and maligning the leaders of the Church. 

PUNISHED WHEN FOUND 

Wherever the Authorities of the Church have been able to locate such persons and secure sufficient definite evidence to warrant' their conviction, they have, without fear or favor, been dealt with and excommunicated from the Church. This procedure is the limit of Church jurisdiction. We have been, however, and we are entirely willing and anxious too that such offenders against the law of the State should be dealt with and punished as the law provides. We have been and we are willing to give such legal assistance as we legitimately can in the criminal prosecution of such cases. We are willing to go to such limits not only because we regard it as our duty as citizens of the country to assist in the enforcement of the law and the suppression of pretended "plural marriages," but also because we wish to do everything humanly possible to make our attitude toward this matter so clear, definite, and unequivocal as to leave no possible doubt of it in the mind of any person. 

TO PROTECT THE UNWARY 

There are always to be found in any large group of people some who are uninformed, credulous, and easily susceptible to the persuasions of more forceful personalities. Such persons are often well-meaning and at heart very devoted to the Church. It is a matter of sorrow and deep regret to us that some such members of the Church have been inveigled by designing men and fanatics into the support and practice of unlawful relations. It is largely for the protection of such class of people within the Church and similarly minded converts to the Church that we feel the necessity of stressing this unpleasant subject so much. 

The machinations of the proponents of unlawful marriages are, of course, carried on largely in secret. The Church has no adequate way of thwarting their endeavors before much harm is often done; although the officers of the Church, from the highest to the least, are definitely instructed to be constantly "on the watch for such teaching and propagandists. We have hesitated somewhat to make public statements or denials to charges and false assertions published in literature sent out by these enemies of the Church and its administration, because we have felt that- added publicity to their pernicious statements would he gratifying to them and probably useless in stemming their activity. There is scarcely a man among the leading authorities who has not been defamed by them, both in print and speech. 

WIDELY CIRCULATED 

They have circulated their literature as widely as possible with their available means, even sending defamatory pamphlets to the missionaries of the Church in their fields of labor, extending to Europe. We suppose that in sbme instances this material may fall into the hands of investigators, weak members of the Church, and others who already, by reason of misrepresentation, are prejudiced against us. There are some, undoubtedly, among these who give credence to that which they read, although, of course, we should be able to expect and we do expect that no missionary of the Church would credit such false assertions. 

FALSE AND SLANDEROUS STATEMENTS 

These publications are not only slanderous of the leaders of the Church but they are calculated to cast a blemish on the fair name of our State. Their authors are apparently without conscience as to the truth of their statements, seeking only to influence those who are uninformed and gullible. They have charged me and many of my brethren here with the commission of crime and have manufactured circumstances as fictitious as the imagination may conceive. We have felt that it was beneath us to make reply to such false and malignant accusations. We have believed that neither the people of the Church nor those outside the Church with whom we live as neighbors and fellow citizens would expect us to answer. If there are any of our brothers or sisters or friends who feel that there are any circumstances which warrant an answer or defense on our part, we assure any such we shall be glad to satisfy them on their request. And when we say our friends we mean our friends, not those who write anonymous letters, or individuals who make false statements about us. 

Perhaps we are presumptuous, but we feel that our standing in the community as men of integrity and honor is a sufficient rebuttal to these infamous charges made against us. 

PRESIDENT WIDTSOE MALIGNED 

In most instances the misrepresentations and false accusations have been made by way of recital and innuendo, with an apparent effort to shield the authors and publishers from legal responsibility. In one recent instance, however, they have been bold enough to print a libelous attack on President John A. Widtsoe, supposedly because they knew of his expected presence here for conference. The circumstances recited are wholly fictitious and false, and are presented, undoubtedly, with the. purpose of creating prejudice against' him and injuring his work in Europe. We think that the high esteem in which Doctor Widtsoe is held, not only in the Church but in his State and as a national figure, makes unnecessary any reply to such calumny. However, if he desires he may have the facilities we can afford to protect himself and to prosecute the defamers of his good name. 

ABSOLUTELY FORBIDDEN 

Now, in conclusion, let me state again, as I have done many times before — and my statement is meant for every member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for our neighbors and friends who dwell in the communities where we live, and for the whole world — that the Church does not countenance, aid, abet, tolerate or sanction in any way, shape or form the contracting of so-called "plural marriages," but that on the contrary it absolutely forbids the members of the Church from entering into any such unlawful relations .or teaching or encouraging such practices, and that' it will continue in the future as it has done in the past to deal with and punish to the extent of its authority any persons who violate these injunctions. I do not know how to make it plainer or more forceful. If I did I would do so. 

As I read this I recall that the statement is made that the leaders of the Church can practice these things. So when this is published I will say that this applies to all the General Authorities of the Church and the members, for 'fear these falsifiers will start another falsehood. 

IT HE POSITION OF THE CHURCH 

I want the officers of our Church, our missionaries, all who in any manner represent us, to know beyond any doubt whatsoever that this is the straightforward, honest, unequivocal position of the Church, and I want them all to know that any person or persons who question this assertion cast reflection upon the honor and integrity of the men who stand at the head of the Church as its General Authorities, for this statement sets forth not only my own views and purposes, hut it is sustained in every detail, in letter and in spirit, by each and every member of the First Presidency, the Council of the Twelve Apostles, the Presiding Patriarch, the First Council of Seventy, and the Presiding Bishopric, to whom it has been submitted and by whom it has been unanimously approved. 

And I wish to say that I want it understood that so far as God gives me power to give His word to the people, it is the word of the Lord. 

THE PEOPLES' WELFARE 

Now, I cannot do more. Of course the circumstances to which I have called attention are very provoking a,nd annoying to us. It is easy to become angry when we contemplate the harm and incalculable injury that some of these perverted, vicious men have perpetrated on the Church, but I do not speak in anger. I have in mind only the welfare and the progress of the great cause which we represent and love, and the people who are within the Church and those to whom we are carrying the Gospel. It hurts me to see the advancement of the work retarded by such regrettable activities within the Church itself. We may always expect to be assailed from without, but it seems to me we can reasonably hope that within the Church our solemn statements of fact and principle will be received at face value. 

It may be that among those who so malign the Church and its leaders are some who are conscientious in their endeavors. I am sorry that they are so simple and misguided as to permit themselves to be allied with those who, by reason of their propaganda and activity, are among the most malicious enemies of the Church. I pray that their eyes may be opened and their course set right. I pray also that all the people of the Church in all parts of the world may unite in a determined effort to abolish from the inside of the Church at least these insidious efforts and unlawful practices which are calculated to bring so much reproach upon us. 

DENIES CHURCH IN DEBT 

The same people who are publishing these slanderous statements have also said that the presiding officers of the Church have used the credit of the Church and involved it in debt to the extent of $23,000,000.00, mortgaging its property to secure this indebtedness. 

The fact is that during my administration no part of the property of the Church has e'ver been mortgaged, and the Church itself is entirely free from debt. 

In proof of what I have said, I read the statement of the Church Auditing Committee, as follows : 

"April 4th, 1931. 

President Heber J. Grant and Counselors, Dear Brethren: 

It gives us pleasure )to state that our examination of the reports of the First Presidency's office, which covered the Presiding Bishop's department, disclosed the fact that the Church is entirely out of debt. 

The accounting system of the Church is modern and complete. 

Respectfully submitted, Henry H. Rolapp, O. W. Adams, 

Auditing Committee." 

CONTRARY TO LAW 

It is against the law of the land to enter into polygamy. In section 58 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we find the following : 

"For verily I say unto you, my law shall be kept on this land. 

"Let no man think he is ruler; but let God rule him that judgeth, according to the counsel of his own will, or, in other words, him that counseleth or sitteth upon the judgment seat. 

"Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land." 

"Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it is to reign, and sub'dues all enemies under his feet." 

STATEMENT SUSTAINED 

I would like all those in this congregation who feel to sustain tHs statement that I have read to you to manifest it as the Apostles and all of the General Authorities have done, by raising their right hands. 

(The congregation responded by raising their hands). 

I have never seen such a lot of hands held so high in my life. 

All those who are opposed to this statement will please raise their hands. 

(No hands were raised). 

Our enemies do not seem to be here. 

QUOTES PROPHET'S PRAYER 

The Prophet Joseph, at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, in the prayer offered on that occasion, among other things said : 

"We ask thee, Holy Father, to confound and astonish, and to bring to shame and confusion, all those who have spread lying reports abroad, over the world, against thy servant or servants, if they will not repent, when the everlasting gospel shall be proclaimed in their ears; 

"And that all their works may be brought to naught, and be swept away by the hail, and by the judgments which thou wilt send upon them in thine anger, that there may be an end to lyings and slanders against thy people." 

We say Arnen to the prophet's prayer on that occasion. READS FROM SCRIPTURES 

In my remarks today I desire to read from the holy scriptures some of the words of the Savior, and also from the revelations that have come to us in our day. 

"Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 

"Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

"A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 

"Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. 

"Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know them." 

What kind of fruits do the people to whom I have referred bring forth? I know of no more outrageous falsifying in my life than has been indulged in by these people. One man by the name of Lorin C. Wbolley said that Anthony W. Ivins and Heber J. Grant went to Los Angeles, that he followed them, that they went into a hotel and that Anthony W. Ivins married a plural wife to Heber J. Grant. 

Anthony W. Ivins and Heber J. Grant were never in a hotel together in Los Angeles. Heber J. Grant has never suggested to any human being during his entire administration as President of the Church that anybody should ever enter into plural marriage. On the contrary, every man or woman who has ever opened his or her mouth to him on this subject he has taught to the contrary. ^ 

"And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand,; 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell : and great was the fall of it." 

Those who have heard my counsel for at least twelve years, to say nothing of that of my predecessors and others, to obey the laws of the land and do not do it, are building their houses upon sand, and they are absolutely certain to fall. 

"Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying, 

"Master, which is the great commandment in the law? 

"Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

"This is the first and great commandment. 

"And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. "On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." 

THE BARLOW CASE 

I call to mind that we tried a man by the name of Barlow for entering into pretended plural marriage years ago. This man brought to us a letter purporting to come from Owen Woodruff, who was dead, telling him to send the person to Mexico, stating that Owen Woodruff married this girl to him. And there was not a word of truth in it. I went to his stenographer and confronted her, and she acknowledged that 

 l_ 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 11 

she wrote the postscript on the letter herself. After Owen Woodruff had been dead for years a man whose name I will not mention because he repented of his sins, acknowledged that he performed that marriage. 

What do you think of such falsifiers talking about the leaders of the Church apostatizing and that they are the reformers? 

FAITH AND WORKS 

"What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? can faith 'save him? 

"If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, 

"And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? 

"Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. 

"Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works; show me thy faith without thy iworks, and I 'will show thee my faith by my works. 

"Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well, the devils also believe, and tremble. 

"But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead?" 

* * sfc 

"For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also." 

The Latter-day Saints are a people of great faith. But I regret exceedingly that there are many, among us who fail to ido the works of God. We fail to live up to the requirements of the Lord. I am sorry that there are scores and hundreds of people who are not living the Gospel as they should do and observing to be honest, conscientious tithepayers, observers of the Word of Wisdom, and who are not doing the other things that devolve upon us. Let us reform. Let us show our love of our fellows by keeping the commandments of God and setting an example before them that shall be worthy of imitation in all respect's. 

QUOTES FORMER SPEECH . 

I recall that on the first of June, twelve years ago — we had not been able to hold a conference immediately following the death of our beloved and revered President Joseph F. Smith in November, because of an epidemic of disease that existed — I was sustained to be the President of the Church, and I wish to quote a part of what I said at that time : 

"I feel humble beyond any language with which God has endowed me to express it, in standing here before you this morning occupying the position in which you have jjust voted to sustain me. I will ask no man to be more liberal with his means than I am with mine, in proportion to what he possesses, for the advancement of God's kingdom. I /will ask no man (to observe the Word of Wisdom any more closely than I will observe it. I will ask no iman to be more conscientious and prompt in the payment of his tithes and offerings than I will be. I will ask no man to be more ready and willing to come early and to go late, and to labor with full power of mind and body, than I will labor, always in humility. I hope and pray for the blessings of the Lord, acknowledging freely and frankly that without the Lord's blessing it will be an impossibility for me to make a success of the high calling whereunto I have been called. But like Nephi of old, I know that the Lord makes no requirements of the children of men, save he will prepare a way for them whereby they can accomplish the thing which he has required. [With this knowledge in my heart I accept the great responsibility without fear of the consequences, knowing that God will sustain ime as he has sustained all of my predecessors who have joccupied this position, provided always that I shall labor in humility and diligence, ever seeking the guidance of the IHoly Spirit; and this I shall endeavor to do." 

PLEDGE KEPT 

Twelve years have passed away. But I can honestly and conscientiously say to this large assembly that I have day by day, month by month, and year by year, lived up to that pledge which I made at that time. 

COUNSEL FROM THE LORD 

The Lord says: 

"Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto ypu. 

"Whatsoever ye ask the jFather in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you; 

"And if ye ask anything that is not expedient for you, it shall turn unto your condemnation." * * * 

"And as ye all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith." 

Again from the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"See that ye love one another; cease lo be covetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires.* 

"Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies land your minds may be invigorated. 

"And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace." 

NOT NECESSARY TO BE COMMANDED 

I would like to read you the whole of this section known as SectionFifty-eight, but I see that the time has practically expired, so I will read only a part of it. 

"For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all .things; for he that is compelled in all ithings, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward." 

I have met any number of people who have said the Word of Wisdom is not a command from the Lord, that it is not given 'by way of commandment. But the Word of Wisdom is the will of the Lord and the Lord says in the words that I have just read that it is not meet that we should be commanded in all things. If you love your neighbor as yourself, if you love 'God with all your heart, might, mind and strength, does he need to command? No. 

Listen to the following: 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness." 

Can you, by your own free will, accomplish righteousness in the world as well by failing to obey the will of the Lord as you can by  it? I say No. One of the best ways in all the world to bring to pass much righteousness is to set an example as a conscientious, Godfearing Latter-day Saint, observing all of the requirements of the Lord. 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. 

"But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with a doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned. ' 

"Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments? I 

"Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled? 

"I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing. 

"Then they say in their hearts : This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But wo unto such, for their reward lurketh beneath, and not from above." 

I commend the entire section for your perusal. 

GRATEFUL FOR KNOWLEDGE 

I rejoice beyond all the power that God has given me to express my feelings for the knowledge that God is directing the affairs of the Church of Christ. I rejoice beyond all the ability that I have to express my feelings that he has given me a knowledge of the divine mission of our Savior, the Redeemer of the world, the Son of the living God. I am happy beyond expression to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God and an instrument in the hands of God of restoring again to the earth the Gospel of Jesus Christ with the power and priesthood given to him by the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, who held that authority when they were here upon the earth. 

PRIESTHOOD PROPERLY EXERCISED 

I rejoice in knowing that the Lord through the inspiration of his Spirit has guided this people through all the changing scenes through which (we have had to go. I am thankful that even when the Prophet Joseph and others were in Liberty Jail one of the greatest of all the great revelations that have come to this people was given to him. I rejoice in knowing that all these charges of tyranny and oppression and of a dictatorial management of the Church are absolutely false. There is not a man of the General Authorities of the Church but' that desires to do — what? To exercise the priesthood exactly as the Lord says it should be exercised, and I will read the identical words. I really do not need to read them as I can repeat them from memory : 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, (by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile— 

- "Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love towards him whom thou hast reproved, lest he 1 esteem thee to be his enemy; ' 

"That he may loiow that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

"Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

"The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever." I 

The enemies of the prophet could imprison him, but' he had access to God Almighty and was inspired and blessed of him. 

May the Lord help every one of us who professes the name of Jesus Christ and testifies to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged to live it in honor, in virtue, in truth, is my prayer, that our example may proclaim by our works the truthfulness of it. I bear testimony before God to the divinity of this work, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER [SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I endorse fully and unequivocally, my brethren and sisters, every word that has been spoken by President Grant this morning. I sense the responsibility that rests upon me this morning in speaking to you, and trust that I may enjoy your confidence in that which I may say, that I may be led to speak those things that are true and helpful. 

EASTER CELEBRATION 

Throughout the Christian world, yesterday, today and tomorrow, the most important event in Christian history, and in the earth life of Him who is the source of Christianity, is being celebrated. That is the crucifixion and resurrection of the Savior. The Latter-day Saints are fully in accord with the spirit of this occasion. Not only that, but we understand also that this is, actually, the time of year when the Savior was born. We recognize that his life and teachings, and the doctrines which he declared, are divine. We accept him in every sense of the word as the Son of God. We realize that his atonement was necessary, that men might come unto salvation, receive forgiveness for the transgression of Adam, and be rescued from spiritual death, and have the opportunity of gaining salvation and exaltation in the presence of the Lord. 

RESURRECTION AND LIFE 

We acknowledge and believe fully in the resurrection from the dead— the literal resurrection of the body. The Savior was indeed the first fruits of the resurrection. Through him we also may be resurrected. The time of our resurrection will depend upon our works here, and upon our faith and action. I would like to speak for a moment in regard to the life of Christ. "Though he were a Son," we are told, "yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered: and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them  obey him." He passed through practically every experience that is possible for man to experience. He walked the path of humility. He said to the people: 

"Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. "Take my yoke upon you and learn of me; For I am meek and lowly in heart : and ye shall find rest unto your souls. "For my yoke is easy and my burden is light." 

POWER IN HUMILITY 

He taught them the spirit of humility, and exemplified the power therein. There is a vast' difference in meaning between humility and humiliation. Humiliation means shame. Humility does not mean lack of self-respect. It means strength and fortitude. It involves high moral courage. It leads to faith, trust in God, and to good works. It promotes gratitude. It overcomes vanity. It develops the strength to stand for right and truth. It involves clear thinking and sound judgment, because those who are humble are not likely to be misled by the trickeries of the world. It is evidenced by love of fellow-men. Humility manifests none of the elements of hypocrisy or self-righteousness. Remember the Savior's parable of the Pharisee and the publican. Humility is the opposite of highmindedness and pride. In it there is safety. Humility tends to keep people level-headed. Pride overbalances them. Pride tends to blind the eyes to the light and to close the heart against the truth. We are warned continually in the scriptures with regard to the dangers of pride, and advised of the benefits of humility. We have listened this morning to the testimony of President Grant, given at the time he accepted this position as the President of the Church, and of his pledge at that time to labor in humility and diligence for the welfare of this work. 

HUMILITY LEADS TO FAITH 

The very basis of this work is the spirit of humility, of striving to understand clearly the work of the Lord, and of righteous living. So when I say that humility leads to faith, I am sure that all of you who have had experience in the mission field realize that only those who are humble in their_ hearts are prepared to receive the truth and the light. Those who are proud have their hearts closed, their eyes blinded, and they are not willing to receive the Gospel. That of itself is evidence of the importance of so living in lowliness of heart that we can discern clearly between right and wrong. 

CONTRITENESS OF SPIRIT LEADS TO GOD 

Only those who are contrite in spirit can enter into the presence of God. As the prophet Isaiah declared: 

"For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy : I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones." 

16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The Savior illustrated this fundamental requirement when he placed a child in the midst of his disciples, saying : "Whosoever, therefore, shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven." On another occasion he declared : "Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted." So humility is a means of triumph, paradoxical as that may sound. But that triumph is not' of the nature sought by those who are proud at heart. 

HUMILITY A DIVINE GIFT 

A day or two ago I read a newspaper item which told the experience of an able and intelligent man, who in the pride of his heart, had committed a crime, and had been sent to prison. He had been in prison for some time, and he declared, in this newspaper statement, that he had finally found humility, and used this expression: "The gift of the gods is humility." Whatever his belief in a Divine Being may be, he expressed, at least, a true principle, that through humility we come to understanding, repentance, and peace of mind. 

i SPIRITUAL EFFECTS OF DEPRESSION 

The economic depression that we have suffered in the last year and a half has had a serious effect, not only upon the financial condition of the people of the world, but upon their spiritual attitude. Evidences are many that, as a result of this adversity, people are becoming more humble, are cultivating clearer thinking, and greater sanity. If the effect of these unfavorable economic conditions shall be to cause mankind generally to resist arrogance and to promote human welfare, then it will have proven a benefit in disguise to that extent at least. Surely, if there is anything that is necessary in the world today it is that spirit expressed by the prophet Micah : 

"He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" 

The tendency of the natural man is toward pride, highmindedness and covetousness, a.s, stated by the President this morning. The Spirit of the Lord, which should guide men, is the spirit of humility, of faith, of clear thinking, of courage, of sound judgment, and oi the desire for truth and light. History of nations evidences the extent of their progress as a result of their attitude, whether it has been that of pride and haughtiness, or whether it has been that of right living. 

PRIDE LEADS TO DESTRUCTION Humility is a state of mind, and not a condition, necessarily, of finances. It is too often true that people who gain financial prosperity are led away by pride of the heart and the desire for the things of this world. As I read history there has been no nation that has ever fallen because of prevailing humility among the people. But there are many instances of downfall due to pride. So long as nations have  a humble spirit they have been able to endure and to grow; but whenever they have become steeped in pride, they have been led to destruction. When Mary, who was to become the mother of the Savior, came to Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist, the latter was led to prophesy these words : 

"He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree." 

The wise man, Solomon, declared: 

"When pride cometh, then cometh shame : but with the lowly is wisdom. * * * 

"Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall. 

"Better is it to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide the spoil with the proud. * * * 

"Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honor is humility. * * *; 

"By humility and the fear of the Lord are riches and honor and life." 

DANGERS IN HIGH PLACES 

There is a tendency very often for men, when they are elected to positions in public office by the people, to consider that they possess some superior power as a result thereof. I arrj reminded of a statement made by former President Calvin Cooldige. He said : 

"It is difficult for men in high office to avoid the malady of self-delusion. They are always surrounded by worshippers. They are constantly, and for the most part sincerely, assured of their greatness. They live in an artificial atmosphere of adulation and exaltation, which sooner or later imperils their judgment. They are in grave danger of becoming careless and arrogant." 

Surely we should ourselves maintain, and we should influence not only all of the officers and members of this Church, but also, as far as possible, the people of this, the greatest nation upon the earth today, to cultivate and maintain a spirit of lowliness of heart, in the midst of prosperity. If the people of this country will but recognize the source of the blessings which they enjoy, realize that intelligence, judgment and ability are given them of God, and that they should use them for the welfare of mankind, and not solely for their own selfish aggrandizement, then this nation will continue to grow and prosper, and will be able to overcome the present unfavorable conditions. The result will be to promote greater equality among men, and finer consideration for one another. On the contrary, if the spirit of pride and vain ambition shall prevail throughout the country; then the future welfare and progress of this nation, or any rtation, under such conditions, will be seriously endangered.! 

With the increase of temporal prosperity among us as a people in common with the rest of the country generally during the past few years, the continuance of faith and devotion to the Gospel by some of those who have been successful in financial affairs is jeopardized. Not that wealth necessarily means loss of faith; but there is an unconscious tendency in the midst of success to supplant humility of spirit with high-mindedness. We tend to forget our obligations to the Lord, and our need to obey the divine commandments and to impart of our m#ans to build up his work. This tendency becomes evident not only among parents, but also, and particularly so, among the children through indulgence shown them, through the luxuries which they enjoy, and through lack of instruction and obedience to divine principles. What is the result under such conditions? It follows that those who give way to feelings of pride lose the spirit of the Gospel and forfeit their enjoyment of spiritual gifts which would lead them on to righteousness. The Church suffers through their neglect, but they suffer far more through the loss of their spiritual standards. 

INSTANCES OF POWER THROUGH HUMILITY 

If time would permit, there are many instances that could be cited of men in high places who have shown their strength by their humility. The truly great are possessed of humility of heart. The Savior is the most outstanding example. Lowly as a child, strong in courage, fearless in declaring the truth, determined to fulfil his responsible mission, confident of his position, acknowledged by discerning men for his capacity, he exemplified fully the power of humility. His apostles showed the same spirit. Notwithstanding they were endowed with power from on high, yet were they indeed the servants of the people. In these days, in the affairs of this nation, the two most outstanding characters, Washington and Lincoln, demonstrated this same spirit. In the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and every one of his successors, as well as the other Authorities of the Church generally, have been possessed of that spirit of humility in the midst of their great responsibilities. 

THE SPIRIT OF THE PRIESTHOOD 

We have heard from President Grant this morning the recital of a part of Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants with regard to the spirit to be exercised by those who bear the priesthood. Let me repeat a portion of it : 

"Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

"Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors' of men. * * * 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by (persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge." 

The spirit of the priesthood is indeed the spirit of humility, of faith, of courage, of diligence, of confidence, of determination, of persistence for the right and the truth, and of consideration for our fellow men. 

I desire that the Lord may help us all so to live as to maintain this spirit, that even though we may enjoy prosperity and success, we may recognize the fact that these things come to us through the blessings of the Lord and that we should impart of our metans for the cause of righteousness. If we have the spirit of humility we shall recognize the importance of giving of our means and our time for this cause, which 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 19 

makes for the welfare, the progress, and the salvation of mankind generally. 

May we (all strive continually "to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly" with the Lord, I earnestly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, this is a great gathering of the Latter-day Saints for religious instruction, and it is to be expected that we will here be taught the true principles of religion. Let me say that religion is a serious and solemn thing — serious for the reason that it involves the question of salvation, individual and general salvation, and this, I take it, is an extremely important matter. 

god's greatest gift 

The Lord spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith, upon one occasion — you will find it recorded in a revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 6, the thirteenth paragraph — these very impressive words : 

"If thou wilt do good, yea, and hold out faithful to the end, thou shalt be saved in the kingdom <of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation." 

So we see from this that salvation is something that is greatly to be desired. 

Permit me also, brethren and sisters, to quote a very significant passage from the Book of Mormon, namely : 

"Adam fell that men might be, and men are that they might have joy." 

WHAT SALVATION IS AND HOW OBTAINED 

I think that it is apparent to all that no man could have permanent joy without salvation. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, defined salvation, in brief, in the following comprehensive language: 

"Salvation is nothing more nor less than to triumph over all our enemies  and put them under our feet, and when we have power to put all enemies under our feet in this world, and a knowledge to triumph over all evil spirits in the world to come, then are we saved, as in the case of IJesus, who was to reign until he had put all enemies under his feet, death being the last enemy." 

It would seem, therefore, that knowledge is a vital factor in the matter of salvation, for every one who does not obtain knowledge sufficient to be saved, will be condemned. The principle of knowledge is given through Jesus Christ. It is impossible for a man to be saved ~ in ignorance. 1 

 Salvation comes to the children of men through the atonement  made by our Savior, (the Lord Jesus Christ, whose precious blood cleanses from all sin, and redeems and saves fallen man in the presence of God, always upon the condition of repentance and submission to the .will of God. 

THE REWARD OF THE FAITHFUL 

The will of God is set forth in great simplicity, clearness and power in the standard works of the Church, the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. 

Speaking of those who attain to the highest rewards in the kingdom of heaven, the Lord said, in a revelation given to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and Sidney Rigdon, dated February 16th, 1832, that which follows : 

"And again, we bear record — for we saw and heard, and this is the testimony of the gospel of Christ, concerning them who shall come forth in the resurrection of the just— 

"They are they who received the testimony of Jesus, and believed on his name and were baptized after the manner of 'his burial, being buried in the water in his name, and this according to the commandment which he has given — I ,; ' 

"That by keeping the commandments they might be washed and cleansed from all their sins, and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on of the hands of him who is ordained and sealed unto this power. 

"And who overcome by faith, and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which the Father sheds forth upon all those who are just and true. 

"They are they who are the church of the first born" — or in other words, the Church of Jesus Christ, for he was the first born: 

"They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things — 

"They are they (who are priests and kings, who have received of his fulness, and of his glory." 

These words correspond, in spirit and doctrine, with the teachings of the Savior and his apostles in the meridian of time. It would be well if the Latter-day Saints would give heed to these words, and it would be well if the world at large, the children of men generally, would give strict heed to these words, because in rendering obedience to the will of God they will find salvation. 

TESTIMONY 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, solemnly, that I do know that this is the true Church of God; that Jesus was the Christ; that Joseph Smith was his prophet; and that it was given to Joseph Smith to stand at the head of this last dispensation, the dispensation of the fulness of times. I testify to you that whatever authority of God is resting down upon this people, has come to them and to us from the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Hence I do certainly revere his memory, and I regard him as a great man and a greatprophet. We know — at least, we believe with all our souls — that Joseph Smith now mingles with the Gods in the spirit world, and, with his brethren there, is planning for the salvation of the people. 

This is the testimony I bear in all humility, and I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles . 

The burden of my thought today is that of gratitude. My heart is mellowed and deeply touched by the great blessings which I enjoy. 

GRATITUDE FOR BLESSINGS 

I am thankful for the privilege which I now have to be once again in the councils of my brethren; to be associated in general conference with the Church; to stand where I can look into the faces of men whom I have come to love and honor and respect. I cannot contemplate my membership in the Church, the testimony of the divine authenticity of the work in which we are engaged, the high privileges which have come to me, to labor in the advancement of the great cause, these blessed associations with my brethren in the priesthood, without rendering to God, my Father, the gratitude and thanks of my heart. 

I am grateful for the kindness which on every hand I have met, at the hands of my brethren and my sisters. God has been good to me, and I now thank you, my brethren in the holy priesthood and my sisters in the Church, for your kindness and consideration. 

JOY THAT PASSES UNDERSTANDING ,1 

I am glad once again to be able to engage in the activities of the Church. I want to let my voice be heard in proclamation of the holy Gospel. I want to bear my testimony to all mankind that God's work is established, and that, within the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are to be found the principles of eternal life, the satisfactions that are enduring and the joy that passes understanding. 

I have had some time for contemplation and reflection. I have had opportunity of introspection and the analysis of my thoughts and feelings, and I have definitely reached the conclusion that there is no happiness for me except in the philosophy and high conceptions which the Gospel of Christ brings^ to me. I enjoy the pleasant things of life. I enjoy and appreciate the beauty of the earth and that which it provides; but I prize above all these a contentment of mind, a peace of heart, brought to me in my testimony of the truth. I know that God lives. I know that my pod is my Father — more than a mere principle; more than an irresistible, dominating force in nature.. He is my eternal parent. Il am his child. My spirit was begotten of him. I know that the Savior of this world is the jSon of the living God. His existence is a reality to me. The example and the teachings of his earthly life constitute the ideals to which I aspire. I ask for no higher nor more comprehensive philosophy. 

THE INSPIRED OF GOD, 

I know that the Prophet Joseph Smith was divinely called. I know that his mission in life was to restore the everlasting Gospel, and I believe in the revelations which God, in his mercy, gave to the Church and to mankind, through him. I honor the name of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I feel that no greater and higher honor could come to me than to win some day, when my ministry shall have been completed, his approval for my labors, because I look upon him as the earthly head of the kingdom, the beginner of it, the inspired of God, to receive the initial revelations for the restoration of the Gospel. I prize my knowledge of him, as 1 prize my knowledge of the very Lord of the universe. And all the men who in proper order have succeeded him are prophets of the living God. Their place in the kingdom has been won and established. 

It is so with our present prophet, standing at the head of the Church today. We honor and respect and love him for his devotion to the work of God, and for his integrity, his absolute integrity to the Lord, to the work, to the people, and to the world. I cannot understand how the word of Heber J. Grant can be questioned by any living person who knows his life and his record. No more honest, aggressively honest man have I ever known, and our confidence in his word and in his honor should be supreme. 

CONSIDERATION FOR ONE ANOTHER 

I am grateful for the kindness that the Gospel of Jesus Christ brings. All the words of our Savior are kind and considerate. The very plan of life and salvation is of the essence of charity and kindness and love. There is no compulsion, and one of the most grievous errors, in my judgment, into which the creeds and sects of religion have almost universally fallen is that of dogmatism, and such rigorous ritual as to deprive their proponents of these elements of kindness, and mercy, and tolerance, and consideration. Every man is an individual. He is entitled to be treated as a separate entity. Into his human tabernacle has come an individual intelligence of eternal life and duration, and I can conceive of no higher principle, no more salutary conception than that of the recognition of the individual differences of men and of women. Of these the Gospel, when properly understood and interpreted, takes note, and every man, in his place and circumstances, is given adequate and individual consideration. We are not all expected to be cast in one mould. We are as different in our thoughts and thinking, in our capacities and abilities, in our receptiveness, as we are in appearance. But the Gospel makes allowance for all of these. It gives to each one the opportunity of activity as his capacities and abilities may warrant, and it brings to each one a tolerance and compassion commensurate with the weaknesses and frailties of each individual. 

THE FRUITION OF GOD'S PURPOSES 

We are not perfect. We make no such pretensions, but we" are striving to do good. We are striving for betterment and progression, and we are offering to the world the most progressive of all the philosophies and programs which have been offered for the advancement and improvement of individuals, as well as nations and groups. 

I believe that God is blessing this great work. I believe that faster, perhaps, than we know, there is being brought to fruition the great purposes which he has announced for the human race. I see on every hand the evidences and the testimonies which we are told are to follow the testimonies of his chosen witnesses. We do not know how soon the ultimate consummation of his work will be effected, but we do iknow that we are moving forward, and it is ever my hope that all of us may be in the line of progress, that our service may ever be at the disposal of those who preside over us, and of the great cause. |I feel that as every man gives his best to this high endeavor, he will grow in stature; he will grow in goodness; he will grow in love of God and love of the work. 

I desire to give my best. I desire to unite with you in an effort to preach the true conception of the Christian doctrine. I desire to serve my God to the best of my meager ability. And now I praise his holy name for his great and glorious work, for these high conceptions that he has given to us to feed our very souls, to enliven us with love and reverence and worship, and the desire for goodness. 

THE SUPREME CHARITY 

I apprehend that the adversary of truth is at work in the world. I believe that he is touching and influencing the lives of many men, and that their conduct is inimical to the progress of our work, and yet I almost hesitate to call them enemies. After all, mankind are of one great brotherhood, some weaker than others, and it would seem some are vicious and malicious, and intentionally do great harm. Thank God I am not the judge of my brother and my sister. I am persuaded sometimes to believe with him who says that the supreme charity in all this world is to judge not, but to leave the judgment of our fellow men in the hands of him who is the great and just judge of all. As I desire mercy for myself, I plead for mercy for all mankind. "God forgive them. They know not what they do." 

I pray that the spirit of love and tolerance and mercy, which the Gospel brings, may ever abide in our hearts, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The hymn, "Redeemer of Israel," was sung by the congregation. The closing prayer was offered by Elder Anthon E. Anderson, President of the Logan Stake. 


