Morning 
05 04 1931

Conference reconvened Sunday morning, April 5th, at 10 o'clock, President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The Tabernacle was crowded to capacity, every seat in the great auditorium and galleries being Itaken and every available space in the doorways and aisles being occupied. Thousands who could not find accommodations in the Tabernacle assembled in the large Asssembly Hall and on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened by means of the radio to the Conference services. 

The Tabernacle Choir and the congregation sang the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet."   

Elder J. Emmett Bird, President of the Kolob Stake, offered the invocation. 

The Choir sang the anthem, "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy." 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

I do not remember an occasion, my brethren and sisters, when it appeared to me that a greater number of members of the Church were present than are here this morning. I feel humble and grateful that I am permitted to be here with you, recognized with you, a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

It is a beautiful morning. The sun shines brightly without. As I walked through the grounds I noticed that the buds on the trees are beginning to burst, to put on their new summer clothing, and awake to newness of life. 

Then, when I look at these Easter lilies, with their purity of color, I remember that this is the day when Christian people throughout the world commemorate the resurrection of Christ, our Lord. It seems appropriate that it should come on such a day, that the occasion should come when the earth is awakening from its long winter sleep, its frozen condition, to new life and new energy. 

EASTER 

The word "Easter" is derived, according to a note which I have here, from the Anglo-Saxon word "Eostra," who is the mythical goddess of spring. Prior to the seventh century A. D., no uniform date had been fixed upon which this event, the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, was commemorated. I find that Rome observed the 26th of March; that Gaul observed the 21st of March; Italy the 18th of April; while Christians of Egypt observed April 27th, as the day on which the tomb of the Redeemer of the world was opened, and he came forth with his resurrected body. Regardless of the date, whether it be upon April 5th, as we commemorate it today, or upon any other day which might be designated, it does bring to our memory, and we commemorate it as one of the greatest — perhaps I might be justified in saying the greatest event that has occurred in the history of the world. 

It is true that the creation of man, and the placing of him here upon earth by God, our Father, was the beginning of all things as they now pertain to us; but if the decree of death which was pronounced upon our first parents, and which has been the heritage of man from that time until the present, had been definite and perpetual, if no means of redemption from it had been provided, the purpose of God our Father in placing us here would have been, to a great degree at least, futile. 

A REDEEMER PROMISED 

He promised, in the beginning, that he would provide a Redeemer; that the penalty of death, which was pronounced upon humankind, because of transgression, should not be eternal, but that at a time, designated as the meridian of time, he would send to earth his Only Begotten Son, through whom the bonds of death were to be broken and the restoration of the spirit and body of man became an accomplished fact, when mortality would be no longer a burden to us, but when with glorified bodies we should stand in the presence of God, our Father. 

I am just quoting in a general way, because of the limited time, the facts as they are to be found in holy writ. The Bible tells the story very definitely and understandingly to those who read. That the Israel.itish people, from whom we are descendants, looked forward to a time when a Redeemer would be provided, is a well-established fact. Israel had been reduced to a condition of servitude. The independence of Judea had passed into other hands. Rome dominated, and the Jews were tributary to her. Their prophets looked forward to the day when deliverance would come. They expected one to come to sit upon David's throne. They looked for a deliverer, a redeemer, who would come surrounded by the panoply of war, and restore to Israel the kingdom which had been wrested from them. The advent of Christ, the humility of his birth, the simplicity of his life, did not appeal to them. 

"he who was to come" 

When he was baptized in the River Jordan, John, who administered the ordinance, bore witness that he was the Son of God. John had preached repentance and baptism; bore witness to the world that one would come after him, the latchet of whose shoes he was not worthy to unloose. And yet it is evident that John himself was not certain, because while in jail at the decree of Herod, the king, he sent messengers to our Lord, with this question : Go and ask him if he is really he who was to come, or, are we to look for another. Christ answered them and said : Go back and (tell to John that which you have seen. The blind see. The deaf hear. The sick are healed. The poor have the gospel preached to them. Let the mind of John revert to the words of the prophets, who had long "before declared that he should come in humility, and not in the glory of the world. 

Christ, our Lord, came to earth first, to break the bands of death, and make the resurrection from the dead an established fact. He came to teach us the story of human life, for he lived it, as we should live it. He came to teach us the source from which we came, and to which we shall return. 

THE WITNESS HE BORE 

He bore definite witness that he came from the presence of the Father, as we come from the presence of the Father. He bore definite witness that he returned to the Father; that he went to sit upon his right hand, as it would be the privilege of all of those who accepted and followed him to sit upon his right hand. He bore witness to us that whoever had seen him had seen the Father; that the glory of the Father was not only manifest in his ministry and the doctrines which he taught, but that he was in the exact image of his person. When men said to him : "Show us the Father," did he not answer : Is it possible that you have been with me so long, and ask this question? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father — thus establishing the divinity of the declaration made in the book of Genesis : 

"God created man in his own image; in the image of God created he him; male and female, created he them." 

KING THOUGH HE WAS 

He taught us the doctrine of humility. King though he was, he rode into Jerusalem upon the colt of an ass — not in a chariot, not with military attendants, not with the blare of trumpets and the beating of drums, but under the most humble circumstances that the human mind can well conceive. 

He was born into the world as we are born into it, the son of a righteous, God-chosen mother. He lived very much as we live. He grew up as we grow up, except for the manifestation of his wisdom and godly calling which characterized even his childhood, his youth. He died very much as we would have died, subjected to the same conditions. 

It appeared, after all, that the end had come. He had taught the doctrine of the resurrection from the dead, but his disciples did not fully understand, and when they saw him give up the ghost, and laid His body away in the sepulcher prepared by his devoted friend, Joseph of Arimathea, who is said to have been the uncle of Mary, his mother, it appeared to them that the end had come. And they said : After all, there is nothing to it. I am going back to my fishery. I shall go back to my life as a publican. I shall pursue the avocation that I pursued before I knew him. 

HE WAS NOT THERE 

But when the good women came up that Sunday morning which we commemorate today, not expecting to find his sepulcher empty, but expecting to administer to him the last rites which it was customary among the Hebrew people to administer to the dead, he was not there. An angel of the Lord was there. The great stone which Pilate had ordered to be placed before the opening of the sepulcher, and sealed with a Roman signet, had been rolled aside. The body of their Lord was gone. The linen cloths were there, in which his head had been bound. The angel asked them why they sought the living among the dead. 

You are all familiar, you who read the scripture, with the story of his glorious resurrection. You all know that his disciples could not believe it when word was taken to them that he had been raised from the dead. To them it appeared to be an impossibility. While they were met together, with the doors closed, and he appeared before them, they looked upon him in wonder and some doubted. Thomas said : I will not believe until I see the marks of the nails in his hands and feet, and the wound |pf the [Roman sspear-thrust in his side. And he did see them. Then he bowed down and worshipped him as his Lord and God, just as we worship him today. 

He taught us the doctrine of forgiveness. He said to the sinful woman when her own people would have stoned her to death : "Go thy way and sin no more." Among his last words he said, of those who . were responsible for his death: "Father, forgive them. They know not what they do." 

HE LIVED AGAIN 

He lived again. It was after his resurrection that he authorized his disciples to go into the world and preach his gospel, and promised them that the signs should follow — not during his mortal life had he given them such general authority. 

The Bible bears witness that not only the body of Christ arose from the grave, but that many of the graves were opened, and people, with their resurrected bodies, went forth into the great city, and appeared unto many. 

He appeared after, with his glorified body, to the inhabitants of our own continent. They saw him. They heard his voice. He taught them the same doctrines that he taught to his people in the promised land, or in Jerusalem. So we know that he lived again. 

My brethren and sisters, this is the great lesson that he teaches us: This is what I have endeavored, in few words, to present to you: Just as Christ lived and died and was resurrected from the dead, so do we live and die, and so are we resurrected from the dead, or else there is no truth in the revealed will of ithe Lord as it is written in the holy scripture. 

IT WAS A REVELATION 

. I admonish you all to read the last book of the Bible, the revelation given to St. John. We call it the Apocalypse. Reflect for a moment on the manner in which it came. John tells us that it was a revelation of Jesus Christ, our Lord; that he sent and communicated it to him through the agency of an angel— he did not go himself; and then the wonderful revelations which are made regarding the earth and its inhabitants, the future which is before us, were delivered by this personage to John, the divine disciple of Christ our Lord, who had been banished to the isle of Patmos by decree of the Roman governor. 

And what did he tell John? John says: He showed me these things. I saw that the graves were opened; and the dead came forth, that small, and great arose from them; that they appeared before God to be judged according to the things which are written in the books, according to their works. All men, he declared, are to be the beneficiaries of the redemption wrought out by Christ, our Lord. The sea gave up the dead which were in it. The graves were opened, and the dead came forth, and death and hell gave up the dead that were in them. They came to judgment, every man and woman according to the works done while they were in mortality, as we are in mortality now. Revealing to us definitely the obligation that we are under to God, our Father, to live righteous lives, to accomplish good purposes, to fulfil the mission for which we have been sent to earth, in a manner that will be pleasing to God our Father, and justified when the balance sheet is struck. 

"no more death" 

And then what else did John tell us? — I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the old heaven and the old earth had passed away. And there was no more death, neither weeping nor sorrow, for all of those things had been done away. 

Does this bring a degree of resignation to us? Does it bring happiness to us in time of trouble and sorrow? What does it all mean? It means that every wife who has stood at the bier of her husband, whom death has called, has hope that the separation is only temporary. It means that every husband who has laid away his wife has that same hope, if he understands. It means that mothers who have mourned the loss of children, relatives who have mourned the loss of friends that have been separated from them by death, have joy and consolation in the knowledge, the definite knowledge which has come to us, that there will be restoration from death in the life to come. 

It is a wonderful thing to me. I glory in it. So I bear witness to this large congregation of people that we are redeemed from this change from mortality to immortality, which we call death, through the redemption wrought out by Christ our Lord. He is our Redeemer. He is our Savior and if we are true to him, we will be entitled to sit upon his right hand in the mansions of God our Father, when our mortal lives are ended. Every covenant, every promise made to men and women upon earth, which is sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, will go with us into the life to come. 

A MAN OF SORROW 

Who was this man that made all of this possible? He was not a man of wealth. He was not a man of great national notoriety. He had no home to call his own. He had no place to lay his head. He was not a man who sought the praise of the world, not one to magnify himself to the exclusion of others; but one who, while in reality a king, was not a king as we interpret that word to mean in human life. He washed the feet of his humble followers. He was not well known in Jerusalem, where he ministered; it was necessary that someone point him out that the officers of the law might know who this man was that was making such great disturbance. A man of humility! A man of sorrow! It is said of him that no one ever heard him laugh, but many people saw him weep, weep because of the sins of the world, weep because of his love for an unbelieving people, his own people, to whom he came but who rejected him as a malefactor and an imposter. 

THE EARTH IS HAPPY 

My brethren and sisters, these are things which these Easter lilies have brought to my mind. These are things which this springtime day recalls. How like our own lives! How like mortality is the earth itself! Winter time comes. The earth appears to die. Ice and snow enfold it. Should it continue so, the earth would not be habitable. It would become like the frozen country to the south of us which Byrd has so recently explored, devoid of vegetation, devoid of life, bleak, hopeless, uninhabitable. But the Lord has so provided that the sun comes back to us, or the earth moves back to the sun, the winter snows and ice are melted, and springtime comes. These trees, barren now of leaves, shoot out their buds, and put on their summer garments. The birds sing again. The earth is happy. So do I see our own lives illustrated in these things of mortality with which we are surrounded. God help us all to appreciate them. God help us all to understand that the resurrection from the dead is a reality, not a mythical thing, but a reality; and that it may apply to us all, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

Secpnd Counselor in the First Presidency 

It is a great responsibility, my brethren and sisters, to stand before a congregation like this, and I feel the need of your faith, your sympathy and your prayers, for of myself I am not able to enlighten your minds; but if the Lord will favor us, and will favor me with the power of his Spirit, then by that power the mind is enlightened. 

I bear witness to the truth of that which has been delivered by President Ivins. iWe believe literally and truly in the resurrection from the dead. It is taught in our books of scripture — the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, as well as the Bible. So we have good ground for our belief with respect to that. 

ON STRANGE TIMES 

The world has fallen on strange times. The times are out of joint. Troubles have been ere now, and many of them, in the history of the world. But history gives us no example of anything like the world-wide troublesome conditions that prevail at this very day. There is perplexity of nations. And it is in fulfilment of the word of the Lord. The Elders of this Church for a hundred years have been preaching this Gospel, from the Bible, from the Book of Mormon, from the revelations given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and proclaiming that the time of the end is nigh at hand, that the Savior of the world, our Redeemer, would come again, and that the time of his coming was nigh. 

AS A YOUNG MISSIONARY 

I myself, sixty-two years ago this summer, went from this city as a young missionary, twenty years of age, to proclaim this very doctrine, bearing witness that the Book of Mormon was true, and that Joseph Smith was in very deed a prophet, raised up to warn the world in this last dispensation — the dispensation of the fulness of times. Of course many times we were not listened to, even with tolerance. Wte were ridiculed, decried; contumely heaped upon us. Nevertheless, the Elders persevered, knowing of a certainty that what they went forth to preach was true, was revealed from heaven. They were converted by the same spirit that Peter said converted the Apostles. The Savior asked the Apostles : 

"Whom do men say that I the Son of man am? 

"And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist; some Elias; and others Jeremias, or one of the prophets. 

"He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? 

"And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. 

"And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. 

"And I say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock will I build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." 

What rock? The rock of revelation. And by the spirit and power of revelation, the spirit and power of the Holy Ghost, the Lord has made us to know and understand in this day that this is indeed and of a truth the work of the Lord. 

TROUBLE AND DISTRESS 

This nation of ours, which is the best in the world, the freest, the most choice land upon all the earth, so we are told in the Book of Mormon — "a land choice above all other lands" — is going through a series of troubles. All is not well with us by a long way. I don't think we are as badly off in these mountain valleys as they are in many other parts of the United States. I think there is a little more of a feeling of safety right here than I can find anywhere else in the country. At least I feel it so, and I believe many others do. 

IN EFFECT AN INCREASE 

Certainly a very large proportion of our community have been kept steadily at work and their wages have not been reduced. Among these could be mentioned all of the. federal employes in the state, including all postofhce employes and mail carriers. And there has been a considerable proportion of our people employed by the state, by the different counties, and by the different municipalities. Also a very large number of school teachers throughout the state, and employes in hundreds of different companies, large and small, have remained unchanged. And the same with all Church employes in offices, schools and temples. 

All these taken together would probably amount to one hundred thousand men and women drawing the same salaries that they were paid in 1928-1929. Now the government's bulletin states that prices are thirty-two per cent lower than they were in 1928. That means then that these people, instead of having their wages reduced, have had in effect an increase of wages of thirty per cent or better. So taken all together Utah is not in such a bad fix, after all. 

But the country as a whole is going through a period of trouble and distress. 

"after your testimony" 

As I have told you, we young Elders preached that this was the dispensation of the fulness of times — the last dispensation; that there would be no other following this dispensation of the Gospel. The Lord has given notice that these are the last times, and the people must be warned. "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature," and so forth. We have been trying to do that faithfully. 

Among other things, in warning the people, we have quoted — many of our Elders have done — from the eighty-eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with the eighty-eighth verse : 

"And after your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people. 

"For after your testimony cometh the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground and shall not be able to stand. 

"And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds. 

"And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people." 

These are among the warnings that were given and have been given with the preaching of the Gospel. I myself have felt : "O, well, it is true; I know it will come to pass; but it will not come in my time; I am not likely to be troubled with it." Well, the last few weeks, the last few months, the last year, the world has witnessed what it has never witnessed before in its history. So many of these calamities that this revelation calls our attention to have come upon the children of men, and fear begins to enter into the hearts of the people. 

I do not think it is a good thing to frighten people. I don't preach this doctrine in this way. I only call attention to these truths, for they are true — these prophecies are true. More and more will these things occur in our history, as time goes on. For the Lord's work will be accomplished, and he will accomplish it in his own way. 

A FAMINE IN THE LAND 

Meanwhile it is our work to build up the Church and kingdom of God, to preach the Gospel. I said last evening in the priesthood meeting: "What a dearth there is for missionaries to preach this Gospel!" Do you know there is a famine in the land, you elders of Israel, bishops, presidents? Positively there is a famine in the land, "not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord." You presidents of missions and others testify of it. People are hungering for the word of God. A perfect famine exists, and this Church is the agency by fwhich that can be supplied, and the only agency in all the world that can supply it. We are somewhat derelict in our duty in respect to this matter. There is no use mincing words, brethren and sisters. You sisters can do much to encourage the brethren, and you do. ' I think you are better than the men are, more faithful. The splendid work that these sisters do in the Relief Society, Sister Robison and her helpers, Sister jFox and her helpers, Sister Anderson and hers — the great work they are doing in helping along these matters is worthy of all praise. And sisters, you can say to your husbands, your brothers, your sons : "We can spare a missionary. We can sacrifice that much for the Church." 

SACRIFICE AND SAVING 

I have begun to think lately that there is not a sufficient spirit of sacrifice among us. There are two things that we have lost lately — sacrifice and saving. We don't know how to save a dollar now, to put away a dollar for a rainy day. Not one family in a dozen thinks of it. They will tell you : "Oh, we don't have enough to live on as it is." The wife or the daughter will say : "Why we haven't any money to spare. I haven't had a new dress for so and so, and so and so." 

Senator Smoot told us the other day that of all the nations of the earth the one that suffered the most in blood and treasure in the late war — France — is the most prosperous nation in all the world today. And why are they prosperous ? I will tell you in two words : they work and save. We won't be prosperous, and no other people will be prosperous, only upon those conditions. We have lost the idea of saving. I know many families, in fact most that I do know — their children see more picture shows in a month than I ever saw — well of course we did not have picture shows in my day. They have money to spend to fill these , picture shows. I do when I am dragged into one by some of my children and I try to laugh and enjoy it, and sometimes do get a laugh out of it. But, oh, there is so much trash in it all. And yet these places are full every day. They are full today you will find if any of you should go there. I hope you won't go and spend your money so foolishly. But we fill these picture houses. If you were to say to the mother of those children that must see everything that comes to town: "Why not practice a little self-denial and have these children do without a picture show. Save that money and put their names on the tithing record," she would very likely reply, "Oh heavens, would you want to stop the children from going to a picture show, a little thing like that?" So I repeat, we have lost the forcefulness of these two words— sacrifice and saving. ' WORTH EVERYTHING 

I believe with all my heart that this Gospel of ours, this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, this priesthood of the Son of God that has been conferred upon us is worth everything. I ought to be ready to sacrifice everything for it. I covenant in my prayers time and time again to "dedicate all unto thee." Yet the words are meaningless, if I am not ready to say : "I will go on a mission; glad to go; glad to sacrifice for the work." The children wouldn't be able to see so many picture shows, but they will be just as good children, let me tell you, just as able, and I believe more so, because a lot of what we call education is not very good education. I would rather have faith implanted into the hearts of children, faith in this work, a true testimony of the Gospel, than mere intellectuality. Do not misunderstand me. I am in favor of education. I believe in it. ' If there is any people in the world who have proved they are in favor of education the Latter-day Saints have proved it by the millions of dollars that we have poured out for education. I wish we had educated men with degrees everywhere — if only they would retain their faith as they get their degrees. For this faith is worth more than degrees. That is the point I would like to send home. 

"give us faith" 

Oh God, increase our faith, and give us faith enough, power enough that we may be able to sacrifice, and in order to make the sacrifice that we will save dollar by dollar first and then be ready and willing to say : "Here it is. I am going to spend it for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God." 

There is a famine in the land, again I say, not for bread, but for the word of God, and the responsibility, my brother, my sister, rests on you and me and all of us to supply this want, this extreme need. 

That the Lord will give us faith and persistence and courage; that he will stay the powers of evil from us; that we may be kept as in the hollow of his hand; that all things may be overruled for the good of them who serve him and keep his commandments, is my most humble and earnest prayer. 

God 'bless you, my brethren and sisters. You are the best there are, after all is said and done. You are the salt of the earth, because you and your fathers and mothers have sacrificed. They knew what the word meant and they ifollowed it, and they lived through it. My parents did, far more than I have had to do, but they did it, and that is why I am here, because of their help and their example. 

Now, derelict as we may be in some things, we are the chosen of the Lord. You bishops and counselors, you presidents of stakes, presidents of missions, great responsibilities rest upon you. You are called of God, brethren, and sisters likewise, called in the same way, by the same power. Let us honor that call. Let us be faithful. Let us resolve anew, here and now, that we will, God helping us, keep his commandments. And we will sacrifice, and we will save our means, and be prudent and frugal and wise in all things. I humbly pray that his blessings may be with us to this end, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder iMelvin J. Ballard sang a solo, "I Know That My Redeemer Lives," the Choir and congregation singing the chorus. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We are favored today by having with us Dr. H. E. Barnard, of Washington, D. C, Director of the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection. We will ask him to please come to the stand and address us. , - . , 

DR. H. E. BARNARD 

Director of the Wihite House Conference on Child Health and Protection 

Oh, how I wish every father and mother, every lover of children in this great country of ours, could be here with us this morning, to sit, as I have been sitting, and receive the inspiration given you in your great Church, from your leaders; to hear this wonderful music swelling out from this great Tabernacle! I am sure they would all realize, as I realize, that our children are in good hands, and that the citizens of tomorrow will be finer citizens even than the citizens of today. 

I speak to you as a messenger from Washington, representing the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection. How fortunate it is that this conference, called by the Governor of Utah, will be held in_this city immediately following this great conference of your Church. Certainly there has never been a time more opportune to hope for the children of the future everything which is guaranteed to them by the Children's Charter, adopted at the close of the White House Conference in Washington last November. 

May I read to you the first paragraph of that great Charter, because I know every member of your Church, and every citizen of the country, wishes for every child spiritual and moral training to help him to stand firm under the pressure of life: 

"For every child understanding, and the guarding of his personality as his most precious right; and for every child a home, and that love and security which a home provides." 

May I, speaking for the twelve hundred members of the White House Conference, who have labored for a long time to bring together facts on which we can build a finer world for our children, bring you my grateful thanks for the , opportunity you have given me to stand before you this morning. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles and President of the European Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters, I must confess that during- the last few years I have thought with longing of you and these great assemblies, when the time of the General Conferences has arrived. The opportunity to mingle with you now, and to feel of your spirit, and this day to declare with you my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, fills my heart with gratitude. 

THE SAME SPIRIT AND PURPOSE 

I am grateful for the testimony of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which has been given me — the greatest gift that I possess. I rejoice this day that the spirit which I have felt in these gatherings yesterday and today is quite the same spirit as that which I have felt in the small gatherings in the various European countries. The Latterday Saints who live the Gospel of Jesus Christ speak and hear by the same spirit. They understand one another by that same spirit. This is one great church, whether in Salt Lake City or in the far distant branches of the missions, one people, with one understanding, with one purpose, with one holy desire to please the Almighty Father. 

I think I am safe in saying that the work of the Lord is going forward satisfactorily in the European missions. Never before, because Of the new inventions and discoveries for the dissemination of truth, has the testimony of the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ been so widely spattered, and made to reach so many people, as at this time. 

GREETINGS FROM THE EUROPEAN MISSIONS 

I bring you greetings from the faithful, devoted, intelligent mission presidents who have charge of the affairs of the European missions. They and their wives are doing splendid work. Your sons are safe in their hands. 

I bring you greetings from the Elders themselves, young men, but desirous of doing their work with all their might, and accomplishing a wonderful work, through the assistance of their Father in heaven. 

And I bring you in particular greetings from the membership of the Church in the European lands, a body of faithful men and women, loving the Gospel just as we love it here; ready to sacrifice and to save, if they can, as President Nibley has suggested; ready to do whatever may be demanded of them, insofar as their strength permits. They live in the outposts of Zion, but they are ready and willing to labor there, and to help maintain and retain those outposts until such time as in the providences of the Lord we may have larger units of the Church, teven in those far-distant countries. 

A NEW DAY 

Opposition and oppression have very largely vanished from  our work in the European lands. A new day has dawned, and it seems to us, who labor there, that if the Lord will only bless our efforts it may be possible, in the near future, to bring a convincing message of the truth of this work to the hearts of thousands in those lands who are honest in heart. 

SPIRITUAL INDIFFERENCE 

We have many difficulties; there is no question about that; there are difficulties on every hand; the greatest difficulty, perhaps, that we have to contend with is the spiritual or religious indifference of the present day. It is an indifference which seems to cover the earth everywhere. It takes the form of a resentment or revulsion against organized religion — not so much a contempt for religion itself, for the principles of it, but rather a contempt or near-contempt for the organized forms of religion, for the churches themselves. Every man seems to be willing to do as best he can under the law, to live a wholesome and a proper life, but unwilling to conform to the regulations and practices of any church. 

It is commonly said throughout the world that there is no need of a church today. In pondering upon this subject the thought has come to me and has lingered with me, that perhaps this rebuke of organized religion is a rebuke to the fundamental conception of religion as taught in the world today. 

MAN-MADE GODS 

Out of the thunderings of Sinai came the word of the Lord. The first commandment wa|S : "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." Throughout the long ages after that command was given, men gradually forsook their graven images, their worship of stock and stone, and gradually Jehovah, the God of Israel, became the God of many, or perhaps most of the foremost people of the world. Gradually the simple conception of God as the father of humanity prevailed, or began to prevail upon the earth. Then, after the days of Jesu,s, when men (should have known better, when the Christ, and God through him, had been revealed, men again departed from the truth, and made unto themselves gods, this time in an immaterial realm, but man-made just as truly as the man-made gods of wood and stone and iron of earlier ages. 

I believe that the spiritual resentment in the world today has resulted from the idolatry which still lingers upon the earth, the attempt to force men to worship a God that is man-made, an incomprehensible God, an essence, one who is so far from us in understanding that men cannot bow down before him a,s they should, and pray to him as a child should pray to his father. 

THE TRUE GOD 

The Latter-day Saints are able to answer this great need of humanity and to define God properly. In the mission field, whether in Europe or elsewhere, it is the greatest message that the Church has to  to the world today — the true definition and the true conception of God our Father, the maker of the heavens and the earth. He as a personage who is literally our father in a pre-existent state, to whom we can speak as sons or daughters speak to their father; with whom they can take counsel and be' intimate; a God to whom we may express our inmost desires, and from whom we may expect answers from time to time to satisfy our hearts' inmost desires. 

. I pray in my heart and by word of mouth that the true conception and knowledge of the Father of us all, may, through our agency, be spread abroad among the nations, to make happy the many thousands, tens of thousands and millions of honest souls who today are lost in a modern type of idolatrous worship. It is perhaps a strong word to use, but a thought or conception may be as man-made as is a material thing. 

IWe find, as we travel about in the European missions, that men respond to a correct doctrine concerning divinity. They are eager to learn the truth about their Maker. When the superstitions of the past and the crust, of misunderstanding and false teaching are broken through, then men and women rejoice in the new understanding of man's relationship to the Maker of us all. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S FIRST VISION 

I rejoice in the glorious first vision given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the greatest of the visions and teachings of these latter days. On that occasion God himself and his Son Jesus Christ stood before the boy, kneeling in humble, earnest prayer, in the little grove in New York State. Joseph then held converse with God. In humility and simplicity he dared to state his heart's need, and God spoke to him, and commissioned his Son to speak yet further to him, so that the lad might understand and might be prepared for the great work for which he had been chosen before the foundations of the earth were laid. 

This is a glorious gift of these latter days, and we must stand upon it firmly, without yielding. We must teach forever and to all people the truth of the fatherhood of God, of the sonship of man, of the eternal relationship of God and man. Then we shall be blessed, and God will look down upon us in mercy and give us strength to do the things that we are required to do, that we may win full salvation on this earth and in the life to come. 

AUTHORITATIVE LEADERSHIP 

Men ask for more than a knowledge of God. Men do not know the truth of themselves. Men are suffering, hungering for authoritative leadership. Men have been led by men so long, churches have been made by man so often, things have come through human agencies for so many years, that in this day of high intelligence, of the greatest knowledge of the world, men resent the thought that when they deal with the greatest of all realities, religion and all that pertains to it, they must follow man-made leadership — leadership that is of one type in one church, of another type in another church; leadership that may be subject to parliamentary debate and rule, that may be determined by the voice of a community. 

The world is hungering and reaching out for authoritative leadership. Mankind has long followed the prophets of old, which indeed have been of human service, but today men say : "Moses was a great prophet; Isaiah, Jeremiah, Malachi, were all great prophets, but they belong to the past. We live today. We want the same authoritative leadership today that was enjoyed by the people of the past." 

The world is asking for a living prophet, one who can interpret the prophets of old "to the people and generations of this day. We have this very offering to make to the world. We are able to give humanity what they need in the way of authoritative leadership; for we declare in all solemnity, without hesitation, that God not only spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith, but conferred upon him the power and authority of the eternal, everlasting, unchangeable, indestructible Priesthood of Almighty God, the power by which the heavens were made, and the earth was made, and all the things we know were made. By that power, or the portion that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the work that the Lord intended for the salvation of mankind will be established and conducted and continued until the purposes of the Lord have been completed. 

TEACEfERS OF THE WORLD 

The world is looking for such authority. We must stand upon our feet as men and as women possessing the true knowledge and authority of God, and teach it without hesitation to all the world. We are not to be taught of the world. We are the teachers of the world. We must be as interpreters, as men and women who, with full knowledge and authority, fit the knowledge of the world into the great scheme of salvation. 

The Lord said to the Church through the Prophet Joseph Smith in the early days of the Church : 

"Again I say, hearken, ye elders of my church, whom I have appointed : Ye are not sent forth to be, taught, but to teach the children of men the things which I have put into your hands by the power of my Spirit. 

"And ye are to be taught from on high. Sanctify yourselves and ye shall be endowed with power, that ye may give even as I have spoken." 

This is a wonderful message to all Latter-day Saints, to the Elders of Israel, who preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We are not here to be taught; we are here to teach. Whatever offering of good the world may make to us, we must use in declaring faith and repentance and the other principles of the Gospel, and the consummation of the purposes of the Lord. We are not to be taught by the world. We are the teachers of the world. 

At the head of this Church stands a living prophet, one who speaks with authority. He is the mouth-piece of God to this generation. He is a man, it is true, as every prophet who has spoken, but a man who possesses the authority of the prophetic power, and who has the right,  this day, to interpret the things of humanity for the good of the cause of the Lord. 

We have the authority of the priesthood. We are teachers to all the world. As we magnify our commission and rise to the full possibilities of world teachers, we shall be blessed and made powerful. Joy will fill our hearts; power will come to our hands, and the things that need to be done we shall be able to do. 

So run my thoughts as I consider the work that has been done in European lands during the last few years. I am happy that I have had the privilege of laboring in those lands. I am grateful to President Grant and his associates for that great privilege. 

THE SEARCH FOE ETERNAL TRUTH 

Men seek a religion that may be used in daily life, but they want that practical feligion tinged, suffused, mingled and mixed with eternal truth. They want everything in terms of the truth which has accumulated throughout the ages, and the truth which God has in his keeping to give to his children in the future. 

The purpose of man's life is happiness and joy. "Men are that they might have joy." A simple purpose, but difficult to attain, so the history of the world has shown. Yet, if we take eternal truth as the woof of the pattern, and human experience as the warp, just as we make a pattern of linen or of cotton, making truth go this way, and human experience the other way, then we shall weave into it that thing which we call human happiness, a joyful life— the desire of man since the world began. 

I pray the Lord to bless the Latter-day Saints, to bless each one of us within his own home, in his own place of residence, within his own field of labor, that we may rise to the authority, understanding and sacrifice that should be practiced by the people of this Church. May we all be messengers of joy to the people of the world, to assist in their redemption, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

' THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD 

In what I am about to say, I hope I shah have the Spirit of the Lord. It is all-important that we should possess that Spirit, whether we preach or sing or pray. Prayers unprompted by it do not ascend to Heaven; sermons uninspired by it fail to touch the heart of the hearer; and the songs that are sung in our worshiping assemblies, if not in tune with it, are but discords in the ear of Deity. 

GOD'S GREATEST GIFT 

The Savior, when instructing his disciples regarding the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, told them to partake of it in remembrance of him, and he promised that if they remembered him they should have his Spirit to be with them. 

Why did he not promise them gold and silver, houses and lands, and all the other "good things of this world?" These were his to give; for "the earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof," and he gives it to whomsoever he will. But he had something better to bestow than that which perishes with the using, and he wanted his dispicles, his choice friends, to have it. So he promised them the Holy Spirit — the power to lay hold upon eternal life, his greatest and most precious gift. 

A SPIRITUAL FEAST 

The Spirit of the Lord is the food of our spirits. Without it they would starve. In the Eucharist, as it is called, we partake of Christ; but it is a spiritual, not a temporal, partaking. The bread and water, or bread and wine, used in that ordinance, are not, as some suppose, the . transubstantiated body and blood of our crucified Lord. They are but emblems, symbolizing his sacrificial atonement. "Eat, this is my body; drink, this is my blood"- — the alleged words of the Savior when instituting the Sacrament among his Jewish disciples, are to be interpreted, not literally, but figuratively. If not a mistranslation, they are certainly a misinterpretation. 

THE SOURCE OF LIFE AND LIGHT 

The Spirit of the Lord is the life and light of the world. It is the fountain of revelation, manifesting eternal truth and making known to man the mind and will of his Maker. 

"Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which .God hath prepared for them that love him." 

So says Paul the Apostle, and he adds: 

"But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit : for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so, the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God." (I Cor. 2:9-11.) 

And that Spirit is given to every member of the Church of Christ, so that he or she can comprehend divine purposes and be led and guided into all truth. The eye that sees not, the ear that hears not, the heart into which the things of God have not entered, are the eye and ear and heart of "the natural man," who "is an enemy to God," as the same Apostle declares. Those to whom the Spirit has revealed the Truth stand upon another plane entirely. 

LETTER AND SPIRIT 

The Spirit of the Lord interprets the Word of the Lord, and those who take that Spirit f or their guide cannot be deceived so long as they heed its promptings. If they do not heed, but allow their own selfish desires to influence them; or if they take the dead letter for their guide,  ignore the living spirit, they are liable to be led astray. "For the letter killeth but the spirit giveth life." (2 Cor. 3 :6.) 

The good old Bible, which the Latter-day Saints accept as "the word of God as far as it has been translated correctly," contains many passages which, if only the letter be relied upon and the spirit ignored, are bound to be of a misleading character. 

THE WORD MADE FLESH 

One instance has been cited, that pertaining to the Eucharist. Here is another. In the first chapter of the Gospel according to St. 'John, its author is made to say : "No iman hath seen God at any time" (1 :18), a statement which, if taken literally, not only puts the Beloved Disciple in the attitude of disputing Moses and the prophets, but actually makes him contradict himself. For the very same chapter in which that surprising statement is found, opens with this declaration: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. * * * And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father), full of grace and truth." (1 :14.) Jesus Christ was God in the flesh. "For in him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily." (Col. 2 :9. ) And He was seen by multitudes of men. 

But long before the divine Word was "made flesh," men had seen God, and none knew it better than John. Adam had seen him, Enoch had walked with him, Abraham had conversed with him. Moses and Aaron, with Nadab and Abihu and seventy of the elders of Israel, "went up into the mountain and saw the God of Israel." So says the Bible. But all this would have to be blotted out if the saying were literally true, that "no man hath seen God at any time." There could be no surer way of tearing out the foundations of the Christian religion and destroying all our hopes of salvation, than to establish as a fact this fallacy. 

In the Pearl of Great Price (Book of Moses 1:11) that prophet and seer, having seen God, tells how he saw him in these words : "Now mine own eyes have beheld God; but not my natural, but my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld; for I should have withered and died in his presence; but his glory was upon me; and I beheld his face; for I was transfigured before him." 

john's true meaning 

What John meant to say — and probably did say — was this: No man with his natural eyes hath seen God at any time. Or, as Joseph Smith puts it : "No man has seen God at any time, except quickened by the Spirit of God" — which means precisely the same thing. (Doc. and Cov. 67:11.) That John was mistranslated, or misinterpreted, is evident. 

We all have spiritual eyes — the eyes of our spirits. By means of them we "walked by sight" and "kept the first estate" — our pre-existent spirit life; thus earning the right to a second estate — this mortal life, where we "walk by faith," with our spirit sight temporarily obscured. But when a seer is needed, "a choice seer," God sends one into the world; puts his power upon him, and thus enables him to use his spirit eyes and "see out of obscurity," to behold (God if need be, and to comprehend the things of God in the only way that they can be comprehended. Such a seer was Moses, and such a seer was Joseph Smith. They both saw God. 

SPIRITUAL THINGS SPIRITUALLY DISCERNED 

It is not man's native intelligence nor his scholastic culture, that enables him to understand spiritual things. They are spiritually discerned, and the Spirit that discerns them can be had only in one way —  God's way, not man's. Hence, after faith, repentance and water baptism, comes spirit baptism, whereby the Holy Ghost is given to those who become members of the Church of Christ. 

The things of God should be surveyed by the light of the Spirit of God, not by the flickering candle of human wisdom. In our attitude toward divine revelations, the laws and ordinances of the Gospel, we should never take a shallow, material dollar-and-cent view, but always the higher, broader, deeper, spiritual view. 

A CASE IN POINT 

Many years ago, when I was a Ward Bishop, I was sitting with my counselors one evening for the settlement of tithing. A brother who was a member of the Ward came in, tossed a roll of bills upon the table, and when asked the usual question, "Is this a full tithing?"- — a question necessary at such times, in order that the reports may be full and accurate — he answered, "No it is not; but you may be thankful to get that much." 

"Thankful," I echoed, "What makes you. think I ought to be thankful for it? You are not paying it to me. I am only an agent to receive and pass it on to the higher authorities. I am glad, of course, to know that you pay your tithing even in part; but I do not see why I should thank you for it. I pay my tithing in full, but nobody thanks me, nor do I want any thanks for it. I esteem it a privilege." 

WHEN THANKS ARE OUT OF PLACE 

Now, I believe in commendation and encouragement. I love to hear kind and generous expressions of appreciation for any good thing well done by anybody. But I do not believe in thanking people for keeping the commandments of God, nor for rendering service to him in any capacity. We do not thank them for coming into the Church. We rejoice over them, but a vote of thanks in such a case would be ridiculous. And it is just so with other things. To hold office in the Church of Christ is a great honor — none greater. A vote of thanks could add nothing to it, and would be entirely out of place. 

We do not confer a favor upon the Almighty by obeying his laws, by receiving his blessings; though we please him, no doubt, by so doing. And when we stand before him at the last day, having "come  through great tribulation" and made our calling and election sure, I think I can hear Him say: "Well done, good and faithful servant, or good and faithful handmaid — enter into the joy of thy Lord." But I cannot by any stretch of imagination, conceive Him as saying: "Thank you, my child, for coming to Heaven!" 

Now, as to the Law of Tithing. What we render in obedience to that divine law, is not ours; it belongs to the Lord. We may consider it ours, if we will, up to the point of dropping it into his treasury; but right there even our apparent ownership ends. And it is unseemly in anyone to consider it his or hers, or to complain of the use made of it by the Lord's servants, those appointed by him to receive and disburse it according to his will as made known to them. 

Moreover — and this is the great desideratum — the main fact to which I wish to call attention. You know it as well as I do, but we all need reminding. When we obey the Law of Tithing we do it not to please men, but to honor God, and we draw from Him, in return, a spiritual dividend far more precious and of much greater consequence than the dollars and cents or other means that we part with in rendering unto the Lord his own. 

The Law of Tithing is sometimes referred to as the revenue law of the Church — and such it is; for it provides means to carry on the Church's work in some of its most important phases. But in taking that view, let us not lose sight of a higher consideration. The Law of Tithing was given to supersede, for the time being, a greater law known as the Law of Consecration, the object of which was and is to sanctify the Lord's people and "prepare them for a place in the celestial world." To that end it was designed to do away with selfishness, greed, pride, envy, poverty, and all the ills that spring from such conditions. For none of these things can be admitted into the kingdom of heaven. It was to institute an order of equality and consequent unity, in which every man, employed at that for which he was best fitted, would be "seeking the interest of his neighbor and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God." It is an ancient law. It was practised By Enoch and his people, and later by the Apostles and their proselytes at Jerusalem, and by the followers of Christ, both Nephites and Lamanites, upon this chosen land. A brave attempt to practise it was made by the Latter-day Saints, soon after this Church  to the occasion. Selfishness within, and persecution without, prevented a perfect achievement. So the Lord withdrew the Law of Consecration and gave to his people a lesser law, one easier to live, but pointing forward, like the other, to something grand and glorious in the future. That lesser law, the Law of Tithing, is as a schoolmaster, a disciplinary agent, to bring the Saints eventually up to the practise of the higher law, and meanwhile to keep their hearts open for its reTHE LAW OF CONSECRATION ception when it returns. Those who obey the Law of Tithing will be prepared to (live the Law of Consecration. Those who do not obey it will not be prepared. That is the whole thing in a nut shell. We are tithed that the iChurch may have means to build and maintain temples and tabernacles, to found and sustain missions and schools, and otherwise carry on its great work throughout the world. But that is not all. The spiritual dividend that we draw from heaven as the reward of our obedience, is the principal purpose for which the Law of Tithing was instituted. All* the rest is'incidental or secondary. 

WHY WE FAST 

The same argument applies to fasting. We are not required to fast merely to provide the bishop with means whereby to feed or otherwise minister to the poor. That is not the main object. We fast, primarily, for the purity of heart, the clearness of mind, the spiritual strength and uplift that comes from the observance of this sacred requirement. We are benefited physically, mentally and morally, by temporarily abstaining from bodily food, and thereby securing the spiritual food that more than takes its place. And, as an indirect result of our act of self-denial, the bishop, by means of the fast offerings (which should equal the cost of the food ordinarily used during the fasting period) is enabled to care for the poor that we "have always with us," and always shall have until God's higher law is practised by his people and there shall be "no poor among them." 

BODY AND SPIRIT 

The body as well as the spirit is essential. The two combined, "inseparably connected" by the resurrection, constitute the immortal soul; and it is the soul that goes on to perfection — the Gospel's paramount aim from the beginning. But the spiritual is above the temporal, the substance greater than the shadow that follows it; and happy is the man who recognizes this truth and honors the divine injunction : "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things (food, drink, clothing, etc.) shall be added unto you." 

THE SICK WORLD'S PANACEA 

What do you suppose is the matter with this sick world at the present time? And what is the panacea that will restore it to perfect health? The matter is, that it has turned away from God and exalted the material over the spiritual. Like the dog in the fable, crossing the brook with a piece of meat in his mouth, and losing it in an attempt to possess what looked like another piece of meat in the mouth of another dog, but which was only a vain reflection of himself in the water — even so this selfish, greedy, money-loving world has grasped at the shadow and lost the substance. As a result the Ship of Human Progress is lopsided and in danger of going on the rocks. The cargo, unevenly bestowed, has unbalanced the vessel, and the pilot has been thrown overboard. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 67 

Right the ship, ye would-be arbiters of human destiny! Right the ship! Put the temporal under hatches, and place the spiritual at the helm, where it belongs; and the danger will disappear. That is the panacea, and there will be no relief — no permanent relief from the evils that afflict and threaten this world, until that sovereign remedy is applied; until proud, self-sufficient man, acknowledging his own weakness and his own folly, turns to (the Source of all power and all wisdom, in response to the sweet invitation of the Savior: "Come unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden! and I will give you rest." Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I wish to read for the benefit of our distinguished guest, Dr. Barnard, the following : i i 

"And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. 

"For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. 

"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands. 

"And. they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. 

"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. 

"And the inhabitants of Zion also shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. 

"Now, I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them." 

We very much appreciate having our eminent visitor here, and would have been happy had he seen fit to make further remarks. 

As a closing number, the iChoir sang the anthem, "The Heavens Are Telling." i 

After the benediction, which was pronounced by Elder Walter A. Jensen of the Lost River Stake, Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 

SECOND DAY 


