16
Overflow
09 04 1911
Elder John L. Herrick. 
53
74-76

None

None

(President of Western States Mission.) 

Speaking at the anniversary meeting of the organization of the Relief Societies, in Denver, about three weeks ago, I chanced to refer to the condition of the women in our Church, how we honored and respected them, as God expects us to honor them, and, at the conclusion of our meeting, some of the sisters, who have never had the opportunity of living in Zion, said to me that they were glad the subject was brought before them in that light, because they had not, up to that time, heard any particular reference to the women by the other elders whom they had met. I said to them that had it been their good fortune to live in Zion, or at least in some of the stakes of Zion, that they might hear frequent reference made to the women of our Church, and the important positions they occupy in our organizations, and associated with the affairs of men. But their remarks led me to think, Is it possible that when our elders go abroad that they forget the mission of women in our Church? Is it possible that they forget the important work accomplished by their mothers, their wives or their sisters? Is it possible that they minimize in any way the wonderful part that woman plays in the great plan of life and salvation? It occurs to me now that there are many here who have been on missions, and many others who may go, to such I say, I hope that wherever you are, either at home or abroad, that you will always be found voicing the praises of the women of "Mormondom," and testifying in regard to the great sacrifices they have made in the interest of the work of God.  
  
A short time ago, in one of the magazine articles that are appearing at this time, I read some of the statements attributed to a man who is considered to be a prominent writer, and he said, among other things, that the women in Utah are degraded, that they are nothing more nor less than slaves to the work of the home; that they are ignorant, and that, with the exception of bearing children to unscrupulous men, they know little of the real mission of woman. I thought how I would like to hear the voices of the women of this Church, if their voices could be heard abroad in this land, proclaiming to the world what their actual condition is, in refutation of those false assertions. I have spoken to some men who are well acquainted with writers of this country, and I asked them what the reputation of this man was, who had made such a slanderous statement about the women of Utah. "Why," said one of them to me, "that man's word cannot be taken on any subject. He does not state the truth. It does not matter what subject he writes, upon, he grossly exaggerates it." It is very surprising that one of the great magazines of this country has opened its pages to a writer of that kind, a man who came to Salt Lake City, last year, and sought from a cab driver, one of the many dispensers of fairy tales that can be found upon these streets, some of the information which he is now giving to the world.  
  
I read some lines of poetry sometime ago, by Ella Wheeler Wilcox, who shows the real condition, in America at least, today, and I should like to repeat them to you, and possibly make comparison with our people:  
  
"When God had formed the universe, He thought  
 
Of all the marvels therein to be wrought,  
 
And, to His aid fair Motherhood He brought,  
  
" 'My lesser self, the feminine of me,  
 
She will go forth throughout all time,'  quoth He,  
 
"And make my world what I would  have it be.  
  
" 'For I am weary, having labored so,  
 
And for a cycle of repose would go  
 
Into that silence which but God may know.  
  
" 'Therefore I leave the rounding of my plan  
  
To Motherhood; and that which God began,  
  
Let woman finish in perfecting man.  
  
" 'She is the soil, the human mother earth;  
  
She is the sun, who calls the seed to birth;  
  
She is the gardener who knows its worth.  
  
" 'In me all seed of any kind must spring;  
  
Divine the growth such seed and soil  
  
will bring, For all is me and I am everything.'  
  
"Thus having spoken to himself aloud,  
 
His glorious face upon his breast he bowed,  
  
And sought repose behind a wall of cloud.  
  
"Come forth, O God, though great thy thought and good  
 
In shaping woman for true motherhood —  
  
Lord, speak again, she has not understood.  
  
"The centuries pass, the cycles roll along,  
  
The earth is peopled with a mighty throng,  
  
Yet men are fighting and the world goes wrong.  
  
Lord, speak again, ere yet it be too late;  
  
Unloved,unwanted souls come through earth's gate;  
 
The unborn child is given a dower of hate.  
  
"Thy world progresses in all ways save one, —  
  
In motherhood, for which it was begun.  
  
Lord, Lord behold how little has been done.  
  
"Children are spawned, like fishes in the sand;  
  
With ignorance and crime they fill the land.  
  
Lord, speak again, till mothers understand.  
  
It is not all of Motherhood to know Creations' pleasure and deliverance's woe.  
  
Who plants the seed should help the shoot to grow.  
  
"And 'tis not alone for Motherhood to breed  
  
The human race, but to know and heed  
  
Its holiest purpose and its highest need.  
  
"Lord, speak again, so woman shall be stirred  
  
With the full meaning of that mighty word,  
  
'True Motherhood;' she has not rightly heard."  
 
There can be no question, referring to the first half of these lines, that this woman speaks the truth as God would have it known to humanity. The greatest law that He has given to man and to woman is to multiply and replenish the earth. Motherhood is the greatest blessing that God confers on woman. Woman's lot is hardest in this life, I believe; and that is one reason that she, is better than the average man, — because of having to pass through so much tribulation. It is said that woman, every time she bears a child into this world, lays her life on the altar. It is indeed a wonderful sacrifice. And. then this thought, that  
  
"Woman is the soil, the human mother earth;  
  
She is the sun who calls the seed to birth;  
  
She is the gardener who knows its worth."  
  
Had these words been spoken by an inspired man, either in ancient or in modern time, they could not have been more truly said. The latter part of the poem brings this thought, that many women today do not know what that message is to them. If they do, they do not appreciate it, for they do not live in accordance with this greatest commandment of God, they are not bearing children, they are not raising them properly; but, on the other hand,  
  
"Children are spawned like fishes in the sand,  
  
With ignorance and crime they fill the land."  
  
The imputation contained in this verse surely cannot be urged against the women of "Mormondom." The figures that were given out by President Smith in his remarks at the opening of this conference, on Thursday last, will give the lie to any such thought. When we consider the birth-rate among the members of this Church, and compare the figures with those of the rest of this great country of ours, or with other countries of the world, I say to you that any one who declares that women of our Church are not keeping this greatest commandment of God says something that is untrue.  
  
The Savior said that "man is not without the woman, neither woman without the man in the Lord." My brethren and sisters, God expects us to care for and to love our wives and our children; He expects us to provide for them and love them all the days of our lives. I hope that all who are here today will see to it that no man or woman shall say in your presence, unrebuked, aught against the women of the Latter-day Saints. They have borne serious hardships and trials when their husbands and fathers have gone on missions, hardships even exceeding those borne by those who have left their homes and gone into the world to preach the gospel. They are entitled to our love, to our consideration, and to our blessing.  
  
God bless us all in this work, and make us equal to every emergency that we may be called upon to pass through in life, is my humble desire in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
