17
Overflow
09 04 1911
Elder John F. Tolton. 
65
76-79

None

None

(President of Beaver Stake.) 

I have been very much impressed with the proceedings of our conference thus far. I have rejoiced under the inspiration and teachings of those who have addressed us. It seems to me that the principal theme of the teachings that have been given unto the people, during the conference, has been that upon each member of the Church there is a responsibility resting that he, or she, must bear evidence unto the world, in conduct in life, of the purity and sincerity of the teachings proclaimed by the Latter-day Saints. We stand as a light upon a hill before the world today. In other words, "Mormonism" is on trial; the acts of the Latter-day Saints are being watched by the world, and we are being judged by that which we engage in and do as a people. I rejoice in the spirit of this work, for I know it is the work of God. We who have embraced this Latter-day work have a great mission to perform in the world. That mission is to bear witness of the Lord Jesus Christ, to bear testimony of the truths of the gospel, as revealed in the day and age in which we live; not so much in word as in deed; not so much in endeavoring, by conversation, to convert those who are in our midst, as by our daily lives. We are required to let our light so shine that all men beholding our good works may realize that this is indeed the work of our Father. "Mormonism" stands today for truth, and righteousness. It stands for the liberty of men, from a religious and social point of view. We bear the message unto the world, that those who will accept "Mormonism" and live in the true spirit thereof, that it will bring joy into their lives. We truly testify that it brings happiness to our homes and families. It places mankind on a higher level, makes better citizens, better husbands and wives, and so we bear evidence of this to the world.  
  
There is a spirit manifest in the world of mankind today to belittle the work of our Redeemer, to place as a standard for men the precepts of their fellow men, directing our attention from that course in life that the Gospel has prescribed for us to follow, holding out for veneration the ideas and thoughts of men, in contradistinction to the great eternal plan of salvation that God has revealed. One of the tenets of our faith, or principles of our belief as enunciated in the Articles of Faith, given unto the world by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is this: "We believe all that God has revealed, all that he does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important truths pertaining unto the kingdom of God." There may be some matters in connection with the great plan of life and salvation that have not been entirely made clear to the Latter-day Saints; but if we will act upon that which God has revealed for the salvation of His children, if we will follow the teachings of the gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints, and manifest those teachings in our lives, there is no need for us to go into channels of science, so called, and endeavor to demonstrate by that means some of the great and eternal truths. We are not in the line of safety when we depart from the revealed word of God and seek to ascertain, by scientific principles, which have not yet been proven entirely true, a means of salvation for the human family.  
  
God has revealed himself unto the children of men in this day and we have learned from the revelations of Jesus Christ unto the people in this age of the world, that we are in the express image of God, we are His children; that Jesus is the Savior of the world, that He came in the meridian of time and gave His life as an atoning sacrifice for the sin of our father Adam, thereby removing from the human family that fetter with which they were bound, and opened, through His atonement, a means of salvation whereby we might come forth from the tomb and enjoy a fulness of eternal life in His presence. This applies to all mankind, thus striking off the bands of death, bursting open the grave, and ushering in the resurrection. These are glorious results of the labors of our Lord and Redeemer. Why should we, knowing these things to be true, having a testimony and witness in our hearts that Jesus is the Christ, the Mediator between man and our Father in heaven, the Author of out salvation, and that His is the only name given under heaven by which man can be saved, as stated in the scriptures of divine truth, knowing these things, why should we seek elsewhere for the greatest of all divine blessings, or for a demonstration of these eternal principles?  
  
Our young men go into the world to bear witness of the truth, to preach Christ and Him crucified. There is a spirit in opposition to the Latter-day Saints, but when the light of truth has come, when that enters into the hearts of men and women, they can then see and understand what the message of "Mormonism" is unto the world. It means life eternal. All mankind will be judged by the tenets of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We may in a manner deceive ourselves, in this life, by following after the teachings of men; they may appeal to us and to the desires of our hearts, but there is nothing that is reliable except the word of God, for the word of God is "sure and certain." It is an anchor to our souls, it elevates man from the lower planes of life, gives us higher ideals to live for, and places before us the responsibility attending our actions in this life. We are interested, in the first place, in our individual salvation. We are interested also in the salvation of the sons and daughters that God has given unto us in this life, and in the salvation of our relatives and friends. We are also interested in the extensive plan of salvation, in bringing to a knowledge of the truth those who are honest in the world, who have not yet received the message of "Mormonism."  
  
I rejoice today, my brethren and sisters, in the opportunity of engaging in the work of the Lord. I bear testimony to you that this is the work of God. If the world, who do not believe in "Mormonism," or the message that we have to bear, could witness the large attendance at this conference, and the interest that is manifested by the Latter-day Saints, it would be to them, it seems to me, a testimony that they could not ignore, for there is evident sincerity in our form of worship, in our devotion, in our acceptance of the revealed will and word of God, If we live up to that testimony, manifest its truth in our lives, show the fruits thereof, then we have accomplished, in a measure, that for which we came upon the earth. I have heard it advanced, by honorable men with whom I have spoken, that the great duty of our lives is to observe the Golden Rule, to "do to others as we would have them do unto us." But the Savior gave us, in His day, to understand that that was not sufficient, that there is something greater for us to live for than the mere observance of this golden rule. We are told that when a certain young man came unto Him and said, "Master, what must I do that I may have eternal life?" the Savior said unto him that he should keep the commandments, that he should love the Lord with all his might, mind and strength, and his neighbor as himself; that he was to honor his father and his mother, and commit none of the crimes that were forbidden in the Law of Moses, etc. But the young man said unto him: "Lord, all these things have I observed from my youth up; what else must I do in order that I may obtain eternal life?" Then the Savior said unto him, "Sell all thou hast and give unto the poor, and take up thy cross and follow me." The proclamation of Christ's gospel is our mission to the world, the mission of "Mormonism." We declare unto the world that we must love God, the eternal Father, honor our earthly parents, observe to do those things that are in harmony with the scripture, the revealed will of God, and, in addition, we are to practice charity, giving unto those who are in destitute circumstances, then take up our cross and follow God.  
  
I bear testimony unto you that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been revealed in this day and age of the world, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God. In so far as we are following in the footsteps of the prophet, Joseph Smith, observing those things that the Lord revealed through him, we are the chosen people of God. Our mission is to convert the inhabitants of the world, and bring them to a knowledge of the truth. Our mission is to proclaim the truth unto all mankind, calling upon them to accept the testimony of the Latter-day Saints, and repent.  
  
May the Lord bless us, inspire us with His Spirit, direct our footsteps in the paths of duty, that we may come nearer unto our Father in heaven, that our testimonies may be strengthened from day to day, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
