20
Overflow
09 04 1911
Elder Joseph E. Smith, Jr. 
66
85-87

None

Blessed are they who obey when they hear the truth. — Admonition to reverence the Sabbath day.  
  
I was asked the question, yesterday, why the Latter-day Saints meet in general conference twice a year. There are many reasons that might be given why the Saints so assemble. The most important one, perhaps, is that the Lord has commanded it. We meet together to hear inspiring words and to be built up in the faith. We meet to be instructed in our duty as members of the Church that we may more humbly and perfectly walk in the way of the Lord, keeping His commandments that faith might increase among the Saints, and our hearts be inclined towards our heavenly Father. For the same reason we meet from time to time in stake conference in the various stakes, and in ward conference in the several wards throughout the Church, that we might be taught the commandments of the Lord.  
  
We have heard many things during this conference that will be for our profit, providing we reflect upon them and remember them, putting into practice such things as have been presented to us for our consideration. What does it profit us in assembling together to hear the words of the Lord as they may be given unto us from His servants, if we go back to our homes and forget all that we have heard? What will it profit us when we are admonished to keep the commandments of the Lord if we go home and forget those commandments, and return, if we have been in the habit of walking in the ways of men, back into those ways? The Lord will judge us according to our works; He will judge us according to our knowledge and our opportunities. We are His people, with whom He has made covenant. He has gathered us out from the nations of the earth through the preaching of the gospel of salvation that we may learn of His ways and walk in His paths and rejoice in His truth.  
  
It is eighty-one years since the Church was established; and during all that time the people have been admonished and instructed in the way they should walk. The parents have been taught almost daily the things that have been presented to us this morning — that they should teach their children the principles of the gospel, that they might not depart from them when they grow up and reach the age of accountability. We have received the truth and we know the truth. If we live not in accordance with the truth, then we will be held responsible. We know that it is required of us to pay our tithing. Blessed is the man who keeps this commandment. We know that the Lord has commanded us that we should observe the Word of Wisdom. Blessed is the man and blessed is the woman who keeps this commandment, for the Lord will nor forget them. We know that we have been commanded from the beginning that we should pray; that we should gather around us in our homes our children and teach them the spirit of prayer; that they might offer up their thanksgivings to their heavenly Father for His mercies and blessings unto them. We have, been taught to observe the Sabbath day from the beginning, and to keep it holy. And many other commandments, which we hear reiterated from the stand and which we read in the Scriptures, God has given unto us, that we might grow nearer unto him and be built up in the faith and strengthened. No commandment, at any time, has He given us, that was not for our comfort and blessing. They are not given merely to please the Lord, but to make us better men and women, and worthy of salvation and exaltation in His kingdom. We know our duty; we know what is required of us, and that the Lord will not hold him guiltless who, understanding these things, will go contrary to that which he has been commanded.  
  
The time has nearly expired, but I want to say just one word or two in relation to the Sabbath day. We have heard of many other things this morning, the word of wisdom, of prayer, of tithing, and other principles. I want to say a few words in regard to the observance of the Sabbath day and keeping it holy. This commandment was given in the beginning, and God commanded the Saints and all peoples of the earth that they should observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy — one day in seven. Upon that day we should rest from our labors, we should go unto the house of the Lord and offer up our sacraments upon His holy day. For this is a day appointed unto us on which we should rest from our labors and pay our devotions unto the Most High. On this day we should offer unto Him our thanks and honor Him in prayer, in fasting, in singing, and in edifying and instructing each other. There was a time when the people throughout the world observed this commandment better than they do today. I can remember the time in this city, not many years ago, when it was considered a sin for a baseball game to be played on the Sunday. It was an unknown thing for a theatre to be open on the Sabbath day; but today things have changed, and such things are common among us. This very afternoon and evening in this city and in other parts of the great nation, theatres will be open and crowded to the doors. I fear, so far as the community in this city is concerned, that all who attend those places will not be from among those who have no membership in the Church. Some who call themselves Latter-day Saints will be there, as will also those of other faiths who profess a belief in the Redeemer of the world. Yet the Lord has commanded that we should observe this law. During the greater part of the past week and extending into this week, out near the lake, there is what is called an aviation meet. Men with machines of marvelous construction are flying in the air. They will do so today. I trust no Latter-day Saint will be there on the Sabbath day, disregarding the divine law. I have heard that two of the men who have been flying out there, who are representing the Wright brothers of Ohio, have refused to take part in the program on the Sabbath day. I hope this is true; it comes to me merely as a rumor. I understand that these men, Orvil and Wilbur Wright, will not take part nor permit those who represent them to take part in any such exercise on the Sabbath day, thus setting an example to others; setting an example of righteousness to the Latter-day Saints and to all the world, and showing that they are not afraid, even in the face of opposition and ridicule, perhaps, to keep this commandment which God has given them.  
  
I hope the time will come — I don't know that it will before the millennium — but I hope it will come in this State, when we can have men in our legislature who will have enough regard for the law of God to give unto the people a legitimate law for the proper observance of the Sabbath day. We have not been able to accomplish it yet; and, I am sorry to say, some of the members of the Church sitting as legislators have been numbered among those who have not seen fit to give unto the people a law that would be suited to the proper observance of the Sabbath day. They have lacked in courage, I say it with shame, for it is a disgrace to them and a reproach unto the people.  
  
Now, brethren and sisters, when we go from this conference to our homes, let us go filled with the Spirit of the Lord, with the determination to live our religion, to keep His commandments faithfully that His Spirit might be with us. The time will come, just as sure as we live, that there will be a separation between the righteous and the unrighteous. Those who will not keep the law of the Lord will deny the faith, for He will withdraw His Spirit from them if they do not repent, after laboring with them and doing all that is possible to keep them in the line of duty. He will withdraw His spirit from them and they will be left unto themselves. They must take one side or the other, for this separation must surely come. Let us see to it that we are numbered with the children of the Lord. Like one of the prophets of old, let us say: "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." And may He bless us. Amen. 