21
Second Overflow
09 04 1911
Elder Charles W. Penrose
25
88

None

Preliminary remarks. — Attacks upon the Church. — Necessity of sustaining its authorities.  
  
Brethren and sisters, I congratulate you on having a suitable place in which to assemble, seeing that the tabernacle is full to overflowing.  
  
I hope you will enjoy the meeting that is convened in this place. It does not matter much where it is so long as we have the right spirit. We shall enjoy our services and the remarks that will be made by our brethren who have been selected to address us. If you will give us your attention, and keep as quiet as possible so that the voices of the brethren may be heard distinctly in every part of the building, I am sure that we will receive good instructions suitable in our present condition and circumstances.  
  
We have some selections, too, to be rendered by the Farmers ward choir, which has become somewhat famous for its good music. And I pray that the blessing of the Lord will be upon us, and that we shall have a time of rejoicing and instruction.  
  
It will be necessary, first, before we introduce the speakers, to present the general authorities of the Church, that you may have the privilege of lifting up your hand just as though you were in the big tabernacle. For if there ever was a time in the history of the Church when the Latter-day Saints ought to have the opportunity of showing their faith and confidence in and devotion to the men who are called to guide us, it is at the present time, when floods of vituperation and calumny are poured forth, and when there is a special endeavor to blacken their character before this nation and before the world. This is one of those things that occur almost periodically, and when the floodgates of the regions below seem to be open to pour forth venom against the servants of the living God; and as is usually the case, and has been from the beginning, their chief attacks are directed against the man who stands at the head, the Prophet, Seer and Revelator called to preside over the Church.  
  
Elder Charles W. Penrose presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, and they were severally sustained in the positions named, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 