24
Second Overflow
09 04 1911 
Elder Mark Austin. 
68
97

None

None

(President of Fremont Stake.) 

I feel certain the Latter-day Saints will be a great, grand and a good people, when I realize the fact that we have so much valuable instruction imparted to us from time to time by the servants of the Lord. One of the strongest evidences to me of the divinity of this great work, among many others, is the fact that the Lord has entrusted it not only to those who are skilled in education and in learning, but also to the unlearned. He has sent them out into the world to meet the mighty ones, and all classes that are to be found. We have been told in this conference that not one of those thus sent out has been converted to the teachings which are found in the world; it may be that a few, a very few, have made, possibly, a partial failure of the work, because, no doubt, of their own weakness. The great majority of them have been strong and powerful, and have been able to deliver the gospel message that has found lodgment in the hearts of those that have desired the opportunity of becoming acquainted with that divine plan which would save the souls of men. These have been gathered into the fold, and they have taken up the work of God, regardless of what it cost them, and have rejoiced in this, the greatest thing in life. We can fully understand that, if we understand "Mormonism," so called.  
  
I have rejoiced during this conference in listening to the mighty testimonies that have been borne by the servants of God under the influence of His Spirit; and I have very much rejoiced during this session in listening to the testimony of Elder Ballard and others of our brethren who have spoken, who have labored for the salvation of the souls of the children of men. What a mighty work; what a splendid good thing. If the world could understand the purpose we have in delivering this message, what a blessing it would bring to them. But it seems that these things are hard to understand. It takes a good deal to make the sacrifice, as the world understands it, because of the conditions under which they are living. They find it requires a great sacrifice to become members of this Church and defend it, and we cannot stand unless we do defend it. I am thoroughly convinced that we must be active. Inactivity is death. Therefore it is necessary that we actively live for and defend the truth, this will bring joy to our souls, and we will increase in the knowledge of this great Latter-day work.  
  
I pray that the Lord will bless us and help us to understand the part that we should take and to do it, and never be ashamed of His work, nor of His servants, whom He has called to minister among the children of men. I respect them for the sacrifices they make when they labor as they do unceasingly, that they may be faithful in their calling to the children of men. I pray that God will bless us and bless His work that it may cover the earth as the waters do the mighty deep; I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 