25
Second Overflow
09 04 1911 
Elder Nephi L. Morris. 
69
97-101

None

None

(President of Salt Lake Stake.) 

We are approaching the close of one of the last sessions of a very enjoyable and profitable conference of the Church. I have had the pleasure of attending some of the sessions, and have read the proceedings of the others. I am very thankful that in my own heart I have feelings of harmony and approval of all that has been taught and done, with which I am acquainted.  
  
I rejoice in the prosperity of the work of the Lord. I thank and praise Him that I have been given a lot among this people, and that I am called to labor in His service. I enjoyed the remarks which were made this morning in the general assembly in the tabernacle, as well as those made this afternoon by the mission presidents. One of the greatest assets to our cause is our missionary system. We could not suffer greater loss than the discontinuance of that system of proselyting which has been characteristic of the work of the Lord in this dispensation. The renewal of spiritual force and enthusiasm, which comes to all our communities and organizations from these elders who return from the nations of the earth, where they have been bearing glad tidings of great joy, rekindle in us at home the spirit of missionary work. How infallible is the key given us by President Kimball, this morning, with respect to the spirit of the Seventy. Said he, Have you ever felt a desire to go upon a mission? if you have, you have enjoyed the spirit of a Seventy. If you have never had that desire, you have not received of the Lord the spirit of your calling, even though you have been ordained a Seventy. My own experience confirms that statement, for I know it to be true. A desire to convey to the world the message that the Lord has committed to us is an evidence that we have received the Spirit of the Lord. If I have any advice to give to the Latter-day Saints, it is this, to continue to prepare the young men for missions in the world, and to help them to shape their affairs so that they may go upon missions when they are called, without delay, without begging for time, without any disposition to procrastinate or postpone the day of their departure, for there is no greater blessing that comes to the youth of Israel than this opportunity to preach the gospel to the nations of the earth.  
  
We have many demands upon us for missionaries. We have many young men who are not adequately prepared for this service. I have sometimes felt that those who hold positions of presidency should give them a few months, or a year, if necessary, to prepare themselves for a call. Let them know that the eye of the presiding officers is upon them, expecting them to be able to respond at some future date. We have many young men whose hearts are turned in other directions, for the lack of proper teaching in their homes, and I hope the Latter-day Saints shall not overlook the great importance of preserving and maintaining in the home the spirit of the gospel by proper religious devotion and proper Christian examples. The home is the stronghold of the Church, as it is of the state, as it is of society; and if the home be not pure, maintained upon principles of virtue, faith and industry, the state, and society and the Church will correspondingly suffer. The mother and the father at home should try to preserve among us these principles for which we stand as a people.  
  
I believe all that President Ballard has said of a complimentary character with respect to the Latter-day Saints. I can readily see how he has become well supplied with these facts and figures, in speaking in defense of our people to the world! I don't know that I should be so much inclined to speak of these things to the Latter-day Saints themselves, for I fear some of us may be somewhat too much inclined to rest contented upon what we think we are and overlook the evils that are among us, and the sin — to use a common, plain term — of which some are guilty. I do not wish to be pessimistic. I would rather speak of the good things than the bad; but I do not believe that we as a people are living exactly as we should. I do not believe that we are living up to the Word of Wisdom as faithfully as we should. Too many of the elders of Zion are not strictly observing that principle. Yet, in spite of this shortcoming, the average standard of morality among our people, I believe to be higher than that of the world or of any other people.  
  
Another thing of which I am convinced is one that brings a great deal of sorrow to my soul, and that is that the standard of morality is lower among some of our young people today than it has been. It would be a miracle if it were otherwise, because of the prevalance of evils in our midst, due to city life which has grown remarkably in the last few decades, and the destructive influences which are aggressively at work in all cities, increasing as cities increase in population, for the destruction of virtue in boys and girls. You, perhaps, in the country, little dream of the insiduous efforts made by the powers of evil in this particular direction. The powers of evil are so great that it seems that some must fall, but there is altogether too much liberty given to our young people in going to places of amusement without restriction and without chaperones. I repeat, too much liberty is given to our young people. And the use of liquor, in public and in private places, the use of cigarettes and other kindred vices are on the increase, and have brought about the results which I speak of, so lamentable in their nature, lowering the standard of virtue. I could give you facts which would be appalling if you knew them, disclosed in the Juvenile Court and in the public schools that prove conclusively, I believe, what I state here. I speak of these things in order that we as men and women who are called to look after the interests of the youth of Zion shall not be derelict in the discharge of our duties. The teachers visiting on the blocks, the Bishops, High Councilors and Stake Presidencies should be roused to look after the welfare of the Church through its members, so that if any guilt exists among the Saints of God, they can lend a helping hand for its eradication; and they need the co-operation of the fathers and mothers in their homes in order to work effectually for the salvation of the young.  
  
With President Cannon, I thank the Lord for the splendid discourse that Apostle McKay delivered this morning. I thank and praise the Lord for the inspiration of His Spirit which was characteristic of that address. The Latter-day Saints have made high professions, as we are inclined to do always, with respect to temperance. But I doubt if we are making the headway we should in this regard. Two of the witnesses to the Book of Mormon were excommunicated from the Church. One of the charges preferred against them was that they failed to observe the Word of Wisdom. If they did that fifty and sixty years ago, I imagine we have not made the progress we should, for I have heard of no man being cut off from the Church for not keeping the Word of Wisdom in modern times unless it became a most flagrant case.  
  
We as a people are approaching a great opportunity in our history. Our standards are higher than the standards of the world. We largely predominate in this State, and through an act of the legislature we are given an opportunity this year to express ourselves by the ballot as to whether we will tolerate the saloon. For this reason, I think the remarks made by Elder McKay very fitting and proper, and I am satisfied they will bear fruit. Perhaps fifty per cent of the crime is traceable, directly or indirectly, to the use of liquor. We have been altogether too much afraid of what has been called the "business interest" upon this question. It is not a question of how much money is involved, to me. It is a question of what is right. I understand my duty and my calling to be to work for the right; and on the liquor question I expect to work until success shall eventually come, for truth shall triumph as sure as God lives. The right side of this question is plain to every Latter-day Saint and to every rightly inclined individual. No one can speak in defense of the saloon if he regards the welfare of mankind, for it does no good, and it does incalculable harm. There can be no doubt of this. Every year that this nation lives, there is a sacrifice of its citizenship to the extent of 100,000 men upon the altar of intemperance — 100,000 men's lives lost every year by reason of over indulgence in intoxicating liquors. Talk about conservation! The Department of Agriculture spends millions annually to teach men how to produce and preserve the right kind of stock, such as hogs, horses, and sheep. It spends millions in the conservation of our streams and our forests, very wisely too. But scarcely anything has been done with respect to the conservation of the greatest resource of all, man himself. And the greatest enemy which he has is intemperance. While perhaps the nation is not prepared to take hold of this question by federal law, it is only the principles which we are now pursuing which will eventually lead to the enactment of a measure which will effect the destruction of this evil. Until we do this, we shall not have succeeded in our mission as a nation. The world has seen nation after nation sink into oblivion from all their glory and achievement, despoiled and destroyed by intemperance, and immorality so closely allied that you cannot possily separate them.  
  
I urge the Latter-day Saints, wherever they live, to observe the law of God first, and let each one make himself one who does not need the enactment of a prohibitory law respecting liquor, or the adoption of a local option law to turn his city or his county dry. Make of yourself a temperate man, not only temperate, I will say — a total abstainer. That is the higher standard. And then help your weaker brother who may not be so able to overcome the evil. It reminds me of Carlyle's philosophy, "Let him who would reform the world make himself an honest man, and he will be sure there is one rascal less in the world." It is a good thing to start with number one. I have heard of advocates of prohibition who, when they feared their county was going dry, would lay in a large store of liquor. Such men do not help the cause. Such hypocritical examples are injurious to the case. Now we have an opportunity, next June, of deciding what we shall do with respect to this important question; and I believe the position of the Latter-day Saints may be vindicated upon this question. It is strange how every age has its opportunity to decide between good and evil. This may not be, in the minds of some, the great question which I believe it to be; but I do not recall a more serious question coming before any nation than that which we have to combat today. You remember the opportunity came to ancient Israel to decide whether they should receive Him who was sent to them. They pushed Him aside with open palms, and said they would not have Him. Said that He admitted Himself to be king of the Jews. And when Pilate, sitting in the seat of justice asked and plead with the Jews, "Whom will you have released unto you?" According to the law, one prisoner might be released unto them anually. "Whom will you have released unto you, Barabbas or Jesus?" The Jews, stiff-necked and hard of heart, said, you remember: "Release unto us Barabbas. As for this man, crucify him, crucify him. Let his blood be upon us and upon our children after us. Release unto us Barabbas." It is not a question of as great moment, perhaps; but it is a similar question, and we as a people have to decide this day whom we shall have in this year of grace, the year 1911, whether we shall have the Christ or Barabbas; and God give us the wisdom and the courage, "God give to us the Christ whom we desire above all else in the world."  
  
May God's peace be upon the Latter-day Saints, and His choice blessings upon the servants of the Lord, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
