26
Second Overflow
09 04 1911 
Elder Charles W. Penrose. 
25
101-102

None

Closing exhortation. — Timely advice. Testimony of the Truth.  
  
I thank the choir of the Farmers ward for their presence with us this afternoon, and their excellent musical services.  
  
I am glad to meet with so many of my friends of the Latter-day Saints in conference, and I hope they will take with them to their homes the spirit that has pervaded the conference, and particularly I commend to them the advice given this morning, and again this afternoon, in regard to the 27th day of June, 1911, the anniversary of the death of our martyred Prophet. On that occasion the people of Utah will have the privilege of showing by their votes whether they are in favor of the traffic in alcoholic stimulants which cause so much misery, or whether they desire good regulations, peace and order in their respective communities, and I endorse what has been said concerning this subject. It is a matter of religion with us, not a mere political affair — one of party in any sense of the word; people of all parties and sects and persuasions, and religions can manifest on that day what their sentiments are with respect to this great question affecting all humanity.  
  
Brethren and sisters, take with you to your respective fields of labor and to your homes, wherever you reside, the spirit of this conference. And when the time comes show by your acts and by your votes whether you are on the Lord's side or on the other. You cannot be on both sides at the same time.  
  
I bear testimony to this congregation, as I have had the privilege of doing many times in years that are past, that God, the Maker of the universe, is our Father, the Father of our spirits; that Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified on Mount Calvary, is His Son, in the body as well as in the Spirit, and that He is our Savior. I bear testimony that Joseph Smith, who was slain for the word of God and the testimony which he bore, was a Prophet of the Most High,raised up to usher in the last and greatest of dispensations. I bear testimony that the covenants that we have made with God to serve Him and keep His commandments are recorded on high, and we shall have to meet them on the great day of accounts. If we fail to keep them we cannot obtain the fulness of the blessing of the gospel of peace. If we live according to the principles that God has revealed through that great Prophet, this Church will overcome the world, the flesh and the devil and establish the kingdom of the Most High which will prevail over all the earth, and they who are faithful unto the Lord will obtain the great reward. Thrones, dominions, principalities, and powers and exaltation in worlds without end shall be the portion of the true the faithful Saints of the living God.  
  
May the Lord help us to be faithful in all things and to overcome all things that we may inherit all things in His glorious presence. Amen. 
