27
Outdoor
09 04 1911
Elder Ben E. Rich.
54
102-105

None 

None

(President Eastern States Mission) 

I feel quite at home in speaking in the open air. There are very few States in the Union in which I have not spoken in the open air. As a missionary that has spent some sixteen or seventeen years in the missionary field, it has been my lot to bear witness to the cause which we represent, many times; and I think there is no place where an elder can speak where he enjoys more of the Spirit of God than when speaking in the open air. The cause that we represent should be very near and dear unto us, and if we thoroughly understand it, it seems to me as though nothing but going back into darkness will cause us to lose the faith.  
  
An impression was made upon my mind while we were singing the opening hymn. My mind reverted back to the history of this Church, and a panorama of the trials and the tribulations seemed to pass before my gaze. I am reminded of the hardships passed through by the Prophet Joseph, and the weapons which were used against him in trying to destroy him during the early history of this Church. I recall the trials in Manchester, the trials in Kirtland, the tribulations in Missouri, the hardships passed through by the Saints in all those places, which finally terminated, so far as the mortal days of the Prophet Joseph Smith were concerned, in the tragedy at Carthage. I remember also the history of the trials of the Saints, our fathers and our mothers, in Nauvoo, and after that time, when they were driven from their homes there, and finally, with that unfaltering faith they had in the leader God gave to them to take the place of the Prophet Joseph, they set their faces toward the setting sun, to go into the unknown west. It was when they were ready for this journey that President Brigham Young called William Clayton to him, and said to him, "Brother Clayton, I want you to prepare a hymn that the Saints can sing while we are camped upon the prairies, and wherever God will lead us, something that will give them hope." And Brother Clayton went away, and, I think, in the course of a couple of hours, he had not only composed the hymn, but he had set it to music, and he sang it before that great leader, Brigham Young. Now, with this little piece of history, knowing how this hymn had its origin, so that you will appreciate it more, I am going to read the hymn that was sung at the opening of this meeting:  
  
"Come, come ye saints, no toil nor labor fear,  
 
But with joy wend your way;  
 
Though hard to you this journey may appear,  
  
Grace shall be as your day.  
 
"Tis better far for us to strive,  
 
Our useless cares from us to drive.  
 
Do this, and joy your hearts will swell —  
 
All is well! all is well!  
  
"Why should we mourn, or think our lot is hard?  
  
'Tis not so; all is right!  
 
Why should we think to earn a great reward,  
  
If we now shun the fight.  
 
Gird up your loins, fresh courage take,  
 
Our God will never us forsake;  
 
And soon we'll have this truth to tell —  
 
All is well! all is well!  
  
"We'll find the place which God for us prepared,  
 
Far away in the West,  
 
Where none shall come to hurt or make afraid;  
 
There the saints will be blessed.  
 
We'll make the air with music ring,  
 
Shout praises to our God and King;  
 
Above the rest these words we'll tell —  
 
All is well! all is well!  
  
"And should we die before our journey's through,  
  
Happy day! all is well!  
 
We then are free from toil and sorrow too;  
  
With the just we shall dwell.  
 
But if our lives are spared again  
 
To see the saints their rest obtain,  
 
O how we'll make this chorus swell —  
 
All is well! all is well."  
  
What do you think, my brethren and sisters, of the faith of that band of pioneers? This country was unknown to them. They believed that God had given to President Young a vision of the future home for the Latter-day Saints. They had faith in their leader, and they were willing to go into the unknown with him; and felt that if they died before their journey was through, all was well with them. We are the children, the grand-children, we are the offspring of men and women to whom this gospel was carried in various parts of the world; and what a debt of gratitude do we owe to their bravery, their faith, their integrity to the cause of God! God is no respecter of persons, and He is as near to us as He was to them. The faith that God planted within their hearts. He is willing to plant within our hearts, if our works are like unto the works of our fathers. There is a price set upon every blessing from God, but it is not measured in dollars and cents, it is within the reach of all alike; and the price consists in works, works of righteousness. There should be no one to whom the gospel has been brought, and whose condition has been bettered thereby, who should ever forget the faith, the integrity, the honesty, the bravery, of those who had such confidence in Brigham Young as to follow him into these valleys of the mountains.  
  
It is sung that "God moves in a mysterious way,His wonders to perform," and perhaps if all had been peace with our fathers and our mothers, all of the purposes of God would not have been fulfilled so quickly, so minutely, as they have been fulfilled, notwithstanding the trials and tribulations that came upon our people. "It needs be that offenses come, but woe be unto them by whom they come." The offenses that did come hastened the fulfillment of the revelations of God Almighty.  
  
There stood upon the earth a great and mighty Prophet of God seven hundred years before the birth of Christ, whose prophecies were translated into different languages over three hundred years before His birth, in the city of Alexandria. God gave to him a vision of the future, and a vision of that building yonder (the temple) showing him that the Mountain of the House of the Lord would be established in the tops of the mountains, and that people from almost every nation upon the earth would say, as they are now saying, "Come, and let us go up to the Mountain of the Lord, to the House of the God of Jacob, where we can learn of His ways, and walk in His paths." That great miracle, if you are minded to call it a miracle, the fulfilling of that prophecy, was brought about largely by our people being forced to come up into the tops of the mountains.  
  
When we speak of miracles, we call them miracles, but, when rightly understood, there is no such thing as miracles. We call those things miracles simply because we do not now understand the law by which they are brought about. It is true, upon the rough seas, the Savior of mankind stretched forth His hand and said to the angry waters, "Peace, be still," and the waters were calmed, and the ship was safe, but the one who uttered these words was the King of heaven and earth, to whom all power had been given, and when He commanded the intelligence of the winds: listen and obey! and the waters became calmed, it was more the principle of obedience that brought about the calmness of the sea. We plant the grape vine, we pour water upon the ground; it goes into mother earth; creeps up through the sap of the vine, it finds its way into the bud of the flower, and then into the berry, the grape; it is then crushed, and other elements work upon it, and we have the wine. But, when they filled the pots with water at the" behest of Jesus of Nazareth, and He commanded, all the necessary elements went into the water, and turned the water into wine, the seeming miracle was done by Divine authority, by obedience to that Being to whom was given all power over the elements, and who could, if He had so desired, have summoned the armies of heaven to His defense. "The glory of God is intelligence." "No man can be saved in ignorance," and this faith that God has given to us is intended to exalt us in the presence of God, with intelligence, so that we can know, and control, even as our Elder Brother was able to control, while He was upon the earth. Faith will take immortal men into the presence of God; not only that, but will make them like unto God, exalt them as kings and priests in the celestial kingdom of our heavenly Father. The race is not given to the swift, but to him who endures to the end.  
  
I see before me many elders who have labored under my direction, both in the Southern States and in the Eastern States, during the period of thirteen years that I have presided in these missionary fields, and I wonder if your enthusiasm is the same as it was when you were standing in the open air, preaching the gospel of life and salvation. Do not let it cool off. Do not be afraid. The work of God is true, and it is going to rule this universe some time. It has been decreed by the Almighty that sometime the earth and the fulness thereof "will be given to the Saints of the most high God, and they shall possess it forever and forever." I did not receive my testimony from men; I know it with every fibre of my being. When I go over on the other side, I want to meet my parents who were among the pioneers of 1847, and not be ashamed when I look them in the face. I want to keep the faith as they kept the faith. You keep it as your fathers and mothers kept it, and remember that God Almighty brought our fathers to this country, therefore we are indebted to Him for every blessing that we enjoy today.  
  
May God bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
