28
Outdoor
09 04 1911
Elder Junius F. Wells. 
70
105-107

None

None

In looking about from this temporary stand over the heads of this large assembly, my soul rejoices in reflections that are started by listening to what we have heard of the coming of the pioneers, of the faith that led them to these valleys of the mountains, and that has converted us, and brought us here from the various parts of the earth to worship God, to participate in this conference, and to enjoy the spirit of it.  
  
In my youth, in my childhood, I played upon this temple block. I recall it before any buildings that we now see were erected upon it, although the house of the Lord, the temple of our God, was commenced before the time that my memory goes back to. The great tabernacle — I recall well when it was being built, and the old tabernacle in the corner, that stood before it, and ten or fifteen rods northwest from here, the old bowery, which stood before it. In it was held the nearest thing to an open air meeting that I was acquainted with in my childhood. In the old bowery, I remember listening to the words of President Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball, and other leaders of the Church. I have lived to see, since those days, which were in the beginning of things in this great city of Salt Lake, the wonderful development and progress that has taken place. I have lived to see the fulfillment of the prophecies of God concerning the growth of this people; to see the triumph of truth over error; to see the mercies and blessings and support of our Father in heaven, in preserving His people in possession of this land, and in control of its greater interests.  
  
I rejoice when I look upon these buildings and contemplate the spirit and feeling that led President Young to erect the tabernacle, that there might be room in which the Saints could assemble to worship God at our conferences. When I think of this glorious house of the Lord, in which the ordinances of everlasting life can be performed for the living and the dead; when I look yonder and see one of the finest educational institutions that there is in the west, a creation of our faith and the labors of our hands; when I see, in fulfillment of one of the earliest revelations given in the dispensation of the fulness of times, this splendid hostlery that has been reared, a monument to the good taste, the hospitality, and the good will of our people toward mankind; because it was said we should have in Zion a house in which the stranger might be received and entertained within our gates, into which the noble, the great, and the learned of the world should come, and should receive of our hospitality. I am happy when I think of this great institution across the road, the largest and finest publishing and printing establishment in the west. Out from its presses go tens and hundreds of thousands of copies of sacred and glorious works, bearing testimony to mankind of the intelligence, the faith, and devotion of the people, whose lives were planted in these valleys of the mountains in the days when they were desert, and of their determination to be in the forefront of all things that make for the comfort, happiness, intelligence, education, development, and progress and uplift of mankind. I am glad that we have upon the site of the old school house, where I first went to school, the Vermont building, the Deseret Museum, now being prepared so that you can go there and see an accumulation of some of the most wonderful things that have ever been discovered in these mountains.  
  
We have all about us the evidence of God's help, of His support, of His good will towards us. We have survived the onslaught of every influence and power that could be raised against us, as a people, to prevent the achievement that you see here manifested in these structures round about you. The very first thing that I remember in my life was standing by my mother's knee in an open air meeting at the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon, while my father read before the congregation assembled there, the announcement that an army, the army of the United States, was marching toward us to destroy the Mormon people. I remember, five years after that, scurrying caticorner across this block, from the old school in Union Square, where Brother Rich and Judge Smith, and some others, I see here, used to go, because the guns of an army were being trained upon our homes and the home of the President of the Church. I recall the efforts that have been made by legislation and by extra judicial procedure to hinder the progress of this work, to embarrass and hurt, and if possible, destroy, those who are engaged in it; and how futile all these efforts have been. Today, while we may not be the most numerous, and it is not our destiny ever to become so, we occupy a unique position before mankind. We are setting an example of the best that there is in the world, and right here in Salt Lake City, in spite of all opposition, in spite of the incoming of wealth from the outside, from wealth that our people have produced from within, we have thus far maintained the lead. We have, as I have stated, the best churches, the best hospital, the best school-houses and gymnasium, the best hotel, the best printing establishment, and the best of everything that makes for religion, for social progress and welfare, for education, and for the entertainment and happiness of the people.  
  
Now, if God will continue to be as good to us as He has been in the past, we should be able to maintain this position with respect to our fellow men. It is my testimony, and my belief, that it is the destiny of the Latter-day Saints, to occupy that position in the lead, and that God has called us by His own voice to take the lead; to teach mankind the truth, to declare that He is, and that He loves His children, and is concerned with respect to them; and that He calls them from the length and breadth of the earth to come up to Zion, that they may learn of His ways and be taught the truth, the everlasting truth, that will save their, souls.  
  
May He grant to us, every one of us, the opportunity of bearing the testimony that is within us of the divinity of the work that we are engaged in. I know, as Brother Rich has said he knows, in every fibre of my being, that the truth has been taught by the leaders of Israel: that the Prophet Joseph was called of God; that Brigham Young was a man of God, a prophet, a seer, a revelator, to this people; a mighty leader, made great and powerful and influential, by the blessing and inspiration of the Holy Spirit. I know the men that have succeeded these in the leadership of this Church, have been men of God; and that there never breathed a truer, more faithful, devoted, sincere, honest, servant of Almighty God than Joseph F. Smith, the present president of this Church.  
  
My brothers and sisters, my friends, the truth that has been given to us has made us free. We stand here, and before all men, delivered from the shackles of traditions that are false, made acquainted with the mind and will of the Almighty, concerning us; knowing that we may walk according to His will and live according to His design and purpose in placing us upon this earth; and that we may assist in bringing to pass the redemption of mankind and the establishment of truth and righteousness that is destined to prevail over the earth.  
  
May God grant that our testimonies and our faith may ever increase within us, for Jesus' sake. Amen. 
