29
Outdoor
09 04 1911
Elder Joseph B. Keeler. 
71
107-109

None

None

(President of Utah Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters and friends, this is a new experience to me, but I trust that I shall have sufficient of the Spirit of the Lord that I may say a few things that will be of interest and comfort to those who are assembled here this afternoon.  
  
I was reminded, when listening to the brethren speak, of a word that is set forth in the Doctrine and Covenants, in the first revelation, wherein the Lord is giving the reason for His Church to be organized in these, the latter times. Speaking of the commandments, these commandments that are in this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and why they were given to His servant, Joseph Smith, he says, among other things, "That every man might speak in the name of God, the Lord, even the Savior of the world; that faith might increase in the earth." That is one of the reasons for this great latter-day work, that faith may be increased in the earth, because, without faith it will be impossible for men and women to be saved in His kingdom. The brethren have referred to the many and mighty works that have been performed by the Latter-day Saints, and to the words of prophecy, wherein they look forward to the budding up of a great commonwealth in this western country. They have referred to material works, wherein these great structures that have been referred to, have been reared. Now, why all of these things, is more than we can tell upon this occasion — why all of these things? They have been accomplished because of the faith that was generated in the hearts of men and women, our parents who came here, who started out, many of them, without knowing whither they were going or where their feet would find rest, and came here because they had implicit faith in God — the very thing that God desired that men should have — that faith should increase in the earth. Now, what we behold today, what we see and understand of this great work, is a result of the faith of those who have lived before us, and those who are living now. How shall we, the posterity of these pioneers, how shall we, men and brethren, increase our faith, that we, likewise, may accomplish something in the earth toward our present, our temporal and our spiritual salvation. We will get this faith by living the gospel as it has been revealed to us in these latter times. We will generate faith sufficient that we will be enabled to accomplish that which God desires us to accomplish, we who are living in this day and generation.  
  
The mind of man is peculiar, it is wonderful. It is past finding out how it is that it can be wrought upon by the Power from on high, that it can accomplish things that are wonderful in the sight of men. If men would live and women would live day by day, as best they know how, as they associate one with another, in their various walks, in their various businesses in life, if they, under the light of the Spirit of Truth, would seek to do, day by day, that which their hands find to do, and that which their hearts desire to do, they would generate this faith, they would build it up in their hearts, and they would become a mighty power.  
  
Brother Wells referred to the fact that this people are few. There is an old prophet in the Book of Mormon, who looked down to our time, before the coming of the Savior, and noted that the Church was small, its members were few, but there was a mighty power with the few.  
  
My brethren and sisters, we have one of the grandest opportunities that was ever presented to a people upon the face of the earth, to learn the things of God. The Lord has made Himself manifest to this people, and, although their numbers are few, they have the power, through God, within them, to accomplish everything that has been promised that the people of God should accomplish in these latter times. This Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is broad enough, high enough, deep enough to comprehend all things, and to save every man and every woman that has come upon the face of the earth; not only those that have lived when the oracles of God have been upon the earth, but those who have died and passed away. This gospel will be preached to all, to every creature, everyone will have an opportunity to accept or reject the principles of the gospel.  
  
There stands before us a monument of God's goodness, that wonderful temple, in which the ordinances for the dead may be accomplished. There is only a little beginning in that work. The dead are being redeemed, children are being united to parents, husbands and wives are being united in eternal relationship, and the great links of kinship from Adam down to the present time are being welded. Those who have passed away at times when darkness has been upon the earth, and gross darkness found in the minds of the people, will have u chance to hear the everlasting gospel, the gladsome sound, and embrace the same; and the work will be done for them here upon the earth by their children whose hearts will be turned to them, and there will be great rejoicing in heaven and on earth.  
  
Now, there have been committed to the Latter-day Saints these precious principles, principles of salvation, which are to make happy all of the children of men, and place them in a position to enjoy all that is possible for their souls to enjoy, and this all has come about by the goodness of our God.  
  
I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters and friends,that this is the work of Almighty God. I know it; no man has told me, I know it for myself, and not for another. I bear testimony that inasmuch as we will be obedient to the principles of the gospel, as taught by the Latter-day Saints, we shall come to a knowledge of these things. We need not depend upon any man for this knowledge, each will know it for himself, and know it better than anyone can tell him. I testify to you that the living oracles are upon the earth today, that President Joseph F. Smith is really and truly a prophet of God, and president of God's work here upon the earth. May this testimony be in the hearts of every one of you, my brethren and sisters and friends, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
