31
Outdoor
09 04 1911
Elder Benjamin Goddard. 
63
111-112

None

None

(Supt. of Bureau of Information.) 

I am glad to meet this large assembly here, and to join with you in the spirit of praise that goes out from every heart for that which God has accomplished for Israel. I realize that you have already expressed your feelings in the song of praise, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." I believe that you meant every word that you sang, that you are grateful unto God for every revelation that He has given, for having sent unto us a Prophet in the person of Joseph Smith, and that unto that Prophet He gave sacred revelations and has given unto us also light and wisdom, and made known unto us the will of God.  
  
I rejoice that God and His Son, Jesus Christ, vouchsafed to appear unto the youthful Prophet, and established in his young heart the truth that a mighty, a marvelous, a wonderful work, was about to come forth among the children of men. I rejoice with you that God fulfilled His promise, that Moroni, the prophet, appeared, giving unto Joseph the Prophet sacred records pertaining unto the ancient people who lived upon this continent; that subsequently other messengers appeared, and made clear unto the Prophet's mind every principle pertaining to the restoration of the gospel in the latter days.  
  
We thank God that He has blessed the efforts of our prophets, that He has blessed our elders, our "boys" who have gone forth in weakness unto the nations of the earth, and that He has made them mighty in gathering in scattered Israel. I rejoice in the opportunities given to spread the truth upon this sacred block, and to correct the many misrepresentations that are made concerning us. Some people delight in telling stories which mislead the visitors.  
  
Two weeks ago, a gentleman accompanied a few tourist friends upon this block, and declared: Why, the "Mormons" believe that the statue Moroni, on the top of the temple, in a very short time will come down and minister unto the children of men — that the bronze image will come to life. Of course, it afforded us opportunity to declare the truth. We say that the statue represents Moroni, the angel of the last dispensation: and that Moroni lives. He lives now. He appeared, a resurrected being, unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, and declared unto him that the time had already come when the records of the people who lived upon this continent should be brought forth. We are pleased when we have such an opportunity of declaring more forcibly the truth, that this is the work of God, that the angel, Moroni, actually lives now, and has ministered in our day.  
  
Other misrepresentations are made regarding our sacred temple, and we have opportunity of explaining the work associated with salvation of the dead; and that in accordance with that which God has revealed, our people go there and are baptized for their dead, that they might live: for we are seeking to save souls, not to destroy them. We bear testimony to all, to every nation, kindred, tongue and people that our work is for the salvation of souls, and for the redemption of the living and the dead. It is the plan of salvation. God has revealed it, and as He gives us strength, we will declare it. "This gospel of the kingdom must be preached as a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come."  
  
May God help us to be true, unto that which God has given, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 