36
Afternoon
09 04 1911
Auditors' Report. 
10
126

None

None

Elder Heber J. Grant read the report of the auditing committee of the Church, which was as follows:  
  
Salt Lake City, Utah, April 5, 1911. President Joseph F. Smith and Counselors:  
  
Dear Brethren — The undersigned committee appointed to audit the books and accounts of the Church, have completed their labors, and have to report that they have examined and audited the books of the various departments and offices to whom are entrusted the collection, care and distribution of the income of the Church, and, commencing with the accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust, which as you are aware, cover the bulk of the concentrated income and disbursement of the income of the Church, we are pleased to report were found in excellent shape from an accounting standpoint, and that all receipts and disbursements appear accurately entered on the books. We also found the books and accounts of the Presiding Bishop's office as heretofore, in an excellent and accurate condition. When you bear in mind that this office has to deal with some 62 stakes, 700 wards, and 21 missions, not to mention the great number of accounts of the various auxiliary organizations of the Church, you can well understand the great volume of business transacted in the Presiding Bishop's department; and it is a pleasure to say that this great complex and voluminous amount of business is economically, carefully and correctly entered in the books of this office, and that we found everything in a satisfactory condition. This office also collects and enters on proper books and records a large amount of statistical matter, not having to do with financial matters, but pertaining to Church activities, which we found very valuable and interesting, and we commend these to your consideration.  
  
Very respectfully, submitted, your brethren,  
  
W. W. Riter, 

August W. Carlson, 

John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft. 

General Auditing Committee of the Church.  
 
On motion, the report of the Auditing Committee was accepted, and approved, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 
