38
Afternoon
09 04 1911
AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 
33
131-132

None

None

Elder Hyrum M. Smith presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows:  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
John Henry Smith, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.  
  
Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles.  
  
As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins and Joseph F. Smith, Jr.  
  
John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church.  
  
The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators.  
  
First Seven Presidents of Seventies; Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young.  
  
Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors.  
  
Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-in-Trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder.  
  
Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, and Joseph F. Smith. Jr., Assistant Historians.  
  
As members of the General Church Board of Education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman.  
  
Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education.  
  
Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools.  
  
Board of Examiners for Church Schools: Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young.  
  
Auditing Committee: William W. Riter, August W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, and Heber Scowcroft.  
  
Tabernacle Choir: Evan Stephens, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, Librarian; and all the Members.  
  
Duncan M. McAllister, as Clerk of the Conference.  
  
Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference.  
  
President Joseph F. Smith, after announcing the commencement of organ recitals in the Tabernacle, said, "These will be free as usual. I do not think any church in the world gives to the world and to the members of the church more free literature, more free art, or more free gospel than does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints."  
  
Folowing which President Smith said: "It is also proposed that Brother A. William Lund be sustained as an assistant historian." Carried. 