8
Morning
07 04 1911
Elder George F. Richards. 
28
41-45

None

Episcopal Bishop D. S. Tuttle's tribute to the "Mormons." — Personal testimony concerning integrity of Church authorities. — The Church should not be judged by actions of some wayward members.  
  
We have heard, during this conference, many testimonies and some statistics in evidence of the faithfulness and the goodness of the Latter-day Saints. I have another witness and testimony to present to the Latter-day Saints, this morning, a clipping from this morning's paper. It is so refreshing to hear, from the lips of a minister of the gospel in the world, good words spoken of the Latter-day Saints, and especially out in the world where it could not be charged they were for the ears of this people. I felt to appreciate this testimony and to read it in your presence:  
  
"Pays High Tribute to the Mormons They are Among Best People in America, "Says Episcopal Bishop Tuttle.  
  
"Special to the Herald Republican.  
  
New York, April 6, 1911. — Daniel Sylvester Tuttle, presiding bishop of the American Episcopal Church, preached today in Saint Clement's P. E. Church, before a large congregation. The church's mission work was his text. In 1867, immediately after the Civil War, he said, I was sent by the Episcopal Church as a missionary to the Mormons in the state of Utah. I can say, without exaggeration, that the Mormons are among the heartiest and best people in America, and are known in the West as kind-hearted and pleasing in manners. In Utah I had a class of boys and girls which was instrumental in giving me the idea of how essential the young folks are in building up the church of the future."  
  
I desire to avail myself, my brethren and sisters, of this opportunity of bearing testimony to the truth of the things we have heard during the several sessions of this conference. I know that they are true; and that they have been prompted by the Spirit of the Lord, and by that Spirit I know that they are true; and I feel thankful that they have found a ready response in my soul. I would make the sentiments and truths expressed my sentiments on this occasion. I am sure there is conviction in the hearts of all those who heard the words of our beloved president, in the opening session of this conference, for his words had no uncertain sound or meaning. There is no equivocation nor ambiguity either in the words spoken or in the spirit which actuated them. I rejoice that God has given to the Latter-day Saints a measure of His Holy Spirit by which, when we hear these things, we can determine and know whether they are of God or whether they are of man.  
  
I bear my testimony to the faithfulness and devotion of the authorities of the Church, and of the Latter-day Saints — during the past five years, I have been very intimately and closely associated with the First Presidency and the Twelve. Every week, when I have been within reach, I have attended, with them, solemn meetings of prayer and counsel for the welfare of the Church and of the Latter-day Saints, and I have been with these men in visiting the stakes of Zion. I have heard their testimonies, I know their lives, and I have been convinced, because of this more intimate association, which I have had with these general authorities of the Church, during the past five years, that my judgment and conclusions formerly reached concerning them, and their integrity, were correct, that they are indeed righteous men of God, I do know that they are. Concerning our president, who is guardian of the means, the tithings of the Church, as trustee-in-trust, I know that he does guard the tithings of this people with a jealous care, jealous for the Church and for the Latter-day Saints. I know that he is not extravagant or unwise in expending those means, and that he does not consent to their expenditure only when the recommendations therefor are indorsed by his brethren. I know him to be honest; I know him to be a pure man, a man who is perfectly trustworthy; and I know that his counselors, and the twelve, and all these general authorities are men of the same kind; that their hearts and souls are wrapped up in this work, that they seek the welfare of the kingdom of God and of His people, and the salvation of the souls of men, before everything else; they sacrifice all personal interests for the cause of truth. This is my testimony concerning these men.  
  
I rejoice in the testimony we have just heard, in the singing, and in the prayers. I am reminded, especially, of the most excellent prayer offered this morning, and particularly that part of the prayer wherein our Father in heaven was petitioned to allow nothing to come between the Latter-day Saints and the authorities of the Church, to destroy their confidence. I see in this congregation, and have seen in the various congregations of the Saints, during this conference, representatives from our colonies in Mexico, from our stakes in Canada and the stakes in Arizona, the most remote stakes in the Church, and various other stakes throughout the Church. I would that all the Latter-day Saints could have been here, and could have heard and felt what we who have been privileged to be in attendance at these meetings have heard and felt, for I feel that their confidence in the authorities of the Church would have been strengthened thereby. I feel that that is what is needed today, since enemies are assailing the leaders of the Church and would make the people of the world, including Latter-day Saints, believe that our leaders are insincere, that they are immoral, that they are everything but what the Saints believe and really know them to be. To hear the voices and feel the spirits of these men, I believe, is convincing to the Latter-day Saints, although it may not be to those of the world who are not in possession of the Holy Ghost, not having yielded obedience unto the principles and ordinances of the gospel that would entitle them to that most choice gift.  
  
In considering the statistics, yesterday, I thought of the devotion of the Latter-day Saints in the payment of their tithings and offerings. With the proceeds, the tithings of the people, we heard what is being accomplished in the Church — not so much in detail what is being accomplished in the mission field, or in the Church schools in Zion, but what has been expended from the tithings of the people in the legitimate enterprises and avenues in which the tithings are directed. But the thought was this, in my mind — who provides and supplies these means? Why, these humble Latter-day Saints. Though there are some who are in very humble circumstances, I trust there are none really poor, or none who are suffering among us; there ought not to be; and we would charge the bishops of the wards that they see to it that there shall be none in want of the necessaries of life. Every man and woman, every individual who has contributed, who has paid a full tithing, has done his full quota in the great work of establishing and maintaining the Church schools, so far as the tithings of the people go in that direction. The same may be said with regard to the missionary work, and the maintaining of the poor, or for charitable purposes. The Lord will remember His people for their faithfulness, and will abundantly reward them with the things pertaining to this life and eternity. I admonish the Latter-day Saints to not tire but to continue on and on, and see to it that when we give our tithings that we give them ungrudgingly; that when we give our offerings our hearts go out therewith, that it may be counted unto us for rightousness, and that we may receive a blessing from the Lord.  
  
Now, I feel to say that we are a good people, but we are not perfect Latter-day Saints; and, until we attain perfection, we should continue to labor and strive to. overcome our imperfections, our weaknesses, and work the works of righteousness. There are some enrolled in the Church who are in such a condition, I am sorry to say, that were they outside of the Church they could not be admitted. The Lord has designated some of the qualifications which men and women should possess in order to become members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and here are some of those qualifications.  
  
"And again, by way of commandment to the church, concerning the manner of baptism of those who humble themselves before God and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, have a determination to serve Him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into the church."  
  
And I may say, and no others.  
  
There are some whose actions are such that we are convinced they do not possess the spirit of repentance, they have not broken hearts and contrite spirits before the Lord, and their conduct brings reproach on the Church. We sorrow at this condition, but what will you do? We are judged, as a people, largely, by the conduct of the adherents to this faith, and the doctrines of the gospel; so that no man claiming a standing in the Church is at liberty to disregard the commandments of the Lord, to be a drunkard, or to be immoral, or otherwise set a bad example. The lives of those who profess to be Saints should conform strictly to the precepts of the gospel, should be in complete harmony therewith. When people see those whose lives are not in harmony and not commendable, I would have them know, whether they be in the Church or out, that it is due to the weaknesses and fallibilities of mortal men and women, and no action or conduct of any individual, however high he may be in authority, can affect the infallibility of the Gospel, change the truth, or make the truth a falsehood, or render any ordinance of the gospel unnecessary. People ought not to reach wrong conclusions in judging the work of the Lord, and the people of the Lord, because of the unrighteous conduct of some individuals. It may be asked, why do you retain them as members of the Church? The only answer I have to make is this, Our mission is to save and not to destroy; and while they are members of the Church, we will labor for their reformation with a hope of bringing them, sometime, to repentance, and faithfulness in serving the Lord. That is our mission.  
  
I want to say to the Latter-day Saints, if you would sustain the president of this Church and his counselors, and all these general authorities, and those who preside over you in the stakes and wards, and in the various organizations of the Church, keep the commandments of the Lord and do your duties; that will sustain them best and give those officers the greatest joy and satisfaction, as it brings joy and satisfaction to the Lord to see His children serving him faithfully. As the Lord has said in a revelation, His heart rejoices when one is brought to repentance. Now, since there is no salvation in sin, and no forgiveness of sins except through repentance, therefore repentance is in order for us all. According to the word of the Lord, through John, "all are sinners;" of course, of different degrees of gravity, some in the commission of sin in wrong acts, and some through neglect of duty, as we have been told here already, "for he that knows to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin."  
  
I desire to call attention to this truth, that while some of us have grown in the Church, have overcome traditions and faults which we had in the world, and have devoted ourselves, in a measure, to the building up of the kingdom, since none of us are perfect there is room for advancement and progress, and all should labor, regardless of how high we have ascended the ladder towards perfection; we should still continue to climb; there is room for improvement for all. There are different sins, and there are different degrees of sin of the same kind. For instance, the word of the Lord has come to us that we must observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Some men disregard this commandment to the extent that they go to their fields and work upon the Sabbath day; some attend horse races, or theatres, or pleasure resorts, etc., on the Sabbath day. Others have advanced so far towards perfection in righteousness that they cannot look upon such conduct with toleration; it is sin and wickedness in their sight, and yet some of them, perhaps, will justify themselves in going out for a carriage ride, or an automobile ride, or perhaps remain at home on the Sabbath day, although the commandment is that we shall meet together, partake of the sacrament and worship the Lord our God. Some justify themselves in sitting down in idleness throughout the Sabbath day. We have all an opportunity to measure ourselves and see what we are, and how we compare with the standard given us by our great exemplar, the prototype to mankind, Jesus our Lord, and the doctrines which He taught. I exhort the Latter-day Saints to faithfulness, to be hearers of the word and doers also, and not hearers only, deceiving ourselves.  
  
Now, may the blessings of heaven rest upon you. I do feel the weight, the power and the blessing in the benediction pronounced by our beloved president, by virtue of his priesthood and authority, and in the name of Jesus Christ. I rejoice with you in it, and hope and pray that God will fulfill it to all unto the very letter, and save us in the end in His kingdom, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 
