17
Overflow
08 04 1906
Elder Rulon S. Wells. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice exceedingly in the labors that have been acomplished by the Latter-day Saints for the salvation of mankind. I reverence those men and women who are laboring for Zion and her interests and welfare, both at home and abroad. I do not believe there is anything else in all the world that will compare with the unselfish devotion shown by members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It has oft times been said that this is an individual work; there is something for each one to do. Ordinarily, in the world, we hear them speak of the clergymen and the laymen; sometimes. I wonder what they mean. I presume they mean that clergymen are those who advocate the doctrines of the gospel, who are preaching the word, and laboring in the vineyard of the Lord; and by the term laymen, I presume they mean those who lay down and do nothing in that line. I do not know whether that would be considered a correct interpretation, but that is the thought that comes to my mind; and I rejoice in the fact that we have no laymen, in that sense, among the Latter-day Saints, but that all are expected to labor for Zion and her interests. And what a grand labor it is that we are engaged in, a labor that our Father has imposed upon us for  GENERAL, CONFERENCE.  salvation of the souls of the children of men! What a noble work it is! What an army of laborers there are! We send forth a host of missionaries into various parts of the world, upon the island* of the sea, into foreign lands beyond the ocean, and also to the states and territories of our native land! Our sons and daughters are thus laboring for the salvation of the souls of men. Here at home we ^.re organized into various associations, quorums of the Priesthood, Stakes of Zion, Wards, Sunday Schools. Mutual Improvement associations, and all of the .various organizations that have been founded and established among the people that the-"- might be educated to labor for the salvation of souls. If there be one who is not engaged in some part of this work, he also ought to be given something to do, and a reproach is upon the Bishop for neglect of duty, unless it be, perhaps, that the unemployed one is not willing to engage in that labor. It seems to me that the work we have to perform is worthv of our best efforts and utmost energies, and when we engage in it we ought to labor with all our might. Unfortunately, we find some who go at this work in a half-hearted way, who treat it slightingly, and do not cheerfully give their best energies and efforts, who are dilatory and neglectful of the labor that has been assigned to him or her. That kind of labor is not satisfactory to the Lord, and will not be rewarded by Him. If you were to labor in some mercantile establishment with a view simply for putting in time, not giving your best thought and energy in performing your duties, your employer would not be satisfied, you would have your wages reduced, or possibly you might be dismissed from the service. I believe that our Father in heaven expects zealous, energetic work from those who are employed in His vineyard. 

We read in the scriptures: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and all other things shall be added unto you." Let us analyze this scripture, and see if we cannot  what the Lord expects of us. I think, if we will give it our attention for a few moments, we will come to the conclusion that He desires a great deal from us. As already stated. There are some who perform their work in a half-hearted way. Some young men engaged in Mutual Improvement association work will do a little, provided they easily find time to do it. They say, "I have got to earn my living, I have to work at that so many hours in the day, and when evening comes, if I am not too tired, and there isn't some amusement that I want to engage in, I will attend to the duties that have been assigned me, if I find enough time to spare." That is not the proper spirit of this work, and it is not satisfactory to our Father in heaven, who requires a great deal more at our hands. It is not seeking the Kingdom of God first, but is putting it second; it is contrary to the commandment of the Lord. On the other hand, we should ^feel that our first duty is to do that which the Lord requires of us. I should feel that, when a duty has been assigned to me, I will accomplish it if all else fails. I will labor, if need be, from early morning until late at night, until my body is weary; and when I have labored to do what the Lord has desired of me, and have accomplished that work, then, if I can find time to earn a living I will do it, but if I can't I will starve if need be. Now that is what I understand the Scripture quoted means. But I do not think that any laborer in Zion who pursues that policy needs to starve. We find that those men and women who are devoting their lives to the doing of their duties are not beggars, nor suffering with poverty. Here is the promise, if you will seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness all other things shall be added unto you. Have you faith in that? Do you believe that? If you do not, you do not believe in the promises of God. Now I hope no one will think I mean that he can justifiably neglect his daily vocation, and fail to provide for his family. That  one of the duties God requires of him; but I do say, and yet not I, but a greater than I has said, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness;" and that should govern the laborers for Zion, both at home and abroad. If we give the Lord that allegiance if we put Him and His kingdom first, and labor with an eye single to His glory, what a grand work will be accomplished by this magnificent organization which our Father has established upon the earth for the salvation of the whole world! We are not placed upon this earth simply to eke out an existence, to earn bread and butter, live a while and die. No, there is a grander and nobler purpose, that as, we come here upon this earth, obtain these tabernacles which the Lord designed should be His temples, and seek to cleanse and purify them, that we may be prepared for the great eternal life which is beyond. May the Lord help us to attain it, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
