19
Overflow
08 04 1906
Elder Seymour B. Young. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I have listened with very much satisfaction to the testimonies of my brethren, and have felt a thrill of divinity in their remarks. If I shall be favored with the Spirit of the Lord as they have been, I shall also be able to say something that may bring joy to my heart and to yours. Brother Roberts alluded to the condition of the Prophet Joseph when he besought the Lord with a full desire to know His mind and will, to be inspired with intelligence, light and knowledge, and his petiton Avas answered in full measure. The personal manifestation of Divinity, the 

Father and the Son, was a fulfillment of the promise that He would give liberally to those that seek Him with full purpose of heart. The divine personality of those heavenly beings came within the direct view and comprehension of this humble youth, and from them he received a message of eternal truth, yea, an inspiration, and his joy was great, and his heart full of satisfaction in contemplating this wonderful manifestation. How. truly great it was he did not fully realize at the time, but in his humility he was prepared to receive further light and knowledge. 

Three years passed away, we are informed in the history of this mighty event, and the Prophet was again inspired to seek the Lord with fervency, that his heart might be prepared for greater light, that the will of the Lord concerning himself and his future life, might be made known unto him. The Lord was again ready to answer that humble prayer, and He sent His servant, the Angel Moroni, to communicate with him, to inform him of certain mighty events that were to transpire in the near future pertaining to the welfare of the human family. This messenger also informed him of the existence of a sacred record, which record was engraven indelibly upon metallic plates, whose lustre had never been dimmed, whose beautiful characters had never been erased nor corroded by the elements or time, and had received perfect care which had preserved it with all its sacred Gospel principles. This heavenly being also gave him to understand that he would be an instrument in the hands of the Lord of revealing this great mystery for the benefit of his fellowmen, that he should have power to translate the rr-tord by the gift of God. The messenger also informed him that Elijah the Prophet should, at some future time, commit to him the keys that would unlock the prison house of the dead, and he should have power to minister for their redemption; for the keys that Elijah should bring would turn the hearts of the children to their , and the hearts of the fathers to their children, that when the Lord should come in His glory that He should find faith upon the earth, and the earth should not be smitten with a curse of unbelief. The young man was informed that he was to meet the messenger at the place where the records were concealed, once a year for the four succeeding years, to receive further instructions in regard to their translation, and to be reminded of the pi onuses of the Lord unto him. When the four years had expired, the Angel Moroni delivered the plates to Joseph, and the record was afterward duly translated for the benefit of the human family. 

In the early history of the Church, Kirtiand and the region round about became a Stake of Zion, and the Lord gave a revelation requiring the Saints to build a Temple at that place. If you will refer to the history of the Church, you will find that the people actually did accomplish that great work It was a stupendous work for them to undertake, the building: of a house of such magnitude, in the days of their poverty and distress. President Heber C. Kimball records in his journal as follows 

"The work that we did in the day time on the Temple walls, we stood guard over at night with our fire locks in our hands to prevent them from being torn down by our enemies, and yet amidst all this and the poverty of the Saints, and the fewness of their numbers, they accomplished this work, they finished this house and dedicated it to the Lord, and He accepted of that house." 

I refer you now to the 110th section of the Book of Covenants: 

"The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit before us. His eyes were as a flame of fire . . . and His voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah saying, I am the first and the last; I am He who liveth; I am He who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father . . . for behold, I have accepted this house and my name shall be here." 

What a glorious testimony. What a marvelous finale this was to the services of the dedication of that house. The Saints had faith, they believed He would accept of their labors, but w'hen He proclaimied before the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery that He had accepted that house, and that His name was to be inscribed thereon, how sublime must have been their feelings, and how great their joy when they were told of that wonderful manifestation, and heard those words of divine acceptance which had fallen from the lips of the Redeemer of the World. 

Now if you will again refer to the revelation you will find the following: 

"After this vision had closed another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the Prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us and said, Behold, the time is fully come which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he, Elijah, should be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the Avhole earth be stricken with a curse. Therefore, the kevs of this dispensation are committed into your hands, and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors." 

There was no baptismal font in the Kirtland temple, for the keys pertaining to the ordinances for the redemption of the dead were not committed to the Prophet until after that Temple was completed and dedicated. From that time until the present there has been a baptismal font placed in each Temple builded by the Latter-day Saints, in order that sacred ordinances might be performed for the living and for the dead. 

My brethren and sisters, "Mormonism" is the Gospel of peace, life and salvation. It has never been a Gospel of war or contention. Contention does not belong to the Spirit of the Gospel or the faith of the Saints; but evil and  exist in the world, and wherever it is manifest it is for the purpose of overthrowing the good, and this evil power has been fighting against the Latter-day Saints from the beginning, seeking to destroy the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Though harassed and hated the work has continued to prosper, and the Lord has established His marvelous work and wcnder in the earth. The saying of our Savior has been realized arid demonstrated, "The world hated me, therefore it hateth you." Yet the Lord so loved the world that He gave His beloved Son for its redemption. The mission of the Latter-day Saints is now and always has been to try to convince the world that it is better to serve God than to serve mammon. But there is no force, no coercion in this Gospel. The spirit of peace, and f gentle persuasion, and of love unfeigned is characteristic or' our leaders, and it is pre-eminently exemplified in all their teachings that they realize the truth of the doctrine that the powers of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the heavens, and if any man should desire to assume unrighteous dominion or exercise undue authority over his brethren, Amen to that man's Priesthood. The "Mormon" Elder, as he proclaims these grand principjes, also exemplifies the fact that he can call sinners to repentance, and teach them the better life, only by that spirit of gentle persuasion, which is so well expressed in the following lines: 

"Know then that every soul is free, To choose his life and what he'll be, For this eternal truth is given. That God will force no man to heaven. He'll call, persuade, direct aright. Bless him with wisdom, love and light In" nameless ways be good and kind. But never force the human mind." 

The choir and congregation sang, "O, say what is truth." 

Benediction by Elder Don C. Walker. Amen.
