20
Second Overflow
08 04 1906
Elder George C. Parkinson. 

(President of Oneida Stake.) 

My brothers and sisters, in attempting to say a few words this afternoon, I assure you I feel my weakness and inability, and trust I may be sustained by the same good spirit which has characterized this conference from the opening session. The Oneida Stake, ever which I have the honor to preside, is situated in Idaho. It occupies all that part of Cache "Valley which is north of the Utah line. 

In that Stake there are 17 regularly organized wards, with a population of 6,000. The wards, quorums, and auxiliary organizations are all, I believe, thoroughly organized. The people feel well in relation to their duties in tht; Church, and are, as a rule, availing themselves of the privileges and blessings to which they are entitled. The wards of the Oneida Stake are compact, I think the farthest distance across the stake, from north to south-, being about 20 miles. We are engaged largely in agriculture. Our part of the, country is developing and growing nicely. We are interested in the subject of irrigation, and have expended, within the last two years, upwards of $400,000 in the irrigation system, consisting of canals and reservoirs, which when completed, after an expenditure of another $100,000, will bring into a higher state of cultivation between 30,000 and 35,000 acres of good land. These are inducements to the homeseeker, those who are in search of good land at moderate prices; and we extend the invitation to all such to come and make their homes with us. We are  good meeting-houses ana school-houses, as well as other improvements of a public character. Oui people are thrifty. I think I am safe in saying that fully 90 per cent of all the people who reside within the Oneida. Stake are members of the Church. 

Our schools are in a very creditable condition. We have established an academy at Preston, the headquarters of the Stake. Th e home of this institution, a cut stone building, cost the people in the neighborhood of $50,000. It is attended today by about 300 students. The institution is offering courses in High school and Normal work, also manual training and missionary courses. I think it was announced at this conference that the Oneida stake has the credit of heading the list as to the number of young men taking the missionary course in the Church schools. We have 100 young men and young women engaged in the manual training division of the school, and they are doing very excellent work. The spirit of the institution is felt in every ward, and in every home, for good. It is turning out men and women qualified to take up the responsibilities of life, in the school room as teachers, the counting house, the carpenter shops, and young men are going from there into all parts of the world to carry the message of glad tidings to the nations. We have today in the neighborhood of 90 missionaries from Oneida stake in the world preaching the Gospel. This is a record of which we are proud. 

So far as I know, the people are united; they feel well, and are active in the discharge of their duties. The attention of the local authorities is occupied largely with the young people, especially those bearing the .Lesser Priesthood, in teaching, training and educating them along the lines of their duties in connection with the responsibilities of the Priesthood which they bear. It is a joy to me to associate with the Saints of God. I. am very grateful that I am considered worthy of a standing and membership in the midst of the Latter-day Saints. I am thankful that there has come to my understanding a knowledge of the Gospel, a testimony of its divinity, and I have no aim higher than to he faithful, to be constant in season and out in the discharge of duty, leading men and women, and especially the young people in our midst, in the right way. The work of the Lord is growing, it is becoming magnified and stronger day by day. It is not as some people uninterested in its success would make themselves believe, waning, losing prestige and strength in the world. On the contrary the work of the Lord is gaining ground at home in the stakes of Zion, and abroad in the world. I bear witness before this vast congregation that I know God lives. I know that the work in which we are engaged is the work of the Lord. I know that those who are sustained by the prayers and confidence of the Latter-day Saints as the authorities of the Church are inspired of God; they are endorsed by Him; they enjoy the inspiration of His Holy Spirit. It is a pleasure to me to listen to their teachings, to accept their counsel, to reduce it to practice in that which pertains to my interest in life. I pray that the Lord may bless and sustain them, and give them greater inspiration; and that He may bless His people. His cause; that the truth may be made known, and that the Church of Christ may have greater power, greater influence, greater prestige for good in the nations of the earth, as well as at home where it is more thoroughly established. May His peace and blessings be in our midst and abide with us always, is my prayer, in the name of Christ. Amen.
