21
Second Overflow
08 04 1906
Elder William Mclachlan. 

(President of Pioneer Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, in rising before you this afternoon, I desire that the Spirit of the Lord shall prompt the words that I shall utter. I have no desire to say anything to the people in and of myself, for I have found out by  that nothing but the Spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ can enlighten the minds of the children of men, and bless them permanently. 

There is a revelation in the Book of Doctrine & Covenants from which I shall read the first verse, contained in the ninety-third section: 

"Verily, thus saith the Lord, it shrill come to pass that every soul who forsaketh their sins and cometh unto rue and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am." 

This is a passage that has interested me very much of late. I have had a constant and increasing desire grow up in my heart to obtain the testimony that is promised unto those who keep the commandments of God, to behold the face of Him who came into ihe world in the meridian of time, and who did so much for you and for me. I desire to live in harmony with the Lord, so that I can receive, in His own due time, this testimony, that shall enable me to bear record of Him in truth. While I know by the revelation of the Spirit of God that this is His work, I also know that it has been promised in His word through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that the Second Comforter will come unto the Latter-day Saints who have kept the commandments of God, who have been steadfast in their faith in His work. 

I have never had any desire to criticise or find fault with those who preside over me. On the contrary, I have had a constant desire to yield intelligent obedience to their counsel and instructions, and to follow them sooner than I would follow my own inclinations, sooner than I would do my own will. I desire that this spirit shall increase within me while I live upon the earth, that I may be found faithful and true in every particular, valiant in defending the truth that God has revealed, and in sustaining it by practice in my own life. 

When I was a boy, about 19 years of age, I received a testimony of the  of this work, through obedience to the word of God. That testimony was given to me for my individual benefit, and I have found it a great blessing and comfort all through my life. Had it not been for this first testimony that God gave me in my youth, I do not know where I would have been today; but it has preserved me, it has kept me stable and true to His work, willing to obey and to carry out the counsels of His will; and I feel today more willing than I have ever done in my past life to do the will of the Lord in whatever service He requires of me. I trust, my brethren and sisters, that we will ever strive to overcome our weaknesses, and bring into subjection tu His will every inclination, every desire, every propensity or passion that would hinder the development of the powers He has implanted within us, not only for our own benefit but for the good and blessing . and salvation of the children of men. We have received the Holy Priesthood of the Son of God. That Priesthood twas given to you and to me for a purpose, not to gratify our own desires but to so live that the Priesthood should be magnified in the eyes of the people for the glory of our heavenly Father, the building up 01 His work, and the salvation of His children. That man who does the most good towards the salvation of his fellow men, that carries out the precepts of the Savior in this great and glorious work, is the on e that will be most approved by Heaven, because he hath assisted the Redeemer in accomplishing His purposes relative to His children. 

I do not desire to occupy more time this afternoon. I feel satisfied with my file leaders, with those that have been called to preside over us; I came, here in the days of President Brigham Young. I considered him one of the greatest men that I ever became acquainted with in my life. I see many things in his career, in his counsel, and in his life to admire today. So also those that have followed him, because of their fidelity and integrity and devotion to the work of the Lord. I love  associate with men who are true, who are obedient, who are humble, and who cultivate a spirit that is ready and willing to do the bidding of our Heavenly Father under all circumstances and conditions. 

That the blessing of the Lord may be upon this people, the Latter-day Saints, in all their abiding places throughout these mountain valleys, in all the different stakes in which they are located, I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen.
