23
Second Overflow
08 04 1906
Elder Solomon Hale. 

My brothers and sisters: I am afraid that you may not be able to hear me, for since I have reached the city of the Saints, I have been suffering with a very severe cold on my lungs; but I am pleased to make a few remarks and bear my testimony to the Gospel. It nvould be working a hardship upon me if I were to talk very long, but it is an easy matter for me to bear my testimony to the truth of the work. It has been 67 years since I became a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When I was in my youth I was acquainted with 

the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I was acquainted with his wife and family. I was also acquainted with the Patriarch, Hyrum, but not so intimately with him as I was with the Prophet Joseph. Since then it has been my happy lot to have been closely associated and personally acquainted with every one of the Presidents of the Church, from the time that the Prophet was martyred in Carthage jail up toi the uresent. I knew Joseph F. Smith in Nauvoo, and his brother, the Patriarch, John. I have been acquainted with them and know their worth, their integrity, their faithfulness, and I pray God to bless them. He has guarded and directed them. Now we have among the leaders in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints two more of the Smith family. We had, in my youth, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Patriarch Hyrum Smith. Now the Prophet, Seer and Revelator of th<> Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is Joseph F. Smith, and John Smith is the presiding Patriarch of the Church. I feel well in the Gospel. I bear my testimony to you, my brothers and sisters, in~ humility, that I know the work of God is true. From the early days of my youth I have always sustained the work. God knows my heart, He knows that I never betrayed the Prophet or people of God. I have known them, I have prayed for them. I have traveled with President Young thousands of miles. I know his worth. I know the worth of these two Kimball brothers here, and their father, Heber C. Kimball. I know that he was a man of God and a Prophet of God, as much as any one ever raised up in this dispensation of the fullness of times. May God bless and help us to be faithful and true to one another, be true to the Priesthood, true to God our Eternal Father, that we may claim every blessing He has in store ror us as faithful sons and daughters, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
