24
Second Overflow
08 04 1906
Elder J. Golden Kimball. 

In standing before the Latter-day Saints this afternoon, I desire to say those things that are timely, and to speak under the influence of the Holy Spirit. Notwithstanding the seriousness of the occasion, having met as a part of the great Annual Conference, we need not pull long faces and put on an air of self righteousness, thinking it indicates faith and is more pleasing to the Lord. The Lord has said, "Cease from your light speeches, and excess of laughter," but He surely is pleased with pleasant countenances and a happy people, although wit and humor, may be out of place in houses of worship. I read somewhere the following: "Many persons who never had a bright idea in their heads, or a generous sentiment in their hearts, assuming an air of owlish wisdom, affect to disdain wit and humor, having never heard of the great truth enunciated by Charles Lamb: 'A laugh is worth a hundred groans in any market.' The idea is propagated that mutual dryness is indicative of wisdom." I realize that my reputation for wisdom has been greatly injured by repeating jokes in my public utterances, and that, because of my calling in the ministry, I should, in the estimation of some people, be as solemn as an owl. 

It seems to be the destiny of the children of men to suffer sickness, sorrow, pain and poverty, and to die. With our most perfect organization, Priesthood and authority, we still have troubles, and skeletons in our closets. It is considered a good thing to look wise, especially when not over burdened with information. 

It is my good fortune to be acquainted with some of the unpleasant features of Arizona. My brother Andrew, who has just preceded me, as one of the speakers, has expatiated on the sunshine and splendor of Arizona to so great an extent that I am fearful the good people of Utah will stampede and wend their way southward to that hap land. My brother comes from a sunshiny clime, and to an Arizonan there are no clouds; the truth is, they don't know ' when they are in trouble. He has recited all the good things; he is an optimist. 

Allow me to relate an experience in that far distant land. At a Stake Quarterly Conference, held at Thatcher, we were caught in a windstorm when the sun was shining. My ears, mouth, and eyes and clothing were loaded with sand, and yet my brother said, "I never saw anything like it before." I desire to make a statement here in explanation of something that I said in the conference meeting on Friday. 

I have learned that some of the greatest miracles and most marvelous events have happened to the servants of God when they were placed in jail for righteousness sake. Some of the greatest revelations that God has ever given in this age and dispensation were given to the Prophet of God when he was in jail, in trouble and difficulty. During his time of sorrow and loneliness, God, the Father, came to him, by His Spirit, and he received marvelous revelations. I read in the Bible about Peter being imprisoned, and an angel of God. coming to his rescue. He was taken through the great iron gates, and escaped when his enemies were desirous of taking his life. I read also about the prophets of God in the days of the Book of Mormon history. Prisons were broken down, and manifestations of God were made apparent to the servants of the Most High. An incident happened in the Southern States mission, which I will relate. It transpired in the days of President John Morgan, and occurred at a time when the State of Tennessee passed a law that any man who advocated or preached polygamy was to be arrested and punished. Enemies to the Elders entrapped the brethren into a discussion on this most unpopular subject, and the Elders defended the principle from a Biblical standpoint. A  was filed, and the Elders were arrested. They were short of room inside the jail, so the brethren, two in number, were confined in two steel cages on the outside, near to each other. The imprisoned servants of the Lord were not orators or singers. The people far and near, hearing of Mormon Elders being under arrest, gathered to see these peculiar individuals. The brethren sang hymns and testified of the truth of the Gospel, etc. It is claimed they had congregations of 300, and I have been told that the people had never heard such wonderful preaching and singing. The Elders almost regretted receiving their freedom. So I am almost inclined to advocate putting our Elders in jail once in a while, when they are unable to get a hearing in any other way. 

I remember about the time I was released from the Southern States Mission, we had just commenced to preach in the cities of the South. Two of our Elders were arrested in Birmingham because they were preaching the Gospel Avithout purse or scrip. They were arrested and placed in prison for violating what was claimed to be a city ordinance. Friends came to their rescue and they were released. Had they remained for a short time, in my opinion it would have resulted in much good, although very unpleasant and hard on the Elders. 

I want to ask in all soberness, if you think this Gospel that has been revealed by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith can be advocated and preached among the children of men without serious consequences? I tell you if our Elders go out and advocate the truth of this work, it will bring upon them persecution, and whippings. It may not be the better element who will do that, they never have whipped our Elders; it has generally been the same class as those who are killing the negroes in the South; but the people winked at it. I was almost a witness to the killing of our Elders in Tennessee, on Cane Creek, and I know something about the spirit of mobocracy. 

Now I will read to you to show that there will come sorrows to the Latterday Saints, trials, and tests. Every man in this Church will be tested to the core; they will be proven as Abraham was proven, and when the Lord is satisfied that you love Him and will keep His commandments, then He will come to your rescue. Somebody has said that Heber C. Kimball was a Prophet, and I am going to prove it. He is my father, and I tell you I am glad I am his son. I have the copy of a discourse he delivered in 1867, one year before his death. There were no such buildings here then as this; it was in the old tabernacle. 

"President Kimball opened by stating that there were many within hearing who had often wished that they had been associated with the Prophet Joseph. 'You imagine,' said he, 'that you would have stood by him when persecution raged, and he was assailed by foes within and without. You would have defended him, and been true to him in the midst of every trial. You think you would have been delighted to have shown your integrity in the das's of mobs and traitors. Let me say to you, that many of you will see the time when you will have all the trouble, trial and persecution that you can stand, and plenty of opportunities to show that you are true to God and His work. This Church has before it many close places, through which it will have to pass before the worn: of God is crowned with victory. To meet the difficulties that are coming [see, they are- to come, they are not behind you, but they are coming] it will be necessary for you to have a knowledge of the truth of 'this work for yourselves: the difficulties will be of such a character that the man or woman who r'oes not possess this personal knowledge or witness will fall. If you have not got the testimony, live right, and call upon the Lord and cease not until you obtain it. If you do not you will not stand. That is the word of God to you people. Remember these sayings, for many of you will live to see them fulfilled. The time will come when no man nor woman will be able to endure on borrowed light. Each will have  be guided by the light within himself. If you do not have it how can you stand? Do you believe it' How is it now? You have the First Pres idency, from whom you can get counsel to guide you, and you rely on them The time will come when they will not be with you. Why? Because they will have to flee and hide up to keep out of the hands of their enemies. You have the Twelve now. You will not always have them, for they, too will be hunted and will have to keep out of the way of their enemies. You have other men to whom you look for counsel and advice. Many of them will not be amongst you, for the same reason. You will be left to the light within yourselves. If you don't have it, you will not stand. Therefore, seek for the testimony of Jesus, and cleave to it, that when the trying time comes you may not stumble and fall." 

I ask you, Latter-day Saints who are here, Have you lived long enough to see that prophecy fulfilled. There is not a man, woman or child that has got the least particle of intelligence but knows that has been literally fulfilled. The time came when we did not have the First Presidency, neither did we have the Twelve, they had to flee for safety, every one of them; and the people were left to themselves. ♦ 

In the course of his remarks on the occasion in point, he several times said: "You will have all the persecution you want, and more, too, and all the opportunities to show your integrity to God and the truth that you could desire." 

I will quote to you another prophecy. In 1856, a little group of friends convened in the Endowment House, and were engaged in a conversation on the isolated condition of the Latter-day Saints. 

"Y"es," said Brother Heber, by which name he was so familiarly known, "we think we are secure here in the chambers of the everlasting hills, where we can close those few doors of the canyons against mobs and persecutors, the wicked and the vile who have always beset us with violence and robbery; but I want to say to you, my brethren, the time is coming when we will be mixed up in these now peace valleys to that extent that it will be difficult to tell the face of a Saint from the face of an enemy to the people of God. Then, brethren, look out for the great sieve, for there will be a great sifting time, and many will fall, for I say unto you, there is a' test, a TEST, a TEST, coming, and who will be able to stand?" 

My mother has told me that the last time father took a walk down Main Street, after he was stricken with paralysis, he returned with difficulty back to his home, the residence which still stands on the hill, and he said to her, "OH, THE TEST, THE TEST, THE TEST, who will be able to stand?" Mother said, "What is the test?" He replied, "I don't know, but it is only those that know that Jesus is the Christ that can stand." 

Now, brethren and sisters, it is time for hard thinking. This is not Joseph Smith's church, nor Brigham Young's church; they never made any such a claim. Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and the people made him President of the Church. This is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. It is not President Joseph F. Smith's church, nor the Twelve Apostles' church. They are the servants of the people; they are men called of God, just as our Elders are called to fill missions. They are ordained by divine authority, and have received these great appointments in the Apostleship and in the Presidency of the Church; but it is not their church. As I have said, it is the Church of Jesus Christ; each of us has individual work in it. If the Latter-day Saints do not know that Jesus is the Christ, and that this is His Church, I tell you, in the name of the Lord, you will not stand, you will be among the number that will fall. I remember hearing about a saying of President Young to a brother who was terribly tried. The case came before the High Council, and the council had decided against the man. You know it happens sometimes, when the decision is not in your favor, you feel disgruntled; and some leave the Church because of the actions of men; they  they have been dealt with unjustly. Brother Brigham, on the occasion referred to, said to the brother in sarcasm, "Now apostatize and go to hell." And the brother ejaculated, "I won't do it; this is just as much my church as it is yours, and I am going to stay with it." Well, that is Mormonism; it is our Church, as long as we keep the comandments of God; and we can be put out of it only through apostasy, rebellion, or criminal actions. Now let us stay with it, and, like my brother Andrew, always tell good things about Zion and let other things alone. The Lord bless you. Amen.
