25
Second Overflow
08 04 1906
Elder Joseph W. Mcmurrin. 

I have felt very much impressed, my brethren and sisters, in listening to the remarks that have been made by our brethren this afternoon. I rejoiced greatly in hearing the testimony of Brother Solomon Hale, who,' as we have heard, was well acauainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. He has been quite closely associated with the brethren who have occupied positions of trust and importance in the Church of Latter-day Saints, from that time to the present. He has borne a very earn-, est and faithful testimony concerning the character and mission of the men who have occupied these presiding positions. More especially in regard to the character of the Prophet Joseph Smith, President Brigham Young, and President Heber C. Kimball. No doubt we have all been impressed with the Words that have been read in our hearing by President J. G. Kimball, that were spoken a long time ago, by his father, President Heber C. Kimball. As has been intimated, we are all wit. nesses, to a greater or less degree, of the fulfillment of the inspired words that were uttered by President Heber C. Kimball so many years ago. I have also been impressed with the disposition manifest by all of the brethren to bear testimony to the mission of the Prophet Joseph. They all testify tha\ he was inspired by our Father in hea\en, and that he was a Prophet of the Lord. I have wondered if there is not a feeling- sometimes on the part 01 those who are not particularly at., quainted with the work of the Latterday Saints, when they hear testimony so frequently that prophets and apostles are in the church; if we are not given more or less to fanaticism. No such testimonies are ever heard in other churches. We are the only people, practically, who believe in living Prophets, and it is evident from the words that are spoken, and from the testimonies that are so frequently delivered, tha; we are very earnest believers in the necessity of prophets to receive tht word of the Lord today. I thought I would like to read a few words tha^ were uttered by the Redeemer of the world, in the great sermon upon th« mount, wherein He says: 

"Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Even so. every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that brigeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire, Wherefore, by their fruits ye shah know them. 

I take it, that when the Redeemer of the World, in His teaching to the children of men, gave warning against false prophets, He indicated by thost very words, that there ought to be among men true prophets, else He would have said, Beware of prophets. There are many in the world today who no doubt regret that the Redeemer did not say to the people, Beware of prophets. But there is no such declaration or warning; but there is a warning that we should beware of false prophets, and that we should judge by their fruits the men who claim and profess to be prophets of the Lord. "By their fruits ye shall know them." My brethren and sisters, w e ought to be exceedingly thankful to our Father in heaven, that this test can be ap to those who have stood before the people as Prophets of the Lord h, these latter times. The test can be ap. plied in the manner that it has beer* applied, this afternoon by the reading of the prophecies delivered so long ago, showing the complete fulfillment of the predictions that have been made by the modern prophets. It is written in the Scriptures: 

"When a Prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the Prophet hath spoken it presumptously; thou shalt not be afraid of him." 

It is good logic to decide in our minds that if the things spoken by the mouth of a Prophet cometh to pass, then we shall know that he has not spoken presumptuously, but that he has spoken by the inspiration and direction of our Father in heaven. If we scan the prophecies that have been delivered by those who have been raised up by divine appointment, in the age in which »we are living, in the ushering in of the great dispensation of the fullness of times, we will discover that all along the line the predictions of the prophets, even those that have appeared in many instances almost impossible of fulfillment, have been verified. We have abundant evidence, notwithstanding the unbelief of the world, that Joseph Smith was a great Prophet. This evidence is found in the history that has been made by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The inspiration of the Almighty has been abundantly poured out upon His servants, and the future of the Saints has been foreseen by the gift and power of revelation. 

I would like to read another word or two bearing upon his subject, written by one of the ancient Apostles. We profess in the age in which we live to believe in the words of the old Prophets, to believe also in the predictions of the ancient Apostles. If we believe in their predictions, if we believe in the doctrines that they have enunciated, then we ought to be believers in divine inspiration, we ought to be believers in present day Prophets, and present day 

Apostles, for an inspired man of God has made this declaration: "And God hath set some in the Church, first Apostles, scondarily, Prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. Are all Apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles?" No, all men are not Apostles; all men are not Prophets; all are not workers of miracles, but God hath set all of these in His Church, and He has made the declaration that "the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you." The inspired "writer compares the officers in the Church of Christ, with the members of the body, and positively makes the declaration, in the comparison, that all the officers are necessary. The Church without Apostles, Prophets, Teachers, etc., would be deformed like the body without the head, or without an eye, or without a hand. They are all essential, and necessary, they have all been' placed in the Church by our Father in heaven; so declares the Apostle, and so say the Latter-day Saints. The Apostle Paul further declares in this same epistle, "If any man think himself to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things that I write unto you are the commandments of the Lord." O ye believers in the Scriptures of divine truth, if ye think ye are spiritually minded, if ye think ye are Prophets, acknowledge, saith one who was inspired, that the things which he wrote pertaining to the organization of the Church are the revelations of the Lord. They are not the commandments of men. They have not been gotten up by the education or cunning of men. They are great and necessary doctrines that have been revealed. They are true, and without them there can be no Church of God. Truth will work its way in the world, and cannot be staid. Troubles may come, disappointments may come, anxieties may overtake us, but let us not forget that the Lord our God has revealed the truth of the Everlasting Gospel. Let "s not forget that He has planted this  by His own almighty power, and He has said that every hand that is lifted against it shall perish. We know not how. We stand amazed at the promises that have been made by our Father in heaven, but we know within our souls, thank God, that the promises will be fulfilled, and we have but to keep our eyes upon the mark of our high calling in Christ Jesus our Lord. Refrain from evils; be upright in conduct. Watch the authority that has been given, that presides over the Holy Priesthood, and be true to that authority, and all will be well. This is "Mormonism," and it is the truth of God. It is not a myth, it is as God has revealed it. I gladly bear this testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of my Redeemer, even sq. Amen.
