26
Second Overflow
08 04 1906
Elder George Albert Smith. 

My brethren and sisters, as the last meting of this conference is drawing to a close, I desire to congratulate you who have assembled in having been present at the largest attended general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Each year our numbers seem to increase considerably, and while the tabernacle and this building are full, and the Temple block grounds are crowded, the increase is so great that there is now no place in this city large enough to hold the representatives of Zion, who came to conference. 

We will now present the General Authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for your vote, in this final meeting. I desire to say that we hope every man and woman who are members of the Church, in good standing, will vote according to their feelings, whether for or against the authorities of the Church; and we expect that people who are not in good standing, or not members of the Church shall refrain from voting. 

It becomes my painful duty, and it fills my heart with sorrow, to announce to you that, since our last general conference, there have occurred three vacancies in the quorum of the Twelve. Elder Marriner W. Merrill passed from this life on February 6th, 1906. We received from Elders John W. Taylor and Mathias F. Cowley their written resignations, dated October 28th, 1905, of their positions as members of the Quorum of the Twelve, which were accepted by the Twelve and the First Presidency of the Church. These vacancies have been filled, as directed by the Spirit of the Lord through His servant, President Joseph F. Smith. 

Another announcement that also causes sorrow is, that President Christian D. Fjeldsted departed this life on December 23rd, 1905, causing a vacancy in the First Council of Seventy, that has been filled as the other vacancies were. 

Elder Smith then presented the names of the general authorities, the full list of whom will be found in the report of proceedings in the Tabernacle. The brethren named were sustained by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

Now that we are ready to go from this last meeting, I trust the spirit of this conference may be in the soul of every Latter-day Saint; that our testimonies may have been strengthened by meeting together; that we may return to our homes and feel to be more faithful, more devoted to the service of our Father, in laboring to do good to all His children, wherever they may be on the earth; and that we may be indeed Latter-day Saints, that we may be worthy of membership in the Church of Christ, that day by day our light may so shine that men, seeing our good works, may glorify our Father who is in heaven, which is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
