27
Afternoon
08 04 1906
Elder John Henry Smith. 

Importance of observing God's law concerning the Sabbath day.— The day should not be desecrated by unbecoming conduct.— Abundant opportunities provided for recreation in other days. — Municipal laws, and personal appeal should influence reverence for the Sabbath. 

My brethren and sisters, it is a pleasure to me to have the opportunity of being in attendance upon this conference, listening to the words that have been spoken by the Brethren whose  it has been to speak, and partaking of the spirit that has characterized the meetings thus far. I desire that you will give me the aid of your faith and prayers, that I may be enabled to discharge the duty ihat has fallen to my lot in that manner that shall result in our mutual good, and that may awaken in our minds a determination to more fully ana devotedly discharge the sacred obligations into which we have entered connected with the work the Lord has committed to our care at this time. As I was sitting here the thought entered my mind that I would like to ieud to the congregation a portion of one of the revelations. It is contained in Section 59 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and is a revelation given through Joseph the Seer, m Zion, Jackson county, Missouri, Aug. 7, 1831. 

"Behold, blessed, saitn the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory, according to my commandments; 

"For them that live shall inherit the earth, and them that die shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them, and they snail receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them; 

"Yea, blessed are they wnose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my Gospel, for they shall receive for their reward the good things of tnb earth; and it shall bring forth in its strength; 

"And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few; and with revelations in their time: they that are faithful and diligent before me. 

"Wherefore I give unto them a commandment, saying thus: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him. 

"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it. 

"Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things. 

"Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit. 

"And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; 

"For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest trom your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto tne Most 

High: 

"Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; 

"But remember that on tnis the Lord's day, thou shait offer thine oblations and' thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord." 

To my mind, the principles contained in this revelation, given to the Churchin 1831, are worthy of our consideration today, and the suggestions therein affecting our conduct should receive our thoughtful observance. In the midst of the cares and responsibilities that attach to us, in the struggle we have to make to secure for ourselves temporal blessings, as well as to minister in the performance of spiritual labors, sometimes we are not as mindful of these obligations as we should be. Without thought we occasionally drift into a disregard of the Sabbath day. We look upon it with a degree of laxity, not in keeping with the commandment concerning it as given unto us by our Heavenly Father. I believe that if there is any condemnation that applies most specifically to the Latter-day Saints for the neglect of duty, it is that some have turned this sacred day too much into a day of visiting and pleasure. We are not as thoughtful as we should be of its observance, and of the legitimate duties connected with this great day of rest instituted by our Father in heaven in His covenant with His children in former days, and renewed unto us in the wonderful trust that each one that has come to trust that each one that has came to attend this great conference will be impressed with the importance of oui Father's purpose in thus setting the Sabbath day apart again in our day, through the revelations of His will, and that, so far as we have influence and power with those placed under our watchcare, we shall impress upon their minds also that the day should be observed more sacredly and thoughtfully than it has been in the past. It is true, many of us who have been away  home, ministering in preaching the Gospel, have possibly Jost our influence, in a limited degree, upon our children in regard to these matters, and they may have drifted from us with the tide. In seeking, by our companionship and counsel, to check the tendency that has affected them, we sometimes And it difficult to impress them with our views, and with the sacred regard in which we hold the injunction given by the Almighty concerning this holy day. But I believe the effort should be made more carefuly and thoroughly by every one of us, as fathers and mothers, as Elders in the Church, as presiding authorities in the branches and wards of Zion, and as ministers in every field, to impress upon the minds of the Lord's covenant people that His love and blessings can only be obtained by the observance of His holy will. 

Similar thoughts are awakened in my mind in reflecting upon other questions. Our Heavenly Father has been exceedingly generous to us in the line of the amusements we are privileged to enjoy. No people in the world have been more thoughtfully considered in the matter of amusements, both for young and old. o."n theatricals, in dancing, in concerts, in visits to proper places of resort, and in other privileges of enjoyment, we have been generously dealt witn as a people, so that the exuberant spirits of youth may have legitimate exercise, and those who have reached riper years may be refreshes and have their minds relaxed from the cares and responsibilities of life. But our Father, while permitting these privileges, has laid upon us the requirement of sacredly regarding His holy day and discharging our obligations in regard to it. Should conditions prevent us from being in attendance at Sabbath school, at the Sacrament meeting, or at the evening meeting, that day should not oe spent in visiting neighbors, in mingling with one another upon the streets, or in going to pleasure resorts. If it is impossible for us to attend places of sacred worship in public, we should seek to study th« Scriptures at home, and equip ourselves by communion with the Spirit, for the great work the good Master has set us to do. I believe that our condemnation will be great— fathers and mothers as well as children— if we disregard this sacred day and its obligations. 

It is not my intention to detain you, but I desire to impress upon the sons and daughters of Zion that no people has ever been dealt with more generously than we have in opportunities afforded for legitimate and proper amusement. The Lord has sought to impress upon our minds a sacred regard of His holy day, and has also made it possible for us to, at other times, have amusement along proper lines, and in proper companionship. Therefore it is improper and unrighteous for any to seek the companionship of the lewd and vicious, or mingle with the wicked in places of pleasure upon the Sabbath day. It is also wrong for us to participate in any of the great variety of agencies which men have established that tend to the moral overthrow and destruction of their fellows. I believe that the authorities of every city, town and village within the United States should seek to cause the citizens to regard with more sacredness and respect the day .iesignated by the Almighty as a day of rest. I believe that we to whom the revelation has come in the latter days in regard to the observance of the* Sabbath, should be determined that His day must be held in reverence, respect and love. We should honor the men and women of every faith, creed, and condition that seek in fairness, mercy and love to prevent the turning of the Lord's day into a time for wrong doing that may result in the moral overthrow and destruction of human beings. The desire should be instilled into the minds of every man and woman to honor and esteem it, and to utilize it for the accomplishment of their improvement in a knowledge of the divine will, and increasing their respect and reverence for our Heavenly Father. 

I ask you who are pongregated here, men who influence the views and ideas of communities, women whose hearts  attuned to the best interests of the human race, to see to it that the impress of a sacred regard for the Lord's holy day shall be inculcated by you, both in word and action, so that the moral regulations given of the Almighty may be more thoroughly established among His great family. Remember the right and do it. Let this love of the principles of righteousness be imbued in the souls of our sons and daughter?, and then, though they drift from our control for a while, the time will come in the trials and experiences of iife when they will come back to their homes, with regrets for having disregarded our instructions and the impress we sought to make upon them. 

May we be true to every propositiou involved in the principles of our faith, and also in the good couched in the faith of every other living soul. May we be set and determined in our purpose that everything evil and wrong shall be met with an effort , upon our part to eradicate it and better the conditions of life. Let us point the way to the success that may come to men and women who shall do the will of their Father, blessing their fellows, and being just to every one. May the blessings of Heaven abound in your hearts and in your homes. May you love tie principles of righteousness. May vou honor the Lord's day. May the moral doctrines of the Gospel, given in the law of which I have spoken, including "Thou shalt not steal," "Thou shalt not commit adultery," "Thou shalt not kill," and others like unto it, be among the guiding beacons of your lives. May the love of your country and its institutions, and the maintenance of every principle of right and justice that guard the liberties of every human being, be exhibited in your every action; that the principles established for the betterment of the human race, that the liberalizing of mankind, and the preaching of the truth among them, may be sustained by you, without fear of the frowns of mankind, but in love of the right, in the principle of mercy, and in the justice that should be accorded to every human being. 

God has spoken from the heavens. His truth has been declared among the children of men. The message of gladness has come and is to be heralded to the whole human race. Upon you, in connection with the others who have been warned, rests this responsibility. May wisdom, prudence, faith, undying courage and unyielding dievotion to principle govern your lives, that the truth may stand, and that you may nonor everything that is noble and true, is my prayer. Amen.
