5
Afternoon
06 04 1906
Elder J. Golden Kimball. 

In the few minutes I occupy I desire to talk about the Lord's army. You know the Lord has an army, "Soldiers of the cross," just as the United States has a regular standing army. The Church of Latter-day Saints has an army of soldiers numbering, approximately, 8,000. They are minute men, so-called. It is their duty to preach the Gospel, continuously, among the children of men. They belong to the regular army of the Church; they are not volunteers; and whenever called by divine authority, to go to the nations of the earth, they are expected to be ready and prepared to go. This army of the Lord's soldiers go out and battle against the kingdom of evil, which Brother Roberts has been talking about. Now, my experience has taught me that the kingdom of evil is not going to lie down quietly while we are kicking it. You will generally find that enemy quite ready for a fight. Whenever these witnesses are moved uijon by the Spirit of the Lord to testify that Jesus is the Christ, and Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, then trouble begins; they need not attack the religions of other churches. I promise every Elder who is called by divine authority to preach the Gospel, if he will testify to those truths he will have all the trouble he can stand. Furthermore, the Elders must now have a little money while traveling else their enemies will make it very uncomfortable for them. I am informed that laws have been passed in cities of the Southern States, where thousands of our Elders formerly traveled without purse or scrip, so that if any of them are now found in cities asking for entertainment, they are placed in prison. I believe that some of our Elders might do good in prison, as the Lord sometimes manifests His power in behalf of imprisoned Elders, and strengthens their testimonies. 

I am very much interested in this army of the Lord, and in order to preface my remarks I will read some statements made at our last conference. Following is a quotation from the closing address delivered by President Joseph F. Smith, Oct. 8, 1905. 

"I feel like blessing the quorums of the Priesthood, every one of them, from the High Priests to the Deacons. I pray God, my Heavenly Father, to remember them in their organizations, to help them, that they may magnify the Priesthood they hold and do the will of the Father; that the Seventies may be minute men, instant in season and out of season, ready and willing to respond to the calls that are made upon them to go and preach the Gospel to the world. Gather in from the Elders quorums those who have proven themselves worthy and who have gained experience, and make Seventies of them, so that the quorums of the Seventies may be replenished; and the aged ones, whose physical condition will not permit them any longer to do missionary duty in the world, let them be ordained High Priests and Patriarchs, to bless the people and to minister at home. Gather in the strong, the vigorous, the young, the ablebodied who have the spirit of the Gospel in their hearts, to fill the ranks of the Seventies, that we may have ministers to preach the Gospel to the . They are needed. We cannot now meet the demand." 

That is the word of the Lord to the Seventies, and to the Presidents of Stakes, and Bishops of wards. We should search among our young people carefully and advance the worthy ones in the Priesthood, so that we can replenish the Seventies' quorums with good, able-bodied men who are willing to perform the arduous labors connected with preaching the Gospel. This labor is difficult; it is hard upon the Seventies and Elders, for they are sent into all the climates of the earth. They go to the islands of the sea, to malarial districts, or to high altitudes, and unless they are strong and ablebodied, they break down physically. To illustrate, if you send an Elder to Australia, at a cost perhaps of $120, and he is sick with rheumatism or other ailments, and has to return home, all that money is expended and very little accomplished. I think President Smith has told me, personally, that to send men out in the missionary field who are broken down physically, demoralizes the mission. It certainly is a great misfortune to break down physically while on a mission. If you send out a sick Elder with a companion who is healthy, strong and able-bodied, the healthy man is hindered from performing his labors because of the sickness of his partner. If there are easy places the sick Elders have to be sent there, so I think it is sometimes a misfortune to be healthy if you have to go to all the hard places. I say all hail to the aged Seventies who have been faithful, who have labored .70 years perhaps, as Brother Homer Duncan did. He was one of the oldest presidents of Seventy in the Church; he was senior president of the Third quorum for a great many years. He died lately over 90 years old; and he wanted to die a Seventy; there was nothing that could change his mind regarding that matter. 

It seems to me that some of the aged Seventies have a wrong conception regarding their change of appointment to High Priests, so that they can labor  home, sleep in their own beds, and be cared for by their families This is the place for men who are aged, and who have been faithful and diligent witnesses of the Lord. It is not good for them to be out in the world, exposed as our Elders have to be. I am deeply interested in that matter, and desire you to give it consideration. The Seventies are under the direction of the Twelve Apostles, who, when they need assistance in preaching the Gospel, should find such help in the Seventies quorums, instead of any others, according to the revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ. But the difficulty is that many of these "soldiers of the cross" are aged, physically disabled, crippled, and therefore unable to go out and perform this labor, and it would not be wisdom to call them. So we need young and healthy ♦ men. 

I desire to say further that we need a little more discipline, and more attention to the interests of our Seventies. There are seven Presidents over eaeh of those quorums in the Church, and there are now 148 quorums; but there is a difficulty that I think needs to be looked after The Sunday school numbers about .100,000 in its membership. The Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association about 25,000. These organizations have strong General Boards, and there has been a wonderful labor performed by them. As President Smith stated this morning, it cannot be expressed in a few words what the Sunday Schools, the Mutual Improvement Associations and other auxiliary organizations have accomplished. They have been encouraged, held together, pushed and crowded to their fullest capacity by their energetic and capable officers. The Priesthood quorums should be foremost in this Church, but some of the members have become mentally lazy, and have acted as if they expected their organizations to keep together without effort. The auxiliaries have been urged forward with, great enthusiasm, everywhere, from Canada to Mexico, these organizations are to the front. The Priesthood quorums are apparently weary in well doing, and the officers and mem seem to think that their organizations can run themselves. They have become lax in their work, and let loose their hold. While the auxiliary organizations have taken the right of way, the Priesthood quorums stand by looking on awe-struck at the great phalanx of young people who are rushing ahead. So the auxiliary organizations are going away up the hill and we, the Priesthood quorums, stand down in the valley and look on. Perhaps you don't like that picture, you men of the Priesthood quorums, but I tell you there is a lot of truth in it. 

You owe first allegiance to your quorums and quorum meetings, for there is where you get your authority and power. Why is it that we are different from other men in the world It is not because we have greater knowledge and information, but because we hold the Priesthood. Why is it that you fathers and mothers permit your 18-year-old boys to go to South Africa, Australia, Germany, or other nations of the earth, notwithstanding you are afraid to trust them out in this city after dark? It is because they hold the Priesthood. Our beardless boys are able to defend the Church of Jesus Christ, and preach the Gospel. They hold divine authority, and under their administration the repentant believer is baptized, receives the remission of sins, and the Holy Ghost is conferred by the laying on of hands. The arm of the Lord is not shortened. These boys are sent out in His service a«d He has told them to think not of the morrow, of what they shall eat, or what they shall drink, or wherewithal they shall be clothed, for He is amply able to take care of them. There is no great number of men in this Church so carefully looked after, and their lives so well preserved, as are the Elders who preach the Gospel in the world. I am in favor of the Priesthood quorums taking their proper places, and if they do not do it, they ought to be ashamed of themselves, for they have the power and intelligence, and they hold the authority. It puts me in mind of a story, the only one I can think of just now to fit the condition. It may not be just suitable, but I will tell it anyhow: 

A negro had a mule which balked, and he could not get it to move; ,so he went into a drug store and asked the druggist if he had anything that he thought would start the mule. The druggist came out and injected something in the region of the ribs of the mule, and immediately thereafter the negro s aw a streak of dust and the animal flying over the hill. He went back to the druggist and said, "How much is it? "Twenty-five cents." "Well," said he, Just put fifty cents worth in me. so I can catch the mule." (Laughter.) 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

In his opening remarks this morning, President Smith stated what it was [that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stood for. It was for virtue, for honesty, for all that is good and holy and right. It was this idea that inspired the Apostle James when he said, "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." It was no doubt the same thought that inspired the words that "faith without works *s dead." 

In looking over this great congregation and seeing so many of our Father's children, my mind is led to contemplate the great human family; not only those who dwell upon the earth today, but ail who have ever trod this planet. When our first parents came to this earth they partook of the fruit of the tree of knowledge, and thereby .learned to  discriminate between good and evil. From that day until the present, all mankind have come in contact with the good and with the evil. Every man and woman will appreciate what I say when I call attention to the fact that this warfare between good and evil is known to every one of them. It is a battle that we all must fight. With that knowledge of good and evil we are also in possession of what is known as  agency. We can choose the good and reject th* evil, or we can choose the evil and reject the good. But to every one of us will come the momentous queeLion, Which shall we choose? and Me shall be called upon to decide. So that when the statement is made lhat the Chirch of Christ stands for the good, it seems to me that that describes ou: religion The purpose of our Father in heaven in revealing the Gospel of Je.v.i.s Cbiist was that He m\%hi convert the ieople of the world to eschew evil pnd to follow the good. It vras that we migi t be cleansed and puri'.ied from the evil with which we all come in contact. Sin is in the world, and humanity to some extent has partaken of it. Therefore it became necessary that a plan should be devised whereby we might be redeemed and saved from the consequences of sin. The two influences mentioned are abroad in the land. One is striving with the children of men to save their souls. It is the Spirit of the Lord, that divine essence which issues forth from the Father and the Son, and is within the reach of every one of us. If we harken to that "still small voice" of the Spirit of God, 'it will lead us in the way of good. It will help us to fight the batles of life, and finally lead us to salvation. It will result in making us good men and women, and prompt us to do good to all. It will make itself manifest in noble deeds, in righteous lives; it will elevate us, and fit and qualify us to be indeed the children of God. If, on the other hand, we hearken to the evil one.it will lead us downward. It will result in the doing of evil deeds; will lead us down to degradation, and destroy our souls. 

I do not need to advance any argument in proof of this. It is something that might be called an axiom. It is a self-evident truth, and is known to all mankind. The grand purpose then is that we might be cleansed from sin. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is we first principle of life and salvation. The Gospel has been revealed to mankind in order to enable us to resist the powers of evil. It has been called the pow of God unto salvation. A plan of redemption was necessary. There are many people who say, "Oh, if I lead a moral, upright life, that is all that is necessary." Supposing- we grant that for the sake of the argument, the allimportant thing is that we shall be cleansed. It is, however, impossible for us to please God unless we believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. If our lives are going to result in righteous deeds, it will be because we seek after the Lord; in other words, seek after that good influence He sends abroad: there is no other way to pursue in order to be influenced for right. The moment we reject that power and influence we are on the other side and listening to the evil one, who is seeking to destroy the souls of the children of men. There^ fore, faith is necessary for our salvation. Faith is necessary for the cleansing of mankind from sin. There would be no motive power, nothing to impel us to righteousness, without faith in God. There would be nothing to cause, .us to fight the evil, if it were not for faith in God. That very faith will lead us to turn from evil. If we have faith in Him, we must believe that He is good; and if we would please Him and cleanse ourselves, we also must btgood. And that implies an abandoning, a forsaking, a turning away from sin. 

Repentance is a law that has been revealed for the salvation of mankind, and without that there is no salvation. No man can be cleansed from sin unless he repents and turns from sin. That is a self evident truth. It is also true that in order to be truly clean we must atone in some way or make good for the past. And what can mankind do for that? Her* we stand in the position of utter helplessness. What man can forgive himself? What man can obtain salvation or be cleansed from sin, if perchance he has been guilty all his life of that which is sinful in the sight of God? Man is totally helpless. And we ought to conceive the fact that forgiveness is essential to our sal, yet man in and of himself cannot obtain that forgiveness. We may repent of our evil ways and turn unto the Lord; we may have faith in Him; but there still remains something that we are powerless to overcome— the responsibility for the evil that we have done. This can only com e by that power from on high. Some people have thought there was a conflict between the Apostle James and the Apostle Paul, but I do not regard it as any conflict. James said that faith without works was dead, while Paul wrote that by grace we are saved, and that not of ourselves, not of works, lest any man should boast. My brethren and sisters, the grace of God is necessary for your salvation and for the cleansing from sin which we all need. He so loved the world that He sent His Only Begotten Son, that whosoever should believe on Him should not peiish, but have everlasting life. And forgiveness can come from Him, and from Him alone. Although He introduced an ordinance in His Church whereby we may obtain forgiveness, the main thing is that Jesus came and His blood was spilt that we might be forgiven of our transgressions, and thereby be cleansed. We are told that if we walk in the light as He is in the light, then shall we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ will cleanse us from all sin. Without that there would be no cleansing. And the way that can be done must be by our Father in heaven, through His divine authority. It can only be accomplished by Him personally ministering unto us, or by some of His constituted authority upon the earth, having the right to officiate in His nartie, and thereby bring unto us remission of sins so that we may be cleansed every whit, and that our bodies may be made fit for the reception of the Holy Ghost, to be conferred by that same authority, through the laying on of hands. 

That, my brethren and sisters, is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I pray that we may all appreciate it and live in accordance with its principles, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
