6
Morning
07 04 1906
Elder George Reynolds. 

My brethren and sisters, it affords me very great pleasure to meet with you in this conference, to see the vast number present, and to feel the goodly influence which prevails. In standing before you this morning I may refer to. the missionary laboij of the Church. At the present time a large number of Elders are being called for this important work, and I may say that in all my lengthy experience I have never known the call for missionaries to be answered so willinglv and so readily as is the present one. I presume at least one hundred and fifty missionaries will leave our borders during this month, and in the months immediately following the number will be almost as large, and names from the Presidents of Stakes and Bishops still continue to reach the President's office. I believe I am justified in saying that the brethren whose names have been  show better preparation for that labor than I have ever known. There is. however, one thing that disheartens me. just a little, that is, the number of young men called who admit that they have not been keeping the Word of Wisdom. While they say they will have no difficult" hereafter in observing this law of God, they acknowledge that in the past they have not done so. This is regretable, because it shows the Lrndfncy there is among us to neglect 1 hose requirements of the Lord which entail a daily sacrifice of our personal desires. We often express a willingness to lay our all upon the altar of sacrifice, and at the same time these matters which in the minds of some appear to be of minor importance are forgolten or slighted; they are not considered of sufficient importance for us to live up to every day of our lives. I know that in our hearts we are readv to meet the requirements that the Lord makes of us. Some of the answers received by the First Presidency are quite pathetic. The writers, though expressing the difficulties by which they are environed, say they will be ready, and that they will report at the time mentioned to fulfill the requirement of the Lord, whatever may be the circumstances under which they are placed. No doubt, our Church schools have had considerable influence in bringing about this result, and the missionary classes established in our academies are no small factor in increasing the desire of the brethren to perform missionary labor, and in. preparing them therefor. We have had quite a large attendance at the missionary classes in the districts that are remote from headquarters, but for some reason, this year, the Church schools nearest to Salt Lake City, have not had the fulll attendance in the missionary classes that they have had in former years. The schools in the north — in Rexburg, in Preston, and other places, have had large classes of missionary students. The effect of these classes is quite pronounced and has much to do with the present ready responses to missionary calls. You are aware no doubt, from reports that have been made by the presidents of missions at the last few conferences, that they have not been supplied with the number of men they desired. They could not indeed answer all the calls that were made upon them by strangers.nor even visit all the members of the Church in their missions as frequently as was desirable, and the consequence has been that some have fallen into the background through the want of that attention which is necessary in all places where our people are established. I am hopeful that this difficulty will be remedied and that the arrival of so many new brethren will also increase the vitality and develop the labors of the brethren in these various missions. 

Referring to a cause nearly akin to the missionary work, that of the Sunday schools, I desire to say a few words. President Smith asked me if I did not think the Sabbath schools were in a better condition today than they had ever been, and I answered him to the effect that I so believed- that I had never known the time when taken all in all, the schools were doing better work than they are now. Our schools are increasing in number; and that in regard to punctuality, the good order maintained, and the methods adopted for instructing the children I believe we are growing and growing in the right direction, each year. Above all, I believe that the children in the schools are obtaining a better knowledge of the Gospel, and that they are not losing in the spirit and faith of the principles of eternal life. I have always regarded, and do today, that the first thing most important in connection with our Sunday schools, and indeed with all the other auxiliary organizations of the Church, is to make 

Latter-day Saints of our children, to develop within them a faith that shall grow with increasing years, an understanding faith, a faith that, while it appeals to the heart, will also appeal to the head, and be able to give a reason for the hope that is within; not a blind obedience, as it is sometimes called, but a comprehensive understanding of the revelations of God and the work that He is performing in this generation i Mans*- of our children are wonderfully blest in this direction. They have a strong and abiding faith. God has, by His Holy Spirit, given it to them. They also have an understanding of the history of the Church and the reasons for the faith that they possess, and are able to talk in a sensible manner in regard to the principles of the Church. They are able to tell why God has revealed His mind and will in these days, and why the kingdom of God is being built up, and the reason of the opposition which Satan and those under his control upon the earth are using to overthrow this work. Many of them also realize that the resons given by our opponents for their opposition to the work of God in which we are engaged are not the real reasons. They realize the reason is that in our midst is to be found the Priesthood of the true and living God. It is that which the emissaries of Satan are fighting, it is that which they fear, because they know as long as God's Priesthood is organized upon the earth the purposes of the evil one cannot be accomplished, nor can they continue unreproved in the lives that so many of them are inclined to lead. As was said by President Smith yesterday, the Gospel stands for righteousness, for purity, for truth, for everything that is good and desirable, and within the pale of the Church is to be found everything necessary for the happiness of man here upon the earth, and for his eternal salvation hereafter. There is no need of Latter-day Saints going outside of the Church for any good thing, for it can all be found in that which God has given to us. His plan is perfect and embraces all things that men  desire to receive and attain to; and when men go outside of the Church of Jesus Christ for anything that they believe will benefit them, it shows that they have a narrow, a limited and a contracted idea of the Gospel, and do not rightly understand its principles nor its efficacy for salvation day by day and forever. We were told many, many years ago by President Young, that outside of the Gospel there were but three things— death, hell and the grave. None of us want either of those things. We desire to live, and to live forever, with the gift of eternal lives granted unto us. Our desires are to so live in this probation, that when that which is perfect is come we shall inherit it, and we shall eventually become, through the atonement of our Lord Jesus Christ, like unto Him. As Christ said, "Be ye perfect, even as I and my Father in heaven are perfect." 

My brethren and sisters, I do not think that my voice is adapted to this Tabernacle; possibly many of you cannot hear me; so I will not occupy your time any longer, but pray God to bless you, and to bless all that is done and said at this conference; and may much good and unity in the midst of the Saints result from our coming together at this time. I ask it through Jesus our Redeemer. Amen.
