9
Afternoon
07 04 1906
Elder Nephi Pratt. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

Brethren and Sisters: I feel grateful indeed for the privilege of attending this great conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I feel like I had dropped from my shoulders the cares and responsibilities of the mission field, and had come to Father's house, to be blessed and strengthened in my faith and feelings, and have my heart enlarged, my faith increased, and be prepared to go back to my mission enjoying an increased portion of the Spirit of God, to continue my labors in that field. We have in the Northwestern States mission a membership of about 800 souls. We have labored for three years, and more, in the large cities, traveling in the summer, spring and fall through the lanes, string-towns and country places, and have disseminated the Gospel as far as we could to about 2,500,000 of our fellow citizens. We have oftentimes felt appalled at the indifference manifested in the larger cities of that section of country, and we have some times thought that all had been done there that ought to be done to inform the people concerning the Gospel which has been restored to the earth again to bring man to the knowledge of the truth; but I am glad that we did not abandon these fields. Always we had a doubt whether we ought to shake off the dust from our feet against some of the cities in the northwest. When we have felt discouraged, and almost shed tears because of their indifference, something has with- held us from taking away the Elders from these districts, except in some few cases for a short time. And now the wisdom of the continuation of our labors has manifested itself, and the Lprd has poured out His power upon that people, in towns and cities where we formerly could get no hearing, and has brought to pass many marvelous things, and we are gathering in here one and there one noble, independent spirit. 

In Portland, on Feb. 4, we baptized seven souls, and last Sunday we baptized three others. We went around the mission baptizing people everywhere. We made an opening in the city of "Vancouver, B. C, where about 18 people applied for baptism, whereas two years ago we could not get a hearing there at all. In one' city where for a time we withdrew the Elders because of the indifference manifested, viz., Spokane, in Washington, the Lord has poured out His Spirit upon the people since the Elders have gone back there, and His providence has been manifested until the spirit that is leading some of the people indicates that we shall reap a harvest in that town. 

One man who had a Latter-day Saint wife, and had prevented her from making her membership known to the Elders, lost her by death. He had in his family six children, partly grown. His wife's last request was that he would hunt up the "Mormon" Elders that they might perform the funeral services, and preach the discourses. He hunted up two of our boys that had not been in the mission but a few months. They were bashful young men, with stammering tongues, uneloquent, and he asked them if they would come and perform the duties of the funeral services over his wife. They were so frightened when they promised to do it that they fasted and prayed for two days, and then when they went to the funeral their tongues were loosed, and the Spirit and power rested upon them until the hearts of the people in the congregation were melted. The husband came seeking forgiveness that he had manifested such a spirit of bitterness against the Saints, and invited his children to come with him. They became investigators of "Mormonism," and the last I heard,  week ago, they had given in their names for baptism. 

A lady twelve miles out of that city, whose husband we have baptized, sent him to find the elders, as she had discovered something with which she could overturn "Mormonism," and shb wanted first to show the elders the error of their ways, and then she intended to go about and influence the neighborhood against the work that the elders had been doing. When they had engaged in a conversation about four hours her oldest son arose and said, "Mother, instead of your proving that Mormonism is wrong, by your conversation you have proved to my brother and I that it is divine, and 'if the water is not too cold for Elder Holliday, he can baptize me tomorrow morning." Elder Holliday led the youn& man into the water the next day, and confirmed him a member of the Church in the presence of his mother. 

We have a few disgruntled ministers of various churches that feel hard towards us for the work that we are doing in Vancouver, and other places; taut we do not mind the opposition, and feel always that God has some good people where opposition arises in its strength and attempts to block up the way of this work. 

The newspapers in my district are very kind to us, except a few. They publish for us many good things, and seldom publish anything against us. They seem to be ashamed of some things that are published against us in one place and another, and they are generally friendly towards us. Our mission is more prosperous and there is a greater degree of the good spirit from the unseen word operating upon the people than at any time since I have been laboring there. The Elders and Saints feel it, and we all feel that the Lord is working there, and that we shall lead many good people into the waters of regeneration. 

I thank my brethren and this people for this privilege of speaking to you, and I pray the Lord that He will bless this people and all those who bless tbtm. I want to say to you that the  of this Church are hunting the world over with all the might and strength and .discernment that we have, because souls are precious to us. How do you take care of the converts and show forth an example unto them when they come here? There are missionary societies here that hold reunions of Elders from the various mission fields in the United States and Europe. When I send converts here, if the Northwestern States Missionary association will take them and introduce them to the Bishop of the ward where they will live, so that they may be known here and be given the hand of fellowship by the Saints of God, and not stray around these streets like sheep without, a shepherd, it will be one of the best things that you can do, and will help us very materially. 

Gog bless the people of Zion in all their abiding places. 'I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
