Afternoon
06 04 1906


ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I can hardly express to you the gratitude I feel for the privilege of attending thisgreat conference, looking over this large congregation of Latter-day Saints, and witnessing the feeling of unity of purpose that has brought you together. The Latter-day Saints are increasing. The work of the Lord is spreading abroad, and we are witnesses that there is remarkable evidence of this fact today. I rejoice when I hear such a report as we listened to this morning from the President of theChurch, concerning the union of theSaints and their endeavors to do the will of the Father and keep His commandments. 

Seventy-six years ago today theChurch was organized, and beside the six persons who were the charter members of the organization, there were very few who belonged to the Church at that time, hence we conclude that the work has greatly increased, andi the truth continues to spread abroad over many lands and among many people. The Lord is fulfilling His prediction to the Prophet Joseph, that He would bring to pass "a marvelous work and a wonder." I have a perfect knowledge of the fact that the Church has disseminated among the children of men principles of truth, righteousnessand love, and not principles of hate. It is love of the Gospel that has prompted so many people to receive the message which was brought unto them by the followers of the Prophet, who wasthe means, under our Savior, of intro— ducing this great work in the earth. Soon after the return of Zion's Camp in the fall of 1834 (in the spring of 1835), the first Twelve Apostles in this dispensation were chosen and ordained. Two full quorums of Seventy were also organized, and from those two quorums the number has increased until now we have in the Church upwards of 9,000 Seventies, and 148 quorums organized, with still others in prospect. We have very great occasion to rejoice., my brethren and sisters, because of the prosperity of the Saints in every part of the land, and the prosperity of our missions in the different nations o f the earth. We have at this time nearly 2,000 Elders in the field proclaiming the Gospel, devoting their best energies to spreading the truth, offering their time and means, and the best talents they possess, even risking their lives if necessary to fulfill the missions assigned them. 

After the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the presidency of the Church devolved upon the quorum of the Apostles, and President Brigham Young stood at their head as captain and file leader, to carry out the plans that had been designated by the Prophet Joseph. There were many hundreds, perhaps thousands, present at the meeting held in the grove near the Temple a t Nauvoo, in August, 1844, when President Young was recognized by miraculous manifestation as the leader of the Church, and they have testified it was evident that the mantle of Joseph the Prophet fell upon him. I was looking over the record a few days ago, and tried to ascertain how many of that number are still living who can bear ►witness to that remarkable event. I had a letter recently from Brothers Horace and John R. Murdoch of Beaver, who testify that they were eyewitnesses to the wonderful transformation and power manifested through President Brigham Young on that occasion. Of the many hundreds who witnessed that event you can almost count upon your 10 fingers the number that are still living. 

When we came to this Rocky Mountain region it was practically an un land. It was designated on the maps of our country as the Great American Desert, and this valley was almost the central portion of it; a country where no white man lived, and which even Indians shunned. But the Lord's blessing rested upon this land and upon the people. Brigham Young, at a very early date in the settlement of the country, began to devise means to improve the conditions of the people in every way possible, to increase their chances of living and prospering in this desert region. The Lord abundantly blessed the labors of the people, and from that little hand-full in the desert, communities have grown and spread throughout all this region of the Rocky Mountains. This fulfills a prediction of the Prophet Joseph Smith, made in 1842, when he prophesied that the Saints would continue to be driven and persecuted, and that they would finally leave their homes and journey to the west; many would lay down their lives by the wayside, and some would lose faith, but many of the Saints would arrive in the Rocky Mountains and there become a great and mighty people. We are witnesses today of + he literal fulfillment of this prophecy. 

In the beginning of our history here, President Brigham Young established manufactories of clothing, of leather, of boots and shoes and other articles. Home industry was a frequent theme of his counsel and admonition to the Saints in the hope that they might adopt it, and thereby become an independent people. A woolen factory was established in Boxelder county, one in Weber county, two in Salt Lake county, one in Washington county, near St. George, and finally a larger one in Provo. All of these institutions were, within my memory, prosperous and advancing in usefulness, and making wealth by reason of the patronage given to them by the Latter-day Saints. But by degrees we have displayed less loyalty to these institutions, and the industries have decreased, until the last of these beneficial institutions has become a thing of the past. I refer to the closing down of the factory at Provo, through lack of patronage. I  of this, my brethren and sisters, in order to refer your minds to past history, and to call your attention to the fact that had these instituions bean supported in the spirit in which they were established under the direction of President Young, they would have been sources of wealth and of help to us today and great benefit to all the people in this region. Z. C. M. I. also is an' institution that was established undar President Young's counsel and management, and it has gone forward to a wonderful degree of prosperity, because it has had the loyal support of the people, and I trust it will continue to have it. ^ 

We are certainly blessed of the Lord today; we have been blessed every day and every hour since we obeyed the Gospel, and entered into covenant with Him, provided we have kept that covenant. When I look over the statistical reports of our missionaries laboring in every land of the globe where they have been sent I rejoice exceedingly. The missions already established are growing in importance, the Seventies and the Elders are going out and unstintedly giving the best powers of their manhood to develop this cause, to pro-> claim the truth, and to scatter the seedn of the Gospel for the redemption of the human family far and wide in the nations of the earth. 

I testify to you today that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was His Prophet, and will ever be the President and leader of this dispensation. I testify that our President today, and those who are associated with him are the men our Father has chosen to lead us and to guide the destinies of Israel at the present time, to push forward the work 'with strong hands and mighty power. That the blessing of the Lord and the Spirit of His presence may rest upon this conference throughout, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

Among the things important for the Saints of God to understand, among the things important for the world to understand respecting the Lat-day Saints, is the relationship that we sustain to the religious world; and I do not know that there is anything to which I could devote the few minutes at my disposal to better advantage than pointing out that relationship, if I can obtain, through your faith and mine, the liberty that comes from the possession of the Spirit of the Lord. 

The first revelation that the Lord gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith had a bearing upon this subject. You remember that the Prophet went to the Lord to ascertain which of all the sects of religion was His church, desiring, of course, to unite himself with that church which the Lord would designate as His. In reply to that question the Lord, in substance, said that they were all wrong; that He did not acknowledge them as His church; and told the Prophet he must join none of them, but promised that in due time He would use the Prophet as His instrument in the establishment of His Church in the earth. Because of this great revelation, by which the errors of ages were swept aside and the ground cleared for the re-establishment of the Church of Christ among men, it has placed us in a way in an attitude of antagonism to the religious world. Wehave been resisted to some extent because of this attitude of antagonism; and it is quite possible that we ourselves have not understood the true relationship in which we stand to the religious world, by more or less of misapprehension respecting this great revelation. I rejoice in the plainness and emphasis of this revelation, becausefrom it I am made to realize that there is a very important reason for the existence of the work with which we are identified. . I am glad to know that "Mormonism" did not come into existence because its founders chanced to disagree with prevailing notions about the form or object of baptism; that it did not come into existence through a disagreement as to the character or the government of the Church. From the revelation referred to I learn that "Mormonism" came into existence because there was an absolute necessilv for a new dispensation of the Gospel, a re-establishment of the Church of Christ among men. The Gospel had been corrupted; its ordinances had been changed; its laws transgressed, its truths so far lost to the children of men that it rendered this new dispensation of the Gospel of Christ — miscalled "Mor monism" — necessary. I say that I rejoice in the fact that "Mormonism" came into the world, and exists in the world today, because the world stood in sore need of it. But does this re-establishment of the Church of Christ, ihis new dispensation of the Gospel, which we have received, make our relationship to the children of men one of unfriendliness? I answer, No. On the contrary our relationship to men is one of absolute friendship and anxiety to do the world good. "We ought to understand that. We do understand it. And it is important that the world should understand it, that they may come to regard us in our true light, as friends of humanity, and not enemies. 

If you will look through some of the revelations given in the early history cf the Church, you will find that from time to time the Lord was under the necessity of correcting the ideas of the breth' ren respecting their attitude towards religious world. The Lord said to Martin Harris, b T ~ way of correction: 

"Thou shalt declare glad tidings, yea, publish it upon the mountains, and upon every high place, and among every people that thou shalt be permitted to see. And thou shalt do it with all humility, trusting in me, reviling not against revilers. And of tenets thou shalt not talk, but thou yhalt declare repentance and faith on the Savior, and remission of sin by baptism and by fire, yea, even the Holy Ghost." 

The Prophet also from time to time found it necessary to correct the Elders of the Charch in respect of their attacking other churches. At Kirtland, in 18 36, when many of the Elders were upon the eve of taking their departure for their fields of labor he instructed them as follows: 

"While waiting [for the Sacrament] T made the following remarks: The time that we were required to tarry in JtCirtland to be endowed would be ful in a few days, and then the Elders would go forth, and each stand for himself . . . . to go in all meekness, in sobriety, and preach Christ and Him crucified; not to contend with others on account of their faith or systems of religion, but pursue a steady course. This I delivered by way of commandment; and all who observe it not, will pull down persecution upon their heads, while those who do, shall always be filled with the Holy Ghost; this I pronounced as a prophesy." (History of the Church, vol. II, p. 431.) 

In other words, because the Lord has opened the heavens and has given a new dispensation of the Gospel, it does not follow that His servants or His people are to be contentious; that they are to make war upon other people for holding different views respecting religion. Hence this caution to the Elders of the Church that they should not contend against other churches, make war upon their tenets, or revile even the revilers. At an earlier date still, the Lord had said to Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer: 

"If you have not faith, hope and Charity, you can do nothing. Contend against no church, save it be the church of the devil. Take upon you the name of Christ, and speak the truth in soberness." (Dec. & Cov. Sec. 18, 19-21.) 

"The church of the devil" here alluded to I understand to mean not any particular church among men, or any one sect of religion, but something larger than that — something worldwide — something that includes within its boundaries all evil wherever it may be found; as well in schools of philosophy as in Christian sects; as well in systems of ethics as in systems of religion — something that includes the whole empire of Satan — what I shall call "The Kingdom of Evil." 

This descriptive phrase, "the church of the devil," is also used in the Book of Mormon; and while in attendance at a conference in one of the border stakes of Zion, a question was propounded to me in relation to its meaning. The passage occurs in the writings of the first Nephi. An angel of the Lord is represented as saying to Nephi, "Behold, there are save two  only: the one is the church of the Lamb of God, and the "Other is the church of the devil." The question submitted to me was, "Is the Catholic church the church here referred to — the church of the devil?" "Well," said I, in answer, "I would not like to take that position, because it would leave me with a lot of churches on my hands that I might not then be able to classify." So far as the Catholic -church is concerned, I believe that there is just as much truth, nay, personally I believe it has retained even more truth than other divisions of socalled Christendom; and there is just .as much virtue, and I am sure there is more strength in the Roman Catholic church than there is in Protestant Christendom. 

I would not like, therefore, to designate the Catholic church as the church of the devil. Neither would I like to designate any one or all of the various divisions and subdivisions of Protestant Christendom combined as such church; nor the Greek Catholic church; nor the Buddhist sects; nor the followers of Confucius; nor the followers of Mohammed; nor would I like to designate even the societies formed by deists and atheists a s constituting the church of the devil. The Book of Mormon text ought to be read in connection with its context— with the chapter that precedes it and the remaining portions of the chapter in which it is found— then, I think, those who study it in that manner will be forced to the conclusion that the Prophet here has in mind no particular church, no particular division of Christendom, but he has in mind, as just stated, the whole empire of Satan; and perhaps the thought of the passage would be more nearly expressed if we use the term "the kingdom of evil" as constituting the church of the devil. 

I understand the injunction to Oliver Cowdery to "contend against no church, save it be the church of the devil," to mean that he shall contend against evil, against untruth, against all combinations of wicked men. They constitute the church of the devil, the kingdom of evil, a federation of un; and the servants of God have a right to contend against that which is evil, let it appear where it will, in Catholic or in Protestant Christendom, among the philosophical societies of deists and atheists, and even within the Church of Christ, if, unhappily, it should make its appearance there. But, let it be understood, we are not brought necessarily into antagonism with the various sects of Christianity as such. So far as they have retained fragments of Christian truth —and each of them has some measure of truth— that far they are acceptable unto the Lord; and it would be poor policy for us to contend against them without discrimination. Wherever we find truth, whether it exists in complete form or only in fragments, we recognize that truth as part of that sacred whole of which the Church of Jesus Christ is the custodian; and I repeat that our relationship to the religious world is not one that calls for the denunciation of sectarian churches as composing the church of the devil. All that makes for untruth, ¥or unrighteousness conlstitutes the kingdom of evil — the church of the devil. All that makes for truth, for righteousness, is of God; it constitutes the kingdom of righteousness — the empire of Jehovah; and, in a certain sense at least, eonlstitutes the Church of Christ. With the latter— the kingdom of righteousness — we have no warfare. On the contrary both the spirit of the Lord's commandments to His servants and the dictates of right reason would suggest that we seek to enlarge this kingdom of righteousness both by recognizing such truths as it possesses and seeking the friendship and co-operation of the righteous men and women who constitute its membership. 

Running parallel with these thoughts, I may be pardoned if I call your attention to a remark I made in one of these general conferences some time ago, to the effect that when misrepresentations are made of us, or our faith, or when persecution arises against us, it must not embitter our minds, or make us feel hateful toward our fellowmen, or lead us to regard the whole world as GENERAL CONFERENCE.  enemies. We must keep the sweetness of our own disposition. The language of the Savior wherein He says, "Marvel not if the world hate you: it hated me before it hated you, if you were of th e world, the world would love its own," etc., I contended then and believe now that the truth of that declaration Avill be more plainly seen if we read it in this way: "Marvel not if the worldly hate you." If the ungodly, if those who make and love a lie— if such classes as this hate you, marvel not; for they were the classes that hated the Christ and the light and truth that He brought into the world, because their deeds were evil, and His light and truth were a reproof to their evil ways. And as we say concerning the "kingdom of evil," so we say with reference to those who hate the truth and make war upon the righteous, they are not of any one class, or confined to any one sect or division of the religious world, but, unhappily, are found here and there among all classes of people, among all Christian sects,among all religions and sects of philosophy. We ought to rightly divide, not only the word of truth, but the wicked and the ungodly from those who in common with us are seeking to know God and to keep His commandments. And there are millions who are hungering and thirsting for that knowledge; and we from time to time shall find them and lead them into God's temple of truth, where they shall be satisfied at the feast that the Lord is preparing for all those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. 

The purpose of the Lord in instituting His Church in the earth is very beautifully set forth in one of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants, as follows: 

(I discover that I do not readily find the passage, and so I pass it for the moment.) The thought that I desire to express and leave with you, however, is this, that as in the matter of physical warfare so also In the matter of theological contention, I believe it is proper for the Latter-day Saints to renounce war and proclaim peace; not  take such a course as would excite the antagonism of the world, but seeking rather such ground-work of truth as may be held in common between them and ourselves; for the Lord has brought forth His work in the last days, not for the purpose of subtracting from such truth as men may possess, but to add to that truth, to increase it, to enlarge it, until at the last God, through the agencies He has appointed, shall gather together in one system all truth. 

The passage I was looking for is kindly handed to me, and is as follows: 

"If this generation harden not their hearts, I will establish my Church among them. 

"Now I do not say this to destroy my Church, but I say this to build up mv Church. 

"Therefore, whosoever belongeth to my Church need not fear, for such shall . inherit the kingdom of heaven. 

"But it is they who do not fear me,, neither keep my commandments, but build up churches unto themselves to get gain, yea, and all those that dowickedly and build up the kingdom of the devil; yea, verily, verily,- 1 say unto you, that it is they that I will disturb, and cause to tremble and shake to the center." 

I read this in confirmation of the word I spoke, saying that the purpose of God in the introduction of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times was not to destroy any truth that existed in the world, but to add to that truth, to increase it, and to draw together all truth and develop it into a beautiful system in which men may rest contented, knowing God and their relationship to Him, knowing of the future and their relation unto it. 

We should present our message to the world in the spirit of peace, charity and longsuffering; and avoid contention; for as our Book of Mormon tells us. he that hath the spirit of contention is not of God. I would the world could understand the unselfisnness of our motives in presenting the Gospel of Jesus Christ to them; if they could only know that our only desire was that they should come to a knowledge of the great principles of  that are so comforting to us; that we desire their repentance and acceptance of the fulness of the truth, only that they might find favor with God, and share in our hopes of that eternal life, which God, who cannot lie, promised before the world was — if our fellowmen could be made to understand that this was our only pmv pose, it seems to me that many of the barriers that now separate us from our fellowmen would be broken down, and we would be able to reach the hearts of the people. I believe that as time passes and we become wiser in the methods of work we adopt, we will do that more and more, causing yet, not only hundreds of thousands but millions of our Father's children to partake of those great blessings that the Gospel has brought to us. To make known these truths and to make the children of men participate in the blessings that we ourselves enjoy, we yearly send hundreds of our Elders to the various nations of the earth. They sacrifice the fond associations of home, the society of wives and children, parents and friends; they sacrifice professional advantages and business opportunities; and sometimes sacrifice health and even life itself to proclaim to the world thw truth which God has made known to us —enduring the world's reproach and contumely, because the world does not understand them nor their message; and there is still need, of the prayer on our part, "Father, forgive them, they know not what they do." For the benefit of those who have passed away from the earth without a knowledge of the great truths and saving power of the Gospel of Christ, we rear costly temples, whose spires pierce the skies of our beloved Utah; and within them at great sacrifice of time and means the saints of God assemble to apply the principles of the everlasting Gospel t& those who have passed away withouv the privilege of accepting them while upon the earth. A more completely unselfish work than this does not exist among men. On every hand the work of God bears the stamp of unselfishness upon it. Our Book of Mormon says: "The laborers in Zion shall labor  Zion; for if they labor for money, they shall perish." So through all the communications of God to His people shines the glorious principle of absolute unselfishness. Not only is it to be found in the words of our books, but a like testimony is written in the works of the Latter-day Saints — in their actions. Everywhere unselfishness abounds in the Church of Christ, both in theory and practice. Now, if we can only get the people of the world to understand this fact of unselfishness — this very genius of Mormonism — if they could be made to know that Mormonism is here to do good, to raise mankind from the low levels on which they walk to the higher plains where God would have them walk, that they might have sweet fellowship with God, much of our difficulty in preaching the gospel would disappear. That the Lord may hasten the day when the world shall know the Saints and the work of God better, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Lift up the voice in singing." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

In the few minutes I occupy I desire to talk about the Lord's army. You know the Lord has an army, "Soldiers of the cross," just as the United States has a regular standing army. The Church of Latter-day Saints has an army of soldiers numbering, approximately, 8,000. They are minute men, so-called. It is their duty to preach the Gospel, continuously, among the children of men. They belong to the regular army of the Church; they are not volunteers; and whenever called by divine authority, to go to the nations of the earth, they are expected to be ready and prepared to go. This army of the Lord's soldiers go out and battle against the kingdom of evil, which Brother Roberts has been talking about. Now, my experience has taught me that the kingdom of evil is not going to lie down quietly while we are kicking it. You will generally find that enemy quite ready for a fight. Whenever these witnesses are moved uijon by the Spirit of the Lord to testify that Jesus is the Christ, and Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, then trouble begins; they need not attack the religions of other churches. I promise every Elder who is called by divine authority to preach the Gospel, if he will testify to those truths he will have all the trouble he can stand. Furthermore, the Elders must now have a little money while traveling else their enemies will make it very uncomfortable for them. I am informed that laws have been passed in cities of the Southern States, where thousands of our Elders formerly traveled without purse or scrip, so that if any of them are now found in cities asking for entertainment, they are placed in prison. I believe that some of our Elders might do good in prison, as the Lord sometimes manifests His power in behalf of imprisoned Elders, and strengthens their testimonies. 

I am very much interested in this army of the Lord, and in order to preface my remarks I will read some statements made at our last conference. Following is a quotation from the closing address delivered by President Joseph F. Smith, Oct. 8, 1905. 

"I feel like blessing the quorums of the Priesthood, every one of them, from the High Priests to the Deacons. I pray God, my Heavenly Father, to remember them in their organizations, to help them, that they may magnify the Priesthood they hold and do the will of the Father; that the Seventies may be minute men, instant in season and out of season, ready and willing to respond to the calls that are made upon them to go and preach the Gospel to the world. Gather in from the Elders quorums those who have proven themselves worthy and who have gained experience, and make Seventies of them, so that the quorums of the Seventies may be replenished; and the aged ones, whose physical condition will not permit them any longer to do missionary duty in the world, let them be ordained High Priests and Patriarchs, to bless the people and to minister at home. Gather in the strong, the vigorous, the young, the ablebodied who have the spirit of the Gospel in their hearts, to fill the ranks of the Seventies, that we may have ministers to preach the Gospel to the . They are needed. We cannot now meet the demand." 

That is the word of the Lord to the Seventies, and to the Presidents of Stakes, and Bishops of wards. We should search among our young people carefully and advance the worthy ones in the Priesthood, so that we can replenish the Seventies' quorums with good, able-bodied men who are willing to perform the arduous labors connected with preaching the Gospel. This labor is difficult; it is hard upon the Seventies and Elders, for they are sent into all the climates of the earth. They go to the islands of the sea, to malarial districts, or to high altitudes, and unless they are strong and ablebodied, they break down physically. To illustrate, if you send an Elder to Australia, at a cost perhaps of $120, and he is sick with rheumatism or other ailments, and has to return home, all that money is expended and very little accomplished. I think President Smith has told me, personally, that to send men out in the missionary field who are broken down physically, demoralizes the mission. It certainly is a great misfortune to break down physically while on a mission. If you send out a sick Elder with a companion who is healthy, strong and able-bodied, the healthy man is hindered from performing his labors because of the sickness of his partner. If there are easy places the sick Elders have to be sent there, so I think it is sometimes a misfortune to be healthy if you have to go to all the hard places. I say all hail to the aged Seventies who have been faithful, who have labored .70 years perhaps, as Brother Homer Duncan did. He was one of the oldest presidents of Seventy in the Church; he was senior president of the Third quorum for a great many years. He died lately over 90 years old; and he wanted to die a Seventy; there was nothing that could change his mind regarding that matter. 

It seems to me that some of the aged Seventies have a wrong conception regarding their change of appointment to High Priests, so that they can labor  home, sleep in their own beds, and be cared for by their families This is the place for men who are aged, and who have been faithful and diligent witnesses of the Lord. It is not good for them to be out in the world, exposed as our Elders have to be. I am deeply interested in that matter, and desire you to give it consideration. The Seventies are under the direction of the Twelve Apostles, who, when they need assistance in preaching the Gospel, should find such help in the Seventies quorums, instead of any others, according to the revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ. But the difficulty is that many of these "soldiers of the cross" are aged, physically disabled, crippled, and therefore unable to go out and perform this labor, and it would not be wisdom to call them. So we need young and healthy ♦ men. 

I desire to say further that we need a little more discipline, and more attention to the interests of our Seventies. There are seven Presidents over eaeh of those quorums in the Church, and there are now 148 quorums; but there is a difficulty that I think needs to be looked after The Sunday school numbers about .100,000 in its membership. The Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association about 25,000. These organizations have strong General Boards, and there has been a wonderful labor performed by them. As President Smith stated this morning, it cannot be expressed in a few words what the Sunday Schools, the Mutual Improvement Associations and other auxiliary organizations have accomplished. They have been encouraged, held together, pushed and crowded to their fullest capacity by their energetic and capable officers. The Priesthood quorums should be foremost in this Church, but some of the members have become mentally lazy, and have acted as if they expected their organizations to keep together without effort. The auxiliaries have been urged forward with, great enthusiasm, everywhere, from Canada to Mexico, these organizations are to the front. The Priesthood quorums are apparently weary in well doing, and the officers and mem seem to think that their organizations can run themselves. They have become lax in their work, and let loose their hold. While the auxiliary organizations have taken the right of way, the Priesthood quorums stand by looking on awe-struck at the great phalanx of young people who are rushing ahead. So the auxiliary organizations are going away up the hill and we, the Priesthood quorums, stand down in the valley and look on. Perhaps you don't like that picture, you men of the Priesthood quorums, but I tell you there is a lot of truth in it. 

You owe first allegiance to your quorums and quorum meetings, for there is where you get your authority and power. Why is it that we are different from other men in the world It is not because we have greater knowledge and information, but because we hold the Priesthood. Why is it that you fathers and mothers permit your 18-year-old boys to go to South Africa, Australia, Germany, or other nations of the earth, notwithstanding you are afraid to trust them out in this city after dark? It is because they hold the Priesthood. Our beardless boys are able to defend the Church of Jesus Christ, and preach the Gospel. They hold divine authority, and under their administration the repentant believer is baptized, receives the remission of sins, and the Holy Ghost is conferred by the laying on of hands. The arm of the Lord is not shortened. These boys are sent out in His service a«d He has told them to think not of the morrow, of what they shall eat, or what they shall drink, or wherewithal they shall be clothed, for He is amply able to take care of them. There is no great number of men in this Church so carefully looked after, and their lives so well preserved, as are the Elders who preach the Gospel in the world. I am in favor of the Priesthood quorums taking their proper places, and if they do not do it, they ought to be ashamed of themselves, for they have the power and intelligence, and they hold the authority. It puts me in mind of a story, the only one I can think of just now to fit the condition. It may not be just suitable, but I will tell it anyhow: 

A negro had a mule which balked, and he could not get it to move; ,so he went into a drug store and asked the druggist if he had anything that he thought would start the mule. The druggist came out and injected something in the region of the ribs of the mule, and immediately thereafter the negro s aw a streak of dust and the animal flying over the hill. He went back to the druggist and said, "How much is it? "Twenty-five cents." "Well," said he, Just put fifty cents worth in me. so I can catch the mule." (Laughter.) 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

In his opening remarks this morning, President Smith stated what it was [that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stood for. It was for virtue, for honesty, for all that is good and holy and right. It was this idea that inspired the Apostle James when he said, "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." It was no doubt the same thought that inspired the words that "faith without works *s dead." 

In looking over this great congregation and seeing so many of our Father's children, my mind is led to contemplate the great human family; not only those who dwell upon the earth today, but ail who have ever trod this planet. When our first parents came to this earth they partook of the fruit of the tree of knowledge, and thereby .learned to  discriminate between good and evil. From that day until the present, all mankind have come in contact with the good and with the evil. Every man and woman will appreciate what I say when I call attention to the fact that this warfare between good and evil is known to every one of them. It is a battle that we all must fight. With that knowledge of good and evil we are also in possession of what is known as  agency. We can choose the good and reject th* evil, or we can choose the evil and reject the good. But to every one of us will come the momentous queeLion, Which shall we choose? and Me shall be called upon to decide. So that when the statement is made lhat the Chirch of Christ stands for the good, it seems to me that that describes ou: religion The purpose of our Father in heaven in revealing the Gospel of Je.v.i.s Cbiist was that He m\%hi convert the ieople of the world to eschew evil pnd to follow the good. It vras that we migi t be cleansed and puri'.ied from the evil with which we all come in contact. Sin is in the world, and humanity to some extent has partaken of it. Therefore it became necessary that a plan should be devised whereby we might be redeemed and saved from the consequences of sin. The two influences mentioned are abroad in the land. One is striving with the children of men to save their souls. It is the Spirit of the Lord, that divine essence which issues forth from the Father and the Son, and is within the reach of every one of us. If we harken to that "still small voice" of the Spirit of God, 'it will lead us in the way of good. It will help us to fight the batles of life, and finally lead us to salvation. It will result in making us good men and women, and prompt us to do good to all. It will make itself manifest in noble deeds, in righteous lives; it will elevate us, and fit and qualify us to be indeed the children of God. If, on the other hand, we hearken to the evil one.it will lead us downward. It will result in the doing of evil deeds; will lead us down to degradation, and destroy our souls. 

I do not need to advance any argument in proof of this. It is something that might be called an axiom. It is a self-evident truth, and is known to all mankind. The grand purpose then is that we might be cleansed from sin. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is we first principle of life and salvation. The Gospel has been revealed to mankind in order to enable us to resist the powers of evil. It has been called the pow of God unto salvation. A plan of redemption was necessary. There are many people who say, "Oh, if I lead a moral, upright life, that is all that is necessary." Supposing- we grant that for the sake of the argument, the allimportant thing is that we shall be cleansed. It is, however, impossible for us to please God unless we believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. If our lives are going to result in righteous deeds, it will be because we seek after the Lord; in other words, seek after that good influence He sends abroad: there is no other way to pursue in order to be influenced for right. The moment we reject that power and influence we are on the other side and listening to the evil one, who is seeking to destroy the souls of the children of men. There^ fore, faith is necessary for our salvation. Faith is necessary for the cleansing of mankind from sin. There would be no motive power, nothing to impel us to righteousness, without faith in God. There would be nothing to cause, .us to fight the evil, if it were not for faith in God. That very faith will lead us to turn from evil. If we have faith in Him, we must believe that He is good; and if we would please Him and cleanse ourselves, we also must btgood. And that implies an abandoning, a forsaking, a turning away from sin. 

Repentance is a law that has been revealed for the salvation of mankind, and without that there is no salvation. No man can be cleansed from sin unless he repents and turns from sin. That is a self evident truth. It is also true that in order to be truly clean we must atone in some way or make good for the past. And what can mankind do for that? Her* we stand in the position of utter helplessness. What man can forgive himself? What man can obtain salvation or be cleansed from sin, if perchance he has been guilty all his life of that which is sinful in the sight of God? Man is totally helpless. And we ought to conceive the fact that forgiveness is essential to our sal, yet man in and of himself cannot obtain that forgiveness. We may repent of our evil ways and turn unto the Lord; we may have faith in Him; but there still remains something that we are powerless to overcome— the responsibility for the evil that we have done. This can only com e by that power from on high. Some people have thought there was a conflict between the Apostle James and the Apostle Paul, but I do not regard it as any conflict. James said that faith without works was dead, while Paul wrote that by grace we are saved, and that not of ourselves, not of works, lest any man should boast. My brethren and sisters, the grace of God is necessary for your salvation and for the cleansing from sin which we all need. He so loved the world that He sent His Only Begotten Son, that whosoever should believe on Him should not peiish, but have everlasting life. And forgiveness can come from Him, and from Him alone. Although He introduced an ordinance in His Church whereby we may obtain forgiveness, the main thing is that Jesus came and His blood was spilt that we might be forgiven of our transgressions, and thereby be cleansed. We are told that if we walk in the light as He is in the light, then shall we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ will cleanse us from all sin. Without that there would be no cleansing. And the way that can be done must be by our Father in heaven, through His divine authority. It can only be accomplished by Him personally ministering unto us, or by some of His constituted authority upon the earth, having the right to officiate in His nartie, and thereby bring unto us remission of sins so that we may be cleansed every whit, and that our bodies may be made fit for the reception of the Holy Ghost, to be conferred by that same authority, through the laying on of hands. 

That, my brethren and sisters, is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I pray that we may all appreciate it and live in accordance with its principles, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn commencing, 

Guide us, O thou great Jehovah, Saints unto the promised land; 

"We are weak, but thou art able, Hold us with thy prowerful hand! 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Andrew Jenson, and conference was adjourned to Saturday morning, at 10 o'clock. Saturday, April 7, 10 a. m. 


