Afternoon
08 04 1906


ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Importance of observing God's law concerning the Sabbath day.— The day should not be desecrated by unbecoming conduct.— Abundant opportunities provided for recreation in other days. — Municipal laws, and personal appeal should influence reverence for the Sabbath. 

My brethren and sisters, it is a pleasure to me to have the opportunity of being in attendance upon this conference, listening to the words that have been spoken by the Brethren whose  it has been to speak, and partaking of the spirit that has characterized the meetings thus far. I desire that you will give me the aid of your faith and prayers, that I may be enabled to discharge the duty ihat has fallen to my lot in that manner that shall result in our mutual good, and that may awaken in our minds a determination to more fully ana devotedly discharge the sacred obligations into which we have entered connected with the work the Lord has committed to our care at this time. As I was sitting here the thought entered my mind that I would like to ieud to the congregation a portion of one of the revelations. It is contained in Section 59 of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and is a revelation given through Joseph the Seer, m Zion, Jackson county, Missouri, Aug. 7, 1831. 

"Behold, blessed, saitn the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory, according to my commandments; 

"For them that live shall inherit the earth, and them that die shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them, and they snail receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them; 

"Yea, blessed are they wnose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my Gospel, for they shall receive for their reward the good things of tnb earth; and it shall bring forth in its strength; 

"And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few; and with revelations in their time: they that are faithful and diligent before me. 

"Wherefore I give unto them a commandment, saying thus: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him. 

"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it. 

"Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things. 

"Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit. 

"And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; 

"For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest trom your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto tne Most 

High: 

"Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; 

"But remember that on tnis the Lord's day, thou shait offer thine oblations and' thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord." 

To my mind, the principles contained in this revelation, given to the Churchin 1831, are worthy of our consideration today, and the suggestions therein affecting our conduct should receive our thoughtful observance. In the midst of the cares and responsibilities that attach to us, in the struggle we have to make to secure for ourselves temporal blessings, as well as to minister in the performance of spiritual labors, sometimes we are not as mindful of these obligations as we should be. Without thought we occasionally drift into a disregard of the Sabbath day. We look upon it with a degree of laxity, not in keeping with the commandment concerning it as given unto us by our Heavenly Father. I believe that if there is any condemnation that applies most specifically to the Latter-day Saints for the neglect of duty, it is that some have turned this sacred day too much into a day of visiting and pleasure. We are not as thoughtful as we should be of its observance, and of the legitimate duties connected with this great day of rest instituted by our Father in heaven in His covenant with His children in former days, and renewed unto us in the wonderful trust that each one that has come to trust that each one that has came to attend this great conference will be impressed with the importance of oui Father's purpose in thus setting the Sabbath day apart again in our day, through the revelations of His will, and that, so far as we have influence and power with those placed under our watchcare, we shall impress upon their minds also that the day should be observed more sacredly and thoughtfully than it has been in the past. It is true, many of us who have been away  home, ministering in preaching the Gospel, have possibly Jost our influence, in a limited degree, upon our children in regard to these matters, and they may have drifted from us with the tide. In seeking, by our companionship and counsel, to check the tendency that has affected them, we sometimes And it difficult to impress them with our views, and with the sacred regard in which we hold the injunction given by the Almighty concerning this holy day. But I believe the effort should be made more carefuly and thoroughly by every one of us, as fathers and mothers, as Elders in the Church, as presiding authorities in the branches and wards of Zion, and as ministers in every field, to impress upon the minds of the Lord's covenant people that His love and blessings can only be obtained by the observance of His holy will. 

Similar thoughts are awakened in my mind in reflecting upon other questions. Our Heavenly Father has been exceedingly generous to us in the line of the amusements we are privileged to enjoy. No people in the world have been more thoughtfully considered in the matter of amusements, both for young and old. o."n theatricals, in dancing, in concerts, in visits to proper places of resort, and in other privileges of enjoyment, we have been generously dealt witn as a people, so that the exuberant spirits of youth may have legitimate exercise, and those who have reached riper years may be refreshes and have their minds relaxed from the cares and responsibilities of life. But our Father, while permitting these privileges, has laid upon us the requirement of sacredly regarding His holy day and discharging our obligations in regard to it. Should conditions prevent us from being in attendance at Sabbath school, at the Sacrament meeting, or at the evening meeting, that day should not oe spent in visiting neighbors, in mingling with one another upon the streets, or in going to pleasure resorts. If it is impossible for us to attend places of sacred worship in public, we should seek to study th« Scriptures at home, and equip ourselves by communion with the Spirit, for the great work the good Master has set us to do. I believe that our condemnation will be great— fathers and mothers as well as children— if we disregard this sacred day and its obligations. 

It is not my intention to detain you, but I desire to impress upon the sons and daughters of Zion that no people has ever been dealt with more generously than we have in opportunities afforded for legitimate and proper amusement. The Lord has sought to impress upon our minds a sacred regard of His holy day, and has also made it possible for us to, at other times, have amusement along proper lines, and in proper companionship. Therefore it is improper and unrighteous for any to seek the companionship of the lewd and vicious, or mingle with the wicked in places of pleasure upon the Sabbath day. It is also wrong for us to participate in any of the great variety of agencies which men have established that tend to the moral overthrow and destruction of their fellows. I believe that the authorities of every city, town and village within the United States should seek to cause the citizens to regard with more sacredness and respect the day .iesignated by the Almighty as a day of rest. I believe that we to whom the revelation has come in the latter days in regard to the observance of the* Sabbath, should be determined that His day must be held in reverence, respect and love. We should honor the men and women of every faith, creed, and condition that seek in fairness, mercy and love to prevent the turning of the Lord's day into a time for wrong doing that may result in the moral overthrow and destruction of human beings. The desire should be instilled into the minds of every man and woman to honor and esteem it, and to utilize it for the accomplishment of their improvement in a knowledge of the divine will, and increasing their respect and reverence for our Heavenly Father. 

I ask you who are pongregated here, men who influence the views and ideas of communities, women whose hearts  attuned to the best interests of the human race, to see to it that the impress of a sacred regard for the Lord's holy day shall be inculcated by you, both in word and action, so that the moral regulations given of the Almighty may be more thoroughly established among His great family. Remember the right and do it. Let this love of the principles of righteousness be imbued in the souls of our sons and daughter?, and then, though they drift from our control for a while, the time will come in the trials and experiences of iife when they will come back to their homes, with regrets for having disregarded our instructions and the impress we sought to make upon them. 

May we be true to every propositiou involved in the principles of our faith, and also in the good couched in the faith of every other living soul. May we be set and determined in our purpose that everything evil and wrong shall be met with an effort , upon our part to eradicate it and better the conditions of life. Let us point the way to the success that may come to men and women who shall do the will of their Father, blessing their fellows, and being just to every one. May the blessings of Heaven abound in your hearts and in your homes. May you love tie principles of righteousness. May vou honor the Lord's day. May the moral doctrines of the Gospel, given in the law of which I have spoken, including "Thou shalt not steal," "Thou shalt not commit adultery," "Thou shalt not kill," and others like unto it, be among the guiding beacons of your lives. May the love of your country and its institutions, and the maintenance of every principle of right and justice that guard the liberties of every human being, be exhibited in your every action; that the principles established for the betterment of the human race, that the liberalizing of mankind, and the preaching of the truth among them, may be sustained by you, without fear of the frowns of mankind, but in love of the right, in the principle of mercy, and in the justice that should be accorded to every human being. 

God has spoken from the heavens. His truth has been declared among the children of men. The message of gladness has come and is to be heralded to the whole human race. Upon you, in connection with the others who have been warned, rests this responsibility. May wisdom, prudence, faith, undying courage and unyielding dievotion to principle govern your lives, that the truth may stand, and that you may nonor everything that is noble and true, is my prayer. Amen. 

The quartet. "Lead Kindly Light," was beautifully rendered by Sisters Larson, Owen, Jones and Jorgensen. 

ELDER C. W. PENROSE. 

Harmony in the Church— Spread of the Gospel— Seeds Sown in Time Will Bear Fruit in Eternity.— Individual Identity Immortal.— Godhead of Jesus Christ.— The Atonement— Faithfulness in Adversity as in Prosperity. 

This is a magnificent sight viewed from this upper stand. To see so many noble countenances upturned, expressive of devotion and faith and a desire to be instructed, places a person occpying this position in a state of anxiety, to some extent. I believe this has been felt by all our brethren who have stood up before the congregations during this conference to speak in the name of the Lord. We feel that a great responsibility rests upon us. The task might not be so great if we were In the habit of framing discourses to deliver to the public, and coming prepared not only with subjects but with words and phrases to deliver to the congregation, but you, my brethren and sisters, are aware that that is not one of the customs in this Church. We are required, as the servants of the Lord, to treasure up in our hearts continually the words of eternal life, so that we may be prepared when called upon or when necessity requires, to speak that which the Lord shall inspire on the occasion. 

I have greatly enjoyed the sessions of this conference, and the discourses that have been delivered, and the rePorts that have been made. There has been present with, us a delightful . We have enjoyed good fellowship and harmony. There has been no discord in the spirits of the men who have spoken to us, nor in the words that they have delivered, but the Spirit of God has borne witness in our hearts to the truth and the importance of that which has been declared to us. We have learned that all things are prospering in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Not that we have arrived at perfection in the individuals or in any department of the Church; there is room for improvement in us individually, and in the Church as a whole. But we have learned that Zion is prospering. We have learned that the Gospel is being preached to the world, and that the way is being opened up among the nations of the earth whereby the servants cf God may have freedom to go forward and perform their respective missions. We have learned, too, that there has been an increase in the membership of the Church: that although great hosts of people have not come forward to embrace the Gospel, there are some thousands who have been baptized into the Church, and there are a great many others who have been profoundly impressed with the message which has been borne to them. If it were not for the pride of the world, if it were not for the fear of the scoffs and scorn of men, I am fully presuaded that many thousands who have heard the testimony of the Elders would come forward and embrace the Gospel and rejoice with us in its glorious privileges. 

The work that is being performed by our brethren who are laboring in the various mission fields is a very important one, and it rests upon all of Us Latter-day Saints to do our part in this great missionary cause. When , the Church was first organized the word of the Lord came that every man who is warned should warn his neighbor; that the testimony which was given to the Saints should be borne by them for the benefit of others, so that the Gospel might go forward to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. This work rests upon the Latter-day Saints. It is our duty to proclaim the Gospel to all the world, and the Lord will open up the way from time to time, and give His servants access to the honest in heart, some of whom will receive their testimonies and come out of the world to be baptized into Christ and become members of His Church upon the earth. And now while we are bearing this testimony and bringing a few into the fold, the seeds that are being sown by the-. Elders will, in time, bear fruit in a great many directions that do not now appear. Like seed that is sown in the soil, and disappears from view, in the due time of the Lord it will bring forth fruit to His honor and glory. So we must be encouraged in our labors, leaving the result Avith the Lord; for though Paul may plant, and Apollos may water, it is God Avho gives the increase. I believe, with all my heart that the testimonies which are being borne by these brethren who have spoken to us and the Elders who are laboring under their direction, Avill not fall to the ground, but Avill accomplish a good Avork in due time. 

There are hundreds of thousands Avho have heard the Gospel in the flesh and through fear or folly have not embraced it, having been afraid to come forward and join themselves with this unpopular people, when they pass aAvay from this stage of being into the spirit world will be prepared to receive it when it is being preached among the spirits that are there. For the work that Christ did after He departed from the flesh and went and preached to the spirits in prison who Avere disobedient in the days of Noah, will have to be repeated and is being repeated noAv by the servants of God who have gone behind the veil, and it will be continued by those who shall follow after. While the Saints upon the earth are ministering in the temples that have been reared, and performing the necessary ordinances that pertain to the flesh which cannot be attended to by people in the spirit land, the prophets of the living God, who  their testimony Avith their blood, and their faithful brethren Avho have folloAved after them, are now laboring among the people behind the veil that they may be prepared to receive the blessings that shall come to them through the labors of the Saints in the flesh. For in this dispensation of the fullness of times the Lord has promised he will gather together in one all things that are in Him, both in heaven and on the earth, and the work that we are performing now in the flesh in carrying the Gospel of the kingdom to the ends of the earth, and gathering in the upright in heart from all parts of the Avorld, is but a portion of the work of the Latter-day Saints The powers of the Holy Priesthood which God has revealed are inseparably c 0n nected, he has told us, with the powers that are behind the veil. They ar=> working together in harmony, and the tune will come and it is not far distant, when the veil will be taken away Avhich separates us from our brethren who have gone before, and we will Avork Avith them, and they Avith us. We will be in perfect harmony; and the Priesthood behind the veil will reveal to the Priesthood in the flesh, in the holy Temples of God Avhere these conversations Avill take place, the names of those for whom we must officiate which we cannot obtain by the means now at our command. This is the Lord's work, and it is not only going on here in the flesh, but it is going on in the world behind the veil among the spirits that have departed. Every man Avho has been called to hold the Priesthood should endeavor to Qualify himself for the work that lies before him, both that which he will be called to do Avhile he dwells in the body, and that which he will have to perform when he goes out of the body; for it is a fact that when we go away from here we will take with us that which we have spiritually. That intelligence which Ave gain, that knowledge of principle, that fellowship we have with the heavens, that Holy Priesthood which we bear, that divine spirit by which we have been inspired, and all the powers that we have gained in being ex in the duties of the Holy Priesthood, will be strength and power and might to us when we depart from the body and are delivered from the weakness of mortality, and called to labor in the world of spirits. The same authority, the same power, the same intelligence, the same experiences that we have had here we" will have there. We will not leave any of it with our bodies to be dropped down in the grave. Another thing: if we are not diligent, if we are dilatory, if we are negligent, if we do not prize this authority that the Lord has sent down out of Heaven in the last days for us to use for the salvation of the souls of men, we shall not be wafted into light, intelligence, power, and glory when we go out of the body, but will merely carry with us that which we have when we drop our bodies. Therefore every man holding the Priesthood should endeavor to qualify himself for the work of th& ministry, in time and in eternity, so that we may labor under the direction of the Captain of our salvation until redemption shall come to all the race, and "every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of God the Father." 

In the opening remarks made by President Smith, he stated that we were building up this Church to Jesus Christ. That is a very important point for us to keep in mind, in view of the fact that the trend of modern religious thought is in the direction of holding up Jesus of Nazareth simply as a great man and wise teacher. This idea has been preached right here in Salt Lake City; it is being preached in all the great cities of the land, that Jesus is to be looked upon as a model man, and great teacher, but not in any sense the Son of God in the way He is proclaimed in the Scriptures. All those expressions concerning His being one of the Godhead a|re spiritualized, and the trend of modern thought in the religious world, as I have said, is in the direction of placing Jesus of Nazareth on the plane of mortality. It was proclaimed in this city not long ago that Jesus died like any other man, or simply as a martyr; that he was put to , and died because he could not live any longer, and he was the embodiment of righteousness and truth, and in that way, and that way alone, He was the way, the truth, and the light. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, the Lord has revealed something concerning the personality of Jesus of Nazareth and what he stands for, and our relationship to him. We frequently bear testimony concerning Joseph the Prophet, as we ought to do, for we should "praise the man who communed with Jehovah," and whom "Jesus anointed as prophet and seer;' but when we bear testimony that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God we do in effect proclaim the truth that Jesus or. Nazareth is the Messiah, the Son of God. the Redeemer of the world, the Resurrection and the Life, the Way and the Truth, and that only by and through Him can we approach the Father. That is the great doctrine for which Joseph Smith stood, and lived, and died as a martyr. In the beginning, the Father and the Son appeared to him in that grove which Brother George Albert Smith was talking about this morning, where the company .that went to dedicate the monument to the Prophet met and sang the song of Joseph's first vision. The Father and the Son appeared to Joseph, and the Father.pointing to the Son, said: "This is My beloved Son, hear Him." He is the Way, the Truth and the Life, and He is the light of the world. He was in the beginning with the Father. You can read it in this Book of Doctrine and Covenants. I will not turn to it now, but you read the 76th section, in which the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon tell us that they beheld the Father, seated upon His throne, and Jesus Christ, His Son, by His side; and they bear witness — the last witness of Him — that they saw Him in the heavenly vision, and they learned that "By Him and through Him, and of Him the worlds were made, and the inhabitants thereof were begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

In the Book of Mormon we read from the words of Jesus Christ Himself to the people on this continent, to whom He appeared after His resurrection, that He is the Savior of the world; that He was with the Father in the beginning; that by Him the worlds were framed, and that He came at the time appointed and died for the sins of the world, that all who believed in Him and obeyed His Gospel might obtain eternal life. The same things are revealed in Sec. 93 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Jesus Christ says there, "Behold I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the first born." He proclaimed this Himself, in this revelation; and all through the revelations in the Doctrine.' and Covenants and in the Book of Mormon, the great truth is proclaimed that that person who was known as Jesus of Nazareth, who was born at Bethlehem, who was cradled in a manger, who was brought up as the son of Joseph, the carpenter, and when he became 30 years of age was baptized in the Jordan, and who after the ministry of about three and a half years, was put to death, was in very deed the Son of God, and that he was in the beginning with the Father. When God said "Let us make man in our own image, and after our own likeness," He spoke to His beloved Son, who is called in the New Testament the "first begotten," "the beginning of the creation of God." Read the first chapter of the Epistle to the Hebrews where the great truth is proclaimed by the Apostle, that "God who at sundry times, and in divers manners spake unto the fathers in times past by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by His Son, whom He has appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds." It goes on to tell that after he had purged us from our sins by His atonement, He ascended to the heavens and sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. This is the truth that we have to proclaim to the world. That Jesus of Nazareth is one of the Holy Trinity. In the words of the Apostle John, which are repeated here in the Doctrine and Covenants from the mouth of Christ Himself, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." Jesus is God. "All  were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made." That is the testimony of John. And Jesus Himself bore testimony to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that this is the truth, and that he is the Word, and the Way, and the Truth, and the Life. 

In proclaiming this Gospel of the Kingdom to the world we are proclaiming the Gospel of Jesus, the good tidings and glad news that Jesus was the Messiah, that He is the Son of God, that as He built up the Church when He was upon the earth in the flesh, s o He has built up His Church anew in the last days, because after the death of His apostles, darkness came into the world, and apostasy from the truth, and the Priesthood was taken away, but He has restored it, and He is at the head of this Church. Every one of these revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants, one or two of which we have heard read this afternoon, have come from Him. It is the voice of Jesus Christ to Joseph the Prophet, and to others who are spoken of here. He is our living head. We worship God in his name, and all the ordinances that are performed in this Church are done in the name of Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world. When He died He did not die as we do; for He declared himself: "No man taketh My life. 1 have power to lay down my life, and I have power to take it up again. And. this commandment I have received of My Father." So when Christ died He voluntarily laid down His life for His brethren; and greater love hath no man than this. 

We sang at the opening of the services this afternoon "Worthy the Lamb." Yes, indeed, praise, and honor, and glory, and power will be unto the Lamb forever and ever, But when He comes again it will not be as a Lamb, although He is still without blemish and without spot — the spotless Lamb of God — but He will come as the King of kings, to sit on the throne of His ancestor David, and to rule and reign from the rivers to the ends of the earth. He will come in triumph, and in power, and the kingdom will be built up to 

Him, and the people will be prepared for His coming through the ordinances which He has revealed and the spirit which He ia pouring' out. He will come "the second time without sin unto salvation." We are building up this Church to Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, who died for us that we might be redeemed from the effects of the fall; that as through the transgression of our first parents' death came into the world, which is the waget> of sin, so by the perfect righteousness and atonement and voluntary death of our Redeemer we shall all be raised from the dead, every one of Adam's race, and appear before the Judgment Seat, and give an account of our own acts. By faith in Jesus Christ, and obedience to His Gospel, we shall be cleansed from our sins, and by repentance and baptism they shall be blotted out through the atonement and good works of Jesus our Redeemer and Savior of the world. These simple truths should be impressed and stamped upon every soul in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We worship the Father in His name. We bow to Him. The priesthood that we hold is a priesthood after the order of the Son of God. We minister in His name. We minister by the power and influence which He has sent down from the heavens. Joseph Smith the prophet was, His servant, His mouthpiece, and he received from Jesus Christ all the light, intelligence, and truth there is manifested in the records that we have. 

I wish to bear my testimony to this congregation that Jesus Christ is still with His people, with His priesthood, with His servants upon whom He has conferred authority to minister in His name. Every key of power and authority given to the Prophet Joseph Smith has been handed down to his successors, and is now vested in the man who stands at our head, President Joseph F. Smith, who is the lawful successor of his ancestor, and who is clothed with the power and authority of his calling. The Lord is with him, and His powei is around about him; and when the Lord Jesus Christ desires to make any more manifest for the government of His church (for this is Hls> church) He will reveal it through His servant who is appointed for that purpose. His spirit permeates the whole church, and all of the people receive of it according to their faith and their faithfulness, their diligence, and their persistence in seeking after it. There are some of my brethren and sisters, I .am sorry to say, who are not diligent in seeking after these things. The Lord is near unto every one of us, foi in Him we live, and move, and havi our being. We can seek Him; we can ask and receive; we can seek and find; we can knock and the door will bt opened to us; and every comfort and blessing pertaining to the everlasting Gospel enjoyed at any period of thx-, world's history can b e enjoyed today. But they must be sought after by the prayer of faith, and by diligence, obedience, and by being in harmony with Jesus Christ our living head. His spirit will permeate the Church. His spirit will prompt His people if the> will be obedient to His laws. These prophecies which Brother John Henry Smith read to us this afternoon from the fifty-ninth section" of the "Doctrim. and Covenants" are of great importance, and there are blessings promised predicated upon obedience to these laws. Read what the Lord has promised to us if we will keep these commandments. There will indeed be blessings not a few, and revelations in the time thereof; for God is a God of revtiation, and His spirit is a spirit of revelation, and He and Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost do not change. They are the same yesterday, today, and foiever; and they are not afar off. Thej do not count distance as we do. Wt, can ask and receive, and while we arc asking we can be receiving. The time-, is to come, according to ancient prophecy, when before we have done asking we shall receive, because we shall bt brought into such close harmony with the powers that are on high. This is what we need in our homes; to have thb spirit of Christ in our hearts, to be kind, forebearing and charitable, to 

love one another, to seek to bless all mankind and not curse, and to be patient. When we are reviled against, when our enemies speak evil of us, when they try to do us injury, wo should possess our souls in patienct and wait for the Lord to move. Thoso who will not repent we should leave in His hands. We have no desire to do injury to any living- being. I know that this is the spirit of Christ, and that we should cherish it. We should not desire to curse or to retaliate, but to bless and to do good, to build up and not to destroy. If we will seek for this spirit, realizing that Christ is our living head, and that our brethren wht are called to labor in our midst are His servants, and we are all building up a church to Christ and should pattern after Him in all His perfections as far as we can, peace will be in our minds and in our hearts, and the power of God will be upon the elders in carrying the Gospel to the ends of the earth, and the Lord will bear them up and bring them off more than conquerors. 

While thinking about the great blessings we are enjoying, the splendid condition of the Church, financially and spiritually, the means that are being employed for the extension of the work and for providing employment, the thought came to my mind, supposing it were not so; supposing that instead of our hearing these comforting and encouraging reports and learning how the work is prospering, and spreading forth, and on what solid foundations the Church is being reared, and how everything is smiling and pleasant, we should hear another story — that clouds were coming over us, that it was a day of trial, a day of temptation, a day when we are to be proven, a day when it would seem almost as though the Lord had forsaken us, like it was with Jesus when He was nailed to the cross. "My God, My God, why hast thou forsaken me," was His cry. Not that God had forsaken Him, but He left Him to bear the brunt, that He might feel the pain, that He might understand the anguish, that He might comprehend how people feel u ben they are in sorrow, that He  be touched with a feeling for out infirmities, because He bore the pains of us all. Supposing that we should be in such a condition, should we falter, should we fail, should we shrink? No, my brethren and sisters, we should stand Arm in the liberty wherewith God has made us free. We should stand in our lot and place. We should be ready to labor for Zion, to carry the Gospel forth to the nations of the earth, to labor at home, to do anything and everything that we can, in joy or in sorrow, in prosperity or in adversity, in times that are good and times that appear to be bad. We should always be on hand, in season and out of season, ready to perform our duty to the very best of our ability; and if we will do that God will fight our battles. And if clouds do arise and sometimes difficulties and barriers appear to be raised in our way, God has the power and will exercise it to sweep them out of our path. "Zion will rise and shine, and the glory of God will be seen upon her, and kings will come to her light, and gentiles to the brightness of her rising," as the prophets of old have predicted. The Lord has to do with those things that are temporal as well as those thai are spiritual; for He 'has declared that "for brass He will bring gold, and for stones iron, and for iron He will bring silver," and He will beautify Zion and cause her to shine and be made glorious. He will convert unto her the abundance of the riches of the earth; for they are all the Lord's, and th<» Lord has an interest in the earth He has made. He fashioned it, He made it with His hands. As we sing sometimes, "His hands prepared the dry land; the sea is His and He made it." The cattle upon a thousand hills are His, and the fullness of the earth and the precious things (as we look upon them) are His, and He can convert them and will do it to our good when we an ready to use them properly. The Lord is in the temporal as well as in the spiritual things of His kingdom, and will be if we keep His commandments and seek to sanctify them in His service. That is the point. As with Him,  things will be spiritual to us, if we use them to the glory of G-od and the benefit of our fellow creatures. 

I rejoice with all my soul in the midst of this congregation this afternoon. I have spent many years ' in this glorious ministry, and the Lord has blessed me, strengthened and supported me, and has prolonged my days. All I am and; all I have are His, and I desire to devote them still to His service, to- labor for the salvation of mankind, the living and the dead; to work undei the direction of Jesus Christ, our Lord, and His servants whom He has appointed to minister for Him. I praise Him with all my soul this afternoon foi His mercies. I magnify His holy name. I bear my testimony that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, and that through Him and by Him tht. worlds were made, and through Him and by Him they will be redeemed, and light and truth will prevail and darkness and evil will be overcome. Satan will be bound and mankind will be redeemed from his thrall; the Christ will reign over tbe earth, and those who are true and faithful unto Him will reign with Him in glory. May the peace and blessing of God abide with us all, for Christ's sake. Amen. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE'S REPORT. 

President Smith then read the following report of the auditing committee appointed at the last semi-annual conference. 

Salt Lake City, Uta April 4, 1906. 

President Joseph F. Smith and Counselors, Salt Lake City. 

Dear Brethren — We, the committee appointed to audit the accounts of the Church for the year 1905, beg leave to report as follows: 

We have examined the accounts of the Trustee-in-Trust, and are pleased to say that they are kept in a very business-like manner, that the mechanical part is very well done, and that as a matter of bookkeeping they leave nothing to be desired. 

We have also examined the accounts of the Presiding Bishop's office, together with the auxiliary accounts which are reported to that office. These accounts cover a very wide , as you are aware, dealing with every stake president and bishop in the Church; and also dealing, as they do, with things other than cash, there is a large amount of labor and a great degree of technical knowledge of bookkeeping and executive ability involved in properly keeping them, and we are pleased to say that we found everything in a very satisfactory condition. The accounts are as accurately kept as those of any bank or mercantile institution of a high order. We also noted that the presidents of stakes and bishops of wards are so fully instructed in reference to the care of the revenues of the Church which come into their hands that there is a very c-mall percentage of loss or waste, and the accounting is made on an intelligent and comprehensive basis. 

We also audited the books of the Deseret News, and found that the accounts have been kept with care and  accuracy. The Deseret News, in our judgment, is ably and judiciously managed, and the business is in a prosperous condition. 

It gives us pleasure to report to you Anally, that the accounting in the different departments leaves no room for criticism, and so pleased were we with the condition in which we found things that our labors have occasioned us great satisfaction. 

The purposes for which disbursements of the tithing revenues have been made are exclusively for the use and benefit of the various interests of the Church, and therefore meet with our commendation and approval. We are satisfied from our investigations that the financial affairs of the Church, under the direction of the First Presidency, have been conducted in a most conservative and economical manner. Tour Brethren, 

RUDGER CLAWSON, W. W. RITER, CHARLES W. NIBLEY, A. W. CARLSON, Members of the Auditing Committee. 

President Smith repeated a former statement that any tithe-payer who is dissatisfied with the manner in which disbursements are made has the privilege of inspecting the Church records at any time. 

The question of accepting the report of the committee was put to the conference by President Lyman with the result that the report was accepted unanimously. 

The choir, with soloists, sang, "Why Do the Nations Rage." PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

(Closing address.) 

Religious and secular educational institutions of the State flourishing.— Resources of the State heing developed. — Spiritual condition of the Saints excellent. — The Lord will sustain His Church and people.— Sorrow because of vacancies that have occurred in Councils of the Twelve and Seventies. 

We feel that our time is very precious when there is so large a gathering of representatives of the various departments of the Church, consequently our discourses are necessarily brief. We have heard from quite a number of our brethren during the conference as to the condition of affairs among the Saints who are gathered in Zion, and also in the various missions throughout the United States. We have heard of the great good that is being accomplished by the Church school system, and the great expense which the Church has incurred in sustaining our Church schools in the stakes of Zion. A splendid work is also being done in our state by the district schools, the high schools, the Agricultural College, the University, and by denominational schools; for the Latter-day Saints are not the only people who believe in church school education. Our Christian brethren of various denominations have established some excellent schools, and these, together with the Latter-day Saint schools, are aiding very much to place this state in the front rank educationally. As a State, w.e are entitled to congratulation for the educational effort put forth. The agricultural resources of the State are being developed; the mineral deposits are being opened up, and we are becoming one of the rich states. Though we are not quite 60 years of age, we compare favorably with the states about us. some of which are older and some younger. The Latter-day Saints are doing their part in this, and are receiving their fair measure of prosperity and blessing. They have led out particularly in developing the agricultural and educational departments of the State, and have done consider also in developing the mineral resources of the country; and in common with the other people of the State, they are sharing in the prosperity. Our sugar industry has been referred to. Tt has brought much wealth to our state, although it has only been running a few years, and the prospects are altogether favorable for the future. We have led the way in this industry in the United States; at least, we have very closely followed those that have been in the lead. 

The Lord has blessed His work. Tou have heard the testimonies of our brethren in regard to the truth of this work. The Lord has established it, and will maintain it to the end. We understand that it is established never to be thrown down, and never to be given to another people. The Lord has blessed us individually with a positive testimony in regard to the truth, so that whatever afflictions and trials come upon us, we do not fall simply because others do. If calamity comes upon one, it is not necessary that another should fall down; the Lord will sustain every individual member of His Church. Whatever we may have to grapple with in this life, whatever losses, financial or otherwise, the Lord will sustain us if we will but remain faithful and true to him. Up to this date the Lord has not forsaken His people. He never will forsake them; He will care for them as a whole, and ir> the various departments of His kingdom. He has ordained that in the organization, which is so perfect in all its departments, there shall be no breach. There shall nothing occur to break the force and power of this work. Men may die; men may apostatize and turn from the truth, families and lar.ge numbers of people may. There have at different times been losses to the Church by schisms and other troubles; but the Church has been so trained and disciplined, during its existence of seventy-six years, that today there is a solid phalanx of veterans who have seen service and passed through trials and tribulations without being disturbed. So when afflic come, when difficulties arise, and we are threatened from all directions, we possess our souls in patience and wait upon the Lord, for we do know that this work is the Lord's. The Prophet Joseph Smith has accomplished his mission on the earth; the same with President Young, President Taylor, President Woodruff, and President Snow. President Joseph P. Smith is with us today, and he will accomplish his mission, as his predecessors have done, and will go to his reward. So will we all in due time; but we will not go till we get through; and we intend to be just as long getting through and finishing our work on this earth as we possibly can be. In other words, we intend to live. 

I say to the Latter-day Saints that we have everything to encourage us, to increase our faith, and establish our standing and fellowship in the favor of the Lord. We have no reason to find fault or complain. We may have trials ourselves; we may have di;culties with our neighbors; various things happen that we consider very serious afflictions at times, but they prove beneficial in the end to those who are» faithful. They demonstrate the strength of the fibre of which we are made, and the measure of testimony and faith that we have in the Lord. The Latter-day Saints can be trusted; they have always been worthy to b(* trusted. They have been true and faithful, and will be to the end, as a people. We need have no trouble or fear, for we have been made free by the Truth. The Gospel we have embraced has made us able to endure the trials and hardships of life. We are increasing in numbers, in wealth, in influence and in power, and the Lord is entitled to the credit, for it is He that enables us to do it. We are under obligation to Him for our very being, as well as for what we are accomplishing. 

I want to draw attention to the fact that throughout Zion, not only is there material prosperity, the result of agriculture, mining, manufacturing and th t "ke, but there is spiritual prosperity also. Our houses of worship are being greatly improved, and we are building  new meetinghouses, almost like temples; I am not sure but we have gone a little to the extreme in that regard. The school buildings throughout the state are very creditable; in fact, when you travel and see what has been accomplished in this line, you can discover that there is faith in the hearts of the people of this state, and a love for education, and they are generous in the building of schoolhouses, academies and universities. The spirit of education has taken hold of the people, and we are in the front rank with states that are more than a hundred years old. In these matters we have nothing to be ashamed of. When our boys and girls obtain all the education they cai. in the district schools and high schools here, we occasionally send them from home into the older states, and evenacross the water to Europe, that they may have the advantages of the best schools in the world. In addition to that, our people travel largely abroad as missionaries, preaching the Gospel throughout the world, and thereby get training and experience that is most valuable. This state, and the states and territories surrounding us, when the Latter-day Saints are in considerable numbers, are having the benefit of all this. 

Now, we feel very grateful for tht generous attendance of the people at this conference. After drawing attention to many good things we have to encourage us, and make us happy and joyous, and to thank the Lord for, we have some things to be very sorrowful about. It becomes my duty to announce officially to the Church that, on the 6th day of February, in the city of Richmond, Cache County, our beloved brother, President Marriner W. Merrill, passed from this life, making a vacancy in the council of the Twelve. Also to announce to you the resignation of our beloved brethren, John W. Taylor and Matthias F. Cowley, from their positions in that Council, because they found themselves out of harmony with the Presidency of the Church and the quorum to which they belonged. Their res'gnations, you may well appreciate, caused us the deepest sorrow They were accepted by the Council of the Twelve Apostles and the First Presidency on the 28th day of last October, causing' two more vacancies in 'the Council. On the 23rd day of December last our beloved brother, President Christian D. Fjelsted, a member of the First Council of Seventies, passed away, leaving a vacancy in that presiding quorum. Here are four important vacancies, which will be filled at this conference, as we have been directed to do by the Lord, through our President, Joseph F. Smith. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

President Lyman then presented the General Authorities of the Church as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and 

Revelator and President of the Church 

of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. John R. Winder, as first counselor in 

the First Presidency; Anthon H. Lund, as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George A. Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney and David O. McKay. 

John Smith, as presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

First seven presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin and Charles H. Hart. 

William B. Preston, as presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith as Trustee-in-Trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church historian and general Church recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, A. Milton Musser, Brigham H. Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., assistant historians. 

As members of the general Church board of education: Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, John Nicholson, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder and Charles W. Penrose. Arthur Winter, secretary and treasurer to the general Church board of education. 

Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, William W. Riter, Charles W. Nibley and August W. Carlson, auditing committee. 

John Nicholson, as clerk of the conference. 

Evan Stephens, as director of tht Tabernacle choir, with Horace S. Ensign, assistant; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball, assistant organist, and all the members of the Tabernacle choir. 

President Lyman announced that the voting was unanimously affirmed in every case. 

President Lyman concluded, as follows: 

I pray that the Sprit of the Lord may go with us to our homes from this conference, that we may continue our faithful labors, and that our devotion to the cause of the Lord shall increase, and be intensified and strengthened from this time forth. The Lord is with His people, and they will prosper from this time forth more than ever before. We have heard today that this ft the banner year in our temporal prosperity, but this will seem small con.> pared with the prosperity that will attend the people hereafter. God bless you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ORGAN RECITALS. 

President Smith requested a vote of the conference on the proposition that free organ recitals be given in this building every Tuesday and Friday, till next conference, explaining that he -wished the vote of the Saints because it required an expenditure of means to heat and light the building - . A vote approving the proposition was 

the result. 

The choir sang the "Hallelujah Chorus," and the benediction was pronounced by President John R. Winder, 

' 95 

after which conference was adjourned for six months. 

The stenographic report of these proceedings was taken by Elders Arthur Winter and P. E. Barker. 

JOHN NICHOLSON, 

Clerk of Conference. 







