Afternoon
07 04 1906


ELDER NEPHI PRATT. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

Brethren and Sisters: I feel grateful indeed for the privilege of attending this great conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I feel like I had dropped from my shoulders the cares and responsibilities of the mission field, and had come to Father's house, to be blessed and strengthened in my faith and feelings, and have my heart enlarged, my faith increased, and be prepared to go back to my mission enjoying an increased portion of the Spirit of God, to continue my labors in that field. We have in the Northwestern States mission a membership of about 800 souls. We have labored for three years, and more, in the large cities, traveling in the summer, spring and fall through the lanes, string-towns and country places, and have disseminated the Gospel as far as we could to about 2,500,000 of our fellow citizens. We have oftentimes felt appalled at the indifference manifested in the larger cities of that section of country, and we have some times thought that all had been done there that ought to be done to inform the people concerning the Gospel which has been restored to the earth again to bring man to the knowledge of the truth; but I am glad that we did not abandon these fields. Always we had a doubt whether we ought to shake off the dust from our feet against some of the cities in the northwest. When we have felt discouraged, and almost shed tears because of their indifference, something has with- held us from taking away the Elders from these districts, except in some few cases for a short time. And now the wisdom of the continuation of our labors has manifested itself, and the Lprd has poured out His power upon that people, in towns and cities where we formerly could get no hearing, and has brought to pass many marvelous things, and we are gathering in here one and there one noble, independent spirit. 

In Portland, on Feb. 4, we baptized seven souls, and last Sunday we baptized three others. We went around the mission baptizing people everywhere. We made an opening in the city of "Vancouver, B. C, where about 18 people applied for baptism, whereas two years ago we could not get a hearing there at all. In one' city where for a time we withdrew the Elders because of the indifference manifested, viz., Spokane, in Washington, the Lord has poured out His Spirit upon the people since the Elders have gone back there, and His providence has been manifested until the spirit that is leading some of the people indicates that we shall reap a harvest in that town. 

One man who had a Latter-day Saint wife, and had prevented her from making her membership known to the Elders, lost her by death. He had in his family six children, partly grown. His wife's last request was that he would hunt up the "Mormon" Elders that they might perform the funeral services, and preach the discourses. He hunted up two of our boys that had not been in the mission but a few months. They were bashful young men, with stammering tongues, uneloquent, and he asked them if they would come and perform the duties of the funeral services over his wife. They were so frightened when they promised to do it that they fasted and prayed for two days, and then when they went to the funeral their tongues were loosed, and the Spirit and power rested upon them until the hearts of the people in the congregation were melted. The husband came seeking forgiveness that he had manifested such a spirit of bitterness against the Saints, and invited his children to come with him. They became investigators of "Mormonism," and the last I heard,  week ago, they had given in their names for baptism. 

A lady twelve miles out of that city, whose husband we have baptized, sent him to find the elders, as she had discovered something with which she could overturn "Mormonism," and shb wanted first to show the elders the error of their ways, and then she intended to go about and influence the neighborhood against the work that the elders had been doing. When they had engaged in a conversation about four hours her oldest son arose and said, "Mother, instead of your proving that Mormonism is wrong, by your conversation you have proved to my brother and I that it is divine, and 'if the water is not too cold for Elder Holliday, he can baptize me tomorrow morning." Elder Holliday led the youn& man into the water the next day, and confirmed him a member of the Church in the presence of his mother. 

We have a few disgruntled ministers of various churches that feel hard towards us for the work that we are doing in Vancouver, and other places; taut we do not mind the opposition, and feel always that God has some good people where opposition arises in its strength and attempts to block up the way of this work. 

The newspapers in my district are very kind to us, except a few. They publish for us many good things, and seldom publish anything against us. They seem to be ashamed of some things that are published against us in one place and another, and they are generally friendly towards us. Our mission is more prosperous and there is a greater degree of the good spirit from the unseen word operating upon the people than at any time since I have been laboring there. The Elders and Saints feel it, and we all feel that the Lord is working there, and that we shall lead many good people into the waters of regeneration. 

I thank my brethren and this people for this privilege of speaking to you, and I pray the Lord that He will bless this people and all those who bless tbtm. I want to say to you that the  of this Church are hunting the world over with all the might and strength and .discernment that we have, because souls are precious to us. How do you take care of the converts and show forth an example unto them when they come here? There are missionary societies here that hold reunions of Elders from the various mission fields in the United States and Europe. When I send converts here, if the Northwestern States Missionary association will take them and introduce them to the Bishop of the ward where they will live, so that they may be known here and be given the hand of fellowship by the Saints of God, and not stray around these streets like sheep without, a shepherd, it will be one of the best things that you can do, and will help us very materially. 

Gog bless the people of Zion in all their abiding places. 'I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

It is very gratifying to me, my brethren and sisters, to be with you at this conference. It is also a pleasure to speak on conditions in California. We have about 600 members in that mission; at least that number are enrolled as members, but a few of them we can not place. Some are not as faithful as they might be, but on the whole they are a select set of people. It is most gratifying to note month after month and sometimes week after week, the faithfulness and stability of the Saints in tithes and offerings. The tithing records of the mission show that there are scores who have their names enrolled, and a person can tell at a glance the wages they receive from month to month, because of the accuracy and strictness with which they pay their tithes and offerings. 

During the past winter we have been doing a little missionary work in that part of Arizona which lies outside the organized stakes of Zion, principally in the mining camps, and over the bor into one or two mining camps of Old Mexico. Great joy has come to us in our missionary labors there in meeting with sons and daughters of Latterday Saints, who work in those camps, and who have not had the privilege of meeting with the Saints in Sabbath meetings. I feel that a great deal of good has been done to our children in this way, which will help them to fight the good fight and keep the faith, while they are isolated from the body of the Church. 

Recently we have endeavored to make the Saints who are visiting at the seaside resorts in California feel at home, by holding meetings in their cottages. At Ocean Park we have rented a hall, and meetings are held there each Sabbath. 

A great deal of the work which we do is as much in the interest of the eastern missions as our own; for California, during the winter season, is ifrequented by thousands of visitors from the east. We meet them in our tracting, they hear us upon the streets when we hold meetings, and they carry back to the eastern states our tracts, and in many instances ascertain the addresses of the mission houses in various cities of the east. They fellowship us, and treat us in a fraternal manner, Avhich they would not do at home, so they frequently say themselves, for fear perhaps of losing caste, or arousing the criticism of their friends because of their friendliness to the "Mormon" Elders. But they come out west for health or for recreation, and they are willing to see all that is to be s eeen, and to hear all that is to be heard. While in some cases it is an abnormal curiosity that brings them to our gatherings, yet in the end they are robbed of prejudices, and return home with friendly feelings towards us and our people. I do not believe that an instance can be named where they have given us a hearing, and have noted the good spirit that our young men possess, but they have gone away more friendly, if not to the whole body of the Church, at least to those they have come in contact with. It is thought by some that we are held in contempt by all the people of the world, but my testimony is that, in nearly six years of experience upon the Pacific coast, only in one instance can I say that I have been discriminated against because I was a Latterday Saint. So far as I am concerned, it has been the reverse; honors have been given to me, and people have interested themselves in me, because of my position in the Church, and the people whom I represent. I have had extended to me, on various occasions, marks of respect and esteem that have been helpful and gracious indeed. Recently I had the privilege of conversing with a very prominent man, who is looked upon as a rising light in his political party. My soul was made to rejoice when parting with him, for he kindly grasped my hand and put his arm upon my shoulder and said: "When you see John Henry Smith give him my love., and tell him that I just think the world of him." Tuesday last I was talking with another influential gentleman. He bore unwitting testimony to the fact that Isaiah was a prophet, for in reviewing the work which our people had done he said: "I want to tell you, Elder Robinson, that it is a marvelous work and a wonder." Yet he is not a religious man, but he is conversant with what our people have done, and particularly Avith the economic side of "Mormonism." I might also mention Honorable W. E. Smythe.who has written many friendly articles in relation to our people and their work. I might refer to Benjamin Fay Mills, the pastor of the Fellowship League club of Los lAngie,les, which numbers amjong its members some of the leading lights of the literary and scientific world. They are building up a so-called church, based upon the sermon delivered upon the Mount, but do not recognize Christ as the Messiah. Mr. Mills, in talking to me, said: "We are laboring for the same end, but along different lines, and I must say that I can not but respect ,your people for their integrity and stability, and that which they have  in this western country: although there are some of the tenets which they teach in common with other churches, both orthodox and unorthodox, that I do not agree with, or at least do not understand." Recently, a circumstance made me acquainted with a gentleman from England who is lecturing at the College of Physicians and Surgeons in San Francisco, and is of no small note in Germany and Eng. land, from whose schools he graduated, and where he taught for some years. He said to me: "I am not an American, Mr. Robinson, but I have viewed with considerable interest, as a scholar, the work of your people and the problems they are working out, and I feel as an anthropologist, as a student of social conditions, deep interest in the social problem that your people have raised, and we shall note its progress, and I feel that you should have been left alone to solve it. Conditions are such," said he "that we do not know what confronts us as an Anglo-Saxon people. Look about you in this state and you will find that the people here have a problem in hand, and it is this: Will the native son of the Golden AVost live to be a great grandfather or not? While the peoples from southern Europe, and some from northern Europe, are flourishing and growing numerous in the warmer districts of California, the native son, the Anglo-Saxon, is being crowded out." He attributed this to the effect, not of the climate, so tar as heat is concerned, but that it was so much sunshine that was detrimental' to the Anglo-Saxon and the Teutonic races, and that they flourished best in the north. "Because of this," said he, "we will view with considerable interest and attention the progress of your Mexican colonies." He wanted to know if I was conversant with conditions there and whether there were great-grandchildren to be found among that people. 

I might go on and cite others of the honorable of the earth, who have talked to me. One of them, an eminent surgeon, who is going to lecture for three months in England, by invitation of  of the scientific societies of the land, has been one of our best friends and supporters. When any accident or serious illness has occurred to members of our Church in the immediate neighborhood of San Francisco, or when any of the Elders have developed organic trouble that could not be overcome by mild nursing or friendly physicians, whenever it was evident that a specialist's attention was required, we, have gone to this man's hospital and he has treated our brethren free of charge. He has written to me that if there is anything he can do for our people, w in ether they have any money or not, we can command his services, tind Lhe services of his hospital. 

I think it is good to know that all men do not hold us in contempt, but that those who are liberal minded, those who are watching the progress of events, recognize in the Gospel we teach an uplifting and saving force; that there is something in it that does not come from man's wisdom, but from the Spirit of our Father who is in Heaven. In various ways these friends of ours acknowledge this by their testimonies and their actions toward us. One of the pension examining board of the state, who is a physician, told me that he had seen a coterie of Elders upon the streets of the capital city at various times speaking in public, but did not know who they were; but he said that he never went by them without feeling that he would like to take them in his arms and bless them, because of the cleanliness of their lives, which was exemplified in their dress and could be read in their countenances. After he became acquainted with us he made his office a rendezvous for our Elders, and has treated them for any ailment without charging anything at all for his services. 

In this connection I would like to say kindly, to the Bishops and Presidents of stakes, that I do not want you to think California Is a cure-all for all kinds of disease. Out of 30 elders we have had during the past year nearly 50 Per cent of them have been ill when they came .there, with lung trouble.  trouble, or heart trouble; for that reason the efforts and labors of some of the able-bodied men have been ^embarrassed. Only last week a brothei came to the mission and said: "I guess you know I was called to the Northern States." No, I said, I do not know. "Well," he said, "I was, but they thought I had better come here for my health." Three weeks before, another man came for hi s health because he had rheumatics, and they thought it would be better for him to go to California. On this account our labors have been handicapped more or less. Notwithstanding this, however, we have had better success in baptisms, and in meeting people in their homes and in public halls, than we have had for 18 or 10 months past. We have had the privilege of baptizing some very good men and women this spring; and I have been surprised at the knowledge they have displayed of the laws of the Gospel. One man said to me: "Now, Brother Robinson, I want to enjoy all the. gifts of the Church and I want to pay my tithes." I knew he did not work and I said to him, "You are not laboring now, are you?" He said, "No, but I have saved a little, and I want to pay tithes on my surplus, for so reads the Word of the Lord." I blessed him for his faith and he paid tithing on his surplus. One of our sisters who had been converted also paid tithing on her surplus. She was a young girl just baptized into the Church, but in this way s he showed her faith in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I feel that though the converts may be few, when they evidence such faith as this it is worth all the effort we put forth. Some feel that it is uphill work to hold meeting? on the streets. On one of the favored streets of San Francisco— Grant Avenue— you will find in one short block nearly every evening in the week from ten to fifteen different meetings being held, orthodox and unorthodox, infidel, socialist, Citizens' Alliance, Salvation Army, Volunteers of America, the Penial Mission, and independent lecturers, colored and white, and among the rest you will find the "Mormon" Elders. We usually hold two corners. Some of my brethren who visited there said to me: "Brother Robinson, this looks like hawking the Gospel on the" street corner; it seems to mfe you might just as well talk against the w'nd." Well, every once in a while some one will come up, grasp us by the hand, and say, "That is just the kind of talk I want; it is what I have been looking for." One man told us that three weeks before, he had hearu. us on the streets and had come to om meetings, and, said he, "you will pardon me, Elder Robinson, but I cannot keep away from you; you teach just what I want." So I feel that we are blessed if only occasionally on e shall come to us with this testimony, and then become indentified with the Church I w ant to say for the Pioneer Society of San Bernardino (that old town which was founded by our brethren and sisters in early days,) their hearts as they grow older, reach out to the peopleple of Utah. For some years we have gone to their meetings, we have sung for them, we have prayed for them, w e have helped them bury their dead; and last fall we organized for them an old folks' day, the first of the kind in that state. It seemed to find favor with all the citizens. Various church members came to us, principally of the Ladies' Aid society,and assisted to care for the old people upon the day set apart for the holiday, and they pledged themselves to support us in that manner, until the enmity of some of the churches was aroused, and they forbade their members to have ought to do with us. This has resulted in some leaving the church they belonged to, and they are helping us in that city. Among other things, they propose to visit Salt Lake City this summer, through the kindness of Senator Clark. As early as the 17th of last July they passed a motion inviting me as their honored guest, to join them when they should visit Salt Lake City, and to be with them here, not because of my own individuality, but because I was the representative of our people. 1 had the privilege today of handing to 

Elder Ben E. Rich a little souvenir from the society, in the shape of a badge of membership, presented to him because of the love that they bore his father. As they grow older their love for the founders of u-.ai city increases, and they hold them in high honor and esteem. Many of them, although they have lost their identity with the Church, and possibly so long as they live will not recognize themselves ot permit us to recognize them as members, yet I have noted that when the "dread summons" comes to carry them hence, they want us to be with them, and have asked that we should preach their funeral discourses. In many instances they have even acknowledged that the Gospel is true, and that it has been through their own weakness that they have fallen away and lost their membership. 

The young Elders in that mission;>re humble, faithful, and painstaking in their efforts. They go not forth in thenown strength, but like David, when he faced Goliath, they go in the strength and the name of the Lord God of Israel. The courage which they evidence, and the faith they manifest, works upon the hearts of the people to receive their testimonies, and" it makes friends of them whether they embrace the Gospel or not. This encourages us. 

We feel to sustain the Church organization. We have learned by experience that we do not walk in our own light. Sometimes we borrow light from others, but we are trying to live so that we shall walk by faith, by the light that shines from within, that we may be enabled to follow our file leaders in all things: in this we know there is safety. God grant that we may realize all our fond ideals and aspirations, and that it shall not be long before the world shall believe that the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is for the uplifting of humanity, for the salvation of the souls of men, for the healing of the nations, and that we are the ambassadors of truth and righteousness, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission. 

My Brethren and Sisters: I am happy to have the privilege of attending this conference. I have enjoyed the good spirit that has prevailed and the reports that have been given, and I pray that God will bless me the few minutes I stand before you to report the condition of the Northern States mission. I am proud to have the privilege of laboring in the ministry with so many good brethren who have heen called to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. In the last seven weeks I have met with the seven conferences of the Northern States mission, and I have been led to think that our Elders are like some of the young men of the Scriptures, very youthful; but I can hear witness that God has been with them in their ministry, and magnified them before the people, and the honest in heart have been made to rejoice. Some who left you as boys have been moved upon by the Spirit of God to such a degree that their wisdom has made them mighty servants of the Lord. In listening to the little children sing this afternoon I was led to remember the time when Joseph Smith, as a boy, stood in the presence of our Father and His Son Jesus Christ. I thought of the Elders who have had the Spirit of the Lord poured out upon them in great power, and though their hearts are not moved to the same extent as was the Prophet Joseph's, yet they have been led to praise God for the degree of His Spirit that has rested upon them. I have contemplated much of late how Jloseph Smith in his youthfulness must have been impressed by standing in the presence of the Father and the Son, and, after the lapse of three and one-half years, by the wonderful lessons he received from the Angel of God. He was then left again for a time, and later received wonderful lessons from on high, until, when he arrived at maturity, he was prepared to be an instrument in the hands of God. Through him our Father restored the Gospel of Jesus Christ 

— a Gospel of work, a Gospel which should prepare the earth for the coming of our Lord and Master to reign thereon among His children. He never taught a Gospel of idleness. He taught the Latter-day Saints that they must be industrious. 

In our ministry throughout the states of Illinois, Iowa and Wisconsin, the Latter-day Saints are well known for their labors, their integrity, their faithfulness, their fidelity to God, and their fellow men. I am proud to have the privilege of being a member ifr the Church of Jesus Christ. It is a. Church that teaches men, women and children to work to prepare themselves to enjoy the presence of our Father and His Son Jesus Christ, as' well as associate with those men who have lived before us who, by their faith and good works, were prepared to enjoy the salvation which comes by the grace of God. 

The conditions of the Northern States mission we think were never brighter. Last October we reported to you a conference just held in Nauvoo, and, while we have not baptized any more people there, we have established a Sunday school, and I believe the average attendance has been 40. Our services are attended by from 100 to 300 people. They say their city is 60 years behind itself* - and they welcome us back because our people do things. One man told me that it seems as though the ground in and around Nauvoo had been cursed, and that it would never amount to anything until the Latter-day Saints came back. We announced our desire to hold meetings there permanently, and the people helped us to obtain a suitable place for that purpose. We secured a corner lot on the block that President John Taylor used to live upon. The place was used for a store, but it has been fitted up as a meeting room, and one year's rent paid in advance by the people, because they desire us to continue preaching among them. The best people of the town are found in our congregations listening to the voices of the humble Elders who are sent to preach unto them. Our concerts and other amusements that we have given there have been well oatronized. 

One year ago last winter our Elders were turned out at 11 o'clock at night from a public hotel in Zion City. Before then they had lived in a dozen homes there, but the edict went forth from "Elijah" Dowie, and they were turned out from the hotel and left the city, with snow about eight inches deep, and had to walk a number of miles to another town. But within the last few months our Elders have found much to do in and around Zion City. The people there have been taught that an Angel would come, and that a church would be established upon the earth with Apostles, Seventies, Elders. Priests, teachers, and Deacons, as they were originally in the church of Christ, and they have been looking for these to be appointed by the man whom they have thought to be Elijah II. The Elders are now declaring to them the Gospel message, and while we have not baptized any yet, numbers of the. people welcome us to their homes, and we believe our Elders will have the privilege of baptizing some of them. 

In the city of Council Bluffs, where about three years ago the Elders were taken away after we had vainly tried for years to , maintain a branch of the Church, the Elders are now laboring again, with good success. Since Christmas, we have baptized about a dozen, and there are more good honest souls prepared to accept the truth. We feel much encouraged in that city, as we are in other cities. We are thankful for the number of Elders who are being sent to that mission. The field is large, and many people are hunting for the truth; and they are beginning to think that it is wrong for congregations to pay ministers to study the word of God for them, instead of individuals drawing near to the Lord tnemselves. 

Our students in Chicago are a great help to the Elders there. We have taken most of the Elders out of Chicago and left the preaching to be done by  students. They are a faithful lot, almost to a man. They are found, in church at least once each Sunday, at Sunday school or Sacrament meeting showing considerable faith when you consider that they have gone there to gain an education along other lines. We are proud of our students, and the universities are proud of them. This year the University of Wisconsin and the University of Chicago were represented by two of our students in the Inter-state debate. 

My brethren and sisters. I am thankful for the privilege of bearing my testimony and reporting the condition of that mission. Some of the honest in heart are prepared to receive the truth. We have about all we can do ministering to those who desire to be taught the Gospel, and to be led in the straight and narrow way. I pray our Heavenly Father that His blessings will be upon the Elders there, and upon the honest in heart, also. We pray that our Father in heaven will help us to realize the great responsibility that rests upon us, that we will feel in part what the Prophet Joseph did after he received his great lessons from our Father in Heaven, and the holy angels that he had the privilege of being taught by. We pray that God will bless the leaders of Zion today, and the people also, that they may follow in the footsteps of Jesus. We pray for these blessings in the name of Jesus our Redeemer, Amen. 

The children's choir sang, "One hundred years." 

ELDER JAMES G. DUFFIN. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters: I feel very grateful indeed for the blessings I am enjoying in attending this great conference of the Church of Christ. I am thankful that I can report to you that the mission where I am laboring i s in a most excellent condition, and that your sons who have been sent there by the authority of the Lord are in good .condition spiritually and physically foi their work. They travel largely in the country districts; at the same time many of them labor in the cities. Pour of the great commercial cities of our country are located in that section embraced within the Central States Mission. The elders travel principally two by two; but when circumstances demand they go singly. They 'work in the cities and in the country districts; they sleep in all kinds of places; they visi: all classes of people; and yet out of more than five hunded elders whohave labored in that mission since I have been there, not one of them, so far as my knowledge goes, has returned home unclean, as a result of anything he has done while laboring In the mission field. I have felt thai that was a remarkable record for upwards of five hundred young men who have gone into the world inexperienced, an:l many of whom have scarcely been away from their homes before. During the past year our elders have visited, fir each elder, one thousand families, of those who are strangers to the Gospel .as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and inasmuch as they travel generally two by two, that would make two thousand families to each pair of elders. In Louisiana the elders were quarantined during a large part of the year because of an outbreak of the yellow fever in the city of New Orleans. Notwithstanding this, our baptisms foi 1903 were in in excess of the year previous. The work of the Lord is growing in that part of the land. But there is a large part of the population that we are unable to reach because we havt no elders in the field who can speak the language of the people I refer t«*. Tho Lord has brought to this country ni.'llions of people from other nations of the earth, and from th e Germanic states of Europe thousands have come ttho are among the best people of that section of the country in which we are laboring. In several states of our mission there are whole counties the population of which is nearly altogether German. They speak but very little English, and we have not an elder in  mission who can visit them and teach them the Gospel. I say the Lord has brought these people to this land. He has brought them to our doors; they are a superior clas s of people; they art. industrious, thrifty, and hospitable, and our elders could go among them without purse or scrip, according to tht plan the Lord has revealed, and teach them the Gospel and receive their hospitality. We are satisfied that thousands of them would rejoice in the message that cur elders would bear to them. Some of them who have learned to speak the English language a little have received the Gospel and art. among the very best of our members. 

Sometime ago one of our elders was. taken by a body of men out into the woods, tied to a tree, and whipped. This is a very exceptional case in our mission. As soon as this fact was reported to me, I wrote to the Governor of the State where the whipping occurred (the State of Arkansas), and called his attention to the outrage that had been done upon this young man. I asked him. as the executive of that state, if he- would not see to it that protect i or, was given to our elders, and that the wrongs that this citizen of the United States had suffered should be redress vt. He wrote me a very kind and court 30'is letter, stating that it was the first t:me during his administration that he had heard of anything of the kind in Ms state, and he promised to send the nape's fend an account of the outrage to th.? persecuting attorney and judge of the district where it took place, and see that steps were taken to bring the guilty uarlies to justice. 

A short time after I received a letter from th* judge of the Fifth judicial district of the State of Arkansas, and it road something like this: "Pres. 7. G. Duftin, Kansas City, Mo. Dear Sir: PaTjerd hav<? been placed in my hands from the governor of the state, giving riie information that an outrage has be.m committed upon the holy of one of the eMers of the Church of Jesus Christ ol Latter-day Saints. I reg.-st exceedingly to learn that such a thing has been don e in this state. I have hrard thai such things have oeen done, that your elders have been mistreated in veal's past, and that the guilty parties have gone unwhipped of justice; but in this case, if it is possible that I can do anything to bring these guilty parties to justicej can assure you that they will not escape." He goes on to say that, about the time the elder was receiving this treatment in his district, his sick wife was in the State of Utah for her health, and she was being cared for by a family of our people, and receiving the kindest of treatment at their hands. I thought, my brethren and sisters when this letter came to me, what an example it was to us of the treatment that we should give the stranger within our gates, and after many days the bread that is cast upon the water will return to us with a blessing, not only unto our people, but unto our sons who are proclaiming the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The work of the Lord is increasing in that land. The faith of your boys is growing. They plant their feet firmly upon the revelations of God. They are not ashamed of the Gospel, neither are they ashamed of the name they bear, nor of their parentage, nor of their people. They face the world with tin. glorious message of revealed truth that they have to bear, and they are loyal and true in defense of that truth, upholding before the people the man of God whom our Father has placed at the head of His work upon this earth. The man to whom He has given the keys of the priesthood has their loyal support, confidence, and love, and this work has their loyal support and love also. With the help of our Father in Heaven, so long as we are in that land laboring among our young brethren, it is our desire that when your sons return to their homes they will have it to say that their brethren who presided over them, in every act of their lives, in every word of instruction, advice, or counsel, sought to instill into their hearts the principle of faith in this great work that God has established upon the earth, nevermore to be taken therefrom, nor to be given to another . May the blessings of heaven be with you and His Spirit continue with us in this conference. I ask these blessings in the name of Jesus, our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

(President of Southern States Mission.)" 

The territory covered by the Southern States mission is quite large, and includes the states of Ohio, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgie, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Kentucky. We have had a large number of Elders laboring in that district. Recently it has been my privilege to investigate theconditions in some of the islands of the sea. I have visited the Bahama Islands. We have Elders laboring- on the Island of Key West, and I have had the privilege of bearing my testimony also upon the Island of Cuha. During the few years I have labored in the South, I think fourteen hundred Elders have labored at various times under my direction. I believe I can count upon the fingers of one hand the number of Elders who have made shipwreck of their missions and been sent home with a dishonorable release. Recently we had the presidents of all our conferences together, and, after culling out from the records of the various conferences the names of Saints whom we had lost sight of, and those whose standing in the Church was questioned, our reports showed that we had almost ten thousand members of the Church in the Southern States mission. 

We have had considerable trouble on a little island by the name of Harker's Island, in North Carolina. Our Elders erected a church there, the Saints having purchased the lumber and floated it over to the island, and the Elders doing the carpenter work. It was one of the nicest churches on the island. But the enemy burned it down, soon after the visit of one of the ministers, who was very much opposed to us, and who recommended the people to take any step to rid themselves of the "Mormon" religion. One of our Elders had:  a school there by request, there being no school upon the island, and this seemed to enrage the people, with the result as stated. The school was continued in a private house, and' they were informed by a note tacked upon the door that the house would be burned if the school was continued. One of the merchants received a notice that his store would be burned unless he discharged a "Mormon" girl employed there. They thought they would continue the Sunday school in the open air, and now they have received word that they must not do that, or else they will burn the houses of all the Saints if they continue it. (President Smith asks me if we had received notice that they would burn the air.) 1 wrote to the Governor of North Carolina, and in answer he stated that his people did not like our faith, but he would see what could be done towards protecting us. I told him, in my reply to his answer, that the people did not like the faith of Christ Jesus, and for that reason they crucified Him. I said that some of my people at home did not like his faith, but his co-religionists were permitted to worship God according to the dictates of their consciences. I reminded him also that there were 1,425 of the people of his state who did like my faith and belonged to it, and we asked him to protect them in the rights guaranteed unto them under, the Constitution of the United States. He has sent the papers to the attorneygeneral, and I believe that we are going to get justice. We do not occupy the same position that the Irishman did when he was told by the judge that justice should be done to him, and he stated that that was what he was afraid of. (Laughter.) 

As a rule Ave receive more protection in the Southern States now than we have had before, and we have been building more churches. In the City of Jacksonville, we have just completed a church at a cost of $2,500. All the carpenter work has been performed by the Elders. It is nicely seated, and everything bids fair for the building up of a most excellent branch in that  of the mission. I believe that our Elders and Saints are united, but, as I have stated many times, we have not the number of missionaries that we ought to have. 

I was interested in the remarks made by some of the First Seven Presidents of the Seventies concerning the mission of the Seventies. Their mission is in the world. They are the ecclesiastical lawyers, to argue the cause of" God's plan of salvation before the jury of the world. "Whenever one of these Seventies is selected, I do not think it is right for the High Priests to object to his going upon a mission because he is needed at home. You should receive more of your help at home from among the High Priests. That is their business. You remember the "Mormon" creed as laid down by Brigham Young, "Let every man mind his own business." It is the High Priests' business to preside and work at home. It is the Seventies' business to go into the world and preach the Gospel; and when they are called, let them go. 

I rejoice in having the privilege of coming here to worship. In preaching the Gospel in the world we bear testimony to the divine mission of the men who stand at the head of this work, and what I said to the young people a few nights ago in one of the wards I would like to say to you. It is our duty to respect these men, to honor and sustain them, and to remember the word of God which has come down to us through the ages, that He doeth nothing save He revealeth His secrets to His servants the Prophets; and, where there are no visions the people will perish. If we will examine holy writ we will learn the respect that God has for those designated as prophets upon the earth, and also the respect that He commands His angels in Heaven to pay to His prophets on the earth. You read the tenth chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, and thereyou will find an account of as good a man as lived praying to God for information, and he had so much power and influence with the Lord that his prayers came up as a memorial, and God sent a holy angel in response to his petition. When the angel came and Cornelius asked for information concerning what he should do in order "to be saved, the angel understood the law of Heaven concerning God's prophets upon the earth. He could have answered Cornelius' question himself, but he knew that God worked through His servants upon the earth, and the angel told Cornelius where he could find Peter, and God prepared Peter for the coming of the servants of that good man. 

This should teach us the lesson that God works through prophets on the earth, and honors them in their place, that his angels honor them, and that we should honor them and stand by them, and not always be looking for faults. The Gospel makes every man free and independent. It makes me as free and independent in the sphere in which I live as God is free in the sphere in which He lives. He has given us all our free agency. Even the prophets of God have their free agency, and must be left to themselves at times to act upon that free agency. If it were not so their agency would be nullified. There is another case in holy writ 

-where Saul, who persecuted the Saints, while on his road to Damascus was stricken blind, and he heard a voice saying unto him, "Why persecutest thou me?" "Who art thou, Lord?" 'I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest." What must have been the feelings of Saul upon that occasion? He immediately wanted to know what he should do. Now, there was Jesus talking to him. Christ knew what he should do, but even He had respect to His servants and prophets, and knew that it was a law of heaven that Goc' 

\ worked through them on the earth, an 3,  He told Saul to go to Damascus and there it would be told him what he should do. Then one of the servants of the Lord who had the testimony of Jesus, which is the spirit of prophecy received a revelation to go to Saul and tell him what he should do. 

These are lessons for you and me, my brethren and sisters; and let us take the mote out of our own eye before looking for faults in others. It reminds me of what I heard Josh Billings once say. He said a friend of his asked him if he had ever heard Ingersoll on the mistakes of Moses, and he leplied, "No, I have not; but I would give S50C any day to hear Moses on the mistakes of Ingersoll." When you feel like criticising the authorities of the Church, stand before the mirror and examine yourself. A friend of mine asked me the other day why we did not receive more revelations from God. I took the Book of Mormon, and said, 'Here is one; have you read it?" He acknowledged he had not. "Here is the Doctrine and Covenants; have you read that?" No, he had not. "Here is the Pearl of Great Price; have you read that?" He acknowledged that he had not read it all. "Well,' 'said I, "If I was the Almighty I would not say another word to you until you made yourself acquainted with what I had already said.' 

' God bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The children sang, "A Lullaby Song," and the national song, "America," was sung by the children and the congregation. 

Benediction by Elder Joseph A. McRae. 

Conference adjourned till Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. 