Overflow
08 04 1906





ELDER JOSEPH A. McRAE. 

(President of Colorado Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice this morning with you in meeting in this assembly hall, in continuation of the great conference we have been holding, and I rejoice in the remarks that have been made during the meetings that have passed. I am gratified in the report That has been made by the Prophet of the Lord, showing the great prosperity that the people are enjoying at the present time. While I have been at this conference, I have had many evidences that prove to me that what President Smith said at the opening meeting is true. I could not help but remark this when I looked upon the faces of those children that furnished the music for the afternoon session yesterday. Zion is assuredly prospering and growing. I heard a  say something about prosperous men the other day, and successful men, and I said, "By what rule do you measure your successful men in this world? Is it those who make a success in accumulating means?" And he said, "Well, I suppose that is the way I measured the successful men." In various avenues of life we have found men that have been very unsuccessful, although they have accumulated means, and these men have been held up to the people as examples of honesty and integrity. But when I look upon the faces of the children of Zion, and hear their songs, and listen to their sweet voices, I feel within my heart that the parents of these children are successful, although they may not have much of this world's goods. 

In the mission where it is my privilege to preside, the Elders are performing a good work, preaching the Gospel among the people. They are meeting a great many people, making many friends, although very few converts are brought into the Church. Still with the friends that we are making, we feel amply repaid for the time and labor that has been spent in preaching the Gospel to the people. In many settlements and districts where xhe Elders have labored they are opening their doors today who have never done so before, and they are giving the Elders an opportunity to preach upon the street corners, although pome of the cities, towns and villages have refused the Elders this method of bearing their testimony. We feel that the hand of the Lord is in all this. We feel that He is protecting His great work, that He will bring it out triumphant, and that what puny man iray endeavor to do to overthrow it will be of no effect whatever, for we know it is the work of the Lord. We know that He is accomplishing His purposes, and often times He accomplishes them in a way different to that we would follow if we were left to ourselves. 

There is a matter that I would like to speak about, and I feel that it should be taken notice of by the Lat-day Saints. There are members of the Church going to Colorado, in different parts of the mission, seeking employment among people who are not of us, whose sympathies are not with us, even among those who are opposed to this latter-day work. Some of our boys and girls come among those people, seeking employment, and in some instances older men and women, and as, the people are not in sympathy with us, they do not aid those who thus come in their midst, and they are cold and distant. These brethren and sisters come back again to us in the mission, and to the different stakes, and in this manner members of stakes are being scattered. Now we are trying to show them that most likely they are the ones who are at fault they are to blame for the condition which confronts them. Many times, as was said yesterday by one of the brethren, we too readily see the faults of others, but if we would just look within our own selves we would probably find the real cause for the complaint we have been making. 

You boys and girls, if you leave youi homes to go into our mission fields, if you go there to seek employment, or to study, or for recreation, it matters not what, you should first go to your Bishop, seek counsel from him, obtain his blessing before you depart, and I tell you that youwill be blessed if you will do this. But if you go there upon your own responsibility, and mingle with people of' the world that you have not known, you will find that you have shouldered a serious responsibility. One day in our little meetinghouse, I saw the face of a young lady that seemed familiar to me. For a few moments I could not place her, and then I remembered that I had met her in one of the wards of Zion, and I went up to her, and said, "What are you doing here?" She said, "I am trying to get a little rest. I have walked this city from one end tothe other, and ten miles out, seeking employment. I have answered every likely advertisement that I have seen« in the paper, and I don't know what to> do." I said, "The best thing- you can do is to go home; there is the place, go home where you belong." She said, "I thought I did not get enough wages at home, I thought the people were not treating me as they ought to do, but now I realize that I alone am to blam<s v Now," she said, "how am I to get home, I have spent all the money I had, and I am without anything to help myself." I said,. "You go up stairs, my wife will take care of you. Tou rest a while, and we will talk the situation over and see what can be done." The result was, she came back to her home in Utah, and is glad she is again here. Tou could not get that girl to go out into Colorado, or into California, to seek employment again. 'She went awaj without the blessing of her Bishop. She went away without the blessing of her people, and she went upon her own responsibility. There are others who do the same thing, but some of them do not return in as good shape, or escape as easily as she did. I am sorry to say that some of them fall by the way side, and will never get over it as long as they live, never can wipe out the stain that has come upon them. My advice is, remain at home, although you may not get just as much wages as you might in the world. Remain at home under the influence of the servants of God, where you can receive counsel from your Bishop, and where you can attend and be benefitted by the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Associations and othei means of comfort and blessing in Zion. Our Elders are doing all they possibly can to befriend girls they find in the mission who have drifted away from home. Some of these girls have become discouraged, and have married non-members of the Church, and they are sorry for that. They would gives all their lives if they could only return again. I would like to sound this warning in the ears of every man and woman in the Church who is thinking- about leaving home, and I would like to have them understand and see it as I see it. 

When you let your sons or your  go out to preach the gospel in the world they are safe. I was very much impressed with the remarks of Brother Kimball the other day, in regard to this matter. When you send your sons or daughters into the mission field, you send them there under the protection of God, our Eternal Father, and the prayers that you offer up in their behalf. You do not feel sorry or worried about their condition, and what temptations, even, they will have to meet, or as to their ability to overcome the temptations. You do not feel concerned over these things, for you know they are in the hands of God, you know they are strengthened and blessed by His power, by His Holy Spirit, and are sustained under that influence; and you are perfectly willing to trust them among the nations of the earth, in the cities of the world, wherever they may be sent and feel that they will return again to their homes in safety. President Ben E. Rich said yesterday that, of the thousands of missionaries that had been sent to him in the mission field, he could count on the fingers of one hand all the Elders who had fallen and returned with a dishonorable release. I have been connected with the Colorado mission almost since the first Elders went into that field, and can say that all the Elders who have come home from there have returned pure and unspotted from the sins of the world. They have come home undefined, and can look their fellow men in the face and say, "I have performed my duty to the best of the ability God has given me." 

Our mission district embraces a variety of climate. In one part there is perpetual snow, and in another part we almost have the tropics, tropical fruits grow there. We have, therefore, the opportunity of transferring our Elders to places that will be favorable to their health conditions. We have the dry climate that is suitable to some conditions, and for recovery from some diseases; and we have the moist climate, where it rains a great deal. Our Elders have been transferred from  part of the mission to the other, as may be deemed necessary, and their health has been kept good. Very fewElders have returned who have been afflicted or sick, and we have never lost an Elder by death in that mission field. A very few of the Elders have had typhoid fever, or pneumonia, but other diseases have not afflicted them. It is stated by the physicians of Colorado that there is no such thing as malarial fever in that state, unless it has been brought there from other parts of the country. Therefore, your sons and daughters who are laboring in that mission field are in a healthy country, where they can be transferred in such manner as will conduce to their health. If we find that a damp climate does not agree with them, we transfer them to a higher and dryer place that puts new life into them, and they go forth with new energy in the performance of their duties. Elders have been transferred to Colorado from Great Britain on account of their health, and from the Southern and the Northern states, and these Elders have, in every instance, soon regained their health and performed mission work. Tour girls who have been sent as missionaries to that field are also in good health. I am very much pleased with the success of the ladies in the mission field. Our sisters in Denver are busy, in fact have more than they can do in meeting the appointments made for them by the Elders. People say, "We would like to talk with some of your women; we would like to hear Mormonism from the women's standpoint." Our sisters visit the homes of the people, answei questions for them, read to them, and teach their children, where the Elders do not have access to the homes. They are accomplishing a great work; we have a noble band of them in the mission field at the Dresent time, and ti a People sing their praises. 

Brethren and sisters, I am thankful for the Gospel, and the testimony that the Lord has given unto me. I am thankful that I have been born of goodly parents in the Church of Jesus 

Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am thankful for the word of God we receive from the men who stand as His mouthpieces unto the people in this generation. 

My brethren and sisters, we are living in a critical time for this people, a time when it requires all the faith we can muster in order to remain true and faithful to the covenants we have made. Let us keep our eye upon the servants of God, that He has raised up in this dispensation. Let us follow their lead, and God will bless this people and bring them off triumphant, which may He do is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice exceedingly in the labors that have been acomplished by the Latter-day Saints for the salvation of mankind. I reverence those men and women who are laboring for Zion and her interests and welfare, both at home and abroad. I do not believe there is anything else in all the world that will compare with the unselfish devotion shown by members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It has oft times been said that this is an individual work; there is something for each one to do. Ordinarily, in the world, we hear them speak of the clergymen and the laymen; sometimes. I wonder what they mean. I presume they mean that clergymen are those who advocate the doctrines of the gospel, who are preaching the word, and laboring in the vineyard of the Lord; and by the term laymen, I presume they mean those who lay down and do nothing in that line. I do not know whether that would be considered a correct interpretation, but that is the thought that comes to my mind; and I rejoice in the fact that we have no laymen, in that sense, among the Latter-day Saints, but that all are expected to labor for Zion and her interests. And what a grand labor it is that we are engaged in, a labor that our Father has imposed upon us for  GENERAL, CONFERENCE.  salvation of the souls of the children of men! What a noble work it is! What an army of laborers there are! We send forth a host of missionaries into various parts of the world, upon the island* of the sea, into foreign lands beyond the ocean, and also to the states and territories of our native land! Our sons and daughters are thus laboring for the salvation of the souls of men. Here at home we ^.re organized into various associations, quorums of the Priesthood, Stakes of Zion, Wards, Sunday Schools. Mutual Improvement associations, and all of the .various organizations that have been founded and established among the people that the-"- might be educated to labor for the salvation of souls. If there be one who is not engaged in some part of this work, he also ought to be given something to do, and a reproach is upon the Bishop for neglect of duty, unless it be, perhaps, that the unemployed one is not willing to engage in that labor. It seems to me that the work we have to perform is worthv of our best efforts and utmost energies, and when we engage in it we ought to labor with all our might. Unfortunately, we find some who go at this work in a half-hearted way, who treat it slightingly, and do not cheerfully give their best energies and efforts, who are dilatory and neglectful of the labor that has been assigned to him or her. That kind of labor is not satisfactory to the Lord, and will not be rewarded by Him. If you were to labor in some mercantile establishment with a view simply for putting in time, not giving your best thought and energy in performing your duties, your employer would not be satisfied, you would have your wages reduced, or possibly you might be dismissed from the service. I believe that our Father in heaven expects zealous, energetic work from those who are employed in His vineyard. 

We read in the scriptures: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and all other things shall be added unto you." Let us analyze this scripture, and see if we cannot  what the Lord expects of us. I think, if we will give it our attention for a few moments, we will come to the conclusion that He desires a great deal from us. As already stated. There are some who perform their work in a half-hearted way. Some young men engaged in Mutual Improvement association work will do a little, provided they easily find time to do it. They say, "I have got to earn my living, I have to work at that so many hours in the day, and when evening comes, if I am not too tired, and there isn't some amusement that I want to engage in, I will attend to the duties that have been assigned me, if I find enough time to spare." That is not the proper spirit of this work, and it is not satisfactory to our Father in heaven, who requires a great deal more at our hands. It is not seeking the Kingdom of God first, but is putting it second; it is contrary to the commandment of the Lord. On the other hand, we should ^feel that our first duty is to do that which the Lord requires of us. I should feel that, when a duty has been assigned to me, I will accomplish it if all else fails. I will labor, if need be, from early morning until late at night, until my body is weary; and when I have labored to do what the Lord has desired of me, and have accomplished that work, then, if I can find time to earn a living I will do it, but if I can't I will starve if need be. Now that is what I understand the Scripture quoted means. But I do not think that any laborer in Zion who pursues that policy needs to starve. We find that those men and women who are devoting their lives to the doing of their duties are not beggars, nor suffering with poverty. Here is the promise, if you will seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness all other things shall be added unto you. Have you faith in that? Do you believe that? If you do not, you do not believe in the promises of God. Now I hope no one will think I mean that he can justifiably neglect his daily vocation, and fail to provide for his family. That  one of the duties God requires of him; but I do say, and yet not I, but a greater than I has said, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness;" and that should govern the laborers for Zion, both at home and abroad. If we give the Lord that allegiance if we put Him and His kingdom first, and labor with an eye single to His glory, what a grand work will be accomplished by this magnificent organization which our Father has established upon the earth for the salvation of the whole world! We are not placed upon this earth simply to eke out an existence, to earn bread and butter, live a while and die. No, there is a grander and nobler purpose, that as, we come here upon this earth, obtain these tabernacles which the Lord designed should be His temples, and seek to cleanse and purify them, that we may be prepared for the great eternal life which is beyond. May the Lord help us to attain it, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

My brethren and sisters: The fact that we are here assembled in the morning, in an overflow meeting of the general conference is one among other evidences of the growth of the work of the Lord. 

I presume that when the great tabernacle on this block was erected, it was supposed by the brethren who accomplished that very remarkable work — that is, remarkable when their circumstances are taken into account — that for very, very many years there would be ample room for the gathering of . the people at the general conferences; but, in the course of time, it was found it was not equal to the requirements of the people upon the Sabbath afternoon, at least, and it became necessary to hold an overflow meeting. Then, after a little while, it became necessary to hold the overflow meeting in the morning as well; and we find it necessary on this morning to hold such a meeting. I  the time will come, as Israel shall continue to gather into the stakes of Zion and more representatives shall come from the various stakes to attend these conferences — I expect that we shall find it necessary to hold overflow meetings, not only upon the Sabbath day, but upon other days, until we will hold our general conference in sections. 

We will find ourselves in the same condition that the Nephites were in during the time that the Savior ministered among them. They gathered together in such multitudes that it became necessary to divide them into groups, and to send members of the council of the Apostles to these different groups to hold meetings with the people and dispense the word of God. And this in order to accommodate the multitudes, who were gathered together. So I doubt not we shall have to do in the future. 

I think we may comfort ourselves with the reflection, however, that no matter into how many sections the conference may be divided, in order to accommodate people, we shall find that in every case, in every section, the word of the Lord will be there to meet the people and instruct them; and there will be no reason why that Spirit of the Lord will not be as potent in one division of the conference as it is in another; so that all the people may rejoice .in receiving instruction from the one Spirit, from the one source, even as we, this morning and this afternoon, in the overflow meetings, may partake of the one influence that is present and dominant at this conference. 

And that is what we seek, that is what we come to these conferences for — to partake of the influence of the Spirit of God and receive instruction and enlightenment from it; and those who come hungering and thirsting for it shall not go away empty. 

I listened to a speaker, not long since, who expressed the conviction that "An inspired speaker requires an inspired audience." I believe that is true. And if that is a conclusion drawn from the experience of one not of our faith — and the man in question was not of our religious faith — how much more abundantly true it is in our experience who have been so definitely taught the necessity for both speaker and hearer to be inspired by the Holy Ghost in order to understand divine truths. 

In my thought upon the Gospel and its development, there is no one thing connected with it which has more impressed me than the fact that of all the teachers, the Lord is the wisest instructor. He adopts strictly scientific methods in teaching. He is a splendid workman. If He were to undertake to fashion or mould iron, I do not believe He would attempt to bend It cold, but like a wise craftsman, He would heat the iron. If He desired to weld it together, He would put the metal into at least a half-fused state, so that there would be some prospect of uniting it, or welding it together. As He would heat the iron, and then bend it to His purpose or design, so in giving instructions to a prophet or to a people, we shall find that He prepares, the minds of the people to re-? ceive the truth before the truth is announced. 

Have you ever studied the conditions under which the Lord gave revelations to the Prophet Joseph? If you have, you doubtless have been struck with this truth, namely, that in every case the mind of the Prophet was in an inquiring attitude towards God. How came he to receive that first, great revelation with which this work began, and by which he was brought into the very presence of God, the Eternal Father and His Son Jesus Christ? Why, you will find that he was inquiring of the Lord, anxious to know. And by putting himself in that attitude, he bore witness to the heavens that he was prepared to receive the truth, and hence the Lord revealed Himself fully unto this Prophet, created him in fact a witness for God in the earth; a witness who could speak to some purpose, and testify with , because he knew. He had seen? the Lord, he had conversed with Him in the heavenly vision. He had received a message from God; he had received knowledge of such a character that it must end in revolutionizing the whole world in respect of its conception of the nature of God. You will find in every case where the Prophet received communication from God, it was the result of his asking. When others received revelations or intelligence from God it was because they came to the Prophet asking. Joseph Knight, Oliver Cowdery, Martin Harris, Samuel H. Smith. Joseph Smith, Sr., came to the prophet to enquire of God, and they received revelations, and commandments not a few. The quorum of the Twelve Apostles, sometimes asked for revelations. That great revelation which sets in order the quorums of the Priesthood and puts them in their proper relationship one with another, that describes the extent and the boundaries also of their respective powers and authority — (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 107) — that great revelation came for the instruction of the Twelve Apostles and the Church of Christ, because the quorum of the Twelve Apostles sent a written petition to the prophet, asking that he inquire of the Lord that they might know their duties, and that they might know the extent and also thelimits of their authority in the Church, that the mistakes and blunders they had theretofore made might not be repeated. The revelation on tithing came in response to the inquiry "Show us, O Lord, thy will concerning the tithing of thy people." And the revelation telling how it was to be disposed of came in response to a similar inquiry. The great law of marriage,, the system which includes the eternity of the marriage covenant, one of the most splendid principles ever revealed unto the children of men — the fact that the union between husband and wifethe holy family relations of children and parents, this great central, primary truth concerning these relationships and their continuance in time  in eternity, came in response to earnest inquiry on the nart of the Prophet. Well now, you have these examples before you. and I admonish you Latter-day Saints, in coming up to the house of the Lord, in coming to conference, that you come with minds anxious to know and to learn; and inasmuch as you come with this hunger for knowledge, this thirst for instruction, you will find the Lord responsive to that spirit of inquiry in your minds and you shall not go away empty. "Blessed is he," said Jesus, "who hungers and thirsts after righteousness, for he shall be filled." But it is necessary that men come in a prepared state when they would have a blessing of the Lord. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, in thinking of the work of the Lord, the nature of my work calls upon me to study it as one of the world's great movements; to look upon this work of the Lord's and the doctrines it advocates in their relationship to the religious world, its relationship to the state, its relationship to all the systems of philosophy that have ever been in the world; its relationshio also to all the dispensations of the gospel that have preceded it. "Viewing it from that standpoint, I am sure it is rising to take its place in the systems of the worlds' thought. It is a religious force that will give direction to the thoughts of men in respect of their relationship to Deity, and of the relationship of Deity to the world; the relationship that ought to obtain between man and man; the relationship that men sustain to the eternities that are to come. And viewing Mormonism from that standing point, a standpoint forced upon me by reason of the work that I am engaged in as a teacher of the Mormon faith, and assisting in a humble capacity to set forth its history, I find my faith growing in this great Latter-day work. I am as satisfied as I am that I live that the system of truth that God has revealed to His Church will dominate the thoughts of men in generations to come; that it will gather together in one' all truth, pertaining  to ideas and conduct, and fix the world's standards of philosophical thought and ethical action in ages yet unborn. I predict that to be the destiny of this work in which we are engaged. 

I would like to invite the thought of the Elders of the Church to this future destiny of the great Latter-day work. 

- I was very much interested in what Elder Wells was saying to you just now in regard to there being a great difference between our religious institutions and the religious institutions of the world. The difference of distinction for instance between laymen and clergy, as held in the Christian sects, and the absence of such a marked distinction in our system. Still I am of opinion that it would be well for us to recognize this fact, that while our system truly affords opportunity for all to be active and to be workers in the hive of the gospel of Christ, yet there is a woeful neglect by us of some of those opportunities. I do not know but what we can do, and perhaps with some profit, what it is said the peacock does. When we contemplate this work of ours, its height, and depth and breadth and grandeur; when we contemplate its completeness of organization, we have a right to feel proud of it; yet all personal pride ought to be dismissed from the thought, because we have had very little to do with bringing it into existence. Our pride in it must consist in pride of what God hath wrought; and I suppose it is proper to be proud of what God has achieved. But I doubt whether we can be just as proud of our individual conduct and actions connected therewith. And this is the point at which the action of the peacock, referred to a moment since, comes in. You doubtess have observed that the peacock is a very beautiful bird, and among other things, it has a most splendid tail, one that it can spread out, fan-shaped, to catch an immense amount of sunlight, and wherever a beam of sunlight strikes it. it gilds it with many and ever changing hues. The bird seems conscious and apparently proud of this face. It struts about the yard and spreads its tail to the utmost extension Co catch every sunbeam possible, that it may reflect all the glory of which it is capable: and yet, in the height of its pride, as it struts about, if it happens to glance down at its feet, bare, scaled, black and ugly, its pride vanishes and it feels ashamed because of its ugly, black feet. So with us. We may be proud without limit of the Church which God has foundedbut whether we may be as proud of our own. personal conduct within th e Church is a question that may present a different aspect. If we will think of it from this standpoint, I believe that we too will draw in our feathers as the peacock does; and see but little occasion for self glorification. I speak in this way because of my connection with the quorums of the Seventy, and the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations. When I contemplate these institutions, and think what might come of them, and then think of what they are, and how we fail to reach the high levels of excellence upon which we might be moving, it seems to me that a little wholesome reproof for the mental laziness that obtains among us is quite seasonable. I am not so very proud of the status of our Seventies quorum?. It seems to me that if our Seventies and all the quorums of the Priesthood could view the Gospel of Jesus Christ in some of its grander aspects, they would find in it an incentive that would prompt them to more vigorous study of the doctrines of the Church until they would make those great truths which God has revealed more perfectly their own, before goinj, out into the nations of the earth to teach them. This is important, brethren, because if we are going to master this world, we must master it through our ideas, through the truths that God has given us; and we may not master the world even with that truth if we ourselves remain ignorant of it and its relations. And so, my brethren, the thing I would urge upon you, especially upon you who hold the priesthood,  you are operating in Mutual Improvement Associations or in the quorums of the holy priesthood-my admonition to you is that you go more earnestly about acquiring a knowledge of these great truths revealed to us, that when the opportunity comes to you to be a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ among the nations of the earth, you may be effective witnesses; that you may have something of which you can testify to some purpose; that you may give an intelligent reason for the hope that is within you. If there is one thing more than another to be reproved in Israel today, it is a lack of mental activity and earnest inquiry concerning the great th'ngs that the Lord has revealed to His people in this dispensation of the fullness of times. Now, don't regard me as an extremist in these things. It is necessary sometimes to contemplate things in their extremes, in order that you may beget even a reasonable amount of activity among the people in any given direction; and I present these thoughts to you, in the hope that you will de admonished by them to a more earnest effort to acquire an understanding of the great things that the Lord has so graciously committed to our keeping; and through which He expects that we, through an intelligent proclamation of them shall master the world. May the Lord bless you, is my prayer. Amen. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I have listened with very much satisfaction to the testimonies of my brethren, and have felt a thrill of divinity in their remarks. If I shall be favored with the Spirit of the Lord as they have been, I shall also be able to say something that may bring joy to my heart and to yours. Brother Roberts alluded to the condition of the Prophet Joseph when he besought the Lord with a full desire to know His mind and will, to be inspired with intelligence, light and knowledge, and his petiton Avas answered in full measure. The personal manifestation of Divinity, the 

Father and the Son, was a fulfillment of the promise that He would give liberally to those that seek Him with full purpose of heart. The divine personality of those heavenly beings came within the direct view and comprehension of this humble youth, and from them he received a message of eternal truth, yea, an inspiration, and his joy was great, and his heart full of satisfaction in contemplating this wonderful manifestation. How. truly great it was he did not fully realize at the time, but in his humility he was prepared to receive further light and knowledge. 

Three years passed away, we are informed in the history of this mighty event, and the Prophet was again inspired to seek the Lord with fervency, that his heart might be prepared for greater light, that the will of the Lord concerning himself and his future life, might be made known unto him. The Lord was again ready to answer that humble prayer, and He sent His servant, the Angel Moroni, to communicate with him, to inform him of certain mighty events that were to transpire in the near future pertaining to the welfare of the human family. This messenger also informed him of the existence of a sacred record, which record was engraven indelibly upon metallic plates, whose lustre had never been dimmed, whose beautiful characters had never been erased nor corroded by the elements or time, and had received perfect care which had preserved it with all its sacred Gospel principles. This heavenly being also gave him to understand that he would be an instrument in the hands of the Lord of revealing this great mystery for the benefit of his fellowmen, that he should have power to translate the rr-tord by the gift of God. The messenger also informed him that Elijah the Prophet should, at some future time, commit to him the keys that would unlock the prison house of the dead, and he should have power to minister for their redemption; for the keys that Elijah should bring would turn the hearts of the children to their , and the hearts of the fathers to their children, that when the Lord should come in His glory that He should find faith upon the earth, and the earth should not be smitten with a curse of unbelief. The young man was informed that he was to meet the messenger at the place where the records were concealed, once a year for the four succeeding years, to receive further instructions in regard to their translation, and to be reminded of the pi onuses of the Lord unto him. When the four years had expired, the Angel Moroni delivered the plates to Joseph, and the record was afterward duly translated for the benefit of the human family. 

In the early history of the Church, Kirtiand and the region round about became a Stake of Zion, and the Lord gave a revelation requiring the Saints to build a Temple at that place. If you will refer to the history of the Church, you will find that the people actually did accomplish that great work It was a stupendous work for them to undertake, the building: of a house of such magnitude, in the days of their poverty and distress. President Heber C. Kimball records in his journal as follows 

"The work that we did in the day time on the Temple walls, we stood guard over at night with our fire locks in our hands to prevent them from being torn down by our enemies, and yet amidst all this and the poverty of the Saints, and the fewness of their numbers, they accomplished this work, they finished this house and dedicated it to the Lord, and He accepted of that house." 

I refer you now to the 110th section of the Book of Covenants: 

"The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit before us. His eyes were as a flame of fire . . . and His voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah saying, I am the first and the last; I am He who liveth; I am He who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father . . . for behold, I have accepted this house and my name shall be here." 

What a glorious testimony. What a marvelous finale this was to the services of the dedication of that house. The Saints had faith, they believed He would accept of their labors, but w'hen He proclaimied before the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery that He had accepted that house, and that His name was to be inscribed thereon, how sublime must have been their feelings, and how great their joy when they were told of that wonderful manifestation, and heard those words of divine acceptance which had fallen from the lips of the Redeemer of the World. 

Now if you will again refer to the revelation you will find the following: 

"After this vision had closed another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the Prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us and said, Behold, the time is fully come which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he, Elijah, should be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the Avhole earth be stricken with a curse. Therefore, the kevs of this dispensation are committed into your hands, and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors." 

There was no baptismal font in the Kirtland temple, for the keys pertaining to the ordinances for the redemption of the dead were not committed to the Prophet until after that Temple was completed and dedicated. From that time until the present there has been a baptismal font placed in each Temple builded by the Latter-day Saints, in order that sacred ordinances might be performed for the living and for the dead. 

My brethren and sisters, "Mormonism" is the Gospel of peace, life and salvation. It has never been a Gospel of war or contention. Contention does not belong to the Spirit of the Gospel or the faith of the Saints; but evil and  exist in the world, and wherever it is manifest it is for the purpose of overthrowing the good, and this evil power has been fighting against the Latter-day Saints from the beginning, seeking to destroy the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Though harassed and hated the work has continued to prosper, and the Lord has established His marvelous work and wcnder in the earth. The saying of our Savior has been realized arid demonstrated, "The world hated me, therefore it hateth you." Yet the Lord so loved the world that He gave His beloved Son for its redemption. The mission of the Latter-day Saints is now and always has been to try to convince the world that it is better to serve God than to serve mammon. But there is no force, no coercion in this Gospel. The spirit of peace, and f gentle persuasion, and of love unfeigned is characteristic or' our leaders, and it is pre-eminently exemplified in all their teachings that they realize the truth of the doctrine that the powers of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the heavens, and if any man should desire to assume unrighteous dominion or exercise undue authority over his brethren, Amen to that man's Priesthood. The "Mormon" Elder, as he proclaims these grand principjes, also exemplifies the fact that he can call sinners to repentance, and teach them the better life, only by that spirit of gentle persuasion, which is so well expressed in the following lines: 

"Know then that every soul is free, To choose his life and what he'll be, For this eternal truth is given. That God will force no man to heaven. He'll call, persuade, direct aright. Bless him with wisdom, love and light In" nameless ways be good and kind. But never force the human mind." 

The choir and congregation sang, "O, say what is truth." 

Benediction by Elder Don C. Walker. 