5
Afternoon
05 10 1900
Elder M. F. Cowley 
8
17-23

None

None

Patrick Henry's eloquent plea for freedom — Regard of the Saints for the Constitution — Work of the Adversary — How to obtain the mind and will of the Lord— The duty to sustain the Government — The redemption of Zion — Striking experience at Galveston. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel grateful for another conference, and for the opportunity of being associated with you. It is our duty to obtain the word of the Lord, and it does not depend solely upon the authority of the Church. There is a responsibility, as stated by Elder Woodruff, resting upon every member. It is not confined to those who bear the respective offices in the Priesthood, but it extends to all Saints, male and female. As I view it, there ought to be some advancement on the part of the Latter-day Saints as a whole, and on the part of the Priesthood, during the time that intervenes between our general conferences. I always feel impressed when listening to my brethren, no matter what the subject may be which suggests itself to their minds. The one thing that is always obligatory upon every Saint is to do the duty that devolves upon him at the moment. We have heard Brother Ensign sing about Jerusalem, the beautiful city. We sometimes read in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, 84th section, a beautiful song which the Lord said should be sung in the last days. He says: 

"For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to scourge them for their wickedness: 

"And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work which shall be cut short in righteousness, 

"Until all shall know me, who remain, even from the least unto the greatest, and shall be filled with the knowledge of the Lord, and shall see eye to eye." 

President Snow, Elder Smoot and Elder Clawson testified this morning that the Presidency of the Church and the Twelve Apostles are united and see "eye to eye." I wish to say that this ought to be the status of the Presiding Council of Seventies, and I presume it is. It ought to be the condition of every council of Seventies throughout the Church. It ought to be the condition of the Presiding Bishopric of this Church, and I suppose it is. It ought to be the condition of the presiding authorities of every quorum in the Holy Priesthood down to the presidency of the last quorum of Deacons, which has been established in the Church. It ought to be the condition of every Stake presidency, of every High Council, of every Bishopric, of the presiding authority of every branch, of every Elder, of the presidency of every mission, of every conference president and of every Elder in every mission on the face of the earth. There should be an absolute unity throughout the Church. And this unity can only be brought about by a common enjoyment of the Holy Ghost. It is tho only thine: on this earth or in the heavens that will bring people to a unity of the faith. It was this spirit which led us in the first place to embrace the Gospel, and when we were baptized we received a title to the companionship of the Holy Ghost, and we were promised that he should guide us into all truth. 

I would like to impress upon the Latter-day Saints that we ought to be guided by the Spirit of the Lord in ev-everything that affects the welfare of this people. No Latter-day Saint bearing the Holy Priesthood ought to go to any place without the companionship of the Holy Ghost. I do not care whether it is a dance, to enjoy a little innocent recreation, or whether it is a political meeting, to consider the great questions of the day, he ought to take the Priesthood of God with him and enjoy the inspiration of the Holy Spirit in what he says and does. By that I do not mean that we ought to use our Priesthood in any manner that is not justifiable, but I do mean to say that we ought always to remember that we are Latter-day Saints, and that there is no consideration affecting the welfare of this people in which we are justified in separating ourselves from the thought that we are Latter-day Saints, and that the highest responsibility that rests upon this people is to establish the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth. I feel that we have broken away to a great extent from the old fashioned spirit of the Gospel, if you will allow me to use that expression. I think sometimes that we have not so much faith in God as had the patriots who founded this country. When they prepared the Declaration of Independence they invoked the inspiration of the supreme God to guide them in the framing of that document. And they secured that inspiration. It was guided by the Spirit of the Lord, and the Lord had a hand in it. You remember, perhaps, reading what purports to be a speech delivered by Patrick Henry in the Congress at Philadelphia, at a time when men were afraid to stand up for what they considered to be the rights of the colonists of this country and to establish upon this land a government that should be free from allegiance to every other government. In that memorable address he made this statement: 

"It is not given to our poor human intellect to climb the skies, to pierce the councils of the Almighty One. But methinks I stand among the awful clouds which veil the brightness of Jehovah's throne. Methinks I see the Recording Angel — pale as angel is pale, weeping as an angel can weep — come trembling up to the throne, and speaking his dread message: 

" 'Father! The Old World is baptized in blood. Father! It is drenched with the blood of millions, butchered in war in persecution, in slow and grinding oppression. Father, look! With one glance of Thine eternal eye, look over Europe, Asia, Africa, and behold everywhere a terrible sight— men trodden down beneath the oppressor's feet, nations lost in blood, murder and superstition walking hand in hand over the graves of their victims, and not a single voice to whisper hope to man.' 

"He stands there (the angel), his hand trembling with the black record of human guilt. But hark! The voice of Jehovah speaks out from the awful cloud: Let there be light again. Let there be a New World. Tell my people the poor, downtrodden millions, to go out from the Old World. Tell them to go out from wrong, oppression and blood. Tell them to go out from the Old World, to build my altar in the New." 

In the closing words of the speech, he made this significant remark: 

"As God lives, my friends, I believe that to be His voice. Yes, were my soul trembling on the wing of eternity, were this hand freezing in death, were my voice choking with the last struggle, I would still, with the last gasp of that voice, implore you to remember the truth God has given America to be free." 

This was the spirit of Nephi. Nephi declared in the name of the Lord that God had decreed that this land should be a land of liberty, and that there should not occupy it any people that would hold in servitude any other class of people. So that when in the history of this great country the question arose regarding the slavery of the black race, it was a foregone conclusion that that section of the nation which espoused their freedom, would gain the victory over those who sought to maintain slavery, because God had decreed that the people of this land should be free. 

What I desire to call your attention to is the fact that the hand of Almighty God is in all these things, and when I see Latter-day Saints breaking away and feeling that they ought to be free from any considerations that would benefit the work, I feel that they are not true to the history of the country in which we dwell and to that patriotism which God decreed the Latter-day Saints should exhibit. For I say that in this land there are no people that have so great a respect for the Constitution of the United States as have the Latter-day Saints. There are no people that can have the respect for it that they can. I do not wish to impeach the respect of other people for that glorious instrument, but the depth of the respect that is entertained by the Latter-day Saints is based upon their knowledge of the purposes of God concerning this land and the institutions which God inspired the people to found. The Roman empire prior to the coming of the Savior tolerated all classes of religions, no matter what dogmas they taught, and this policy was maintained until the Son of God came and established His Church. His Church, however, came in contact with the institutions of men, but it did not seek to injure any of these men. It was established for the salvation of the human family, to lift them upon a higher plane, and to point them the way to eternal life. It was the only plan of salvation, devised in the heavens above. Because of the freedom granted to all religions by the Roman empire, Jesus was enabled to establish His Church upon the earth. So in these last days God inspired the founders of this country for the same purpose. They sought the inspiration of the Almighty when they framed the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. We read in the book of Doctrine and Covenants that God raised up men and inspired them to frame the constitution of this land, and many of these men laid down their lives in defense of human liberty and to lay the foundation of a government upon this land which should be a palladium of human rights, unequalled by any other civil government upon the face of the earth! God says He inspired the Constitution; and every law made in pursuance thereto He declares to be a righteous law, and every law not in pursuance thereto an unrighteous law: “And whatsoever is more or less than these cometh of evil." He further states that the Saints of God are justified in upholding the institutions of this country; and in those days when the Constitution had not been infringed and trampled upon by ungodly men, he said that no man had occasion to break the laws of the land in keeping the laws of God. He also said that righteous men should be selected to administer the affairs of government, men who would uphold the Constitution of the country and who would maintain the-' rights of the people in every State. 

I want to tell you, Latter-day Saints, that we have not got out of the woods yet. No circumstances will arise in this country that will affect the welfare of this people, either from a religious, a political, a financial, a social, business, scientific, or any other standpoint, but what Almighty God is bound to have something to say in regard to them. He may not come out and say it through the voice of the Prophet of God; but it is expected that every Latter-day Saint is a prophet of God, and that he will get the will of the Lord to Guide him in all these matters. What did Moses say to those who sought his rebuke of some persons that had prophesied in Israel? Why, said he, "I would to God that all the Lord's people were prophets." We ought to be prophets, and we ought to seek the mind and will of the Lord on every subject that arises. If we will do this, we shall know for ourselves. Unless we feel this way I believe I am justified in saying: that it will be a long time before we shall be able to sing this song contained in the 84th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. In all affairs, in whatever arises, we ought to seek the mind and will of God thereon, and try to understand what will be for the best, interests of the Latter-day Saints. We are justified in so doing. There is not: one principle of the Gospel that will lead me to entrench upon the right of a: Methodist, a Baptist, a Catholic, an infidel or any other man, no matter what his religion or his politics may be. There is not one covenant of the Holy Priesthood that will lead me to do this. I; have read the secret oaths and covenants of some of the combinations that exist in this land, and I want to raise my voice against the Latter-day Saints identifying themselves with these "tares," which are being bound in bundles prepared for the burning. Their covenants are the cords that bind them. I say that every Latter-day Saint who keeps his covenants made in the waters of baptism or elsewhere will be a good citizen and will never infringe upon the rights of any people; but he will take a course that will exalt the people and that will tend to the maintenance of freedom upon this land. We are interested in this country. This is the land of Zion. This is the land where Adam dwelt. This is the land where he built his altar and offered sacrifice to God. This is the land where the Gospel was first revealed to the children of men. This is the land where the ordinance of baptism was first performed upon this earth. This is the land where the Holy Ghost was first given to man. This is the land that God has always led people to when He wanted to secure unto them the best of freedom. He led people from Jerusalem at different times, and he established them upon this land. He gave them Prophets and Apostles and inspired men, and He bestowed upon them the inspiration of the Almighty to guide them in all walks of life. 

I feel impressed upon this subject. It seems to me that the Latter-day Saints are not controlled as they ought to be by the Spirit of the Gospel in some of the walks of life. It is the right of every man and woman in this Church to have a testimony of the Holy Spirit as to how to act in all these matters. I have sought the Lord in regard to these things long ago and this is how I feel. Let me remind you that the devil is not dead. The adversary of righteousness is working his leaven among the Latter-day Saints. He is trying to destroy the youth of this people by seducing them from the paths of chastity and virtue; by filling their minds with skepticism, and by establishing in their hearts the idea that there are some things connected with the people of God concerning which the servants of God ought to keep their mouths shut. Now, I know the men that founded this commonwealth and the enterprises of this land. They came here when it was a howling wilderness and laid the foundations of material prosperity in these mountain valleys. They established the institutions of learning. They have built the Temples of God from Cache Valley on the north to St. George on the south. And I know that they have been men of God, every one of them, from the Prophet Joseph Smith down to President Lorenzo Snow. I know that the servants of God have His mind and will; and the Latter-day Saints can have it too. I want to tell you how you can get it. As I started out to say, it is by the daily performance of every duty that devolves upon us. You show me a man who is constantly engaged in prayer and supplication, and I will point to you a man that does not have to be preached to in regard to the subject of tithing; he does not have to be urged to send his children to Sunday school, and to get his boys into the quorums of the Lesser Priesthood. He is so full of the Spirit of the living God that he wants them there all the time. The man who attends to his family prayers and to his secret prayers, the man who pays his tithes and offerings, the man who shows his willingness, when called upon, to carry the Gospel to the nations of the earth or to act in the capacity of a Deacon at home, that is the man who will obtain the mind and the will of the Lord. I have seen not only the hand of the Lord, but the hand of the adversary working its way among the Latter-day Saints. Satan is seeking to divide them and to poison their minds in regard to the authorities of the Church and the leaders in the various Stakes of Zion. Men have said that they must not seek for counsel, and at the same time they have sought counsel from men who possess the spirit of apostasy. They have sought counsel from men who to my personal knowledge have secured their livelihood from the Latter-day Saints and have spent their nights playing cards and talking against the Authorities of this Church. You can seek counsel from that class of men, but if you seek counsel from President Snow or from Apostle Merrill, who presides over the Cache Valley Stake, or from some of the brethren who preside over the Stakes in Idaho — I say if you seek counsel from these men as to what would be for the best interests of the people in this intermountain region, oh, you are going to the wrong kind of men! Now, I want to say that I am going to these men for my counsel. I propose, God being my helper, (I do not say this boastingly, for I feel that I am the weakest among my brethren) to know the mind and will of the Lord on all subjects; and whether in casting a political vote or in lifting my hand to support the Prophet of God, I propose that the chief consideration in my heart shall be, what is the will of the Lord? I want to know His will. Are we the people of God, or are we not? Has God changed? No. Has the everlasting Gospel changed? No, and it never will. It is the same yesterday, today and forever. 

There are a certain class of pious men among us that I call hypocrites. They are "too good" to do anything that is not considered just right by the world, whether it is right in the sight of God or not. They are after the order of the men who, in the days of Jesus, sought to bring Him into disrepute, and even impeached the honor of His birth, because they did not understand it. They are the kind of men that condemned Rahab, the harlot, because she hid the spies. Why did she hide the spies? Was it to infringe upon the rights of the people of Jericho that she hid them and preserved them from those miserable minions of the law? No, she did it for righteousness sake, to protect innocent men in their liberties. What does the Apostle Paul say about that woman? He said it should be accounted unto her for righteousness. God commanded Abraham to offer up his son Isaac, and yet it had been written. Thou shalt not kill. Abraham withheld not his son. He took him to the altar. He prepared the kindling wood, and proposed to sacrifice his son upon the altar, in obedience to the command of God. He did not know that God would provide a ram in the thicket, or that he would send an angel to say. "Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing that thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me." 

Brethren and sisters, we do not want to be hypocrites, and we do not want to be so cowardly that we are afraid to ask God for His Holy Spirit and for that inspiration which has been sought for by men of this country from the days of George Washington down to the present. There are no people in these United States who have been more patriotic to the institutions of our country than the Latter-day Saints. Have they ever lifted their hands against the Stars and Stripes? No. Have they ever lifted their voice against the institutions of this country? No. And I wish we had no men that would raise their voice against the administration of our country, but would uphold and sustain it, no matter what might be the politics thereof, and treat the men who are elected to office in our country with that respect which is due to them by virtue of their high position and the trust committed to them by the franchise of the American people. But the Latter-day Saints have been true to their country. They have furnished soldiers to fight its battles, some of whom have laid down their lives in defense of the Stars and Stripes on the soil of Cuba and in the Philippine Islands. Whenever this people have taken issue with any enactment, it has been in a lawful manner. They have tested the constitutionality of laws passed by the Congress of the United States directed against them. When there has been a ruling in the courts of our Territory that has been esteemed unconstitutional, it has been appealed to the highest court in the Territory. When that body has sustained the lower court they have appealed it to the Supreme Court of the United States, but they have never lifted the hand of violence; they have never resorted to mobocracy or to anything of that kind. When the Supreme Court has given its decision the Saints of God have rendered obedience to that decision. I say that we have made more sacrifices in the interest of respect to our country than any other class of people in it. My advice is to sustain those men who will sustain the enterprises which have been established by sacrifice among the people of God. I want to see men sustained in this country to administer the affairs of the government who will not turn aside the citizens of any State when they are oppressed by mobocracy by saying "Your cause is just, but we can do nothing for you." I want to see men sustained in this land who will uphold the Constitution of our country, and who will dare defend its citizens in every State and every Territory. 

I want to encourage you, brethren and sisters, to do your duty, to pay your tithing, and to say your prayers, and to sustain the quorums of the Priesthood. I wish that our Lesser Priesthood quorums would take up such a program as we have in the Mutual Improvement Associations. I wish that all the members of the Priesthood would exalt their quorum and make it the chief consideration in the Church, because God has founded it. He founded the Deacon's quorum, the Teacher's quorum and the Priest's quorum. All these other associations outside of the quorums of the Holy Priesthood are helps in government, and good ones too, and ought to be sustained in their place. If we will seek the mind and will of the Lord on all subjects the Lord will bless us; He will advance us; and the words of the Prophet Lorenzo Snow will be fulfilled in the not far distant future by steps being taken looking to the redemption of Zion and planting the feet of the people of God on that land. Why were they driven from this land? Well, I believe that they were driven from the land of their inheritance because they became like the world. They would not accept the United Order; they would not listen to the counsels of the Prophet of God upon all subjects, which they could have done without interfering with the welfare or interests of any people upon the face of this land. Let us not forget that we are Latter-day Saints. We are not narrow-minded, either. Do not we send the Gospel to the nations of the earth and ask the Elders to preach it without money and without price? Are we not willing to make any sacrifice for their salvation? When they have smitten us on the one cheek, have we ever knocked them down? When they have mobbed our Elders and slain them, have we ever returned the compliment in the same way? No, our course has been one constant chain of devotion to principle and to human liberty upon this land. 

Let us do our duty, and then some day we will sing this song that I am about to read; and there will be more in it than there is in a great many songs we sing. Some of the songs we sing do not amount to much, because we do not exemplify them in our lives. I have helped to sing “We thank the, O God, for a Prophet," when I knew we hardly meant it, especially if anything outside of religious matters came from the Prophet of God. Lots of times we sing "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." But after a while we will sing this song which came to my mind when I first arose. 

"And plagues shall go forth." 

That reminds me of Brother W. T. Jack and myself in Galveston last spring. I shall always remember it, for as we entered that city I said to Brother Jack, "I would like to lift up my voice in this city and say that the judgments of God are coming upon the people." But we only had a few hours there and not much money to hire a hall, so we let it go, and we left upon the train for Houston. I had a feeling of sadness in my heart that I had not lifted my voice in that city and warned the people of the judgments that were coming upon the earth. Brother Jack will remember our conversation. There was an editor there, Mr. Clarence Ousley, who entertained us kindly, and who wrote a column and a half regarding the Latter-day Saints and what he had seen in Salt Lake City. He came here and looked around the city, and though he came with prejudice, he left with a feeling that these were a good people, and he wrote a column and a half in our favor. What occurred to him during the flood at Galveston? He gathered the neighbors into his house, and he and his family and every soul in the house were saved. The judgments of God went all around them, but they were spared. Now we want to warn the nations. I was down in Chicago a year ago with President Kelsch. I had been down in the Southern States and in the Southwestern States also. I am glad that in Chicago and in other cities in our land the Elders are not afraid to stand up and defend every principle of the Gospel. We are living in a land of liberty. It is a land upon which God has decreed to establish and maintain His government forever. I am glad therefore. that these Elders dare to defend the truth, no matter what it is. God bless them. The more the truth is assailed the more of the Holy Ghost they enjoy in defending it. After a while God will rule upon this land. He said that Jesus Christ should be the king of this land and no human king should reign here. It was a foregone conclusion that Maximilian could not remain Emperor of Mexico, for this is a land of freedom. God laid the foundations of it that He might bring forth His Church and establish His Priesthood upon this land. Therefore, I say do not forget that you are Latter-day Saints. At the same time we can remember the injunction of Jesus. He said: "Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness." If you will follow His counsel you won't forget that, and you can make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness without being unrighteous yourself. 

I am going to read to you this beautiful song and then sit down. If I have said anything wrong, I am willing to be corrected by President Snow or any of the brethren. I want to learn the truth. I want to be controlled by the truth. I want my heart to be in the work of God. I do not want to have any political or financial interests which would make the work of God secondary. 

“And they shall lift up their voice, and with the voice together sing this new song, saying: 

"The Lord hath brought again Zion. 
The Lord hath redeemed His people, Israel, 
According to the election of grace, 
Which was brought to pass by the faith 
And covenant of their fathers. 
The Lord hath redeemed His people, 
And Satan is bound and time is no longer; 
The Lord hath gathered all things in one; 
The Lord hath brought down Zion from above. 
The Lord hath brought up Zion from beneath. 
"The earth hath travailed and brought forth her strength; 
And truth is established in her bowels; 
And the heavens have smiled upon her; 
And she is clothed with the glory of her God; 
For He stands in the midst of His people. 
"Glory, and honor and power and might, 
Be ascribed to our God; for He is full of mercy, 
Justice, grace and truth and peace, 
For ever and ever, amen." 

Brethren and sisters, respect the Prophet of God, listen to his counsel and do not seek to give him counsel. God bless you. Amen.
