12
Afternoon
06 10 1900
Elder John Henry Smith
35
39-41

None

None

Extensive ground covered by administration of the Elders — A great field yet to be reached — The Lord will break down the barriers — Earnest and devoted labor necessary — Immediate responsibilities of the Saints. 

At the introduction of this work, the Lord laid it upon the Latter-day Saints that they were to go into all the world and preach the Gospel unto every creature. They that received it were to be blessed, and they that rejected it were to be condemned; and upon those who did reject it His judgments were to be poured out in His own time and in His own way. "When we think of the small start that was made, it is wonderful the extent that has been covered in the ministrations of the Elders from that time to the present. We find represented in this congregation people of many nationalities, and in this conference are men who are defenders of the faith and expounders of the principles of the Gospel from Mexico and Canada, and from the various mission fields upon the American continent, where they have been laboring to disseminate the principles of the Gospel. They are here to represent bodies of people who have received the Gospel. The growth of the work truly is a marvel to all who will stop and think of it. Nevertheless, only a limited portion of that work has been accomplished as yet. There are many countries in the world untouched, because it has been impossible for us to make our way in them. The character of the governments that exist, the extreme prejudice that abounds in the hearts of people of various countries through their lack of information, has led to their rejecting the Gospel in one sense, and has prevented extending the truths thereof as our Father designs they shall be extended among the children of men. As fast as openings can be made looking to the extension of free thought and free action, the Elders are carrying the olive branch of peace, backed by the word of the Lord, and fulfilling the obligation resting upon them. Wherever the effort has been made to introduce this Gospel and the spirit of intolerance has manifested it to a degree that has prevented the accomplishment of that work, our Father in heaven will, in His own time, have a controversy with those nations and people who so determine to hedge up the advance of the work which He is seeking to establish. Their rejection of it forebodes to them trouble of a serious kind. It may be necessary that upheavals shall occur and changes be wrought that may cause bloodshed and confusion. The doors must be opened. It is the decree of Providence that such shall be the case. His children cannot be judged by his word until a knowledge of it has been sounded in their ears, at least to some extent. And if governmental matters are such that free speech is prohibited, and if words of peace fail to accomplish a change in these conditions, I am one of those who believe that in the providences of God, those governments will be scourged and humiliated in some form or another that shall lead to the opening of the doors whereby this Gospel may be sounded in the ears of the people of those nations. 

We have accomplished but a limited part of the great work that has been assigned unto us. It is true, some of the more liberal governments of the world have treated us with reasonable kindness and have guarded our rights as well as could be expected, considering the prejudices that exist in the minds of people against the introduction of any new idea, whether in manufacture, in invention, in government or in religion. Especially are men slow to receive religious views that may come in contact with their inborn prejudices. But the work of Almighty God delivered to the Latter-day Saints in this the dispensation of the fulness of times, has a destiny, the highest that could be imagined, so far as its extension and growth are concerned. There is no reason for us to doubt the fulfillment of the Almighty's purpose in regard to this, when we remember what has been accomplished But a few brief years ago, in a village to the eastward of us, a few persons made a covenant with Almighty God that they would obey His will and meet the requirements of His Gospel. They plighted their faith in the waters of baptism, that His standard, unfurled to the breeze, should never be lowered in this world until the uttermost parts of the earth should hear the warning voice of a servant of God. We may imagine sometimes that we have accomplished the mission that was assigned unto us; but we have only touched the edges of the work. This work is to become the joy of the whole earth. Providence has decreed it. No power can stay its progress. It may meet with rebuffs; enemies may seek to hedge its way; barriers may be thrown across its path; but they will be blown out of the way as the wind gathers the straws and carries them from place to place, or as the breezes gather the ocean waves and whip to pieces that which our Father wishes to destroy. 

In order that the Latter-day Saints may fulfill the great destiny that God has designed for them, it will require an earnest and a most devoted labor in every given direction. We must exhibit our fidelity to him by the use of the talents which he has given us, looking to the betterment of everything that may come under our influence, and in extending the principles of right, justice and mercy as far as we may have the power so to do. No greater mercy can be extended to the human race than to carry to them the eternal truths which our Father has revealed, which shall point to them the way of life and open up to them an understanding of the ministry they should perform to make themselves acceptable to our Father in heaven. We may have thought that our work was nearly completed, inasmuch as barriers seemed to be in our way in some nations, and the nations that had received us and given us so liberally of their people now seem to be but fields for the gleaning. We have perhaps forgotten that all this earth is covered with the sons and daughters of our God, and that while the nature of the governments under which they live or the prejudices in which they have been indoctrinated shut their hearts in some measure to the advance of the Gospel in their midst, our Father's purpose in regard to them is that they shall have the privilege of hearing that message. And he will so shape this earth, by the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds, by wars and rumors of wars, and by the contention and strife that will appear in various parts of the earth, that door after door will be opened, until the seed shall be sown and the light of eternal truth be allowed to shine in the dark places and the manifest wisdom of the glory of God be seen which shall change the hearts of the people and lead them to a love of the principles of eternal truth. 

We are a people who believe in the continued extension of our doctrines among the people of the world. We left the village to the eastward; we planted our standard in Ohio, in Missouri and in Illinois; we have planted it beneath the shades of these grand old mountains, our "friends" pushing us forward to the accomplishment of our destiny, not recognizing the fact, and we not sensing it ourselves altogether, that it was the divine purpose to utilize us for the regeneration and uplifting of the human race; that from the mountain sides we should proceed in every direction, looking to the well-being and interest of our Father's children, heralding His truths among the people, and thereby freeing ourselves from that responsibility which has been placed upon us. 

My brothers and my sisters, the field is before us, and that field is the earth. God's children are our brothers and our sisters, their rights should be as sacred to us as our own rights. It is laid upon us to carry to them the knowledge that God is their Father and our Father; that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world; that He has restored the keys, opened the door, pointed out the road, and selected us who have bowed to His shrine and recognized His holy will, to become the fore-front of mankind in disseminating every principle that shall tend to the ennobling and uplifting of man. To this end you have pledged your faith, your lives, your fortunes, your sacred honor; and to this end the men who have been selected to guide and counsel have directed their energies in the past and will direct them in the future, never slackening until the voice of truth shall be heard in every land and in every clime.

We have not, in many instances, as fully prepared ourselves for the accomplishment of this duty as we should have done. We have not secured unto ourselves that species of education and prepared ourselves in an understanding of the laws and customs of nations sufficiently to fully qualify us for the accomplishment of the work of sowing the seeds wherever opportunity might offer. But the oportunities will be given. Doors will be opened, light and truth will be shed forth, the standard that our Father has thrown to the breeze will float in these lands and climes, and the truth will be made known, at least to such an extent as to free us from responsibility of their blood, which would rest upon us if the effort were not made to give them the knowledge that our Father has given the Holy Phiesthood unto His children and has turned the keys by which the dead millions shall be redeemed. He purposes the opening of the door of every land, that every human being may have the privilege of saying yes or no to His word. 

While we speak thus upon these questions affecting the interests of our fellow-men, we must not forget the responsibilities that surround us. Our eyes should be upon the standard, watching its movements, and looking to the accomplishment of our Father's purposes. It was His purpose that this nation of ours should become the leaven of liberty that should leaven the lump, until every doorway should be opened for the benefit and blessing of His children. It is accomplishing its mission, and His blessing will abide with it so long as the prospects of liberty and the opening of doors for His Gospel shall manifest themselves in its onward movement. 

May heaven's blessings and peace abound with you; may we love the truth: may we love the principles of liberty; may we love to extend those principles; and may we love the souls of men more than we love our own lives; utilize the talents the Father has given us, and see that men shall learn of His ways and walk in His paths, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
