20
Overflow
07 10 1900
Elder Abraham O. Woodruff 
47
54-56

None

None 

I desire, my brothers and sisters, that the words that I shall speak may be dictated by the Holy Spirit. I have rejoiced exceedingly in this conference in the words that have been spoken to the Latter-day Saints, and I feel that the Lord has greatly favored the Latter-day Saints in giving them the instructions that He has given through the mouths of His servants; and I pray that we may be faithful and true in carrying out these instructions that will be for our good and blessing. 

I desire to raise my voice in warning to the fathers and mothers of young men and young women, who come to this city to attend school or to find work. I desire to caution them to see that they are under proper influences, and know something of the families that they are living with, something of their environments, for we are all influenced to a great degree by our surroundings. It is a great deal better or easier for us to do right and keep the commandments of the Lord when we are under good influences; and it is a great deal easier to do wrong: when we are under conditions of wrongdoing, or where others set the examples. And especially are the youth, the young men and maidens of Zion, or of any community or of any people, inclined to be influenced by conditions which surround them. I feel that this is a very important matter. There are things that are of more importance to the Latter-day Saints' parents than the mere earning of dollars and cents by their sons and their daughters; and the question ought not to be, when their sons and daughters come to this city, or to any other city, to obtain employment, "How much money can they get?" The consideration ought to be, in part at any rate, what are the conditions that will surround them in this position or in this employment? I feel that great evil has come through a lack of observance of this counsel, and through parents sending their sons or their daughters, or permitting them to go, to the larger cities to obtain employment in hotels and in families that are not good, or in other places where they have not been under proper restraint. It is a very good thing for us all to be placed under proper restraint. It is a good thing for us to have good influences thrown around us. Is it possible that fathers and mothers can, in view of these conditions that will surround their daughters, permit them to come into these cities, leaving their homes and natural guardians to obtain employment without knowing of their surroundings and knowing that these shall be good? There are very many Latter-day Saints that cannot get help, either girls or young men. They cannot get the assistance they need on their farms and in their families because they do not live handy enough to Main street, or because other conditions are not satisfactory to those who are seeking employment. I feel that it is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to know in what kind of a family their sons or daughters are living, where they are found at night, and what conditions and influences they are under. It would be a great surprise to many of the fathers and mothers, perhaps, if they were to walk down our Main street here some Saturday night about 11 o'clock and find, to their astonishment, that there were more young men and young women upon the street at that hour than can be found at any time of the day during any of the week days. Now, my brethren and sisters, many of you who have allowed your sons and daughters to come to this city to go to school or to obtain employment and think they are all right, that they are keeping proper company, you would be surprised, perhaps, if you personally would take a stroll down Main street and find some of your sons and daughters upon that street in an unseemly hour of the night, and not in proper company either. Young people who frequent the streets of this city, or any other city, at a late hour, with no other view than simply to walk up and down to be seen or to see, if they are not very careful, will lose their standing in the Church of Christ, they will break away from the restraint of the parental home, and they will lose their virtue that is ten thousand times more dear to them than all the money they will ever be able to earn in their life. 

This is something that parents ought to give their attention to, for we realize that the devil is not opposed to immorality. He is not even opposed to prostitution. The sanctimonious of the world are not opposed to these things. We have never heard in all our lifetime the great cries raised against prostitution and such like vices practiced in the world that we have heard against patriarchal marriage. It was because this principle is of God; but the works of the devil are not found fault with by the agencies of the devil. There are very many in the world that are opposed to conditions of restraint placed upon young people, but there is a large majority of the sons and daughters of God upon the earth that consider laxity in these things to be of a very grave character, because the devil is pleased with such as yield to such things. We are told that we are the servants of whosoever we list to obey. If we list to obey the teachings of God and His counsels, we are the servants or the handmaidens of God. If we list to obey satan, we are satan's servants. I feel that the conditions that are arising in some quarters in this city and in other cities, are alarming, and fathers and mothers ought to give their attention to these things. They ought to try to keep their sons and daughters under a proper influence and from improper associates. You may feel that they are all right, that you have trusted them, and probably many of them can be trusted; but it is not a good thing to expose them to conditions that bring them into temptation and danger, that are against morality, virtue, honesty and truth. 

I believe that sorrow will be brought to many of the homes of the Latter-day Saints if they do not give these matters proper attention. Your sons and daughters had a thousand times better stay at home, if their clothes are not quite so good, than go away from home to be exposed to the conditions which are found in the cities, and wreck their lives and make themselves miserable and useless in the service of their God. I feel that the Latter-day Saints ought to see to it that their sons and daughters find employment and lodgings in the Latter-day Saints' homes. And this is not boycotting either, for the protestants and the Catholics do it, and no fault is found with them. And we are just as free as any other people to advise people what to do, and I do advise the Latter-day Saints to see to it that, their sons and daughters find employment or lodgings in the homes of Latter-day Saints, when they come to the city to spend the winter or look for work. 

I pray God to bless you and give us the spirit of this work in which we are engaged, and help us to do right and live faithfully before Him, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
