19
Overflow
07 10 1900
Elder Jonathan G. Kimball 
14
52-54

None

None

My brethren and sisters: One thing I specially like about our conference is the plain talk that has been given to the Latter-day Saints. I realize that some of you have fairly crawled in your seats for fear the brethren would say something. It is a spirit that is creeping into the hearts of our people. My father once in preaching prophesied that goods would be as cheap here as they were in the streets of New York; and after the spirit subsided a little, he turned to President Young and said, "Well, President Young, I have done it now." President Young said, "Never mind, Brother Kimball, let it go." He didn't believe it either. But it came to pass. I want to ask you Latter-day Saints if, when men are inspired of God and you exercise faith for them, as you have done in this conference, they are to be always held accountable for what they say under the influence of the Holy Spirit. It is bad enough to be held personally responsible when a man is not under the influence of the Spirit. I have been fearful that some of us have become cowardly in our hearts in advocating the principles of the doctrines of Christ. I remember in laboring among the Elders in the Southern States, the question came up, shall we go when they tell us to go? Well, I said, if you do you will all be home in three weeks. You ought to go when you feel impressed by the Spirit to go, and when you are not you are to hold the fort and let God take care of you. That is the kind of doctrine I believe in; I don't know whether I live up to it or not. I have a little boy at home. I didn't know how to train children, and when he was a little fellow we made him give up to every little child that came in to visit us, till today he hasn't got grit enough to take his own part, and we have him come home crying because somebody has whipped him. And now I have to go to work and train that boy to fight, if he ever gets on in this world. I have another little boy growing up, and I tell you I don't bother myself about these things. I believe in being loyal and true to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I believe in doing right. And I believe in men being under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and women, too. I don't know that I can tell you how I feel during this conference, any better than to tell you how I felt when I was down to the Chicamaugua Park, when they were mobilizing soldiers for the war. They mobilized forty thousand soldiers at that place, and one day I saw there nine thousand soldiers under dress parade, and I heard the martial music, and I saw them pass under the great flag of the United States, and every one of them doffed his hat when he came to the flag. My blood coursed rapidly through my veins, and I felt as if I was eight or ten feet tall, and that I would like to go to the war and see how it felt. I don't know how long the feeling would have lasted, but I never felt better in my life. I never felt more inspired with that kind of inspiration and loyalty to the United States than I did on that one occasion. It has been the occasion of my life, and I learned that I was patriotic, that I was loyal, that the blood of the revolutionary fathers coursed through my veins, and I was mighty glad to find it out I felt just the same way during this conference, and I wouldn't be afraid of all the world, all the devils in hell, if I could always have the same spirit of inspiration that has actuated me during this conference. 

It is getting so a man dares not to open his mouth for fear he will say something, for fear he will tread on what they term holy ground. I think we ought to be wise, and I think that during the times that are coming the Latter-day Saints ought to keep their feet warm and their heads cool. 

I remember a time not long ago, during our troublous times, a very nice, prominent Gentile — he was very much aroused and excited about matters — who raised his hand in indignation (I guess he thought I would run), and he roared like a lion: "Keep your hands off from the State, and you see to it that your authorities do the same." I said look here and I wasn't very cool either — I don't think I had an overload of the Spirit myself. I said, look here, my friend, you were not born here like I was, in these mountains. I was brought up in the mountains. I don't know anything else but liberty, like the birds that fly in the air, and I love this country because my fathers and my noble loved ones are buried over here on the hill, over sixty of them. I love this country because I have been with my father as a child when he walked around the site of this great tabernacle before it was built. My father's oxen and his mules and his wagons hauled rock for that temple when I was a child. My father and my mother, whom I loved and venerated, came to this country as pioneers. I can't tell you about our temples, about our worship, about our marriages, about the Holy Ghost, about the Priesthood— I can't tell you, no man can tell you, unless you have the Spirit of God; but I want to tell you now, I shall not be cowardly and stop my tongue, but you must keep your hands off the Church, and you must respect the men that I honor, or you and I will no longer be friends. A man is a cowardly craven that will sit by for fear of trouble and allow men to be-little and abuse him and call the authorities of the Church everything under heaven. I don't believe in war. I believe in loving the souls of the children of men. But I tell you when you respect the authorities yourself, other people will respect them, and the world will. The Gentile world and the people of this city and State would have respected the authorities more than they do had our own people set the example. That is what I want to tell you, and I have told you, and I am not going to take it back either. I am not going to make any apologies because I have made that statement. It is true, just as true as the Lord lives. If you honor your wife and speak well of her, other people will do so. If you do not honor your children and you have a hired girl in the house and you do not treat them kindly, the girl herself will treat your own children unkindly. 

Now I feel that we ought to honor God. "We ought to be loyal to our country, and I believe that honest men ought to rule this nation, that honest and good men ought to rule this country. It is a mighty poor time for us now to sit down and feel bad about it, if any mistakes are made. I want to tell you that while I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I have my franchise, and my citizenship, and I have my vote, and I have a right to cast it. And if every single man and woman that is entitled to their franchise, instead of going and howling after the trouble is over, would shake themselves and realize that they are members of this great nation and great State, and go to their primaries and cast their ballot, I tell you mighty few dishonest men would find their way into our State and into the offices. But it is your fault, because we do not do our duty as American citizens. I claim that every man and every woman in this nation that has the franchise — that own property, that pays taxes — has a right to go to the primaries and see to it that honest men go into the convention, and then you leave the matter in their hands and let them do the rest, and hold them responsible. 

Now I pray God to bless you. I feel to be loyal, I feel to be true to the cause of Christ, and I want to be saved in the kingdom of God; and I want to go where my father went and where my mother went. I want to be with this people. I want to see all the world saved, and I want to see the Gospel preached to every tongue and people as a witness, anl I will be mighty glad when the end comes. May the Lord bless you. Amen. 
