1
Morning 
06 04 1930
President Heber J. Grant
10
3-13

None

None

My heart is full of gratitude beyond my power to express as I look upon this wonderful audience of the priesthood of the living God, together with officers of our organizations, assembled here in conference in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I am about to read to you an address by the First Presidency of the Church, copies of which have been sent to all wards, stakes and missions in all countries where we have organizations of the Church. At this hour all over the world this message will be read to our people. 

THE FIRST PRESIDENCY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS TO OUR BELOVED BRETHREN AND SISTERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD: 

On this, the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Church, we salute you, and pray that the blessing of God our Father, and the grace and love of Jesus Christ, our Lord, may abide with you forever. 

We preface our message to you by reference to the following scripture: 

"Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I am the life and the light of the world. I am the light which shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not." 

As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so was the Son of God lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, through its presidency, reaffirms the truths set forth in the above scripture, and calls upon its members in all parts of the world to rededicate their lives to the service of the Master and the establishment of his kingdom upon earth. 

From the beginning of time, as we count it, to the present, God our Father has, at divers times, both by his own voice and the voice of his inspired prophets, declared that he would send to earth his only begotten Son, that through him, by means of the resurrection, of which our Lord was the first fruits, mankind might be redeemed from the penalty of death, to which all flesh is heir and by obedience to the law of righteous living, which he taught and exemplified in his life, be cleansed from personal sin and made heirs to the Kingdom of Heaven. 

In songs of praise the Psalmist declared his coming. In ecstasy the prophet Isaiah looked forward to the day when he would manifest himself among men, and, by foreknowledge which came from the Father, announced the details of his death and the dire consequences of his crucifixion. 

The Redeemer himself declared, notwithstanding the apparent failure of his mission and ministry as it applied to the generation to which he brought the message of salvation, that at a period of time then in the remote future, a period designated as the latter-days, the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, he would again reveal himself, would re-establish his Church upon earth, and come to reign in triumph and majesty over his people. 

In humility, and with full consciousness of the responsibility involved, we bear witness to the people of the world that with the appearance of the Father and the Son to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the early spring of 1820, the greatest gospel dispensation of all time was ushered in, a dispensation of light, radiating from the presence of God, illuminating the minds of men, increasing intelligence and knowledge, which is the glory of God, and by the application of which the past one hundred years have been made the Miracle Century of the ages. 

The increase of scientific knowledge, invention, industrial development; the harnessing of the forces of the universe and adapting them to the comfort and convenience of man, have reached a degree of perfection not dreamed of by people who lived when the past century was ushered in. 

In 1830 Abraham Lincoln attained his majority. He was still pursuing his studies by the light of a tallow dip, or pine knot, because there was nothing better to be had; and it was under these circumstances that he prepared himself to become the foremost citizen of his country, thirty years later. 

Since that time our system of education has undergone a miraculous change. The log or little brick school-house of a century ago has been supplanted by temples of learning, in which our children enjoy conveniences and comforts that the wealth of kingdoms could not, at that time, have provided. They have maps of the world before them, books treating all known subjects, teachers better informed upon the subjects taught, heat provided; and when they require light they touch a button and the electric current does the rest. 

Agriculture, the foundation upon which the very existence of the. human race is builded, was still in a primitive condition. Men harvested with a, scythe or sickle the grain which grew in their fields, and threshed it with a flail. 

A man now sits upon a machine, and at one operation, reaps, threshes and sacks ten acres of grain, with less fatigue than he formerly harvested one. 

Women carded and spun the wool and wove the cloth with which they and their children were clothed. 

The cards, spinning wheel, and loom have passed. They are now to be seen only as heirlooms or sacredly cherished souvenirs. 

Possibly no other human agency has greater influence upon civilization and the development of the people of the world than that which provides quick and easy transportation of people and things from place to place. By it individuals, communities, and nations come to know each other better, exchange of commodities is made possible, and the commerce of the world is maintained. 

For this purpose roads made by men thread the world. We travel over them now on bands of steel, in luxurious motor cars, in floating palaces, or through the air. 

Only yesterday these roads were mere trails, blazed by fearless, intrepid men, through unknown forests, over snow-clad mountains, across trackless deserts or uncharted seas. 

In fulfilment of the words uttered by inspired prophets, thousands of years ago, the wooden boats in which we sailed the seas at the beginning of the past century have been supplanted by floating palaces of steel, in which we ride the waves or navigate the ocean's depths in safety. 

For silver the Lord has given us gold, which has become the basis of exchange throughout the civilized world; while iron takes the place of wood and stone in construction. 

By the application of scientific methods, which have been revealed during the past century, the profession of medicine and surgery has brought to the people of the world relief from the most dreaded diseases, which devastated communities and at times threatened the very existence of mankind. 

Undoubtedly the greatest miracle of the century is the accomplishment by which the human voice, with the personality of the speaker, may be indefinitely preserved and reproduced with every detail of originality. 

Whether uttered in the frozen arctics, or from the jungles of the tropics, without visible means of conduct, the human voice instantly circles the earth, thus overcoming the hitherto insurmountable barrier of both time and space. 

Contemplating these accomplishments of the past century, to which but brief reference has been made, we are led to exclaim: 

Great and marvelous are thy ways, O Lord From eternity to eternity Thou art the same! Thy purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay Thy hand! 

THE CHURCH 

The Annunciation. As the glory of the Lord shone round about shepherds, who kept watch over their flocks by night upon the hills of Judea, and the angel of the Lord announced to them that there had been born that day, in the city of David, a Savior, who was Christ the Lord, the light of the Christian Dispensation burst forth upon the world. 

"And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, 

"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." 

The heavens were illuminated by the glory of the Lord, the heavenly host shouted hosannas as the Babe of Bethlehem, the Son of God, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, he who was to become the Savior of mankind, was born into the world. 

From the time of his birth to the day of his crucifixion, Satan, that old serpent, the devil, the enemy of all that is good, he who by his wiles and deception tempted our first parents and brought death into the world, sought the destruction of our Lord. 

Kings persecuted him, because they knew and feared his power. The learned and wealthy spurned him, because of his humble birth; while the ignorant, not understanding, left him in derision. 

The personal ministry of Jesus was of short duration. But thirty-three years elapsed from the time of his birth to the day of his crucifixion, and but a small portion of this time was devoted to his ministry. From the time of the delivery of his great sermon on the Mount, but three years elapsed until his death. 

During the brief period of his ministry he effected the organization of his Church, selected twelve apostles, upon whom, with Peter at their head, he conferred the keys of the priesthood, and to whom he made plain the organization of his Church and the doctrines of his Gospel, by obedience to which mankind may be redeemed and brought back into the presence of God. This accomplished, he declared his mortal mission completed, and went to his death with the sublime prayer upon his lips that his Father would pardon those who were responsible for his crucifixion. In their ignorance they knew not what they had done. 

THE FIRST CENTURY OF THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH 

During the first century of the Christian Era', Octavius, Caligula, Nero, Vespacian and his son Titus, all of whom were bitter persecutors of the Church, occupied the throne of Rome. 

Pagan Rome had become the mistress of the world. From the time of the crucifixion of Jesus, persecution of the Christians had been merciless and wicked beyond expression. During the reign of Caligula and Nero, who were more brute than human, Christian men were slain without mercy, while their wives and daughters were carried away to Rome, to be sold to the highest bidder, or distributed to a depraved soldiery. 

Men, women, and children were cast into the great amphitheater at Rome, to be torn by wild beasts or fight for their lives, for the entertainment of these inhuman monsters. Christians, their bodies covered with combustibles, were made to stand upon the walls, to be burned, in order that light might be provided for the spectacle below. 

To deprive Christians of life was not sufficient. Every cruel means of torture that the human mind could suggest, which might add to the suffering of the victim, was applied. 

The falling away which had been predicted by the prophets had come. The man of sin, the son of perdition, was revealed, who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. (2nd Thessalonians 2:3-4). 

Thus centuries passed, centuries during which darkness covered the earth and gross darkness the minds of the people, centuries during which Satan, in an orgy of Pagan idolatry, ruled the world. 

A NEW GOSPEL DISPENSATION 

The opening of a new gospel dispensation was not a thing of chance. Jesus Christ, through his messenger, had declared to John while he was upon the isle of Patmos, that an angel would come flying through the midst of the heavens, having the everlasting Gospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth, calling them back to the worship of God who is the Maker of the heavens and the earth, the sea and the fountains of water. The Redeemer himself had declared that before the time of his glorious appearance, to assume his rightful place among his people, the Gospel of his kingdom should be preached in all the world, for a witness unto all nations, before the coming of the end. 

As the time of the restoration of the Gospel was clearly indicated, so was the gathering place of those who would accept the truth definitely declared. The prophet Isaiah had said that it should come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house would be established in the top of the mountains, and be exalted above the hills, and that people from all nations would flow unto it. Many people, he declared, would go and say: "Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob." For what purpose? That they might be taught the way of the Lord, and learn to walk in his paths. 

At the time of the calling of Abraham, the Lord entered into covenants with him and his posterity, in which he promised that Palestine should be theirs for an everlasting heritage. This promise was repeated to Isaac, and confirmed upon the head of Jacob. 

Prior to his death our father Jacob called his twelve sons to him, blessed them, and defined the future of their posterity, adding little to that which had before been promised, until he laid his hands upon the head of Joseph and not only conferred upon him the blessing and heritage of his fathers, but also declared that his heritage prevailed above that of his progenitors, unto the utmost bounds of the Everlasting Hills, to a land choice above all other lands, a land rich in the blessings of the earth, of the heavens above, and the sea beneath. 

Upon Ephraim, the younger of the two sons born to Joseph during his sojourn in Egypt, he sealed the heirship to the blessings and promises conferred upon his father. While Satan held the world in spiritual darkness, by means of priestcraft and idolatry, he shackled the masses with the chains of kingcraft, and thus held the world in both spiritual and civil bondage. 

As the time of the end drew nearer, God's Spirit descended upon men, impelling them to break the shackles of idolatry and priestcraft with which they were bound. 

When John Wycliffe, John Huss, and William Tyndale, (all of whom suffered martyrdom for their faith) Martin Luther and others, gave the Holy Scriptures to the people of the world, and in the strength of Israel's God declared the truth, the beginning of the end had come. 

When the people of Great Britain wrung from King John the Magna Charta, when Oliver Cromwell later cut off the head of King Charles the First, and the Covenanters of Scotland took up arms against the then dominant church, the morning star of hope arose, heralding the sunshine of a brighter day. 

The coming of Columbus to America had been foretold centuries before he sailed from the port of Palos, in Spain. The Spirit of the Lord was upon him, was his guide and protector in his great adventure, and led him to the shores of a new world. 

It was not by chance that the Puritans left their native land and sailed away to the shores of New England, and that others followed later. They were the advance guard of the army of the Lord, predestined to establish the God-given system of government under which we live, and to make of America, which is the land of ^Joseph, the gathering place of Ephraim, an asylum for the oppressed of all nations, and prepare the way for the restoration of the Gospel of Christ and the reestablishment of his Church upon earth. It was under these circumstances and others of which the Lord was the author, that the stage was set for the raising of the curtain upon the opening scene of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. 

As the Christian Dispensation was ushered in, the glory of the Lord shone round about the shepherds who kept watch over their flocks by night upon the hills of Judea, while the voice of the angel of the Lord declared the Babe of Bethlehem to be the Savior of the world. 

So also the glory of the Lord overshadowed Joseph Smith, and God himself, in the glory and majesty of his person, with his Only Begotten Son, Jehovah, revealed himself in vision, and with his own voice designated Joseph Smith to be the instrument through whom the greatest gospel dispensation of the ages was to be ushered in. 

There was nothing of ostentation, pageantry or dramatic display; it was a simple, solemn occasion, superlatively glorious and impressive beyond expression. 

The voice of the Lord, which had been silent for ages, was heard again. Again that divine message, so oft repeated, was delivered: "This is my Beloved Son. Hear him!" The personality of the Father and his Only Begotten Son was again revealed that mankind may know them as they are. 

Of his first vision Joseph Smith says: 

"After I had retired to the place where I had previously designed to go, having looked around me and finding myself alone, I kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so when immediately I was seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me, and had such an astonishing influence over me as to bind my tongue so that I could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around me, and it seemed to me for a time that I was doomed to sudden destruction. 

"But, exerting all my power to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was ready to sink into despair and abandon myself to destruction — not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of some actual being from the unseen world, who had such marvelous power as I had never before felt in any being — just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me. 

"It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held me bound. When the light rested upon me I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other — This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" 

(When the Apostle Paul appeared before King Agrippa and Festus, the Roman Procurator, he declared that Jesus Christ, who had been crucified upon Calvary, was risen from the dead; that he lived and had appeared to him in a cloud of light, calling him to be his messenger to the Gentiles. Festus, in amazement, cried out: "Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad." But Paul replied — "I am not mad, most noble Festus, but speak forth the words of truth and soberness." 

In like manner Joseph Smith, an obscure country boy, fifteen years of age, when he related to certain sectarian ministers of the neighborhood that he had received a heavenly vision, was made the victim of ridicule and bitter persecution. 

Men flew into passion as they declared that it was all from the devil, that there were no such things as visions and revelations in these days; that all such things had ceased with the Apostles, and that there would never be any more of them. 

Satan again manifested his power and determination to frustrate the will of Christ, that he might maintain his dominion over the world and continue to hold captive the souls of men. From that hour he raged in the hearts of the wicked, until he finally encompassed the death of the Prophet; not, however, until he had accomplished the work which the Lord had sent him into the world to do. 

Like Paul, Joseph Smith, during the three years intervening after his vision, steadfastly maintained that in vision he had seen the Father and the Son, and had heard the voice of the Lord. 

On the evening of September 21, 1823, he had retired as usual to his bed room for the night, a night fraught with events of which he had not dreamed, events of supreme importance to him and to the people of the world. He says: 

"While I was thus in the act of calling upon God I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. "He had on a loose robe of most exquisite whiteness, it was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen; nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrists; so, also, were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. I could discover that he had no other clothing on but this robe, as it was open, so that I could see into his bosom. 

"Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his person. When I first looked upon him I was afraid; but the fear soon left me. 

"He called me by name, and said that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God to me, and that his name was Moroni; that God had a work for me to do; and that my name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people." 

This messenger revealed to Joseph Smith that there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the ancient inhabitants of America and the source from whence they came, and that the plates would later be delivered into his hands to be translated and published to the world. 

On the twenty- third day of September, 1827, the plates containing the record of the Book of Mormon were delivered to Joseph Smith who, by the gift and power of God, translated the characters which were engraven upon them. 

The Book of Mormon does not in any degree conflict with or take the place of the Holy Bible, but is the strongest corroborative evidence in existence of the divine origin of that sacred record. It has been before the world for more than a century, during which time no statement contained in it, whether it refers to the civil history or the religion of the people who kept the record, has been proved to be untrue. 

As the translation of the characters engraven upon the plates on which the Nephite record was kept proceeded Joseph Smith discovered that the doctrine of baptism was taught and practised by the Nephite people. Desiring to better understand this principle he did as he had done before, went with Oliver Cowdery, his scribe, into the woods, and engaged in earnest prayer. The following is quoted from his own words: 

"While we were thus employed, praying and calling upon the Lord, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light, and having laid his hands upon us he ordained us, saying: 

" 'Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness.' 

"The messenger who visited us on this occasion and conferred this priesthood upon us, said his name was John, the same that is called John the Baptist in the New Testament, and that he acted under the direction of Peter, James, and John, who held the keys of the priesthood of Melchizedek, which priesthood, he said, would in due time be conferred upon us." 

With this ordination, and the restoration of the Melchizedek 

Priesthood which was later conferred as promised, the fulness of the keys and authority of the Priesthood of Almighty God, which had for centuries been lost to mankind, was restored and has remained with the Church in unbroken succession until the present time. 

With the restoration of the priesthood the way was open for the preaching of the Gospel, the administration of the ordinances pertaining thereto, and the organization of the Church. 

On the sixth day of April, one hundred years ago today, Joseph Smith, with five others who had accepted the message of the restored Gospel, met" at the home of Peter Whitmer, Sr., at Fayette, Seneca County, New York. The sacrament of bread and wine was administered and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints organized. 

In his sermon on the Mount the Master declares that a tree is known by the fruit which it produces. We do not gather grapes from thorns nor figs from thistles. A bitter fountain cannot bring forth good water, nor does a good fountain bring forth bitter water. By this unchangeable law we ask the world to judge the accomplishments of the Church during the past century. 

It was after his resurrection that the Master commissioned his disciples to go into all the world and preach the Gospel to all people, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. 

In like manner have the disciples of Christ in the present dispensation, his Apostles, High Priests, Seventies, (who are his especially chosen ministry) and the Elders of the Church, carried the glad tidings of the restored Gospel to every part of the civilized world during the century past, and wherever the message has been proclaimed there have been honest souls who have accepted it and gathered to Zion, in fulfilment of the words of the ancient prophets. 

The mountain of the Lord's house has been established in the top of the mountains, and people from all nations have flowed unto it. Through the blessings of the Lord upon their labors the desert has been subdued and made to blossom as the rose. Solitary places have been made glad because of them. Cities have been established, springs of water have broken out which have given life to the thirsty land, music, and the voices of children are heard in the streets where desolation and silence had reigned for ages. 

Temples have been erected in which the work of redemption has been done for an innumerable host of the living and the dead. 

Many thousands have been brought from the poverty and distress of the old world to this blessed land of Joseph, to become wealthy and be made happy as they have participated in the blessings which the Lord our God has pronounced upon it. 

Looking backward to the organization of the Church, which occurred under the most humble and, to the world, obscure circumstances, and following its history through persecution, poverty, and distress, can it be denied that a great and marvelous work has been accomplished, that the promises of the Lord have been fulfilled, and his power to accomplish that to which he sets his hand to do, manifested? Let glory and honor be ascribed unto God our Father, through Jesus Christ, his Son, forever, for he is the author of it all. 

WHAT OF THE FUTURE 

The future, as outlined in the predictions of the ancient prophets and confirmed by modern revelation, is pregnant with hope for the Church. 

Jesus Christ our Lord said: 

"Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil. For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled." 

With the present momentum with which the people of the world are moving forward in the determination of truth in every field of human endeavor, the outlook for the future passes beyond the vision of human comprehension. 

Jesus Christ, referring to the time when he would manifest himself in the latter days, declared that whereas he manifested himself to his own people in the meridian of time and they rejected him, in the latter days he would come first to the Gentiles, and then to the house of Israel. He says: 

"When the time of the Gentiles is come in, a light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fulness of my gospel. But they receive it not; for they perceive not the light, and they turn their hearts from me because of the precepts of men. And in that generation shall the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled." 

"At that time, saith the Lord, I will remember the covenant which I have made with my people who are of the house of Israel, and will send my gospel to them." 

"And it shall come to pass that I will establish my people, O house of Israel, and I will remember the covenant which I have made with my people, and I have covenanted with them that I would gather them together, in mine own due time, that I would give unto them again the land of their fathers for their inheritance, which is the land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever, saith the Father. 

"And behold, this people (the Nephites) will I establish in this land, (America) and it shall be a new Jerusalem. And the powers of heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I will be in the midst of you. And then shall be brought to pass that which is written: 

"Awake, awake again and put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the Holy City. For thenceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean: For thus saith the Lord: Ye have sold yourselves for naught, and ye shall be redeemed without money." 

From the words of the Prophet Daniel we quote the following: 

"In the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever." 

John, the beloved disciple of our Lord, says: 

"I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away: And I John saw the Holy City, New Jerusalem, down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. 

"And I heard a great voice out of heaven, saying: Behold the tabernacle of God is with man, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God Himself shall be with them, and be their God. 

"And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain; for the former things are passed away." 

"And the Lord shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more." 

With this glorious vision of the future, to which we look forward, we exhort our brethren and 'sisters to put their houses in order, that they may be prepared for that which is to come. 

Refrain from evil; do that which is good. Visit the sick, comfort those who are in sorrow, clothe the naked, feed the hungry, care for the widow and the fatherless. Observe the laws of health which the Lord has revealed, and keep yourselves unspotted from the sins of the world. Pay your tithes and offerings, and the Lord will open the windows of heaven and pour out blessings until there shall not be room to contain them. Be obedient to the laws of God and the civil laws of the country in which you reside, and uphold and honor those who are chosen to administer them. 

To the people of the world we send our blessing, and bear witness to them that God lives, that Jesus Christ is his Only Begotten Son, the Redeemer of the world. We call upon all men to come unto him, that through his grace they may attain to eternal life and an inheritance with him in the kingdom of his Father. 

Heber J. Grant, Anthony W. lvins, Charles W. Nibley,

The First Presidency. 