9
Morning
07 04 1930
ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON
5
51-58

None

None 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the splendid gathering of the saints this beautiful morning, and the wonderful gatherings that were held yesterday. I rejoice in the favor that is granted to me, in common with you, to take part in the exercises of this remarkable conference. I feel deeply grateful to the Lord that I am privileged to live in this day and age, and to enjoy the confidence of my brethren of the General Authorities, and of you, my brethren and sisters, the presidencies of stakes, bishoprics of wards, and all the members of the Church, so far as I may be worthy of that confidence. I can assure you that I desire to live to be worthy of it. I desire to serve you, because everyone who is called to any position in this Church is a servant of the people. 

EXTENT OF PRIESTHOOD MEMBERSHIP 

When the priesthood were gathered here yesterday, and when it was not possible for all to attend who desired to obtain seats, I was thinking of the problem that was before us— the First Presidency and those of us who had the seating of this building in hand — as to how we could accommodate those who desired to be here. There are 150,000 members of the priesthood of the Church. Of course not nearly all of them could be here on that occasion, although many of them would have liked to come. Of those who are presiding officers of the stakes and wards and of the various quorums of the priesthood, there are fourteen thousand — practically double the seating capacity of this building, as at present. There is room for only six thousand in the body of the hall. Consequently it was necessary to cut down, very extensively, the number allotted to each stake of Zion. As a result, a large proportion of those who were seated here are the presiding officers of the stakes and wards and other high priests, as well as seventies and elders. There were not as many of the Aaronic priesthood as we should have liked to see, and as could have been seated here, had there been room for them to be seated. I am sure that there could have been two or three times the capacity of this building of Aaronic priesthood members who would have been glad to be here on that occasion, because they appreciated the memorable occasion, and what a tremendous influence it would have in their lives to take part in this centennial celebration. 

FRUITS OF THE GOSPEL 

I desire to read to you two or three quotations. One of these I was reminded of by the message of the First Presidency yesterday. When the Savior was delivering that remarkable Sermon upon the Mount, among other things he said: 

"By their fruits ye shall know them. Every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

"A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit." 

I am reminded also of the wise man Solomon, who had been trained up in righteousness by his father, King David, and had become king of Israel under the most prosperous conditions, but who went astray and was led into transgression by reason of the luxuries he enjoyed. Toward the close of his life, after having tasted the bitter as well as the sweet of life, he wrote the book of Ecclesiastes, and in the closing verses of that book he makes the following declaration: 

"Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man." 

Now there is one other quotation I would like to present to you, and that is from one of the Lectures on Faith, contained in the forepart of the book of Doctrine and Covenants: 

A religion that does not require the sacrifice of all things never has power sufficient to produce the faith necessary unto life and salvation." 

GROWTH OF THE CHURCH 

Frequent reference has been made already to the humble beginning of this work. I am reminded of its commencement in the pleasant homestead of Peter Whitmer, in the township of Fayette, located in that beautiful western section of New York state — a section of rolling hills and lovely lakes. While those six men were met together I believe they appreciated to some extent the tremendous power that was in the work; but whether or not they visualized its growth and development from that time to this is a question. When we think of those humble conditions in that obscure village, and then realize that today there are approximately seven hundred thousand members in the Church, located in all the states of this Union, in Canada and Mexico, in South America, in practically every civilized nation and on the Pacific islands, we comprehend what a remarkable growth it has had. Yet in all its development it has not lost in the least that humble faith and devoted spirit which characterized its beginning. When we sense also that in the hundred years that have elapsed since the beginning of this Church the most remarkable developments have occurred in the progress of civilization, and with those developments the Church has kept pace. It has met and helped to solve the problems of humanity and has presented divine truths which have changed and molded the spiritual thought throughout the world for good. The doctrines declared by the Church have been constructive in their nature. They have not tended to cause doubt or disbelief in the hearts of men. On the contrary they have helped to bring men to a realization of the fundamental truths which have been declared by prophets and seers in all dispensations. 

EFFECTS OF "MORMONISM" 

"Mormonism," it is said, and well said I think, enters into every phase of the lives of its members. It molds their characters in conformity with these principles. It enters into their habits and influences them. It affects their physical beings and their mental development. It affects their hearts and their desires toward their fellow men. 

What are some of the effects of "Mormonism?" What have been some of the effects in all the years that it has existed? I would like to discuss with you for a few moments a few of the practical things that may be evidenced in the lives, the habits and the characters of the Latter-day Saints. There are various things by which the faith and sincerity of the people may be measured. Particularly, there are three ways that I should like to consider with you wherein the devotion of the Latter-day Saints has been evidenced in their lives. It is said, as was stated by President Nibley yesterday, that "sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven." It is declared in the quotation I have read that any religion that cannot require the sacrifice of all things never has power sufficient to produce the faith necessary unto life and salvation. If Abraham had not had the faith necessary to conform to the command given him of the Lord to sacrifice his own son, Isaac, undoubtedly he would not have been able and worthy to receive the great blessings which our Eternal Father gave to him. His obedience to that command, even though it was not required at his hands, proved his devotion, his loyalty, and his entire and complete faith in God. The Latter-day Saints who have accepted the Gospel in faith, and with a real desire to serve the Lord, have conformed to the principles of the Gospel, even though they might require what would appear to be sacrifice on their part; and yet I am sure that we all appreciate the fact that every sacrifice is a blessing in disguise. It is a means of progress and development for every one of us. 

RESTRAINT OF PHYSICAL APPETITES 

One of the ways whereby men may evidence their faith, integrity and sincerity in their religion, is by restraining and controlling their physical appetites, in conformity with the principles which are offered for their welfare. In the Word of Wisdom the Latter-day Saints have the finest set of rules that is to be found, I think, anywhere, affecting the physical being of the people, and also affecting their mental progress and development. 

Not long ago a member remarked to me that he had been in the East and had met a prominent business man in New York, who had inquired of him regarding the Mormon people. Among other things this local man had told him of the Word of Wisdom and of the stipulations and requirements contained therein. The man said to him: "Do your people observe that set of principles and instructions?" He replied: "Not entirely, but to a considerable extent." "Well," said the man, "if your people conform to those instructions, they will become the finest people in the United States or anywhere else in the world, in physical vigor and in mental development." The Lord has said to us that these instructions are given for the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints, and when the Lord says that to us, it ought to be sufficient, whether it be in the way of a suggestion or a commandment. It means that when the Lord gives a commandment it is intended for the progress, the welfare, and the blessing of those to whom it is given. 

FAITH PRODUCES WILLING OBEDIENCE 

During all these years, the Latter-day Saints have, in large measure, observed the Word of Wisdom. There are some people who complain that no church has any right to direct what one shall or shall not eat or drink. On the other hand, if we accept the proposition that spiritually we are the sons and daughters of God, that these bodies are created in his image, that the Holy Spirit should enter and be a part of our tabernacles and inspire us, and that the Lord expects of us that we shall be physically sound, it is by all means important that we should learn to control and regulate our appetites and desires and keep these bodies clean in order that we may be entitled to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord and draw near to him. But there is no compulsion in this or any other principle of the Gospel. We have our free agency. If we obey, we gain the benefits and the privileges accruing therefrom. 

RESULTS OF OBSERVANCE OF WORD OF WISDOM 

Now what has been the result of the observance of the Word of Wisdom on the part of the Latter-day Saints? I cannot tell you in so many words, but I can quote to you some of the statistics that come into our office with regard to the vital conditions among the Latter-day Saints. We cannot say, for instance, how many members of the Church have cancer. But we can say how many members of the Church die of cancer, and that is a very important thing among people today, because cancer is a serious disease; and so with various other maladies. The death rate among, the Latter-day Saints for the last few years has averaged about 7.5 per thousand. The average death rate of the United States registered area, which includes the most progressive states, is 11.4 or more per thousand. In other words, the Latter-day Saints' death rate is only about two-thirds of the death rate throughout the United States. 

ANALYSIS OF RESULTS 

Let us analyze that a little farther, as to the causes of death. Among other things we find that in the matter of what are known as epidemic, endemic and infectious diseases, the death rate in the United States is more than double what it is among the people of this Church. The Lord has declared to us that scourges should come over the earth, and that if we will observe his commandments we shall escape those scourges. Not entirely, probably, because we are all subject to death. In a measure, we are all subject to diseases. But as I see it, through the observance of the Word |pf Wisdom, we are promised at least partial escape from many of these scourges. In the matter of diabetes, which is also a disease of some considerable concern among mankind, the death rate in the Church is approximately half that of the United States average. 

EFFECTS OF NARCOTICS 

It is recognized that tobacco and spirituous liquors are causes, at least in part, of cancer, and in this respect we find that the death rate in the Church as compared to the United States is less than half. In the matter of nervous diseases, it is recognized also that certain stimulants affect the nervous system. The death rate from diseases of the nervous system in the Church is less than half that of the United States. In the matter of kidney and kindred diseases, which are also affected by the use of stimulants, the death rate throughout the Church is about one-fourth that of other parts of the country. The death rate from diseases of the heart and circulatory system in the Church is approximately one-half that of the United States average. 

Are not these records ample evidence to you that the observance of the Word of Wisdom is worth while? Are not these the fruits of a good tree? Of course, we ought to observe this or any principle because the Lord has made it known to us. That ought to be sufficient, but when we examine the effects produced we find that we are fully justified, from a material standpoint, in observing it. 

RESISTANCE TO MORAL TEMPTATIONS 

There is another way in which men and women can demonstrate their faith and sincerity and that is by resisting immoral tendencies, by refusing to do those things which we have been advised are vicious and contrary to the word of the Lord, as affecting relations between the sexes. The influences of today throughout the world are such as to undermine moral standards. Virtue and chastity are apparently not considered of great concern. The Latter-day Saints recognize the fact that strict morality is of the utmost importance. We have been taught to abhor immorality and unchastity. The Lord has declared to us that those who practice sexual transgressions will degenerate, and cannot retain the Spirit of the Lord, which is the spirit of life and truth and virtue. 

BENEFITS OF HIGH MORAL STANDARDS 

Now what are the evidences as to the benefits of the observance by the Latter-day Saints of high moral standards as compared with other people? I would like to take the opportunity to give you certain government statistics. The Church does not keep record of births out of wedlock, but the government records for Utah and Idaho, where the majority of the Latter-day Saints live, as compared with the rest of the United States, show that the illegitimate birth rate in each of these two states is less than one-third. And that is true also of still-births out of wedlock. Is that any evidence to you as to the benefits of the observance of the declarations of God and the teachings by the leaders of this Church with regard to the proper relations between the sexes? 

THE MARRIAGE RELATION 

Then taking the other phase of that relation, that is, marriage, the Latter-day Saints have been taught continually that marriage is a sacred obligation, and that it should be undertaken, not only for this life but for eternity as well. Mutual respect and consideration between husband and wife, and continuance in the marriage relation, are, likewise, evidences of the faith and uprightness of the members of the Church. The bearing of children and the proper training of those children is enjoined as a responsibility that every married couple should undertake. The proper training of children, as well as the bringing of them into the world, is of great importance. 

MARITAL STANDARDS 

What are the results of this training among the Latter-day Saints, comparatively? We find that the marriage rate throughout the Church as compared with the government statistics for the nation, is about 43% greater. The birth rate throughout the Church is about 45% higher than that of the United States generally. The infant mortality rate in the Church is approximately 62% that of the United States. It is interesting to note, further, that the divorce rate throughout the Church is only about 40% of the United States average, and that the divorce rate of those who were married in the temple is only about 18% that of the United States, or about 43% of the total divorces in the Church. Isn't that evidence also of the real benefits derived from the observance of these divine instructions? Those who are married properly, who have taken upon them these covenants in the temples and have seriously and with due appreciation of the responsibility, promised to maintain this bond in affection not only for this life but for eternity, have been so impressed with this obligation that they are able to live together in love and joy and peace. 

FAITH EVIDENCED BY LIBERAL GIVING 

There is one other way that I would like to refer to briefly whereby, it seems to me, the faith and sincerity of the members is clearly shown. It is said that a man's pocket-book is very near to his heart. I am told that Michiavelli, a diplomat engaged in Italian affairs of state in the middle ages, a keen, wily schemer, and politician, expressed this statement — whether it be true or not — "You may kill their fathers, you may take away their wives and daughters, you may destroy their brothers, and they will forgive you, but you dare not touch their pocket books." That indicates his idea, at least, as to how precious one's pocket book was. But when men and women will give liberally and consistently of their means and of their time for the welfare of their fellow men, it is surely an evidence of their faith and sincerity. The true Latter-day Saints have been and are giving liberally and devotedly through the observance of the law of tithing and the making of donations for the poor and for other purposes. They have shown, I think, a remarkable spirit of giving of their means, and of their time and labor, because they understand that these are commandments of the Lord. 

INDIVIDUAL GROWTH 

What are the results? Well, in an individual way, the result has been to overcome sordid selfishness, produce loyalty and exhibit more positive faith in God and his work in the hearts of those who have observed these things. Brotherly kindness has increased. Financial integrity has been promoted. Individual honesty has been strengthened, and the cooperative spirit developed. Men become more charitable. The finer qualities which make for character, and enhance peace and joy and love in the earth are brought out. The spirit of service which makes for greater community welfare is being encouraged. 

Then, in a spiritual way, what are the effects? The tremendous missionary work that the Church has carried on, the preaching of the Gospel to mankind everywhere, has been made possible not only by the observance of the principle of tithing, but by the giving of time and additional means individually by the missionaries and through their parents. 

MATERIAL PROGRESS 

Again, in a material way, what has been produced? The building of a great number of community buildings, of temples and of ward and stake meetinghouses. Further, there is the large Church educational program, and the extensive service rendered in the care of the poor. I think there is no other people anywhere that is doing as much proportionately, in the way of erecting fine places of worship and social centers. Also the effect is to develop in the members the spirit of thrift and the desire and determination to meet their obligations manfully and provide for their needs. The Church is undertaking to qualify its people as a whole to secure greater equality and mutual consideration so that everyone, as far as possible, shall properly develop. It causes everyone to seek to increase his or her earning capacity; not only for their own welfare but that they may be able to help the Church in larger measure and to be of greater usefulness in the community. All of these things result therefrom. 

RENEW OUR COVENANTS 

Now, in that which has been presented here, it is not intended to boast of the Latter-day Saints. The desire has been to show that the observance of these principles produces lasting blessings in the lives of those who have faith. My brethren and sisters, we have reached the end of this first century of the Gospel restoration gloriously, and stand on the threshold of the second, which is fraught with even greater events than have occurred heretofore. Shall we not here and now renew our covenants with the Lord, and solemnly pledge ourselves individually and unitedly to serve God and keep all his commandments, to prepare for sacrifice and bring forth the fruits of right living? May the Lord help every one of us to do this, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

