16
Afternoon
07 04 1930
Elder David A. Smith
95
83-88

None

None 

I had hoped my turn to take part in this great conference would come a little later, that I might have time to partake more of the spirit of the occasion. For the last few weeks I have tried to fix in my mind something I might present to this conference, only to find each thought pushed aside with a vision of carpenters, painters, electricians, drapery hangers, printers, and the task of greeting the mass of people who come here expecting to view the wonderful pageant which is being given. I have gone home in the evening dizzy, and during the night have dreamed of stacks of colored cardboard tickets with a hundred thousand people pleading for them. Such temporal duties have left very little time to think of the spiritual, which above all else, at this time is of the greatest importance. And so I come before you relying wholly upon the Spirit of God, praying for your prayers, for the mercy of the Lord, that I may at least bear testimony to the truth of this great work. 

I was impressed this morning with the remarks of Bishop Cannon in his reference to the Word of Wisdom, and I hope I may call to your attention some of the specific requirements of that revelation which was given to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints through the Prophet Joseph Smith, ninety-seven years ago, three years after the Church was organized. It was given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak, or the weakest of all saints who are or can be called saints. It applies to all alike; none is exempt. 

As we stood here yesterday morning when President Grant called for a standing vote from that great body of men holding the holy priesthood, I was thrilled, for it was certainly a glorious sight. More than seven, thousand men stood up. They are leaders in Zion, clean in mind and body. They are, indeed, temples of the living God, temples in which the Spirit of God dwelleth. They are spiritually minded men whose lives are given to thought and work, not alone of this life, but also the preparation for an exaltation in the life to come, eternal life, not in the telestial or terrestrial kingdoms of our Father, but in the celestial where he dwelleth. Every man in this building yesterday morning was, I believe, an observer of the Word of Wisdom as far as it pertains to the use of wine, strong drink, and tobacco, not because the Church requires that its officers refrain from their use, but because of their faith and their desire to merit the blessings God has promised his children. 

It is unnecessary for me to tell you why liquor and tobacco are not good, for I believe you know as well as I the bad effects upon the body and spiritual condition of Church members who use them, but I am not so sure that we all understand this revelation in its reference to other matters of equal importance. The other day a prominent doctor, not a member of the Church, asked me if I ever read Section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants. I answered that I had read it at least once a month for years and that obedience to its teaching had saved me from the doctor's knife. He answered that he seldom retired at night without reading it, and that he never reads it that he does not receive some helpful suggestion; and then he added, "I tell you, if your people would read it and observe it to the letter, there would be very little for doctors to do, for in my opinion, it is the greatest health document in existence." 

Through that revelation we are warned that "in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days," we are to be warned and forewarned. It was given for the benefit of the council of High Priests and all the saints in Zion, and was to be sent greeting, not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation, and the Word of Wisdom showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days. "Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints." 

First, wine, strong drinks, tobacco, and hot drinks are mentioned as being, "Not good in the sight of our Father." Because tea and coffee are not mentioned, some excuse themselves in their use, for they say they do not take them hot. I heard a brother sometime ago, perhaps to justify himself in his desire to indulge his appetite, say that he would not be surprised if someone would come along and attempt to forbid use of hot soup. I told him provision had already been made for that. 

I shall not attempt to interpret the meaning of the Word of Wisdom, for to me it is clear, but may I call your attention to statements made by others by way of comparison. Hyrum Smith, brother of the Prophet, delivered a sermon on "The Word of Wisdom," soon after this revelation was received by Joseph Smith. In this sermon the Patriarch of the Church, who was sustained with Joseph Smith as a prophet, seer, and revelator, warned the Church against the use of tea and coffee, which he said were injurious to the mind and body. 

It is interesting to note that scientists and medical men have given more thought to and have conducted a more extensive research into the field of foods and food values during the last fifty years than during all the history of the world before, and that the results of their research harmonize with the Word of Wisdom. 

Recent medical publications make the following statement: 

"Coffee and tea do more harm than good. Caffene and tannic acid are the harmful agents in these beverages. Children should not have coffee or tea. Tea retards digestion." "Extremes of cold and heat produce gastric catarrh." "Piping hot broth or coffee is grateful on a cold day, so is ice-cream on a hot day, but extreme hot temperatures in the stomach are detrimental. Food repeatedly taken too hot or too cold may give rise to disturbances. Too hot food may be the cause of stomach disease. Note the frequency of ulcers among cooks. This may be due to the fact that they are constantly tasting hot things which they are cooking. 'The excessive use of pepper and spices may cause irritation of the stomach and intestines. Mustard is used altogether too lavishly. Its real place is -for external rather than for internal use. It congests and blisters tough skin." 

Referring to that which is good for man, the Lord places first, wholesome herbs, which he "hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man — every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving." These are called by the dieticians high residual foods, or fodder vegetables. They are nourishing and give bulk to the stool. These foods are thus excellent for constipation. "Recent research suggests that in the colon is found the origin of many chronic ills and the untimely aging of the body. Fibrous herbs, fruits and vegetables help to correct these conditions. These foods also contain a great amount of the health-giving elements called vitamins. Scientists have discovered that vitamins, when kept, oxidize; the vitamin percentage, therefore, in canned foods, decreases directly with the age of the product. This food element when taken in sufficient quantity, prevents certain diseases." This may explain why the Lord advised that they be eaten in the season thereof. Again we read from the revelations, "Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly." The scientist says, "It is now proved that meat eating is not essential to health and strength. The fundamental constituent of meat is proteid or albumen. This is found abundantly in milk, eggs, beans, peas and lentils. Medical science definitely knows that meat diet is harmful and dangerous in the presence of a number of diseases." Dr. Herser, a man of international reputation has said, "That in all cases of chronic rheumatism, his main advice and treatment is, simply stop eating meat!" "If food, particularly meat, is improperly masticated, it may pass into the colon partly digested. In this stage it is excellent culture media for pathogenic bacteria." Many of the minor ills of daily life are due to abdominal bacterial activity in the alimentary tract." 

The Lord says, "All grain is ordained for the use of man * * * to be the staff of life." The modern scientist says, "Whole wheat bread is fast becoming the bread of choice," among those interested in health preservation. Unfortunately much of the whole wheat bread served is made with a liberal amount of white flour. Graham flour is composed of the carefully ground unbolted entire wheat kernel, and that contains all the constituents of the wheat. Every family would be healthier if whole wheat products were substituted for white flour. The promise to those who follow this instruction is that they "Shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones; and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint;" and the Lord gives unto them a promise, "That the destroying angel shall pass by them." 

Is it not worth our while to become familiar with the Word of Wisdom and live according to its teachings, that we may enjoy these blessings which follow in a natural way, as do all of God's blessings, for they are based upon his laws and come to us as a reward of faith and obedience? 

I believe this revelation to be the word of God and given to us as a principle with promises and I am happy to so testify to you at this time. 

May I ask that you pardon a personal incident. The other day we were assembling a number of pictures to send to Europe. We had a number ready for distribution. In making the selection, I stated, that we had one of the Prophet but did not have one of grandfather. Just a few moments before a prominent brother had entered the office and heard the preceding remarks. He interrupted by saying, "I have never before heard Hyrum Smith spoken of in that way." I asked what seemed to be wrong with the statement. "Well," said he, "I guess it's all right but it sounded a little strange to me." When he left his words remained with me. What right had I to speak of Hyrum Smith in that apparently familiar way? Although a grandson by birth, I had not known him in life. Had I assumed a manner of self-exaltation? My answer is, that from my early childhood I have been taught and encouraged to pray to an all-wise and merciful Personage, who dwells in heaven. That this Personage, in whose image I have been created, is my Heavenly Father. That he is good, kind, merciful and loving and that when necessary he will chastise his children. That we are to acknowledge his hand in all things and he will hear and answer our prayers when we approach him in faith not wavering. 

I have not seen God but I have felt the power of his Spirit as I have approached him in prayer, and never yet has he failed to comfort me. 

Through the teachings and example of my father, Joseph F. Smith, I discovered in the life and labors of his father, Hyrum Smith, those attributes which are God-given and which have become a very part of all those who hope to gain an exaltation in the celestial kingdom. It has not been difficult for me to have faith in God and I have learned to look upon Hyrum Smith, whom I am permitted to call grandfather, as one of God's noble men — one who has gone back to his presence. As a boy I had very little opportunity to really know my father, but the last years of his life I was almost his constant companion. He was a man of God, full of the spirit of love. His life was filled with righteousness and although his words and example are constantly before me I find that I have been left an heritage difficult to carry. If I have failed, it is not because of lack of faith in God or in his promises to his children, but because of my inability to climb even part way to the heights to which they have attained. In my soul I know that God lives and does hear and answer prayers. I know that Joseph and Hyrum Smith were prophets of God, that Joseph F. Smith walked in their footsteps. Their lives have been an example and a source of inspiration to me which has helped me to a better understanding of God and his purposes. And while I may have fallen far short with such examples to encourage me I have always felt in my soul to do the will of my Father which is in heaven and so live that I may at last be worthy of an exaltation in the celestial kingdom where I know their exaltation will be. 

To me the only thing in life worth while is to obtain that goal. If I should fail then what is life? Nothing. For the purpose of our existence in the earth is an exaltation in the celestial kingdom of our Heavenly Father, and I know that the only way that may be is through faithful service rendered in obedience to his laws. I rejoice that I can, in my very soul, testify of these things. May the blessings of the Lord continue to rest upon us and help us to carry on his great purposes in the earth I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
