10
Morning
07 04 1930
President Heber J. Grant 
10
58-61

None

None

President Heber J. Grant read the following letter and message from Elder Reed Smoot: 

March 29, 1930. 

"President Heber J. Grant, 47 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear President Grant: 

"As you are aware, it is impossible for me to attend the April Conference. I regret it more than words >can express. I enclose you a short statement, which I would like to have you present to the Conference if agreeable to you. 

"May God's blessings ever attend you and may the coming Conference be one of the great epochs in the history of the Church is my desire and prayer. 

Your brother, 

(Signed) Reed Smoot." 

Apostle Reed Smoot, who is unavoidably detained by his duties in the nation's capital, sends greeting to this conference his most cordial good wishes and a message in these words: 

ANNOUNCEMENT OF TRUTH IN THE RESURRECTION 

Ages ago, when the Son of God, in mortal tabernacle, stood before a human judgment seat in the city of Jerusalem, the Roman procurator asked him, "What is Truth?" 

That query has been of vital significance to mankind in all the ages, and was never more vital than at this very time and on this present occasion. Only a few days after the scene in the Roman court, visitors to an empty sepulchre, seeking to view the body of the crucified Jesus of Nazareth, were accosted by a heavenly messenger who said concerning him: "He is not here: for he is risen." The angel's words were the announcement of a wonderful Truth, of paramount importance to, all mankind. The resurrection of the Redeemer and Savior of the world had come to pass. 

. TRUTH REVEALED THROUGH JOSEPH SMITH 

More than one hundred years ago, to specify as to time and place, in the spring of 1820, near the town of Palmyra, state of New York, there came a divinely manifested vision to a young man, Joseph Smith, who was of Israel's birthright heritage and who earnestly sought the truth. That vision was the appearance of God the Eternal Father and his Son, the resurrected Jesus of Nazareth. Pointing to the other heavenly Personage, God gave witness: "This is my Beloved Son, hear him." It was the divine revelation in this age of the resurrected Christ. It was the Truth. Multitudes in Palestine and adjacent countries had no knowledge of or belief in the resurrection on the day of its first announcement, but its truth has permeated the ages since then and has brought life, and hope, and joy, to myriads of our fellowmen. Multitudes in this and other lands had no knowledge of or belief in the revelation of the resurrected Redeemer to the young man Joseph Smith on the day of its occurrence, 'but its truth today is permeating people in all lands, and will grow to a perfect knowledge in the due time of the Lord, because that revelation is God Almighty's Truth, and will prevail. 

Some years later, in May, 1829, there came the restoration of the Lord's priesthood authority to administer the required ordinances of the Gospel; and in the next year there followed the publication of the divinely revealed word known as the Book of Mormon and the event of which we celebrate the one hundredth anniversary at this April Conference, namely, the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ, for the accomplishment of God's great purposes among men in this latter-day dispensation, known in scripture as the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. Further organization and divine revelation succeeded this event, until April 3, 1836, when the revelation of the fulness of the Gospel was completed by the appearance of other heavenly messengers with the keys of their respective dispensations, the culminating one being the promised coming of the Prophet Elijah with the keys of the priesthood authority which he held, and that prophet's announcement to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery that "the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands, and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the door." 

More than twelve years before this latter date, on September 21, 1823, God had promised to Joseph Smith, through an angel, that he would send to him the prophet Elijah, with the mission to "plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers." Among millions of our race today, outside of membership in the Church as well as with those inside, this prediction is being verified in a truly wonderful manner. These millions are seeking to know of the promises made to their fathers; and truly in the world today there is wide turning of the hearts of the children to their fathers in genealogical research through records of ages agone. These facts and many others bear indubitable evidence that the revelation of the Gospel to the Prophet Joseph Smith and others in this age is God's Divine Truth. To this fact I bear my most solemn testimony on this occasion. 

PERSONAL DESIRES 

It is my earnest, sincere desire that in my calling my preaching shall be, as the Lord directs, "the warning voice, in mildness and in meekness." To be qualified for the work all engaged therein are required to show forth hope, charity, and love; to "remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence;" and to beware of pride and a cold haughtiness such as weak humanity often is prone to. 

My desire also is to convey to my brethren and sisters, and to all my friends, a message that to me seems of great worth on this particular occasion. Thousands of years ago, when Israel was before Mount Sinai under the leadership of their great Prophet Moses, God gave to Israel statutes and commandments, with promises of great blessing if these were kept, and predictions of punishment for wrong doing if disregarded; for Israel had taken upon them his name. Among those commandments was one which carried a peculiar and remarkable promise. That commandment was: 

BLESSING IN KEEPING THE SABBATH 

"Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary. I am the Lord." 

The promise for obedience was that their enemies should not prevail against them, but Israel would prevail. This command and promise are recorded in the twenty-sixth chapter of the book of Leviticus in the Old Testament, second, seventh and eighth verses. All during the thirty-three succeeding centuries when Israel has remembered to keep God's sabbaths and reverence his sanctuary, the promised blessing has attended them in that obedience. It also is manifest in the nations whence we gather Israel today, wherever the command relative to the sabbath and sanctuary is observed. That observance is of great moment to the saints at this time, if they would receive the divine blessing. It is momentous and needful because it is divine Truth. 

My word and message to my fellowmen everywhere today is that Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ set forth in his revealed scriptures is the plan of salvation and of peace to the world; that while it is commendable in men to seek peace by every honorable means, the great peace for humankind comes only through the potent, sacred, divine mission of the Man of Galilee, whose mission is God's Eternal Truth. God bless you all, in Jesus' name. 

A solo and chorus, "Let all on earth their voices raise," was sung by Lavar Isaacson and the choir. 

