8
Morning
07 04 1930
PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT
10
50-51
 
None

None

I had hoped yesterday to have time to read a number of telegrams that we have received. I had also hoped to hear from the Presiding Bishop of the Church, who presides over all of the members of the Lesser Priesthood — Priests, Teachers and Deacons — but it is a difficult matter of course to concentrate one's thoughts and stay within a limited time. 

CABLE MESSAGE FROM ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

We shall not attempt to read the many telegrams that we have received from individuals, including leading business men in the United States and in Europe, but I would like to read a cablegram from one of the absent members of the Twelve Apostles. It is from Liverpool, dated April 4th: 

"First Presidency: The Church members of the European Missions number nearly thirty thousand with the missionaries about seven hundred strong, unitedly express joyous gratitude for the blessings of the Gospel and the present prosperity of the Church, and extend to you and the whole Church felicitations upon this happy occasion. May the Gospel, true to its divine purpose and history, spread over the earth to make multitudes glad through righteousness. 

John A. Widtsoe." 

FELICITATIONS FROM GOVERNOR OF WYOMING 

We have a telegram from Governor Frank C. Emerson of Wyoming. 

"Heber J. Grant, President, Mormon Church, Salt Lake City, Utah. 

"Please accept my felicitations upon the centennial celebration of the founding of the Mormon Church. From the time of the arrival of Brigham Young and his band of courageous followers in the Salt Fake Valley the Mormon people have had a leading part in the welfare and development of this western country. We appreciate their contributions to the progress of the commonwealth of Wyoming. It gives me pleasure to designate Honorable L, T, Oldroyd, our Commissioner of Agriculture, to represent Wyoming upon this auspicious occasion. 

Cordially yours, 

Frank C. Emerson, 

Governor of Wyoming." 

OTHER TELEGRAPHIC CONGRATULATIONS 

"Salt Lake City, April 5th, 1930, President Heber J. Grant: The Knights of Columbus of Utah extends congratulations on the centennial conference and wishes your people a successful meeting. 

Vere L. McCarthy, 

State Deputy. Dr. J. J. Galligan, Master of Fourth Degree." 

A cablegram dated Capetown, South Africa, April 6th, arrived before the conference meetings yesterday. They had held their services over there on the 6th of April and we received the word after they were over. It is from Don Mack Dalton, President of the South African Mission: 

"Our services had great spirit. We join you in remembrance and reverence. Missionaries well." 

From Holger M. Larsen, Copenhagen, Denmark: 

"Elders and Saints in Denmark send congratulations on this centennial anniversary." 

From Edward P. Kimball, Dresden, Germany: 

"Missionaries and Saints German-Austrian Mission greet you in love with Hosanna."
