32
Afternoon
08 04 1930
Elder Arthur Welling 
102
130-132

None

None

Very humbly, my brethren and sisters, and yet in deep gratitude and pride I bring you greetings from the missionaries and saints of the North Central States Mission. I should like my testimony to be to the youth of Zion, these young people who have been singing for us, many of whom I have the honor to know, and of whose acquaintance and friendship I am very proud; and to the other thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of young people of the surrounding territory here who may be listening in to these services today. I recently calculated that in our mission, which is large geographically but small numerically, there are five million five hundred eighty-seven thousand and some hundreds of population, only twenty-five hundred and eighty-seven of whom are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That will figure out to about seventy-five thousand for each of our seventy-five missionaries. I think nothing more need be said in emphasis of the plea that the other brethren have made for more missionaries. That is three-quarters as many as have been added to the Church per man for each of the six original organizers of the Church in the last hundred years. 

The young men and women who serve in the North Central States are full of faith and integrity. They love their work, they love the Lord, and I am certain as I live that the Lord loves them. "Oh ye who embark in the service of God," they would say if they had a chance, to all Israel, "see that ye serve him with all your might, mind and strength, that ye be found blameless before God at the last day." 

In the interest of time I should like the remainder of what I say to take the form of a testimony written for a friend long ago, which I believe will express, as well as anything else, what I would like to say here today. 

A TESTIMONY 

"Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain who build it." (Ps. 127:1.) Obviously, what the Lord builds, they labor in vain who oppose. 

Mormonism is a house builded of the Lord. It is a going concern. It works. Nothing stops it. Its devotees are undaunted by disaster. Those who accept it are made better and happier. Those who oppose it, do so in vain. 

Consider the marvelous revelation of religious truth disclosed in the boy prophet's first great vision — its staggering significance to the world. Surely, except the Lord continue to build on that foundation, they labor in vain who attempt it. But if he does, who shall oppose? 

Later, clouds appear. Twenty thousand empty-handed refugees, their homes in ruins, their prophet slain, unsympathetic neighbors behind, only the comparatively hospitable wilderness before them, they turn their faces the more resolutely toward God and the boundless West. What happened? Did they quit and die as was hoped by some? Did God leave them to build alone? For answer, in the midst of the desert, a thousand miles from civilization's late frontier, in "The country that God forgot," behold an empire rise. The Lord is with his people, helping to build his house. 

Nor is material prosperity Mormonism's chief evidence of divine approval. Far more important and conclusive are the moral and spiritual values it portrays. In days of shifting moral standards, "Companionate Marriage," and easy divorce, think of the stabilizing effect of the doctrine of marriage for eternity, and of the virtue and chastity with which tens of thousands of Mormon boys as well as girls kneel at marriage altars, in the temples of our God. Surely here is evidence of his building. It works. 

For keeping men always at their best, no merely human agency approaches, in effectiveness, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Those who accept and live its teachings are better and happier. 

The missionary system of the Church, like the "quality of mercy," continues to "Bless him who gives and him who receives" its message.

More and more the Book of Mormon is commanding the respect of investigators and vindicating its own divine origin. Opposition to the great truths for which it stands, has been and will continue to be in vain. 

For these and other reasons, I am proud to be a Mormon missionary. 

My grandparents on my mother's side knew and loved the Prophet Joseph. My grandfather, Jonathan H. Holmes, a Mormon Battalion man, was mustered out of the service of his country, on the Pacific coast, in time to join his family and friends late in the summer of their first year in the valley of the Great Salt Lake. My mother was born in the old fort on Pioneer Square, in 1849. 

My father, Job Welling, was a handcart pioneer of 1856. A venerable patriarch of Alpine stake, hearing my father's name, once said to me: "I helped your father bury one of your brothers (by a former marriage) on the plains of Iowa;" adding significantly, "Be as good a man as your father." This challenge: "Be as good a man as your father," I like to pass on to other young men of the Church. Think it over. 

"Mormonism" is true. It is a nick-name for the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the true and living God. So are his successors, including President Heber J. Grant. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints presents the same organization, the same Gospel doctrines, and the same authority to administer in the ordinances thereof, as characterized the primitive Church. 

It is God's house. He is building it. It will stand forever. To all of which I bear humble witness, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen.
