27
Afternoon
08 04 1930
Elder Noah S. Pond
98
115-117  

None

None

My dear brethren and sisters, I feel very humble and very happy to have the privilege of reporting the Northern States Mission of the Church. We have something like one hundred missionaries in that field at the present time. Last month fifteen of our most experienced missionaries were released, and only one was sent there. Brethren and sisters, we need your sons and daughters, and some of you, my brethren of the authorities of the wards and stakes. Your services are much appreciated, have been and will be, in the great ministry of the Church. 

Last year we sold eight thousand and one Books of Mormon in our mission. We loaned thirteen thousand four hundred fifty-three copies. In sales and loans a few less than twenty-three thousand five hundred copies of the Book of Mormon were placed in the hands of the inhabitants of our area. With a population of between twenty-five and thirty millions of people, however, in those six states, you can readily understand what a vast field and enormous work there is for a hundred or a hundred and twenty-five missionaries to perform. With a possible exception or two, our missionaries are in the enjoyment of good health; they are happy, industrious, humble, and faithful in their work. The blessings of the Lord attend their labors. 

Recently, last month in fact, we were impressed to send two of our fine young elders into a portion of the state of Iowa that our missionaries had not tracted or labored in for some time in the past. These, two young men, going into the city of Dubuque, where our elders had not been for a number of years, felt rather discouraged at the conclusion of the first week's work. The following Sunday morning they were impressed to visit the Sunday School of the First Congregational church of that city. The superintendent gave them a fine welcome. After the preliminary exercises they were invited to speak to the membership of that Sunday School. They made a fine impression, in a few brief remarks. The minister greeted them, invited them to dine with him, brought them back to his evening service and gave them an opportunity of preaching the Gospel to a hundred and fifty or two hundred members of his church. A very similar circumstance happened almost simultaneously in Evansville, Indiana, where two of our young elders found a Pentecostal minister, who welcomed them to his church and they had the privilege of preaching the Gospel to a hundred and fifty or two hundred members of that faith. 

I have been very much impressed by the manner in which the work is progressing in our organizations. Sister Pond has much pleasure in the Relief Society work of the mission, where she has nineteen societies. The Young Men's, the Young Ladies', the Sunday School, and the Primary organizations are progressing; so also is the Aaronic priesthood. We have it under as capable supervision as it is possible to provide, and we are very happy to note that the work is progressing. 

The outstanding feature of our work during the last month was the visit of our dear President Grant, that we were favored with. He came into our mission and remained with us from February 16th to February 25th. During that time we had the privilege of dedicating the new chapel in Columbus. Ohio, and our beautiful chapel in the University branch in the city of Chicago; likewise visiting the chapel that had been completed during the past two years in the city of Detroit, where we have a beautiful building and a fine congregation of our membership, and active work. He also had the privilege of visiting our chapels and our congregations in Dayton and Cincinnati, Ohio, also Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Immediately following this visit a number of baptisms were performed. The saints and the missionaries will never forget the marvelous impression, the testimony, and the Spirit of the Lord that accompanied the visit of President Grant. We have been favored, since our entry into the mission with a visit from Apostle Ballard, likewise a tour of the mission by Apostle Orson F. Whitney. These brethren of the General Authorities of the Church are welcome. The saints, friends, investigators and missionaries will travel hundreds of miles for a single opportunity of meeting and hearing the words of inspiration that fall from the lips of the servants of God. 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, to report the progress of the work in the Northern States Mission, where we are also sending out missionaries. I am also happy because of our baptisms. Five baptisms were performed the first Sunday after President Grant's visit. I have a letter, just received today, from our mission secretary in connection with other matters, in which he said that the services in Chicago last Sunday were outstanding. Both our chapels were filled to capacity, a pageant in one and a specially prepared program in the other. Seven baptisms were performed in the city of Chicago last Sunday afternoon. 

My brethren and sisters, there is joy and pleasure in this great work. May we have more of your sons and daughters, and some of you brethren of bishoprics, high councils and stake presidencies, for you little appreciate the value of your services until you have filled a three, four, five or six months mission in the mission fields of the Church. 

God bless the presiding authorities of this great Church. And God bless our young people in the mission fields, for there also they are preparing for this missionary work. The Northern States Mission has within the last few months or years, sent out eight missionaries into other mission fields. We are happy to note that we have two young sister missionaries in the mission home at this time, preparing for the California and the Northwestern States missions. And our young people are learning and are desirous of becoming familiar with the principles of the Gospel, that from the mission field they also may go forward and preach this great Gospel. 

I testify of the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I cannot recount a more happy moment or period in my life than we have enjoyed in this centennial. When I read the other evening of our friends, the Reorganites, celebrating in Independence, Missouri, six or seven thousand strong, the centennial of their church, I wondered how they would reconcile thirty years which they must falsify in history, or they must abandon the word "Reorganization." How can they be the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and celebrate one hundred years of its existence, when they came into existence thirty years after the original Church was organized. 

May the Lord bless us with faithfulness. I testify to the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and pray for his blessings upon the First Presidency, the Council of the Apostles, the presidency and priesthood at home, all the membership of the Church throughout the world, and all the good and true and the noble with whom we labor, and to whom we are seeking to bring the Gospel, the plan of life and salvation. I pray for our Father's blessings in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
