26
Afternoon
08 04 1930
ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 
97
114-115 

None

None

Three clays hence will be commemorated in the great Northwest, the centennial of the pioneers to the state of Oregon. On the 10th day of April, 1830, eighty-three men, fur traders, trappers, and assistants, left St. Louis, Missouri, and they traversed the trail now known as the Oregon Trail and arrived in Oregon, and from the 10th until the 29th day of December that wonderful event will be commemorated. The President of the United States, senators and other leading men have given approval of this great commemoration. 

Today we commemorate an event. I should like to read just a word or two from one of the editorials of a newspaper in Portland. 

"The Pacific Northwest has profited by a share of the growth and influence of the Mormon Church. Latter-day Saint missionaries were first sent to Portland in 1896. The Northwestern States Mission was formed the following year. The Church has now a Portland membership of one thousand and a local investment of more than two hundred thousand dollars, including a handsome chapel, dedicated a year ago. Wherever they are, the Mormons today should find full measure of appreciation and congratulation on their century achievements." 

I should like to read another clipping from a recent magazine: 

"Greatest Power in Spiritual Forces. "What line of research will see the greatest development within the next fifty years? This is the question that Robert Babson asked the late Charles P. Steinmetz while the world's foremost electrical engineer was visiting in the home of the nation's leading business statistician. It was natural to suppose that a scientist who had given nearly half a century to inventive processes would be thinking in terms of the future development of radio, aeronautics, or power transmission. Instead Mr. Steinmetz replied: 'Mr. Babson, [ think the greatest discovery will be made along spiritual lines. Here is a force which history clearly teaches has been the greatest power in the development of men and history. Yet we have merely been playing with it and have never seriously studied it as we have the physical forces. Some day people will learn that material things do not bring happiness and are of little use in making men and women creative and powerful. Then the scientists of the world will turn their laboratories over to the study of God and prayer and the spiritual forces which as yet have hardly been scratched. When this day comes, the world will see more advancement in one generation than it has seen in the past four." 

" 'If radio's slim fingers Can pluck a melody From night and toss it over A continent or sea; If petaled white notes Of a violin 

Are blown across a mountain Or a city's din; If songs like crimson roses Are culled from thin, blue air. Why should mortals wonder If God hears prayer?'" 

In the pageant the other evening were six thousand men and , all standing on their feet, faces toward the beacon light, singing in unison, "Praise God from whom all blessings flow." 

I know this work is of God, and I rejoice in this most glorious privilege that I have enjoyed, being one of those mission presidents on whom God's prophets, in all love and kindness gave such a wonderful blessing. I hope the Lord will bless me. 

I extend greetings to you, my brethren and sisters, from your sons and your daughters in the -Northwestern States Mission. They are noble, sweet, pure, God-fearing boys and girls. The Lord loves and is magnifying them, and they are measuring up admirably to the responsibilities imposed upon them. 

This is my prayer, my testimony of the truth of his work. I bear it humbly, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen.
