30
Afternoon
08 04 1930
Elder Miles L. Jones 
101
123-125

None

None

I hope that I shall be able to make my remarks short enough so as to make up for part of the time that President Moyle has occupied, so that the rest may have time for theirs. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the opportunity that I have of meeting with you upon this occasion. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the various sessions of this conference. I have been very much impressed today with the rendition of the music, as given by this wonderful gathering of young men and young ladies, the rising youth of Zion, young men and young women who sometime perhaps may be called into the world to spread the Gospel of light among the nations of the earth. 

Just a short time ago it so happened that I came in contact with a very prominent lady who was connected with one of the other denominations, and in the course of our remarks I asked, her how she found the spirituality of the young people in her church, and without hesitancy whatever she said: "There is no spirituality among the young people today, not in the least. They are seeking after the pleasures of life and are not looking after spiritual development." And I thought how much different is that from the Latter-day Saints. Here we see it exemplified today, these young men, young ladies, coming here filled with the spirit of the Gospel, and singing the songs of Zion and bringing forth the Spirit of the Lord in our day. 

I rejoice in the work that is being performed in the East Central States Mission. I bring to you fathers and mothers the greetings of your sons and your daughters, yes and to the wives the greetings of your husbands, who are laboring in that mission. All are enjoying good health with but few exceptions, and the work of the Lord is progressing. 

Just a few days ago I happened to pick up a newspaper and in reading through it I found the comment of a very prompinent writer; writing upon religious matters and referring to several denominations he made this remark: 

"It may so be in the course of time that the Mormon people will repudiate the Prophet Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon, and then they will become one with us." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I thought how much different that is from the way we look at things. And then just a few days following that one of our saints happened to be listening over the radio to the world's book man who speaks every afternoon with the exception of Sunday, on some subject regarding which a question has been asked. He called me over the phone and I stepped into the room where my wife and I have a radio, and there I heard Mr. R. C. Preble, who had been asked this question: "What publication do we have that is the most reliable, or rather that gives us the most reliable information regarding the origin of the American Indian?" And he gave as his answer, without any hesitancy whatever, "The Book of Mormon." Then he proceeded to recite and tell how the Book of Mormon was delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith by an angel from on high, and that the record was taken from the Mormon Hill, as he put it, and that it was translated through the instrumentality of a pair of spectacles which were hidden in the box with the record. And then he went on to tell how it was translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith and others who wrote as he translated it by looking through this pair of spectacles. Then he went on to tell that the Book of Mormon contains the history of a people who left Jerusalem some six hundred years before Christ's advent into the world, and that they landed upon the west coast of South America, where they settled, built wonderful cities, and eventually came on into this land and scattered over the various parts of North America. He then stated that in the extent of time those who were the most industrious in building cities were destroyed by the people called the Lamanites, now known as the American Indians; the records which this destroyed people had kept were the ones that were hidden in the Hill Cumorah and were received by the Prophet Joseph Smith from the hands of an angel. He gave such a fair account of it, and as this was the fourth question that I had heard him speak upon in regard to our people, in answer to questions which had been asked, I thought that I would take occasion to write to him, which I did. I dictated a letter, saying "If at any time you happen to be speaking upon any allied subjects pertaining to our people I will appreciate it very much if you will make the announcement that if there are any libraries in that part of the country that do not have a copy of the Book of Mormon, I shall be pleased to furnish them free of cost." I said further, "If you have not a copy of the book I shall be very pleased to send you one with my compliments, and if at any time when you are speaking on any subject pertaining to our people and you haven't first-hand information I shall be pleased to furnish you it." It was about ten days before the letter reached him. I addressed it to W. H. A. S., the station at Louisville, because he was talking over the national "hookup" and I didn't know just where he was; but it finally found him in the city of Chicago, and he immediately answered my letter and said that he would be very pleased indeed to receive a copy of the Book of Mormon. I sent him one with my compliments, and also enclosed with it several other pamphlets which contain some of the teachings of our people. I received another nice letter from him stating that he had received the literature, and that his secretary had already begun reading the Book of Mormon, and he was going to do so as the opportunity presented itself. And he continued: "I want to thank you for the little pamphlets which you enclosed, because of the information that they contain." 

I thought how much different are conditions today from what they have been in times past. Conditions in the world are changing. I find that we have friends on every hand. We have opportunities of visiting, every night that we have open, holding cottege meetings, street meetings and private meetings with the people and conversing with them. 

I pray that God may bless us that we may go on with the work, and that you at home may assist us by sending your sons and daughters, which I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
