28
Afternoon
08 04 1930
Elder Elias S. Woodruff 
99
117-118

None

None

It is a great honor to bring you the greetings of the saints and missionaries who labor in the Western States Mission. Many of them would have liked to be here to enjoy these services, even as you have. But I counseled them to remain at home and hold such services as they were capable of conducting and to invite as many friends as they could possibly get to attend our services in the twenty-seven branches that we have in the mission. Services have been arranged and have been held in all of those branches and also in a number of places where we have only Sunday Schools. As far as it was possible we have celebrated in a fitting manner this wonderful event. 

The conference to me has been a tremendous inspiration. If I were to think of the responsibility that rests upon me as a servant of the Lord, without the thought that God is directing the work, I would be so completely overwhelmed as to be unable to proceed. I know that we are in our Father's work, that his power is behind us; and it gives me, as it gives my brethren, courage to proceed with the work, with confidence that it will triumph and grow and spread over all the earth. 

In the Western States Mission the saints are faithful. They are good tithe-payers, they are attending their meetings in goodly number, they are trying to the extent of their ability to spread the word among their friends. They are trying to set an example to others, to show them that by being members of the Church they have lived better lives than they would have done otherwise; and in that way are preaching the Gospel by example. And in all respects we are endeavoring to serve the Lord. 

It is my hope and prayer that the Lord will bless me that I may be able to take back from this conference a message to the saints and missionaries that will at least supplement the impressions they have already received from the meetings they have held and what radio « reception they may have enjoyed. 

May God bless and inspire his servants who preside over the Church, that they may ever be true to their trust. May you, my brethren and sisters, sustain them and love them and uphold their hands by being faithful to your trust, that the Church may grow and flourish as we know it will. As has been so splendidly expressed here, the thought is there is no danger that the Church will not proceed and grow; the danger is that you or I may fall by the wayside. 

I humbly pray that we may never lose our faith, but that we may be able to keep step with the progress of the great Church which has given us this wonderful inspiration and through which we are so greatly blessed. I pray God to bless you, to bless the saints everywhere, to bless you who are preparing to send missionaries out, that you may be able to send them, and that you may be prospered so that you can care for them. I do want to make a plea, as President Pond has done, that you send your sons into the mission field. I think our mission has never been so low in numbers as at the present time. We released twenty-eight missionaries last month, and received three. We are badly in need of help. Those we have are laboring valiantly and splendidly, and I have pleasure in reporting that all are well. 

God bless you. Amen.
