24
Afternoon
08 04 1930
ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION
2
111-112

None

None 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be able to greet you upon this occasion, and to bear my testimony to the divinity of this great work. I am sure that we have all been thrilled with the inspiration that has accompanied each speaker. To me it has brought many memories of past experiences in general conference assemblies. 

An opportunity has come to me that few men, I presume, have had — that of laboring as a missionary for more than a quarter of a century. When President McMurrin was speaking yesterday, I thought of the day that he set me apart, in 1904. In those days they wrote the blessings that were pronounced upon the missionaries who went forth. I didn't know many of the brethren who were there on that occasion, but Brother McMurrin was the mouthpiece; and he told me in that blessing that I should stay "to the very uttermost," but that I should be returned home in the end. I didn't think much about it at the time, but began to realize its significance about five years later when I read it again, and I was very much impressed yesterday when he spoke in regard to promises made to himself, as it reminded me of the time that he set me apart. The words of the Lord that come to those who are set apart to go and preach the Gospel are surely to be fulfilled. They will not fail if the men and women to whom they are given will do their part. 

I am glad to have gone into the world. I have found faith in the world. I have found hundreds and thousands of people who have faith in God and all they lack is an opportunity to know how to live to develop that faith. Splendid men and splendid women are awaiting the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I am thankful unto the Lord that he has given us an opportunity to grow in a knowledge of God, and I am thankful for the great men who have been appointed to lead Israel in these latter days. The reason that the Church of Jesus Christ has flourished and grown as it has is because its leaders have lived in harmony with God, and other men and women who have been associated with them lived in harmony with them. These have believed in the leaders and the leaders have believed in God — they have walked in the presence of God. I have learned long ago that the Lord our God, through his Son Jesus Christ, is carefully guarding the interests of this great Church. He established it. He came into the world and introduced his Son to Joseph Smith, directing him to organize the Church. There is no other people bearing the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ to act in the name of God, and I bear this testimony to all men in the name of Jesus. Amen.
