38
Morning 
09 04 1930
Sister Ruth May Fox
104
145-146

None

None 

My dear brethren and sisters: I surely stand before you at this moment as one of the least in the kingdom of heaven. To think that this day should ever come to me that I should be asked to speak at this great Centennial Conference is marvelous to me. 

The trend of the remarks in this conference seems to be the recalling of things of the past. I wonder if I shall be forgiven if I tell you I was born in one of the factory districts of England, that if my father had not received the Gospel of Jesus Christ I might have been there yet. Perhaps through my days I might have been working in the factory, as many married women did, striving to get food for my children. I might have had a husband who was not converted to prohibition. 

I might tell you that my mother died when I was a tiny baby; that I lived here and there, with any good sister that my father could prevail upon to take care of me; that when we crossed the plains two families co-operated in one wagon, fourteen members in all. But we came with faith. 

As a little girl I came feeling that if I could look on the face of President Brigham Young it was all the blessing I would ask. I might tell you that when I was married I felt if the Lord would give me enough bread and molasses to feed my children I should be content. For the benefit of the youth of Israel I will say that if President Young had asked me to abstain from eating any partcular kind of food or drink — I used to say if he had asked me to eat mush and milk all my days— I would have done it. That was because faith had been implanted in my heart by my father. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

And so I am reminded of the words I have heard President Nibley say, "I do not forget the pit from which I was dug." I need not bear testimony in words. My whole life is a testimony to me that this is the work of God, and that God fulfils his promises and loves his children. If they will but walk in his paths they will be blessed forever. 

I desire to thank President Grant and the Authorities of the Church for this great blessing that has come to me. I desire to pledge to them my allegiance and my loyalty, and if it is not too strong to say, even to the death; for the Gospel of Jesus Christ has always been the greatest thing in the world to me. 

Naturally I am interested in the youth of Israel, and, oh, if I had the voice of an angel, as has been quoted here at this conference, if I could only tell every young man and young woman what it means to try to be a Latter-day Saint, I would be so happy in doing it. I do pray that the blessings of the Lord will rest upon the fathers and mothers, the guardians and teachers of the youth throughout the Church. Oh, may they live the Gospel and set such an example before their children that they, the children, will delight to follow them. May God bless the youth of Israel that faith may grow and increase in their hearts, that Zion may rise and shine, as God has promised, and I ask it in the name of his beloved Son, Jesus Christ. Amen.
