43
Afternoon 
09 04 1930
Elder Levi Edgar Young
48
159-163

None

None 

I am happy to be present at this meeting after my lectures at the University of Utah today. We have registered at the State institution over three thousand of the youth of the State; and I have a pride in the boys and girls, for they have faith in life; they have their dreams and hopes, and they will develop into fine citizens and will carry on the institutions of civilization which their fathers and mothers have founded. They will learn as we all learn that they will not go far without being brought face to face with the commanding figure of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world. They will see the Creator of divine life in him; a truth that is linking together the peoples of the world into an immortal purpose. 

In this day of mad rush and strife; when noise and glitter influence the human mind; this mighty rushing to and fro; this clash of many strifes; this feverish hastening towards some unknown goal; Jesus Christ gives the intelligible answer in revealing the infinite possibilities of the human soul. The leaven of his doctrine is ever working in the social body of which we are part, and his influence leads the van in every forward movement for the welfare of mankind. It is a plain fact of history that the influence of Jesus Christ upon the world has opened up vast tracks of spiritual opportunity of which the wisest men have never dreamed. He has uplifted and enriched the common life; he has filled the soul with immortal hope. He has brought peace to the desolate heart; he has made the quest for truth a divine adventure. He has made known the abiding joy of service for others; and most of all he has justified the upward reach of man, as he struggles from lower to higher things, which shows that Christ brings life and light into the hearts of men. 

"Blessed are they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled." These are the words of our blessed Savior; and as you think of them, you will recall the wonderful discourse of Jesus with the woman of Samaria by Jacob's well. He tells the woman about the "living water," which he can give to all who ask for it. "Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again . . . but the water I shall give him shall be a well of water, springing up into everlasting life." These words are life-giving to us all; and when I think of them, I think of the ideals we are standing for today. 

We have with us on this great occasion Miss Ruth Pyrtle, head of the National Educational Association, who will be introduced to you by President Grant. I should like to say to Miss Pyrtle that we hold sacred above all else the names of God the Father and Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. It was Jesus who taught: "Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." The doctrines of Christ are the living waters of our lives. God be praised for them. May we appreciate them.  

As I contemplate them, I think of many of the world's great historical movements, among which are the establishment of the government of the United States and later the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the establishment of his Church by divine authority. Then the gift to the world of the Book of Mormon. It is a history of the religious development of ancient Israel on the American continent, and is a holy book. 

First, as to the government of the United States. Our government was founded by inspiration, and the constitution of the United States was written as an expression of the freedom of the ages; a freedom that had been worked out and bled for by a people who looked always to God. 

When the Pilgrim fathers first set foot on the soil of America, they wrote this divine statement concerning their object and ideals of government. 

"In the Name of God, Amen.
