37
Morning 
09 04 1930
Louise Y. Robinson
103
144-145

None

None 

My brethren and sisters: I pray that my Heavenly Father will give me strength that I can acceptably thank him for the great tribute that was paid to the women of our Church by our beloved prophet, Heber J. Grant. 

At this time the people of the Church have undoubtedly been reading the history of our early pioneers and of the founders of the Church, and I think the women of today cannot but feel impressed with what the women of the early days did. Their equipment was so poor compared with that which we have. Those women did not even have matches, nor coal stoves, nor gas stoves. There were no electric lights, no bath tubs, no sewing machines, nor any rubber goods. It took from one to three months to hear from loved ones left in foreign lands. 

A short time before the Church was organized that terrible battle of New Orleans, with its awful consequences, was fought two weeks after peace had been declared in Europe. Now we have so many conveniences; news from the world reaches us in a very few minutes. Our homes are so wonderfully equipped that it seems to me the world is thinking only of material comforts, and is standing on tiptoe for something new. 

A few months ago I had the privilege, through the courtesy of President and Sister Moyle of the Eastern States Mission, of attending a street meeting on a busy thoroughfare in New York. Our fine elders stood forth, clean and intelligent, and offered to the people the plan of salvation. Very few cared for it. I thought at that time, if an inventor were to offer a new explosive, or something that could take life, there would be hordes and crowds of people around, and it would be broadcast everywhere. But when our elders offer the plan of life eternal it is not even recognized. 

The women of our Church appreciate the opportunity for service the Gospel has brought to us. As mothers in Israel we should be just as valiant in the cause of truth as were our former sisters. We may not have to face mobs, and be driven from our homes, but we should stand just as firmly for the principles of the Gospel as did those blessed sisters. We were told most vividly in our Relief Society conference how Sister Lucy Smith felt when her two beloved sons were brought home to her — martyred. We may not have to experience this kind of tragedy, but there are worse things than this, for the enemies of truth, honor and purity are using every means to destroy our children today. The path is clear for mothers to follow. We must live the Gospel in our homes in such a way that our children will have confidence in our teaching. We must feel that no effort is too great to teach our children that there is a Father in heaven, and that he does hear our prayers. Let us make it a real event in our family when a child is blessed or baptized. Make our little boys understand the importance and responsibility of being ordained to the priesthood. We know the truth that has been given to us, and that it is only through our earnest efforts and our prayers that this message can be carried to the world that all may rejoice. 

I thank my Heavenly Father for membership in this Church. I thank him that I have a testimony that he has spoken through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I thank him for the leaders we have; for those fine men holding the priesthood of the living God, who recognize women and who help them to accomplish what our Heavenly Father wishes them to do. 

I pray that we shall carry the spirit of this glorious conference to our homes, and that the whole Church and the whole world will be lifted up and blessed through this rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
