50
Afternoon 
09 04 1930
President Heber J. Grant 
10
175-177

None

Report of Auditing Committee

"President Heber J. Grant and Counselors, Dear Brethren: 

It gives us pleasure to state that our examination of the reports of the First Presidency's office, which covered the Presiding Bishop's department, disclosed the fact that the finances of the Church are in excellent condition and its accounting system is modern and complete. 

Respectfully submitted, Your brethren, 

(Signed) Henry H. Rolapp, (Signed) O. W. Adams, 

Auditing Committee." 

STATISTICAL REPORT 

There were blessed and entered on the records of the Church last year 19,071 

Children baptized in stakes and missions 15,468 

Converts baptized and entered on the records of the stakes and missions 6,511 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion 2,068 

Number of short-term missionaries 59 

Number of local missionaries 99 

Total missionaries on foreign missions December 31, 1929 2,226 

Number engaged in missionary work in the stakes 903 

Total missionaries 3,129 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Mission Home during 

the past year 942 

Persons recommended to the temples (stakes and missions) 68,573 

SOCIAL STATISTICS 

Birth rate, 29 per thousand. 

Marriage rate 14.5 per thousand. 

Death rate 7.8 per thousand. 

Families owning their own homes, 70 per cent We have at the present time: Stakes of Zion 104; Wards, 930; Independent branches, 75; Dependent branches, 27; Total wards and branches in the stakes of Zion, from Canada to Mexico, 1032; Missions, 29; Mission branches, 800. 

APPRECIATION OF DEVOTION OF TEMPLE WORKERS 

I desire to express my appreciation to the many hundreds who are working in our temples without remuneration — several hundred in the Salt Lake Temple alone. In all of our temples an immense and wonderful work is being accomplished, all on missionary time, and I appreciate it. On behalf of the Presidency of the Church I extend our blessing to all of these devoted workers. 

President Grant asked all who were in the audience who had had the privilege of shaking hands with President Brigham Young to arise and raise their right hands. 

There was a large number present who had had this privilege. 

The President then asked those who were present at the conference of the Church fifty years ago to arise and raise their right hands. 

There was a considerable number in the audience who had attended that conference, and who so indicated in the manner requested by President Grant. 

The choir and congregation joined in singing "God be with you till we meet again." 177 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I desire, on behalf of the Presidency and the General Authorities of the Church, to thank the City Commissioners, the Police Department, the Commercial Club, the leading business men of our city, and all who have taken part so energetically and willingly to make a success, so far as was in their power, of this great conference. I wish particularly to thank each and every one who has given his or her services to make a success of the production of the wonderful pageant which is being presented nightly in this building. We think it is a marvel of inspiration, and we feel to pour out our blessings upon all who have been connected with it. 

TO SPEAK AT SERVICES NEXT SUNDAY 

The time has expired. I had hoped to have time to say something to the people. Those of you who happen to be in the city next Sunday, if you will come to the afternoon services in this building, may hear me speak to you on that occasion. 

THANKS SINGERS AND OTHERS 

I wish to thank all of the splendid singers — our own tabernacle choir, the tabernacle choir from Provo, the tabernacle choir from Ogden, the young people from the Latter-day Saints College, who sang for us yesterday; the leaders of these organizations, those who have sung solos, and all who have assisted in providing us with the beautiful music that we have heard. I wish to thank everybody who has contributed to the success of this conference, and if anyone has been overlooked, please consider yourself thanked. 

President Anthony W. Ivins offered the benediction. Conference adjourned for six months. 

Accompaniments and interludes were played on the great organ by Tracy Y. Cannon, Frank W. Asper, and Samuel Whittaker. 

Stenographic notes of the conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. 
