44
Afternoon 
09 04 1930
Miss Ruth Pyrtle
109
163-166

None

None

President Grant and friends: I assure you that I deem it a great honor and privilege to be invited here today, an honor of a lifetime. Our association is greatly honored in that you let me come here as a representative of that great association and bring to you, this educational body, the greetings of the National Educational Association, the largest organization of teachers, of educators, not only of the United States but of the world. 

I have listened with great interest this afternoon to these splendid addresses, and I feel quite at home, because it seems to me that the work of this hundredth anniversary meeting and the purposes that this great Church has had all through the years are common with the rest of the people of the world who are working for the progress of the human family. And so I feel like addressing you for a moment as educators, because that is what we all are if we are measuring up to the opportunities and responsibilities which God has given us as individuals and as groups in a community wherever it is our privilege to work. 

I am tremendously interested in what I have heard expressed here today, showing the interest of this great Church and this body representing the Church, in the international point of view. I think all of us recognize as never before that we no longer live in a neighborhood as big as our immediate community, as big as our school district, or county, or state, or nation. But, as one speaker has so aptly put it, we are in a world neighborhood, and so in these modern days our obligations to each other in the human family are as big as the world. The way we measure up, if you please, and meet those obligations and responsibilities, I think, depends probably upon about how large our point of view is, about how large our vision is. I think that is true of the American school teacher behind the desk and perhaps the parent in the home and the people of the world, no matter where they may be working. We meet our responsibilities, I say, about in proportion as we have vision. 

Great gatherings like this, bringing together peoples from many nations, giving people here such a splendid opportunity to get the great messages that will come out of this convention, (and I trust the press is giving it to the world) are going to help in pushing out our horizon. 

It was my privilege to meet in the initial meeting of the World Federation of Educational Associations, which as you know was held in San Francisco, six years ago; and then again, four years ago, I attended the first biennial in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1925; in 1927 I was at Toronto, Canada; and last year at Geneva, Switzerland. When I mingled and met and talked with those people, representing more than fifteen nations of the earth, educators gathered together in order that we might think through our educational problems together — because we believe the hope of the world is in the intelligent education and direction of the youth of the world — I tell you, friends, when I met and heard those people of other lands, I realized what a common problem it is, this working for the progress of the human family in all parts of the world. It is not a national job. And may I remind you that the reputation of the people of Utah, the schools of Utah, the educational forces of Utah and the West, is not only nation-wide, but it is world-wide, and we are looking to you. I think this nation is looking to the people of the West for more than you sometimes realize. We have never been disappointed either. 

I do not see how people could be small-minded, small in action, that are trained as I know your schools out here do train those who live in this great open country. The hymn that you sang here today expresses it beautifully. I do not see how people could help but have a big vision of their responsibility and their opportunity to serve. I oftentimes said to my own teachers in the building where I had the privilege of serving as an elementary principal, that if I were a parent of children I would be very grateful to that type of teacher who would very early in life put it into the thinking and action, if you please, of the children all along the line, whether it is kindergarten, elementary, high school or university, that type of thinking that Carruth, the Kansas poet, must have meant in his poem, "Each In His Own Tongue." I thought of it as I rode along over your beautiful country this morning. Those lines describe my country, and I think they describe yours. Carruth says: 

"A haze on the far horizon, The infinite, tender sky, The ripe, rich tint of the cornfields, And the wild geese sailing high, — And all over upland and lowland The charm of the goldenrod, — Some of us call it Autumn, And others call it God." 

Friends, I would be more grateful for that type of teacher who put that kind of thinking and appreciation of God's world and the fundamental things in life into the early thinking and training of the children than I would be to the one who fails to do that but perhaps who teaches much exactness in language, or arithmetic, or geography, or what not. Because after all it is the fundamental things, it is the real values that count, that we want. 

Perhaps you would like to know what this great educational association of teachers has been doing recently. Your inviting me in here today, Mr. President, is a sample of the co-operation which we as a great body of teachers find everywhere. I have had the blessed privilege this year, as your president, of going about, seeing the field in action, (I like to call it that) as I had this blessed privilege in Salt Lake today, and yesterday in Ogden. Then I have had several times opportunities of being down in Washington where our headquarters are, seeing them in action. I have been interested in some of the things that perhaps are not directly class-room experiences that we are doing as a great association. For instance, an illustration of co-operating with even governmental agencies. Not so long ago, following the stock crash, President Hoover, through the Secretary of Commerce, Mr. LaMott, invited the great National Educational Association to give any assistance they could in this program that they are working upon to keep confidence, if you please, to keep people employed, to avoid any great crises. To that end more than five thousand letters were sent out from our headquarters, at Sixteenth and M., four blocks from the White House, to the leading school men all over this country in every state, indicating that we should not retrench in education unless absolutely necessary, but keep up our building program, keep up this great educational program which this Church and all Utah believes in so strongly. And when the answers to these five thousand letters came back it was a great satisfaction to me to see them tabulated and sent over to the Secretary of Commerce and to the President of the United States, and to read the letters of thanks that came back. 

That is one illustration of co-operation, which might seem to you almost outside of school room activities. 

Another illustration is the opportunity which we had as a great profession to co-operate with the department of law enforcement. No doubt, friends, you have heard here — maybe not so much as we hear further -east — much of the comment criticising "flaming youth," even accusing the high school youth of America of drinking more these days than in the days of the open saloon. So the law enforcement department of the government asked us to be a fact-finding body and to give the truth or the falsity of such statements. A questionnaire was sent out to more than five hundred educators in every part of this Union. These answers are coming back and I assure you it is very interesting to our great research department to tabulate these results from that questionnaire and to get at the facts. I am not sure it is all finished yet, but enough has come in to show us that there really is no truth in the statement that the children of America, the high school children, are drinking more than they did in the days of the open saloon. It is not true according to the facts. There is enough truth though in some of the answers to the questionnaires to show us that the good work of this Church and of the people who represent it, and all of the other forces at work for the good of humanity in America and in the world, needs to keep on and on, and constantly on. 

I could go on giving you other illustrations of co-operation. I see illustrated it seems to me in Utah, in this congregation today — I have always thought it was illustrated in Utah — one of the major problems of this year. We are working on the wise use of leisure time as a most important factor in this modern age. It is nothing new, but it is new this year, that we have appointed a national commission of fifty people and a state commission of an equal number in each state working on the wise use of leisure time, co-operating with all the other agencies that are working on that, or wanting to be a clearing house, if we may be, to that end. What for? For the youth of America, because we know how -very necessary that is. I can see many people here who remember that in late years we have had at least two of those great national programs of the N. E. A. in this beautiful city of Salt Lake. 1 remember very well being in this very tabernacle and enjoying the program that we had here in 1913, and you will remember that we were here in 1919. This year, in 1930, we are meeting in Columbus, Ohio, and the theme for the meeting is "Vital Values in Education." The very addresses which I have heard since I have been on this platform, it seems to me, would answer some of the things that we are discussing in our summer program — "Vital Values in Education." The first day will be "The International Point of View, as a Vital Value in Education." I have heard that discussed here today You are doing it in every program. "The Art of Living, as a Vital Value in Education" — I know no people who know that stronger than the Mormon people. 

"The Wise Use of Leisure, as a Vital Value in Education"; "The Enrichment of Life, as a Vital Value in Education." Another day a sub-topic will be, "Creative Learning, as a Vital Value in Education." 

I just mention the topics because it seems to me so in line with probably the very purpose — indirectly, maybe some of you will think — of this great world-gathering you have here. May I remind you that we are working for the youth of the nation; we are working for better salaries, for better teachers. We are trying to bring to the spotlight worthy school activities and broadcast programs and worthy achievements. This association is a clearing-house — I mean the National Educational Association — for local and state associations. It is the voice, if you please, of people in service. We aim to shape the ideals of the profession. It is the pure plan of educational progress. I feel that the aims of our great National Educational Association are the ultimate aims which you have, Mr. President, in this great world-gathering of people. We are working together for the human race. I bid you God-speed. I invite you to give us all the help that you will give us as a group of educators trying to lead your children aright. Let us in that way assist any time that we may. 

I esteem this a great honor and a great privilege for our Association to be allowed a few moments on this platform and to bring to you again the greetings of our great National Educational Association, the largest body of teachers not only of the United States, but of the world, working for the same purposes that you are, the progress, the best progress of humanity. I thank you. 
