Morning 
03 10 1931

Conference reconvened Saturday morning, October 3, 1931, at' 10 o'clock. 

President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The congregation sang the hymn "Though Deep'ning Trials." The opening prayer was offered by Elder David R. Langlois, President of the Burley .Stake. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Our mountain home so dear." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The words of the first hymn that we sang this morning are by Sister Eliza R. Snow, who at one time was President of the Relief Societies of the Church. The music was composed by Brother George Careless. The words of the hymn we have just sung are by Sister Emmeline B. Wells, one of the successors to Sister Snow in the presidency of the ( Relief Societies. The music to this hymn was composed by the late Evan Stephens. 

Personally, I am very grateful for the wonderful inspiration of our brethren and sisters who have written the words and composed the music for so many of our inspired hymns. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

There is reason for gratification in finding one's self a member of a goodly company. We can say, as yesterday many said in their hearts, and as it has been said aforetime, "Lord, it is good for us to be here." 

If we put into action the admonition of which we often sing — count our many blessings, one by one — we surely shall be surprised at what the Lord has done and is doing for us. Among the blessings for which we should be devoutly thankful is the privilege of thus assembling from time to time, in local or in general capacity, to be taught, especially to be reminded, for we have been taught personally through the many years and indirectly by recorded scriptures through the centuries; but we are apt to forget. 

I note at these conferences a striking feature in the matter of the addresses that are given, in that each speaker leaves something that may serve as a rich text for those who follow him; and thus the instructions are cumulative, leading on step by step. 

SANCTITY OF THE LORD'S NAME 

The grand summation of the whole duty of man, as presented by the President in his opening address, can not be too closely taken to heart — that we strive to keep the commandments of the ^ Lord. .Among those commandments one in my mind at this moment is that written amidst the awe-inspiring glory of Sinai: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain." 

The word translated into our language as "vain" is an interestingone, and its usage is instructive. "In vain" is about the only phrase and' marks .about the only occurrence in the English language in which the word "vain" is used as a noun. It is an adjective in common usage. It comes to us from a Latin root and meant, originally, empty and void, and as the lexicographers tell us, that meaning has been maintained through all its variations. 

To take the name of God in vain, therefore, is to use that name lightly, to use it emptily, to use it without effect, so far as the intent is concerned — but nevertheless, with awful effect upon the profane user. We are apt to think that this has reference to the speaking of the name of God only, and in that particular respect the commandment is sufficiently weighty and important to us. Profanity is all too common in the world — profanity of speech. 

PROFANITY IN SPEECH 

But beyond this there is profanity of action, which is of greater import than the spoken word, even as the prayer of the heart is greater than the prayer of the lips. Profanity in this sense is any manifestation of disrespect or irreverence for the name of God; blasphemy consists in attributing to Deity any unworthy act or motive, or in claiming for one's self the distinguishing attributes of Deity. 

I listen with horror to profane swearing. One can not. escape it wholly, go where one will; that is to say, ,as,one has to meet diverse associations one is sure to encounter it. Of profanity I have not yet heard one word of defense. It is wholly demoralizing, wholly base, to say nothing of the sacrilege and blasphemy ofttimes associated in the linking of the name of Deity with our perverse expressions. 

I call to mind that Chapin has given us a thought in regard to the use of profanity. "Profaneness," he wrote, "is a brutal vice. He who indulges in it is no gentleman. I care not what his stamp may be in society, or what clothes he wears, or what culture he boasts. Despite all his refinement, the light and habitual taking of God's name in vain betrays a coarse and brutal will." 

And yet another has said : "Profanity never did any man the least good. No man is the richer or happier or wiser for it. It commends no one to society. It is disgusting to the refined, abominable to the good, insulting to those with whom we associate, degrading to the mind, unprofitable, needless and injurious to society." 

Perhaps some of you may think my remarks are inept in this particular presence. I do not believe that the habitual taking of the  of God in vain by profane speech is a prevalent .vice among the Latter-day Saints. I refer to this in passing, only, as one way in which the name of God is all too frequently polluted among men in general. But there is much beyond and behind that. Profanity of the lips, I repeat, is not the only form in which this offense appears. 

ENORMITY OF FALSE SWEARING 

The name of God is a means of power. He is jealous — that is to say, righteously zealous of his name, because of that for which his name stands. "And ye shall not swear by my name falsely," he , spoke through his prophet of old, as is written in the book of the law, "Neithev shalt thou profane the name of thy God. I am the Lord." (Lev. 19 :12.) 

But, one may say, those commandments were given in the days when the law, as distinguished from the Gospel, was dominant. Very true. The people then had to be led by the code of "Thou shalt" and "Thou shalt not," until under the tutelage of the law, as under the direction of a schoolmaster, they were brought, once erring children, to a state of preparation for the reception of the Gospel. 

But the principle involved is an eternal one. The name of God is and will ever be honored in the heavens beyond, as it is required that we honor it here upon the earth, and he honors his own name and rightly demands that we honor it also. 

But another phase of taking the name of God in vain is that referred to in the scripture just cited : "And ye shall not swear by my name falsely." How that is disregarded in the world we know. In the courts of the land, yes, I will say, with reservation, in the courts of justice, the oath is administered, "So help you God," and we witness every day practically, instances of such solemn adjuration being disregarded as soon as spoken; we see men perjuring themselves, defiling, polluting the name of God even on the witness stand. W]e have come to think that perjury in our courts is something to be condoned, palliated, and in some minds extolled, if by it some personal advantage can be gained. 

USING THE HOLY NAME PRESUMTUOUSLY 

I ask your attention to another way by which the name of God is taken in vain, and that by the presumption of men who profess to speak in his name without authority. The Lord has been particularly careful as to those whom he commissions to use his name, may I say, officially, and having thus commissioned a man, or any being, man or angel, to speak in his name, he, the Lord, holds himself bound by what is done by that agent if it is done righteously in his holy name. 

I pray you call to mind that striking instance of the Lord's word to Israel as the hosts were journeying through the wilderness of old. He told them what he had done for them and what he would continue to do for them, and appointed one to represent him, and said unto Israel : 

"Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way, and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared. "Beware of him, and obey his voice, Jprovoke him not; for he will not pardon your transgressions: for my name is in him." (Exo. 23:20, 21.) 

Having thus placed his name in men for the accomplishment of his purposes, he has uttered words of warning time and again lest it be defiled. 

"For I will not suffer my name to be polluted, and I will not give my glory unto another." (I Nephi 20:11.) 

In the days of the Gospel restoration in the meridian of time the word of the Lord was given unto the people to regard the sanctity of the name of God. Did not the Christ teach in that prayer of prayers that we should address our Father with the words of praise, "Hallowed be thy name," as of old he had declared through the Psalmist, "Holy and reverend is his name?" Unto those who had undertaken to falsely assume to speak in the name of God the Lord has uttered warnings in ancient times as in this age and dispensation. Consider these words, given by the Lord through his prophet, in August, 1831 : 

"Behold, I am Alpha and Omega, even Jesus Christ. 

"Wherefore, let all men beware how they take my name in their lips — 

"For behold, verily I say, that many there be who are under this condemnation, who use the name of the Lord, and use it in vain, having not authority. 

"Wherefore, let the Church repent of their sins, and I, the Lord, will own them; otherwise they shall be cut off. 

"Remember that that which cometh from above is sacred, and mus.t be spoken with ca;re, and by constraint of the Spirit; and in this there is no condemnation, and ye receive /the Spirit through prayer; wherefore, without this there remaineth condemnation." (D. and C. 63:60-64.) 

Yet in this day there are men who rise up and avow as in the name of the Lord that they have received his word, and actually presume to declare it unto the people as the word of God given by authority. But in the, next section, sixty-four, as we have it recorded, the Lord again spoke: 

"For it shall come to pass that the inhabitants of Zion shall 'judge all things pertaining to Zion. 

"And liars and hypocrites shall be proved by them, and they who are not apostles and prophets shall be known." (D. and C. 64:38, 39.) 

WE BEAR THE LORD'S NAME 

And now there is yet another instance, method, way by which we are too prone to take the name of God in vain and in this connection I call your attention to the thirtieth chapter of Proverbs, verses seven to nine inclusive, and ask you to heed these words, the words of Agur, the son of Jakeh, speaking from the fulness of his heart: 

"Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die: "Remove far from me vanity and lies : give me neither poverty nor riches; feed 

me with food convenient for me : 

"Lest I be full and deny thee, and say, Who isf the Lord? or lest I be poor, 

and steal, and take the name of my God in vain." 

What association is there between the crime of theft and that of  the name of God in vain, so closely brought together here ? Lest I steal, and thereby take the name of God in vain — making it a double crime. Do we take the name of God in vain by stealing? Latter-day Saints, this applies to us. Is not the name of the Lord written in our foreheads ? Where can a Latter-day Saint go without bearing the name of the Lord with him? And if he steal, he is stealing before the Lord, and with his name displayed, thus polluting" the name of the Lord, for he has taken that name upon himself. By way of summary : 

1. We may take the name of God in vain by profane speech. 

2. We take it in vain when we swear falsely, not being true to our oaths and promises. 

3. We take it in vain in a blasphemous sense when we presume to speak in that name without authority. 

4. And we take his name in vain whenever we wilfully do aught that is in defiance of his commandments, since we have taken his name upon ourselves. 

Can we pray that prayer of Agur, the son of Jakeh: "Give me neither poverty nor riches" ? The first part of it I think we can. None of us welcome poverty. But can we pray the prayer? We can say it, but that may not be praying. Lord, give me neither poverty nor riches beyond my power to bear. Do not send poverty that may lead me to steal. I fear I can not bear it. Lord, send me not riches that may make me full of conceit so that I spurn thee and say, Who is the Lord ? But feed me with food suited to my condition that I may develop and be thy son in very deed. 

Latter-day Saints let us remember the word of God, we must not take the name of the Lord our God in vain, for surely he will not hold us guiltless if we take his name in vain. 

That we may speak and act, live and serve in his name, I fervently pray. Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 

President of the North Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am proud to be a missionary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and am very pleased to be able to report for the North Central States mission that all of our missionaries are well and busy and happy in their work. 

When Jesus was asked by Pilate whether he were king of the Jews a part of his answer was : 

"For this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice." 

We like to feel, in a modest, humble way, like that — that for this cause came we into the world, that we might testify of the truth that God, our Father in heaven, lives; that Jesus, our elder brother, gloriously resurrected, lives; that these two heavenly beings have condescended to again appear in these last days to our Prophet, and have taught him concerning the things necessary to life and salvation. 

We are not in the world to find fault with those who find it difficult to believe as we would like to have them believe. Ours is not a message of criticism nor of argument, but we do love to testify in deep humility of what we believe to be the truth. 

Like the brethren who have reported here, we find friendship everywhere taking the place of misinformation and prejudice of the past'. We rejoice in the wonderfully beneficial effects of radio broadcasts from this city and the impressions made upon tourists who visit here. The world is full of our friends, but, my brethren and sisters, in spite of that, it seems to me the work of carrying the message of Mormonism to the world is just begun. They find it difficult to believe as we believe about the things which we regard as fundamental to life and salvation.! 

Like the other brethren, we too have been on the air a few times in a modest way, and we have tried one small exhibit at a fair, with satisfactory results; but in the main we are plodding along, trying to reach the people personally, individually, in their homes, in their cottage meetings; trying to find an opportunity, where they have radios perhaps, to arrange a little group meeting in which they may listen to the Tabernacle Organ, or the Tabernacle Choir, or one of the speakers of the General Authorities here at home; and by such methods as that to reach the homes and the hearts of the people, for there are many who like to hear more about the truth. 

I would like to tell you a lot about things in our mission, if time permitted, but I know it does not. I Would just like to say, in passing, that if heaven holds no joy — should we ever be fortunate enough to reach there — greater than the joy I have in trying to preach the Gospel, or teach the people what we understand the Gospel to be, I shall be perfectly happy and satisfied. 

I love the people with whom it is my privilege and honor to associate. I love the work. It is the most satisfying thing I have ever yet found. 

I want to waive that thought, however, for a very brief reference, if I may, to what has been mentioned several times already — the times of stress in which we live. There is a little angle to that to which I would like to devote attention. Blessings of adversity — I like to thmk that. Do you remember the story of the marriage feast? I won't take time to repeat it . but it seems to me we are approaching conditions like that. The man who before must prove the oxen which he had bought, or must go to inspect the farm which he had lately purchased, has time now, if we approach him in a right spirit, to listen to some of the things we. would like him to listen to. 

Those who are lovers of Dickens' works will remember the lines with which he opens The Tale of Two Cities : "It was the best of times; it was the worst of times," and so on. And I submit, my brethren — particularly those who preside — it seems to me we are facing conditions like that now. We learned yesterday that this is a good time  pursue our educational work here at home. I ask you, in real sincerity, if you do not think it may also 'be a good time for missionary work, not only from the standpoint of the people of the world who have a little more time to listen, but from the standpoint of the men to be sent out from Zion to teach the truth. Most of us have to wear clothes and eat some food whatever we do, and many of our young people spend a little money here and there one way and another. If they are not in school and if they are not wage-earners, contributing something to the much needed funds of the family, would it be very much more expensive to maintain them in the mission field than here at home ? We are constantly striving for economy, both of means and of time — the few there are of us, only fifty-one or fifty-two — in the mission in which I serve, and there are millions of people to be reached. And so we believe that economy of both time and means is a cardinal virtue. "Dost thou love life," wrote Franklin, "then do not squander time; for it is the stuff life is made of." And in these trying times we emphasize economy of means as well. I would therefore like to urge upon you consideration of the question if this be not also a good time, from the standpoint of the expense involved, for missionary work. 

And now, in conclusion, with apologies to General Foch. These blessings of adversity, of which there are plenty — drouth, unemployment, grass-hoppers, and all — we have experienced them in the North Central States mission; but, although, as the Marshal said, his right was in retreat, and his left was broken, and his center was wavering, and so on — so it may be with us. We suffer under the continued depression and unemployment, and we are withering under the blight of the drouth, and we are still, as is perhaps the case in all the world, struggling against doubt and uncertainty and depression. But, my brethren and sisters, the situation is excellent, as the General said. So far as we are concerned we shall attack, not in criticism, not militantly, but in deep humility and in testimony of the truth, for which we go into the world. And may the Lord add his blessings and speed the right, we humbly pray in the- name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

A vocal solo, "My faith in Thee," was rendered by Sister Lottie Spencer Davis. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I feel more like saying, this morning, "Cheer up, the worst is to come." All I know, brethren and sisters, is what I feel, what I sense, what I hear and what I see. I know of no better way to make this clear to you than to relate an incident that happened in my missionary experience, at the time I was appointed to preside over the Southern States mission. I succeeded Elder William Spry. There was only a few days notice given me. The brethren failed to inquire regarding my financial condition, my wife and children, my physical condition, or whether my teeth were all right, etc.; they just appointed me without asking me any questions, and I had faith enough to go. The itinerary was made out by Elder Spry to visit those conferences which occurred only once a year, as the mission covered eleven states. We had the means to go through that mission only once a year. In fact, when Elder Spry turned the mission over to me he handed me thirty-five dollars. I said: "Is that all you've got?" "Yes." 

"How do you get your money?" 

"Why, we go to the Lord and ask him." 

"Well," I said, "I don't think he is very liberal." (Laughter) 

The first conference appointed was in West Virginia. I rode all day and all night on the train, and we took no berths in those days. I arrived at Crow's Nest. It is the only place I remember in the South, because it was so lonely and desolate. The Elders who were to meet me had returned because the train was six or seven hours late, so I had to find my way to the conference as best I could. I wasn't very well. I climbed the mountain and stopped with a coal miner. He treated me very kindly. The next morning I started for the conference. I had not then received the spirit of my appointment. As I approached the top of another mountain I went into the woods to pray and I told the Lord all about it. I don't think I have been able to pray like that since. When I got through praying, I did not see anything; I failed to hear anything, but there was something came over me, a happiness, a joy, that it isn't possible for mortal man to express. I suppose it was a heavenly feeling; I was actually so overjoyed and so happy that I whistled. I haven't whistled since. The twenty miles that I walked was the happiest time I have ever had. That is how I felt. I know because I was clothed upon with the Holy Spirit. I have regretted more than I can express that the same sensation has not come to me with the same power since. 

I had another experience. It was prior to my going on this mission. We were involved in speculation. If we had had our way we would have owned a large holding in Canada. We got into that mess. After having gone through that experience we were as near hell as a man will ever get if he is honest. An honest man is in hell when he is in debt. I know all about the feeling. I went through the mill of the gods, and it grinds slowly, but it grinds fine. If you have anything left when they get through with you, you have had a happier experience than I have had. s 

Well, it was on that occasion that I made a public declaration in the Logan tabernacle — foolish it may have been. We were able to pay all our personal obligations, although it took everything we had in the world — years of hard work, fifteen years in Bear Lake pioneering — and we exchanged it all for a 320 acre farm in Cache valley. We had two hundred acres of grain and one hundred tons of hay, all ready for harvest, and were sold out at the court house door for thirty-eight hundred dollars and a thousand dollar judgment. That farm some years afterwards was sold by David Eccles, who became the owner of , for thirty thousand dollars. I speak of this so that you will understand the dream. 

After making my declaration in the Logan tabernacle, that I would never doff my hat and be servile to any man because of his money, that night I had a dream. I am not a dreamer; I believe in dreams when they come true, and I haven't any use for them until they do. It was very vivid. I haven't forgotten it, and it has been nearly forty years since it occurred. I have not repeated it but a few times. The devil appeared to me at the northeast corner of the Temple block. I was not very well acquainted with the devil. Brother Maeser used to tell us he was a great general; the man that I saw, and I seemed to know he was Satan, was of great personality in appearance, in height and bigness; he was dark and swarthy and seemed to be a real man. When he looked at me with those black eyes they pierced me to the soul. I trembled as I did in the woods when I was filled with the Holy Spirit of God. I trembled from head to heels with fear. He repeated what I had said at the Logan tabernacle. The Spirit of God came on me and thrilled me from crown to toe. I told him I would not bow to man. I then became frightened and ran like a coward. I was arrested and put in jail for four years. I saw myself come out of jail. My clothes were threadbare. I was thinner than I am now, if such a thing can be possible; but I was free. In four years from that time our creditors stripped us to the skin", and that dream came true. I do not want any more dreams of that kind. 

I am in sympathy with the people. I know we have all been foolish. I am foolish. I don't think there is a bigger fool than an old fool. A man who has had experience ought to know better. One of my brethren said to me — and he is a man so kind and gentle that I had every reason to believe he would extend to me a little sympathy — I told him of one of my last speculations and he said : "If you are as big a sucker as that you ought to take your medicine." I said : "I am taking it, and it is not sugar-coated either." (Laughter) 

I met a banker a few weeks ago — we were very friendly. Thank the Lord, I do not owe that bank anything, but I owe another bank. (Laughter) I said: "How are things going?" 

"Well, we are taking everything but their suspenders." 

I thought afterwards that I should have said to him: If that bank hasn't got any more elasticity than my suspenders, I will throw them in. (Laughter) 

My brethren and sisters, in a few words I desire to say to you that I think the things of the world are better advertised than the things of God. When I hear those beautiful voices over the radio, advertising the things of the world, I am wonderstruck. If there is anything under heaven they do not advertise, and give it away at a dollar a week, I do not know what it is. By the time they get through with us — the "Lucky Strike" puts over their wonderful music— no wonder smokers' mouths watet after hearing it. Men, boys, and girls who form the habit and have the appetite, I do not believe it is in our power to sympathize with them, as foolish as it is to form a habit of that kind and then try to overcome it of themselves. They can not do it. God has to help them. They have to go to the Lord. We are up against those things. I don't feel like it is right when a man is in hell, to stand over him and say: "Well, son, you are in hell. Get out as best you can. Sweat it out; swim or drown." It does not sound Christ-like to me. 

I pray God to soften the hearts of the people. They are doingwonderful things and they are going to do wonderful things. We have the organization. We have the inspiration. We have the knowledge. We know how to take care of people, if the Lord will soften our hearts and help us to give and keep giving. I pray the Lord, while the people are giving, that he will soften the hearts of bankers. As long as you can pay your interest and pay your taxes you are safe, but I want to tell you if you don't pay it they will foreclose to protect the bank and its depositors. As I was once told : "Business is business, believe it or not." I am thankful to the bottom of my heart. At my age, I would be as helpless and dependent as a child if it wasn't for the Church and its protecting care over me. 

God bless the Church. God bless his servants and help them to see and understand, and above all, help us, O God, to understand people, that we may be patient, that We may be long-suffering, that we may be gentle, that we may not listen to things that are told us, until they are proven to be true. God bless you. Amen. 

The congregation then arose and sang the first two verses of the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel." 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Temple Block 

Mission 

The lovely lessons that have been given to us at this session of our conference will find lodgment in our hearts. Elder Talmage's thought that we should cultivate a deeper reverence for God will find in us a ready response; and Elder Welling's message that adversity should inspire us with greater faith in divine providence is a fine truth. Elder Kimball says that we should seek the Spirit of God as we travel the road of life, that we may be able to meet the battles and to overcome weaknesses. What would we do, if we did not have the Lord to help us? 

Not long ago we had the pleasure of entertaining a Chinese priest of the religion of Buddha. He came to Salt Lake City with a letter of introduction from a noted scholar of the University of Tokyo, who had also visited our city. After a very delightful time at our home, I brought the distinguished guest to these grounds to see the buildings and to hear the great organ. As we stood before the west door of this old building, he asked if it were a place for worship. I replied that it is, and with that, he removed his hat and asked that his companion remove his. Said he in Chinese : "We are entering a holy temple of  God of the Christians." We entered the building, and I made no explanation of its history and use, but with my guests, kept silence, for I could see that the Chinese visitor and his companion wished to' say nothing. Something of the spirit of beauty and prayer came over us all, and I felt that we were worshiping. 

I feel that we do not reverence our sacred buildings enough; that in our meetings there is often too much noise and confusion. To this tabernacle and to all our tabernacles, we come to hear the word of God, for every building we erect and dedicate to God, is a building for holy worship. The old tabernacle of the ancient Jews had an altar which was sacred. From these emanated the Spirit and word of God. So from this altar goes forth the word of God to all who will listen. It is a^ house of prayer and every meeting house built by the Latter-day Saints is a house of prayer. 

In attending our Sunday evening sacrament meetings I sometimes wonder if we really carry with us from our homes the desire to lift our thoughts to God during an hour of service. A part of the service is the administering of the sacrament or the Lord's Supper. There we enter into a covenant with our Father in heaven. In our act of partaking of the sacrament is there the spirit of reverence and worship? And during the entire meeting, are our thoughts given in thanksgiving and praise for the blessings we have from God who loves us all? This is an important question for you and me to answer. 

I recently read a book entitled "The Story of St. Michele." At the close of one of the chapters are these words: "What we keep, we lose; what we give away, we ,keep forever." These words express a divine truth, for as we give to God in thought and deed, the gift comes back to us ten-fold, yea, one hundred fold. So it is in all life. 

We should cultivate reverence for the things of God, and remember that every human being is a child of God and is, therefore, naturally a divine spirit. We should speak to our fellow men with reverent thought and expression; we should carry into the houses of the Lord a reverence which comes from the true spirit of worship. A beautiful lesson of reverence is conveyed in the teachings of Jesus as found in twenty-fourth chapter of St. Luke. I -will read it: 

"And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures ? 

"And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, _ 

"Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. 

"And they were told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. 

"And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. 

"But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed they had seen a spirit. 

"And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts ? 

"Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself : handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have. 

"And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his feet. "And while the yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? 

"And they gave him a piece of broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. "And he took it, and did eat before them. 

"And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me. 

"Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures. 

"And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day : 

"And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. 

"And ye are witnesses of these things. 

"And, behold, I send the promise of my .Father upon you : but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high. 

"And he Jed them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. 

"And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven. 

"And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: "And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God." 

These words express the eternal truth that Christ our Lord has risen, and has sent you and me forth to proclaim the fact unto the world. He has endowed you and me with power from on high, and the expression of this will of God, this power of God, comes in holy reverence for God's name and house; for God's home and children. May we grow in this spirit and remember the words of Paul to Timothy : . 

"Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in /thee by the, putting on of my hands. 

"For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind." 

May we be blessed to this end and go forth with that joy and happiness that comes from within when we reverence and bless his holy name, Amen. 

ELDER CLARENCE H. TINGEY 

Recently returned from presiding over the Australian Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am almost overwhelmed in my attempt to respond to this call, and yet one could scarcely feel insecure and uncomfortable, surrounded by such a vast concourse of friends. 

As President Grant announced, Sister Tingey and I have just returned from the Australian mission. Those of you who have had missionary experience know that all of our audiences in the mission fields are not friendly nor sympathetic. I have enjoyed immensely my labors in the Australian mission, and delight now in representing the good people of that land in this conference session. 

iWe have some very splendid Saints throughout Australia, and they are working zealously and faithfully in the performance of their labors. I think in all of my association I have not met better men and better  than some of those who are holding positions of responsibility in the Church in that mission. 

I have enjoyed also, far beyond my power to express, the companionship I have had with the young men who have been sent to us as missionaries — beautiful specimens of manhood, deeply endowed with the spirit of their callings. They are accomplishing a wonderful work in proclaiming the message of peace in that land. 

Australia is a large country. Many people, when reference is made to it, look upon it as merely one of the islands of the sea; but quite contrary to that, it is a great continent. I was interested in President Sloan's reference yesterday, comparing the size of Alaska with that of the United States, wherein he stated that were Alaska placed over the United States, it would cover all of that portion west of Washington. If Australia were placed over the United States you would not be able to see the United States. We have one branch in our mission which is twenty-seven hundred and fifty miles from our mission headquarters. We have another branch one thousand miles north of our mission headquarters; and still another one thousand miles south. 

To keep a group of men laboring in unison, and to keep a body of Saints in harmony, extending over a vast country of that sort, requires considerable help on the part of the Lord, and I am grateful to acknowledge here before you that we have had that help, and the work in that land is growing and progressing rapidly. 

Unfortunately, Australia has experienced conditions which are not pleasant, financially and industrially, far greater than we are seeing here; and I hope we never see the conditions in the United States that we now have in that land. But the astonishing thing about it all, to me, is that while some of our people have been affected by it, they have stood unquestionably above the vast majority of the people of that land. Our tithes have fallen somewhat, but not in keeping with the exact reduction in the actual wage earnings of the people. There has been a definite reduction of more than fifteen per cent in the wages of the people. The tithing of our Saints has not fallen that much. I think it is a fulfilment of the promise given of the Lord that he would preserve his people, and I know that he is doing it in that land. 

I hope and pray that the conditions which are now facing us will not be too severe to bear, even as has been stated by former speakers in this conference. I am reminded of an old German proverb which says : "The hard is the good." We are facing hard times, but they are good times, my brethren and sisters — good times because they are making us think more soberly, more sincerely, more deeply, into the things of life. 

I was reading an article in the Literary Digest just yesterday in which this very thought is given, and it is declared that the people of the United States are making a greater demand for better literature, better types of entertainment, better ways of spending their means; and all of this, I think, speaks for progress and development. I believe frankly that this Church, with two or three years of meager privation, will become stronger as a body, and its people will become more faithful; their testimonies will increase more abundantly. We need this, I think, definitely. 

I want to bear witness before you, my brethren and sisters, that my stay in the mission field was the most enjoyable time of my life; that I return to you now with a more convincing knowledge that God lives than I have ever had before in my life. I want to bear testimony also, and I have reason to bear this witness because of a manifestation which was given me in the mission field, that our leader, President I leber J. Grant, is in very deed the one who is divinely and rightly selected to lead this people. I know it, and I can say no differently and be honorable before my God. I thank him for his leadership, and I hope and pray that the Lord will so sustain me that I will never turn a hand other than to give him aid and assistance. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and this Church, and particularly its leaders, with inspiration and revelation, that we may grow to be all that the Lord expected that we should be, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

"We believe the Bible to be the word of God, as far as it is translated correctly. We also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God." 

I think I may safely add that we also believe the book of Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price to be the word of God. The scriptures have been given to us by our Heavenly Father for our guidance, for our instruction. The great work of the Lord is one of educating his children, and these are the text books from which we are to learn the ways of the Lord. 

I think we may also say that salvation is rather synonymous to the term education, for we read in our scriptures, in the inspired words of the prophets, that we can gain salvation no faster than we obtain knowledge. It should be our purpose, then, to grow in the knowledge of God and in good works, day by day. 

The Bible and these other scriptures are the words of eternal life, concerning which it has been said that "Heaven and earth may pass away, but my word shall not pass away." All shall be fulfilled. For this purpose they are given unto us. A great many people, in investigating the scriptures and searching in them, do it rather for the purpose of wresting them, and putting upon them private interpretations, or endeavoring to disprove them. It ought to be remembered that the Bible and the books of the inspired word are not given to us for the purpose of teaching us astronomy, geology, chronology, or any of these particular sciences. But they do have a specific purpose of educating us in the things of God. Education is important to all mankind. No man can be saved in his ignorance. How grateful we  to be for that army of men and women who are engaged in our public school systems, our teachers, the teachers of our children, for our professors, for our scientists, for our inventors and discoverers; for these too are servants of God, engaged in the great task of educating mankind. 

If we are, however, to be educated in the higher branches of education—and by that I mean those particular ones that are of necessity excluded from our public schools on account of our differing opinions — if we are to be educated in those things particularly that pertain to the things of God, we need a particular kind of teachers. For this purpose we need apostles and prophets. We need inspired teachers — men who speak as they are moved by the Holy Ghost, for "no man knoweth the things of God but the Spirit of God." As well might a man try to teach chemistry or algebra without knowing them as to undertake the teaching of the things of God without the Spirit of God. It cannot be done in either case. 

The Apostle Peter tells us something of the importance of this truth. Says he : 

"We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts; 

"Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. 

"For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man : but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost." 

That is what we believe, and that which they spoke under that divine power and influence is the word of God. Such should be our teaching and such should be our teachers in these higher .branches of education. 

Education, then, is the purpose of the Almighty, and we are here in God's great school. Our education did not begin when we entered the school rooms, neither does it end when we emerge from these institutions of learning. And as we come forth from them we very appropriately celebrate the affair by commencement exercises, for it is another commencement for which we have been preparing ourselves. 

When I speak of education I mean that all-round education which contemplates the full development of all our faculties — physical, mental and spiritual — that we may indeed become like God. It is for this purpose he has sent us here. We are in attendance at God's Great School — a school of experience in bodies of flesh and bones — the earth life school with all of its potentialities for development and growth. And when we emerge from this great school and are called hence, let us hope th^t we will have so far advanced in our education and training that we may receive our diplomas, and then, that suitable commencement exercises may also be given; for this is indeed still another commencement as we enter into that still higher institution of learning. God's Great University, wherein we may co'ntinue to learn until we shall attain to that perfection which is contemplated in the words of the Savior: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." 

Is this secular education which we receive in our public schools an essential part of our education? Most assuredly. If we have any rational idea of God we must conceive that he is a great scholar, a scientist, an inventor, a discoverer, with full knowledge of the forces of the universe, a chemist, a mathematician. He who framed the universe is surely educated along all these lines. 

Fortunately for us we have been formed and fashioned in his image, not only in his physical image' but also in his divine attributes; and these attributes may be developed to their God-like proportions. But they may also be distorted and perverted until they become vices. The attributes that we have inherited are all good — there are no bad ones, but we may pervert, distort and counterfeit them until they appear as vices. The thing then to do is to cultivate the genuine and reject the counterfeits, for these are the devil's counterfeits and he has counterfeited every one of them. Let me illustrate for a few moments. 

Economy is a divine attribute. In the economy of God there is no waste. A God-like attribute, but men have distorted it until it does not resemble the divine attribute at all. And what is that distorted form, that devil's counterfeit? It is stinginess. God isn't stingy but he is economical. There are some people who think they are economists when in fact they are only stingy — too stingy to educate their children and send them to places of learning, places, particularly, where they can be taught the things of God. They are too stingy sometimes to send their sons and daughters out into the mission field, sometimes too stingy to properly clothe them and give them the proper nourishment, too stingy to pay their tithes and their offerings. That is not economy. Don't be stingy but be economical. 

Another thing is acquisitiveness, that quality whereby we are enabled to acquire property and surround ourselves with the comforts of life. What a splendid thing it is! Think of what the Lord has acquired! "The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof." But this too may be perverted, and it becomes, under the power of diabolical influences, one of the greatest vices. And what is that? It is greed, it is avarice, that soul-cankering vice; it is the love of money, that thing which lies at the very root of all evil, for which men will lie, will cheat, will misrepresent, will steal, will kill. Read the newspapers, and you will find abundant proof of this. It is the leading cause of strife, of bloodshed and all the horrors of war. Surely "the love of money is indeed the root of all evil." And yet, after all it is only a perversion, distortion or a counterfeit of the divine attribute — acquisitiveness, more, commonlv called frugality or thrift. 

Again, tear is a divine attribute. What, fear a divine attribute? Yes, indeed! Even God would fear to do evil. Burnt children very properly ^ fear the fire. "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom." Fear is that wholesome attribute which inspires the prayer, 

"Deliver us from all evil." But the devil has his counterfeit. And what is it ? It is cowardice. Don't be a coward. Be not afraid of the face of man but fear God and keep his commandments. 

This, however, is not the greatest of attributes. The greatest attribute of all is love. Love is the biggest thing in the world. It is a panacea for every ill, a cure for every malady. And love casteth out fear. Conceive if you can, the great love of God. "God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life." Think of that pure love of Christ. "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his. life for his friends." The nearest approach that we see to this divine love is, I think, the unselfish love of a mother for her children. The more exalted and glorious the attribute is, the more contemptible and vicious is its counterfeit. Lust is the devil's counterfeit, the very embodiment of everything that is vile. "And now abideth faith, hope and charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity." Charity which is the pure love of Christ. 

Let us now consider Faith. A sectarian minister — I don't think he was orthodox — once said to me: "Mr. Wells, I don't like that doctrine of yours that you call faith. Just think, to believe everything you hear. It is a positive weakness — a vice." Very true, so it is; but this is not faith; it's the devil's counterfeit — credulity. Where would this not lead us if we were to believe everything we hear? What does faith require ? What shall we believe ? The answer is : "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved." Believe in his Gospel which has within it the power of God unto salvation. Believe the truth. His Gospel is the truth. Don't believe liars or deceivers. Faith is that inherent divine attribute which is cultivated by doing his will and which enables us to discern the truth. The Savior tells us that his sheep hear his voice and follow after him but a stranger they will not follow. Then what is faith? The Apostle Paul tells us in his epistle to the Hebrews: "Now faith is the substance (or assurance) of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." What are the things we are hoping for ? Are we hoping for the sordid things of this world? .For the gratification of evil desires? Then do we hope in vain. But if our hope is that inspired by the teachings of our Lord, the hope of life beyond the grave, of a reunion with loved ones that have gone before, a life of joy and happiness in the realms above, eternal life in the presence of God, then are our hopes founded upon the truth. Faith then is the assurance that God gives us that our exalted hopes shall be realized. It is one of those divine attributes which we have inherited with all the others from our divine parents. It is a part of his image in which we were created and should therefore be cultivated but its counterfeit should be rejected. 

Many illustrations of the divine or genuine attributes which under evil influences are counterfeited and distorted into vices might be elaborated but I will merely cite a few for your reflection : Pride becomes vanity. Self esteem becomes egotism. Praise becomes flattery. Courage becomes foolhardiness. 

All good things are counterfeited. Our government issues currency as a legal tender, in various denominations— one, two, five, ten, twenty, fifty and hundred dollar bills and of still larger denomination — but some devil will make counterfeits and endeavor, sometimes successfully, to palm them off as genuine. The government also issues coins of gold and silver from its mints but some devil will take a baser metal and gild it over with gold and likewise palm it off for genuine. 

Some people say they are not religious; they are riot religiously inclined. They don't mean what they say, they are thinking of the devil's counterfeit. Don't despise the pure gold of religion because the devil makes a counterfeit of it in hypocrisy. Be religious but don't be a hypocrite. Our higher education consists then in developing the genuine, the divine attributes and casting out the false, the counterfeits. To do the former is an exercise in faith, the latter is one in repentance. That we might obtain this education our first parents partook of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. We are still partaking of that forbidden fruit notwithstanding the dire consequences of earth life, its trials, its tribulations, its sorrow, its suffering and finally death. "For in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die." But also with the full assurance of an unconditional redemption from that fall and an exaltation predicated upon our diligence in this preparatory school .during the period of our mortal existence. Blessed are we then if we have accepted the good and rejected the evil, or, in other words, developed the genuine and cast out the counterfeits. God help us to do so. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

The Lord made this wonderful promise to Isaiah : 

"So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth : it, shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it." (Isa. 55:11.) 

This foreshadows the wonderful missionary work that is being done by every agency in the Church. Truly the Gospel is the leaven that is "leavening the whole lump." There is room and a congenial atmosphere in this Church for spiritually-minded people, men and women with most lofty spiritual ideals; and the intellectually great may drink from the- fountain of truth until their souls are filled with knowledge, satisfying and soul-saving. 

Recently there appeared an editorial in the New York Times in which the brilliant and scholarly editor gave an eloquent summary of the remarkable achievements of science during the year 1930, and he  with these words : "The science that not only has such practical application, but that has faith in a continuing creation and that cooperates with 'a. Creator continually on the job.' " 

Is this an echo of that glorious truth the Lord revealed unto Nephi, of old : "For my work is not yet finished; neither shall it be until the end of man, neither from that time henceforth and forever " (2 Nephi 29:9.) And again : "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Pearl of Great Price, p. 4.) 

"The works of God continue, And worlds and lives abound; Improvement and progression Have one eternal round." 

A noted preacher, a few weeks ago was asked this question: "[What has science done to help religion?" He replied: "For example, millions of us .were taught to believe in God because he made the universe out of nothing in a single week. Now we are confronted by a large array of facts showing that this particular theory of creation is untenable." 

Nearly a hundred years ago the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, by the inspiration of God, that the world was made of materials that have existed eternally: In the Book of Abraham it is recorded that the Creator said : "We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell." (Pearl of Great Price, p. 37.) 

How marvelous is the truth that the Prophet Joseph announced to the world! 

"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that prophet and seer — Blessed to open the last dispensation; Kings shall extol him, and nations revere." 

A sailing vessel, long from port, so the story goes, when off the coast of South America, ran short of water, and the men were in sore straits. Suddenly a sail appeared on the horizon, and when the stranger drew near this message was signaled to her : "Water, we want water!" She answered by saying, "Cast down your bucket where you are]" Again the appeal was made, "Water, we want water!" And again the answer came, "Cast down your bucket where you are!" Once more the signal fluttered from the mast, "Water, we want water!" And for the third time the answer was waved back, "Cast down your bucket where you are!" This the incredulous captain finally did and it was drawn up filled with fresh water from the Amazon river, over the mouth of which they were then sailing. 

In this Church there is a stream of living water that flows from the throne of God. Why go to the ends of the earth in search for the truth when it is here for you to partake of? Why seek for faithdestroying mystery? Oh, won't you drink of this living stream? For if you will your souls shall never thirst again. 

I testify to the glorious truth of this heavenly Gospel. The successful work those fine missionaries are doing is the best evidence that God is with them continually. 

I bear you my testimony too that the leaders of this Church are men of God, raised up and consecrated by him for the marvelous work they are divinely commissioned to do. If we are great enough to be humble and diligent we will live to see this grand and inspiring work prosper more than it has ever done, and out of these hard times there will come a magnificent revival of spirituality, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Singing by the congregation, "Zion stands with hills surrounded." The closing prayer was offered by Elder Walter L. Adamson, President of the Blaine Stake. 

The Conference adjourned until 2 :00 p. m. 


