Afternoon 
02 10 1931

The second session of the Conference commenced promptly at 

2 o'clock p. m. 

President Heber J. Grant presided and announced that the congregation would sing the hymn, "Now let us rejoice in the day of Salvation." 

After the singing of this hymn, Elder Hyrum B. Calder, President of the Uintah Stake, offered the invocation. 

The congregation sang "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the "Presiding Bishopric 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, to be with you here this morning and to listen to the remarks that have (been made. As a member of the Presiding Bishopric much of my time during the last year has been taken by those who find themselves distressed. In an effort to discover the reason for such distress I find that a large majority have brought that condition upon themselves through their own actions. May I give you an example? 

One laboring man seeking employment was put to work at a nominal salary and he understood that he was to be employed only a few days and then would be replaced by someone else. After a week he received his check. He stated that he had purchased a radio, had paid five dollars down and agreed to pay a dollar a week, and would lose his radio unless he continued in employment. 

An aged brother, past the fruitful age of life, who some years ago owned clear a very choice farm, had sufficient means to spend his winters in California. He now finds himself without a farm, too old to.find employment, wondering what he is going to do. It seems that he was not satisfied with the land he had and felt that he should have more. To secure more it was necessary to mortgage that which hehad. Prices did inot continue as they were. His land did not produce crops as it had been producing and he soon found that he could not keep up his payments on principal and interest and taxes. He thus lost his inheritance to those who held the mortgage. 

On the other hand, one of our ibishops called at the office to ask advice. He had money in the bank and desired to know where he could put that money to make it safe. I inquired how this money had come to him ? His answer was : 

"When I came from the old country I heard your father deliver a sermon in the tabernacle in which he told the people to keep out of debt, to get a little piece of land, just enough upon which to make a, home, and then save. When enough money is accumulated to buy more, buy it, but do not go into debt. Live within your means. Do without some things you would like, with the hope that in time you will enjoy those things without being in bondage during the time of enjoyment. I remembered that and secured a small piece of ground, a neighbor loaned me his team and plow to do the first plowing. 

"I had a little means with which to build a modest little one-room house, and since that time I have added to my holdings." He said : "I have always produced enough on my farm to pay my tithing and my taxes and then have sufficient left to keep myself and my family in comfort, and I have never been in debt." 

A few weeks ago while attending a conference I was taken to the home of a bishop, a modest, comfortable little home. There were eight children in the family. He had a small farm of about thirty acres. i 

I asked about conditions in his ward. He answered : 

"We are not suffering, at least those of us who have not contracted debts. Some are suffering; those who have gone into debt for things they could do without are finding this to be a real hard time. I will not suffer. The Lord has been good to me. I have harvested my wheat crop — turned it into the mill and taken flour — I have enough flour put away to last me during the coming year. My potato crop is promising, and my other vegetables also. We will have sufficient food to carry us through the winter and I have enough money to pay my taxes and to fill my bin with coal sufficient to keep us warm." 

I have given you two sides of a great story which is at the present time a problem world-wide — what are we to do during these times of depression? A year after the close of the (World War I attended a convention in the East. One of the speakers in that convention among other sayings made the following statement : 

"Our experience with the army has taught us that today the people have no love for the old conventional religion. Instead, there are selfishness and pettiness. We must do away with the false social distinction and create a new church ideal for our present needs, one with social aims worth fighting for, not a mere selfish gospel of safety. Let them lift up the better faith of the Christian life. Let them practice as well as preach fraternity and draw together in one common cause." 

We may well recall that from the very beginning of the world  Lord has used two methods of calling forcibly to the attention of his children the fact that they owe qbedience to him and his laws. One is that of war, destruction by the sword; the other is that of famine through which he brings us face to face with his power. It seems that under the conditions of poverty we are more apt to turn to God than we are when facing the cannon or the sword. The last war developed the fact that men were turning from God. Mammon was made their God. They seemed to console themselves in the thought that man is not acutally created in the image of God, that he is a spirit, a IGod of love, who dwells in the heart of man, which it seems to me makes of man an infidel, for under such conditions one can create his own God and worship in his own manner. At the present time we find ourselves in a condition that has followed such periods from the very beginning, and the Lord has found it necessary to remind us, as he has others in ages 'past, that he will not be mocked and that it is our duty to turn again to him, to meet our obligations to him, and serve him in faith. To do this is not only a duty but a privilege with a promise of blessings. 

President Grant has again urged us to pay our tithing and fast offerings. How many of us are paying an honest tithe and fast offering? I shall not mention at this time the average amount paid, but suggest that when we go home we look over our tithing and fast offering record, study it carefully, and I think many will find that although they feel they are doing a wonderful work they are only paying a mere pittance. Many of us feel that we are faithfully serving the Lord, and many are. The ( Lord has said that we have many things to do and many things to repent of, and that we are not pardoned because we seek to counsel in our own way. 

As I travel through this Church I find many men of integrity and faith who are willing to give up all in the world they have in an effort to serve God. I am not belittling in the least their work, but there are many of us who should be following, who are leaving them to carry the load. We are not measuring up, and because of those who fail to keep the commandments of God many who are striving to serve him are required to pay the penalty with them. 

My brethren and sisters, let us think of these things seriously and in the spirit of faith and humbly. Time will not permit me to go into more detail. Let us study our own conditions and our own affairs, not forgetting our neighbors, plead with the Lord that he will help us overcome these conditions which are so distressing at this time. He has shown the way and given his promise. Have we faith in him ? Have we faith in his servants whom we sustain as our leaders ? If so, we shall not be long in finding the way out. 

May his blessings be upon us. May we have wisdom antl judgment and love to guide us in all that we do, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

I am very grateful to be present on /this occasion, and trust that I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord while I stand before you this afternoon. I enjoyed this morning's session very much, and testify that the Spirit of the Lord was present in goodly portion. 1 

I desire to express my appreciation and gratitude for the prayers of the Saints, in my behalf, and I acknowledge the hand of the Lord in his blessings, that I am able to |be present upon this occasion. 

PEOPLE DISTURBED OVER FINANCIAL CONDITIONS 

A great many of the Latter-day Saints have been somewhat disturbed in their feelings as to how they are going to take care of themselves financially, or how they are going to support their families. Among the chief visitors at my office seeking comfort are those having had employment and lost it. I have learned of their sympathy and their faith, which are pure and sacred, and their testimonies are of great value to them. 

I am grateful for the support that has come to me through answer to prayer, for I know that the Lord has blessed Us, both as a people and as individuals. > i 

FAITH IN THE CHURCH AND ITS LEADERS 

I am not discouraged or downhearted.;My faith has not wavered. I still have faith in the work, and know that it is true. I have faith in the leaders of the Church, and know that they are worthy servants, that they are humble and devoted to the work of the Lord, some of them going beyond their natural strength in order to perform their wonderful tasks or to fulfil their appointments. Our missionaries, too, have been wonderfully blessed and preserved They have been attended by the Spirit and power of the Lord. They have made many friends, and their teachings have brought conviction to many honest-hearted souls. 

VISITORS FROM MANY STATES [AND COUNTRIES 

During the summer months a great many tourists, both members and non-members, have visited my office, people who have come from the States, and in many cases those who have come from the countries of the world and from the islands of the sea. Automobiles and good roads make these conditions possible. These friendly visits from the people both far and near are doing much to spread and establish the truth. / 

Many who come to my office are filled with some degree of anxiety »over their conditions and their circumstances, and as a rule when people are out of work and do not know from where their needs are to be supplied, they are very humble, so that I have been instrumental, in a way, in trying to cheer and comfort those who are  their feelings and in their conditions and circumstances. 

I bear testimony that the Lord has been very gracious to the members of the Church and that he has further promises and blessings in store for them. 

DISCERNING BETWEEN GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS 

I should like also to add my testimony to the testimonies of my brethren who spoke this morning, concerning the spirits that are with us to guide, inspire, and protect us. Many people have said to me : "Brother Smith, how can you tell the difference between the promptings of the Lord, or his agencies, and the promptings of the adversary or his agencies ?" They say they are unable, in most respects, to discern the difference between those promptings. I have said : "After earnest and sincere prayer follow your first impression, and you will always go right." Then they say: "Well, how can I tell which is my first impression? They are usually so close to each other it is difficult to even tell which is the first impression." Then I say : "The impression made by the Spirit that is for our guide in safety in the Church is always from a good spirit, the Spirit that proclaims and announces the truth, and the truth doesn't need an alibi or crutches to support it." So if you go back and knock down all the crutches, all the alibis, all the excuses, the ifs and ands and buts that attempt to support it, that crowd and urge us — because, as a rule, I have discovered that the adversary's agencies, in their promptings, are usually of an urging, crowding, hurrying nature, while the Spirit of the Lord and his agencies are always of a quiet, sweet, peaceful and convincing character, — so that after we have done away with all the excuses, all the alibis that usually support our experiences, we can discover which is the right spirit. The spirit of conviction, of peace and of charity, which is the love of the Lord and his work, is not in a hurry, but has time to decide, time to weigh, time to consider; does not act in haste, but in calm deliberation. ,We learn then the truth, and we have a guide which is a companion to every member of the Church who is faithful and true, so that we are able, through the blessings of the Lord, to receive that comfort and consolation which will support us, even in time of distress. 

I bear my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord does give lis this guide and this support, if we (are faithful and true to him. 

BLESSINGS THROUGH DEVOTION 

I desire to extend to the Latter-day Saints in all the Church the blessings of the Lord, and as .his humble servant I pray that peace and comfort and consolation from the Lord may come to every member of the Church. I am sure in my feelings that the Lord will continue to bless and support us, but I think he is also giving us a splendid lesson for service, while he is giving a greater lesson to the world, who know him not. He is giving us a splendid opportunity to show our faith and our works. None of us has suffered in want. We have been supplied, comforted, and sustained. We have had many blessings of the land and of the things that are produced upon it. Our comfortable and happy homes and our conditions in life all proclaim the graciousness of the Lord to his people. W,e can retain these blessings through our devotion to the Lord. 

I pray that the Lord will continue to remember us, and especially those who have made sacred covenants in sacred places, and those who have been magnified with the power of the priesthood, which is a great honor to bear. It always brings a distressful feeling to me to see members of the Church careless and indifferent and slight their covenants and their privileges. I pray that the Lord will help us, that we may not slight our privileges, that we may be true to our covenants and hold them sacred always. I pray the Lord to bless our young people when they start out in life, that they may have strength and faith sufficient to retain their companionship and association, and be true and faithful to their responsibilities in the Church. 

I desire to bless you all, and I pray the favors of the Lord upon you, upon the officers and members of the Church, the missionaries, and all who are laboring for the truth; and I declare these testimonies and pray God's blessings upon you all in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I feel very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be in attendance at this conference and I appreciate the opportunity of meeting and visiting with the Saints of God at this time. 

Yesterday, when President Grant was speaking, the thought came to my mind, What does it profit a person to pray to our Heavenly Father for guidance and for spiritual strength and wisdom if at the same time that person does not reverence God's authority here in the earth? It seems to me that men could not help but recognize that it would be futile to ask God for favors and at the same time disregard the council of the Authority of the Lord Jesus Christ here in the earth. The Authorities of this Church are our Eternal Father's representatives here in the earth and if men will not abide by their instructions, how can they expect to receive instruction from God, our Father; and, yet, we do find some people who will not recognize the council of the Lord's Authority here in the earth, but, they feel that they can go over the heads of the Authority of God and get what they want direct from the Father. 

I have never found in my life where the Lord ever allowed an angel even to overstep God's Authority in the earth. He did not do it himself while he sojourned in the earth and he most certainly has not changed for he is the same yesterday, today and forever. He changes not, neither does he change his principles for they are eternal truths. 

These principles have ibeen revealed to us anew in this day for our guidance and for our salvation. 

I bring you good tidings from your sons and daughters who are laboring in the mission field of the Central States. A fine lot of young men and women, and they are laboring earnestly, and zealously and in a creditable way for the building up of the (Church and Kingdom of God in the earth. There seems never to have been a time when there was a better opportunity to do missionary work than at the present time. People are paying more attention to the calls made^by missionaries and they are received ibetter. People have more time, and I have concluded it is partly because of the unemployment, a situation that exists almost everywhere at the present time. When people are busy and when their time is employed in the making of a living, and in the acquiring of money they do not have time to listen to the Gospel plan for their soul's salvation, but now, while many of them are not employed they do have time and they are more open to conviction and give better entertainment than they usually do. As a result, more converts are obtained than we ordinarily average in our mission. Environment has much to do with the progress of men generally, and where men are surrounded by Jbusiness activities they are, of course, influenced by that activity, but when they are not surrounded - by business engagements and have time to devote, then they are more inclined to listen, and especially is this true when times of depression exist such as we are now witnessing. 

It is the natural intent of most men and women to worship God, and they are generally found to be associated with different organizations or religious sects. Men and women come into this world with a desire to reverence God and that desire continues with them unless they destroy their possibilities through Jiving wickedly and through lack of proper respect for our Father in heaven. 

I sincerely hope and pray that the spirit of this conference may continue to abide with us as a people. We have here representative men and women from all over the Church who have come here to get instructions and advice and counsel. We ought to he a good people. We ought to be a better people. ( We ought to grow better, and I believe that we are growing better and that we do take advantage, to a great extent, of the opportunities these conferences offer us, as we are able to listen to the advice and counsel of our leaders, who are inspired men of God and men who are appointed to represent the work of God in the earth. President Grant, who stands at the head of this organization, is the representative of God in the earth, and those who are associated with him are also appointed to act under his direction. Men who attempt to reach God and ignore his Authority in the earth are making a mistake. 

May the Lord continue to enlighten and bless us with his Spirit, and may we yield obedience to the impressions of that Spirit, I humbly pray. ELDER MILES L. JONES 

President of the East Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice exceedingly in the opportunity of meeting with you upon this occasion. While I would much rather have remained on my seat and listened to others, yet I realize that when we are called upon we should respond and give utterance to such words as may be dictated to us by the Spirit of the Lord. 

I am happy in the work in which I am engaged, the missionary work in the East Central States. It is opening up wonderfully. During the past summer the missionaries have gone out into the country districts, especially in the county seats, and there on the county courthouse grounds and on the streets have held meetings and presented the Gospel teachings to those people. We have been instrumental in making many friends. In fact, it seems that there is scarcely any opposition wherever we go, and the foundation is being laid so that in time to come a harvest may be reaped by those who may follow after the ones who have been there this season. 

It may be well for me to refer to one particular occasion. Many of you recall that years ago the Saints living upon what is known as Harker's Island, in North Carolina, ibuilt a chapel, which, about the time that it was completed, was burned down iby their enemies. A few of our Saints have been faithful there up to the present time, and occasionally the Elders have visited that locality and encouraged those few people. Some time ago, when those who were engaged in delivering Book of Mormon lectures and exhibiting pictures in connection therewith visited the island, a young Elder, J. Hopkins Smith, followed these lectures with a Gospel discourse, taking the entire evening, giving a good outline of Mormonism and showing just what we believe. They^ had wonderful success in these meetings. Before these brethren arrived upon the island one of the, leading ministers there tried by every possible means to prevent them from exhibiting these views and giving these lectures, but there was sufficient influence brought to bear that they were permitted to go ahead with their meetings. After they had completed them this divine vilified them through the press, and the Elders answered him. The editor was kind enough to say that it was an open forum and that they were entitled to the same space as was the reverend gentleman. So they answered his accusations. If I recall aright two articles were answered. 

Recently I have had this young Elder visit various parts of the mission. He has been in the field now 28 months, and he desires to remain until after the conference that we are holding at Roanoke in October. He is now going from one district to another, and he desired very much, in connection with the president of that district, to visit this island again. They announced ahead of time that they would be there and hold four meetings. At the first meeting there were about five hundred people in attendance, and this same reverend gentleman attended the services. He brought with him a nice easy chair, seated  directly in front of the stand, and was there at every session. At the closing session there were more than seven hundred people in attendance. After the services had closed this gentleman came up, shook hands with the Elders, and said : "God bless you, gentlemen. You have the truth." 

That shows the change in sentiment in that locality, and we find the same condition, with very few exceptions, in practically every place that we go. I have met with a number of the prominent men in the city of -Louisville and other places, and have had the privilege of conversing upon the principles of the Gospel with them. It is really pleasing to me to hear of their expressions, even in public, after our conversations. So I can say that the foundation is being laid for a wonderful growth in the Church in the states in which I have the privilege of laboring at the present time. 

I rejoice in having the privilege of going into the world, even again, and assisting in this great latter-day work. I am thankful to my Heavenly Father for the blessing that I enjoy in the way of health. I have never enjoyed better health in my life than I have had while in that locality, and I am happy to say also that Sister Jones is enjoying good health and enjoying the work along with me. Your sons and your daughters are laboring energetically and earnestly in spreading this work. I am glad to meet those who have been released and who have returned home. I have met a number today, and without a single exception I have heard them say that they would be glad to come back into the field again and take up the work just where they left it off. That is the proper spirit for them to maintain, and I am happy to find them feeling "that way. 

I rejoice in this work. I know as I know that I live that it is the work of the Lord, that the Gospel has been restored to the earth in this day and age of the world. 

Just a week ago last Monday a prominent minister came into my office, and we had a nice conversation which lasted for an hour or so. He said : "I can't understand how it is that you people have prospered and grown in spite of the opposition you have had to contend with from the very organization of your church." It didn't take very long to explain that, and I went on a little further and told him that when the Gospel was upon the earth, Christ said unto Peter : "I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." When 'Peter and his associates were killed, that same power was taken from the earth. And when the Gospel was restored in these last days who should come but Peter, James and John to restore that power. I want to say, as I said to that reverend gentleman and bore testimony to him, that Peter, James and John have come to the earth and restored the Melchizedek priesthood. This minister turned to me and he said : "Do you believe that?" I said : "No, I don't believe it; I know, it." When Jesus said: "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself," they were no idle words, and they apply today. 

I want to say to you, that a testimony of the Gospel is one of the greatest hlessings that one can enjoy today. God bless you, my brethren and my sisters. Encourage your sons and your daughters that are in the mission field. Encourage others to come out and assist in this great latter-day work, and blessings will come to you. I pray that God will continue to bless you with every needful blessing, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I am filled with gratitude for the privilege of being here today in this conference assembly. This conference has given me encouragement, and we all need encouragement sometimes. Above all, I am filled with thankfulness to my Heavenly Father for the testimony which I enjoy and the knowledge of the Gospel that has come to me. 

I desire to testify that I know this work is the work of the Lord, it is the plan of salvation, and by living its precepts we can return to our Father in heaven. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, who came in this last dispensation for the purpose of establishing the Gospel, and this is another reason that my heart is filled with thankfulness. 

This morning I desire to refer to an incident in the life of the Master which has impressed me very much. On the Tuesday before his crucifixion Christ was in the temple. Here certain Pharisees questioned him on doctrine, hoping to catch him in his words, and make him an offender of the law. Mark tells us that during this day a scribe came to him and perceiving! that Jesus answered them well, he asked him: "Which is the first commandment of all?" Jesus answered him in this manner : 

"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength : this is the first commandment. 

"And the second is like, namely this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. 

"And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth : for there is one God; and there is none other but he : 

"And to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbor as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. 

"And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God." 

The present business and financial depression has brought with it many problems that were unthought of even a few years ago. Many Latter-day Saints who have been proud of the fact that they have always been givers to the Church through its various organizations are now in poverty themselves, and the outlook for the immediate future  far from being bright. At this time of the year, when families need fuel, food, clothing, etc., the bishoprics of this Church are faced with a serious problem. They need more funds. The Church is expending large sums for benevolent and charitable purposes, and the tithes of the Church are being heavily drawn on, in response to urgent calls from members of wards who are unemployed. The bishops need more funds, more fast offerings, more donations from the members of the wards, as well as the splendid assistance of the Relief Societies. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith, finding similar conditions prevailing in Kirtland, appointed the first Thursday of each month as a day of fasting and prayer. The Saints were notified to come to the meetings and bring with them foodstuffs of all kinds which were distributed to the poor. After that time it became a fixed routine of the Church to hold the fast-day meeting on the first Thursday of each month, for the purpose of bearing testimony and putting in practice the teachings of the Master concerning our fellow men, by donating funds for the poor to be distributed by the bishops. Later, the day was changed to the first Sunday of each month. 

There is need in this Church for a revival of the old fast-day habit, that is, the habit of fasting and prayer on the first Sunday of each month. On this day we should all attend our meetings and bring our offerings for the poor, which should be equivalent to the value of two meals for each member of the family. This will provide a steady fund for the Bishops to use for the support of the worthy poor. We have in the Church certain proved methods of gathering and disbursing the fast offerings, without expense, and the plan has worked well since the institution of fast-day. 

President Brigham Young requested that not only should fathers and mothers come to fast meeting, but their children also. Attendance at fast meeting will develop in our children the habit of giving, a habit which is slowly drifting away from us. We can show no better appreciation to our Master than by getting back to the habit of giving something every fast-day, in order that the Lord's storehouse may be properly provided. , J 

Every bishop should see that no member of his ward suffers because of the lack of the necessities of life. He should call to his aid the Relief Society of his ward and they, at his request, should investigate cases of want and suffering and recommend to the bishop what, in their judgment, would be the proper course to pursue in each individual case or family. 

Those Latter-day Saints who have previously been in the habit of giving and who are now unemployed and nearing poverty, should have the special consideration of the bishops in these trying times. If there is anyone who should have special consideration, it is the faithful tithe-payer and his family who are now without employment and in need of assistance. 

Certainly, the meals for an ordinary person are worth 10c each. If only the cost of one meal were saved and the five hundred thousand members of this Church paid 10c per person on fast day, there would be $50,000.00 per month available, which is ample to provide adequately' for the worthy poor among the Latter-day Saints. Those who are able to pay more should follow the old rule, that is, the equivalent of the cost of two meals per person. 

Benevolence is founded on love for our fellow men. It is more far-reaching than charity. Is it not inconsistent for us Latter-day Saints to say that we love God whom we have not seen, and love not our brother whom we have seen? It is one of the outstanding characteristics of our Church to take care of our worthy poor, and our part in this benevolent duty should not be neglected. All help should be given in the spirit of kindness and love for our fellow men. 

In many wards of the Church the deacons are sent to the homes of the Saints with an envelope containing a fast offering card. The family places in the envelope the amount they desire to pay for the support of the worthy poor and then bring the envelope to fast meeting. Those who do not attend this meeting are visited by the deacons the same day and given an opportunity to contribute. Fast offerings are also accepted by the bishop at the meeting house on fast-day. 

A Latter-day Saint who observes the fast-day in its spirit and meaning will add to his humility, will develop in his soul a deep heartfelt sympathy and love for his fellow men; he will increase his spirituality and his brotherly kindness, and he will be kept in tune with this great latter-day work. If we would win eternal life we cannot afford to neglect our duty to our fellow men. 

May we, as brothers and sisters in this Church, broaden our sympathies and during these times of stress be more diligent, attend our fast meetings, get the spirit of the occasion, the spirit of testimony. May we donate more liberally for the poor, so that there will be enough in the Lord's storehouse, or in the possession of the bishops, to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and care for the widow and the orphan, so that cries of the distressed shall not ascend unto heaven unanswered. 

Let us demonstrate to the Lord by our works that we are keeping the two great commandments, to love him and to love our neighbor. May his blessings attend us, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Brethren and sisters, since I have been occupying the position of Commissioner of Education in the Church, and at these conferences, sitting on the back row of these front seats, I have learned that there are many anxious seats up this way. Particularly did I observe this last April when not until the last session were most of the mission presidents called up, Sunday afternoon. They sat through the preceding sessions, not knowing when they would be called. This morning one member of the Council of Twelve said : "Brother Merrill, you need  be worried. You will not be called until Sunday afternoon, after your name has been presented for the sustaining vote of the conference." 

A POSITION OF HIGH HONOR 

May I say, brethren and sisters, that a very high honor has come to me in the nomination I have received at the hands of the Presidency and the Council of the Twelve., to be a member of the Council of the Twelve. I regard this as the highest honor that can come to any man. Members of this ,Council are called by divine inspiration to a position in the Church that requires them to be special witnesses of our Lord Jesus Christ, the highest calling that any of us can receive. But, of course, before I can be ordained I must receive your sustaining vote. I say in all humility this is a wonderful honor. I am overwhelmed with it. I cannot fulfil the expectations of the position without hard work, without fervent prayer, the sustaining confidence and vote of the membership of the Church, and the companionship of the Holy Spirit. 

A KEY TO SUCCESS 

My experience has taught me from my boyhood, that service in this Church cannot be acceptably rendered except with the help of the Spirit of the Lord, and that this Spirit is given only to the worthy. All my life I have been taught that the Lord helps him who helps himself. Inasmuch as he has given us intelligence he expects us, when any duty is assigned us, to do the very best we can to discharge that duty, seeking his help in the meantime. I believe that my experience teaches me also that that help may not be received, no matter how fervent the prayer, unless the prayer is worthily made. That is to say, I must work if I am going to succeed. I must pray, if I am going to succeed. All my life I have been taught, and I have experienced the fact, that the Lord does answer the prayer of the worthy. Whenever I have prayed worthily I have never been disappointed. So I believe in prayer. I know that prayer is a source of strength and of help. I have proved this many, many times. 

MEN OF DEVOTION 

May I say that this honor that has come to me is very great, because the nomination that I have received expresses a confidence in me of what I have come to regard as the finest body of men that live. My work the last three or four years has brought me more or less into intimate contact with the General Authorities of the Church. I have learned that they are not only capable men, but they are very much devoted to their work; that they are very anxious that this work shall go forward as the Lord has intended it should go forward. So their lives and their energies are wholly devoted to it. They are also men of deep sympathies and great love for their fellowmen. 

I have often remarked that in the position I have been occupying since coming to the Church Office Building, nearly four years ago, that I have experienced the greatest joys of my life, because I have been contacting with and laboring with people who look at the work from one point of view only, the point o£ view of what is best for the whole, what is best for the Church. I have not seen a single instance where selfishness or selfish interest could be observed at all. These brethren, the General Authorities of the Church, are wholly devoted to your interests, to the saving of the souls of men. I love them. I have come to regard them as God's men. So I feel wholly incapable, my brethren and sisters, of being one of their number, because of my unworthiness and because of my inability. But I have been honored with the nomination. If I am sustained in the position I shall try, as hard as I know how to try, to fulfil its obligations. I have no other interests. All my time will be devoted to the cause of this Church, forwarding its interests and those of the people as best I can. 

HONORED OF GOD 

I spoke of being nominated by the First Presidency and the Council of Twelve. I would not have you think for a moment, my brethren and sisters, that this is all there js to jit. If this were an honor given by men only I would not feel so much overwhelmed by it But it is an honor that comes from God. These brethren are only his agents, his instruments in the call that has come to me. This is a fact that no member of the Church will question who has received a testimony of the divinity bf this work. These men are jGod's servants. They are his prophets and they enjoy the spirit of their calling. I have had so many evidences and so many testimonies of it that I know it to be a fact. And in humility and all sincerity I testify to you that it is a truth. 

THE YOUNG PEOPLE 

For several years there has been growing in me a feeling that we ought to be more and more diligent in our work, particularly with our young people. I have been laboring for many years with young people, many of whom have been more or less critical, many of whom have grown indifferent to the Church; some of whom have left the Church. I have felt that if there is anything possible that I can do, that we can do for them, to save them, it ought to be done, because in their veins flows the blood of Israel. But if they are to be saved they must save themselves, through our help and through the guidance that we can give them. No one can save another. He must save himself. 

TESTIMONY THROUGH SERVICE 

Now then, we have been taught, as Brother Wells has said, that this is the work of the Lord, and the strength of the Church lies in the fact that hundreds and thousands upon thousands of members of the Church know that it is the work of the Lord. How do they know it ? Not perhaps by some wonderful manifestation, some great miracle. They know it because the Spirit of the Lord has come into their souls, as a result of their worthiness and their service. If we do the will of 

God we shall know of the doctrine. I testify, my brethren and sisters, that I know that this statement is true, and you know it is true, and you have gotten that knowledge because of the service that you have rendered. I care not in -what position in the Church service may be rendered. Service in any position, no matter how humble, if faithfully rendered, brings us a testimony, the witness of the Spirit that this great work is divine. 

I was in a meetng last Sunday morning with a group that was called to do block teaching in the ward where I live, and I recalled that among my earliest experiences in the Church was that of a block teacher. When a boy of seventeen, I recall that when I went out with my older brother (not a brother by blood, but a brother in the Church) and tried to do my duty, I returned home feeling an uplift that was truly remarkable in the joy and satisfaction that it brought to me. I don't know, my brethren and sisters, that I have ever rendered any service in the Church that I enjoyed more, in which I experienced more joy and satisfaction, than I did in trying to do my duty as a block teacher in the Church. 

So it is all the way along the line. It makes no difference, my brethren and sisters, whether we are called to this stand, or whether we are serving in the humblest position in the Church. If we do our duty, if we serve the Lord and keep his commandments, as we have the privilege and the opportunity of doing, we shall for ourselves know that we are engaged in the work of the Lord. It is that satisfaction that gives strength to the Church and that makes us a body of men and women that does not have to rely for direction only upon the General Authorities, because if we enjoy the companionship of the Spirit we are directed in our own duties, labors and responsibilities. 

KEEP YOUNG PEOPLE IN SCHOOL 

Now, my brethren -and sisters, may I say that we are living in more or less distressing times. There is a lot of unemployment. I have been engaged primarily in the work with the young people. We are very much concerned with this condition of idleness, particularly with the young, and so we feel that if we can keep these young people employed in school during these times of unemployment, we shall be rendering a splendid service to them. So I feel to encourage you parents, who are straining every nerve and calling upon every resource that you can command to keep your boys and girls in school, to continue doing it, for their good. Perhaps enough on that particular point. 

BY KEEPING PHYSICALLY FIT 

It was said this morning that we are trying to keep the Word of Wisdom. We have a wonderful course of study this year in the adult department of the Mutual Improvement Association, because it is the study of the Word of Wisdom, a study of one of the requirements of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

To render service we must keep ourselves physically fit. It is incumbent, therefore, upon every member of the Church who would serve, to try to keep physically as well as mentally, morally and spiritually fit, and that can be done only by right living. God has endowed us with intelligence. Let us use it, that we «may know better how to live, that we may know better how to serve. 

SECURELY ANCHORED 

Now, brethren and sisters, I have talked long enough. May I say that I do hope that, I can function at least in some degree to your satisfaction, but may T repeat that if I do, I know it will be because I make myself worthy of the sustaining power and help of God. I want to testify to you in all sincerity that I know that this is the work of God. Elder McKay spoke this morning of being anchored in the faith, in the Church. I have felt securely anchored since I was a boy of nineteen years. There came to me at that time, as a result of fervent prayer, of many prayers uttered through a number of long years, a wonderful manifestation that I have believed has been a savior to me. T didn't know it at the time, but within three months I was to leave home to go to school, and during the succeeding ten years of my life I was engaged in college and university work. I felt that the manifestation I received at that time was to me an absolute anchor. I cared nothing what the teachings of men were, if opposed to the doctrines of the Church, for I knew, and have known from that time to this, that the Lord God lives; that he does answer prayer; that he will sustain those who are worthy of being sustained. And this sustenance comes, of course, as a result of right living and of sincere service in his cause. 

May the Lord help us to be true to our covenants. May the Lord help us to keep our eyes upon these leaders — men of God, I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, whose whole hearts are given to the fulfilment completely of the obligations that the Lord God has placed upon their shoulders in the call that he has made of them. May the Lord help us to honor our callings and our positions, whatever they may be in the Church, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

I am pleased to say that in the Eastern States mission our missionaries are enjoying exceptionally good health and that the work is progressing, I believe favorably, and I know that prejudice is being removed and that we are making many friends. 

In addition to the usual missionary activities we have endeavored to use modern methods of reaching the public, with marked, if not remarkable, success. Many addresses have been broadcast and hundreds more would have been delivered if we only had more fairly good singers. To my mind, one of the marvelous things that has occurred in this work is the fact that all of the 329 sermons broadcast over the radio in our mission in less than eighteen months were written  read by very young and inexperienced boys and girls. Every one of them was written by your sons and daughters, with comparatively little editing, to the enlightenment and enjoyment of many thousands of people. 

Our missionary system is commanding the attention and admiration of the world. It is a wonderful means of educating your children, developing their initiative, broadening their understanding, and giving them a better conception of their possibilities. It is sad to hear some of our missionaries say that they have been praying and praying that they might be permitted to complete their missions, but finally are compelled to return home for the want of money. It is a sad mistake for a ward or a stake or quorum or wealthy members of the ward to permit such missionaries to prematurely end their missions, and especially when they have beccfme somewhat efficient and are so anxious to remain. They are doing a glorious work for themselves as well as others. 

We are also exhibiting the fruits as well as principles of the Gospel in fairs and expositions, and these young inexperienced missionaries are decorating and equipping attractive booths from which they distribute in a day thousands of tracts to people whom they could not otherwise reach. We have been successful in securing booths surrounded with prominent exhibitors, and thus have become the neighbors of all kinds of business men who are exhibiting their wares. Their frequent contact with our missionaries invariably makes them friendly. Our booths are so unusual, and with our fine young men and women who radiate the spirit of the Gospel, they arouse unusual interest and command respectful consideration. We thereby reach a very different class of people from those who ordinarily receive them in tracting and street meetings. People in the East, outside of the country, largely live in apartment houses and hotels where missionaries cannot enter, and in better residences they cannot get past the butler or maid. 

Our tracts are distributed free like other advertising matter, and .visitors come and carry them away without solicitation. Most of the same people would close their doors to our solicitations. 

' Another innovation is carried on through our newly established publicity department, through which we make personal contacts with newspaper men and thereby secure a greatly enlarged publicity of what we are doing and believe, and the same is presented to readers in a fair and respectful way. , This makes Mormonism more acceptable and respected. 

In this activity, as well as in the radio and exposition work, we have no one with any previous experience or training for the work. Remarkable as it is, those upon whom the responsibility is placed, however seemingly inadequately equipped, are undaunted and go at the work in faith with a will, relying on the Lord rather than their own ability, with the result that they are getting hundreds of notices and friendly articles published which would otherwise not have appeared in the papers. 

But, alas, we have only two-thirds of the missionaries that we formerly had. This is even cutting down invaluable opportunities .on the radio, as the loss includes some of our best singers. We have no professionals. W|e only ask for young people who have fairly good voices, whether they have been trained or not. Their voices are more attractive there than here at home. 

This is a wonderful work. I enjoy it. It is a great pleasure, and nothing have I enjoyed more than the uplifting spiritual influence which accompanies it, to discover more thoroughly and fully the depths of the truth and philosophy of the Gospel, and to make comparisons of it with the religious system's of the world. 

Bishop Wells referred to a most timely scripture today— the declaration of the Savior that the great commandment in the law was — 

"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

"This is the first and great commandment. 

"And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.'* I call especial attention to the next striking statement of the Savior : "On these two commandments hang all the law find the prophets." 

The great trouble with the social, industrial, and other systems of today is that they are not based upon , either of those great commandments. If they were there would be a very different brotherhood of man existing, which must ultimately come, as no other system can be permanent. 

As I recently traveled through the Ohio and Mississippi valleys I saw miles of continuous fields with rich harvests of wheat in shocks, and corn standing as far as the eye could see; and yet there is unparalleled poverty stalking in the land. Half of the gold of the world is in this nation; wealth unbounded; granaries bulging, overflowing their capacity; over-production abounding; legislation of states to prevent the production of the prime necessities of life because of super-abundance, — and yet unparalleled poverty on every side. In the Latin-American republics there are revolutions; dictators and revolutions in Europe; dynasties falling; ungodly communism in Russia; threatened socialistic revolutions in Germany and unheard of mutiny in the pride and protection of the British Isles — her navy. Nothing, practically, but the dole stands between peace and revolution in old England, that land of liberty and law observance. In our own country, in the great cities, it is not an uncommon sight to see armored cars equipped with machine 'guns to protect the transportation of wealth — securities and moneys — through the thickly populated streets of the city, and from one bank to another. Revolution is threatening this very nation because of the unsatisfied demand of the many for social justice, or as we would put it, the lack of brotherly love that the Savior  when he said to the wealthy young man, "Give unto the poor that which thou hast." Under his inspiration his followers established a Christian socialistic system in which there were no poor and no rich but all things were held in common. 

That same system was revealed anew and an attempt made to establish it by the great prophet of this age, Joseph Smith. Like the former day saints they were apparently unable to live it. Then a stepping stone to it was established, the ancient law of tithing. My missionary experience has revealed to me that which I never fully appreciated before, namely; that the man who pays tithing is a Latterday Saint. They say there are exceptions to all rules, but I haven't found an exception to this one yet. I have discovered that when one is a partial tithe payer he is only partially a Latter-day Saint, and when he doesn't pay any tithing at all he is not a Latter-day Saint, because his faith is dead — it being without works. He doesn't understand the philosophy of the Gospel, or if he does he is too selfish to yield obedience to that great beneficent law. The Lord would have us give, yes, and give in abundance, and it is only thereby that we are going to preserve the peace of the world and this most powerful of all nations. The level of intelligence of man is such that the extremes of poverty and wealth cannot exist beside each other. The cry of the father and husband for work in order that he may have food for his family cannot continue long unanswered. There is nothing that brings greater satisfaction than being of service to others. The Christianity of today must meet the challenge of the many who are weak for a greater brotherhood. 

Selfish and weak as we are I nevertheless maintain that we are partially meeting that challenge and developing in a notable way real evidence of brotherly love through our willingness to render unselfish service in going on missions where we give years of our time, and great sums of money are spent without earthly compensation. 

Again, our charity system is notable and unparalleled, for by it a hundred per cent of that which is contributed to charity goes to the object of charity through the unselfish and unpaid-for services of our ward teachers and bishops and our splendid woman's Relief Society. These are not temporary or spasmodic efforts; they have continued without interruption for a hundred years, and the world is coming to give us credit for our response to the needs of the poor. 

Another clearly unselfish service is the vicarious work for the dead — doing something for those who can make no earthly return. The breadth and depth of that saving work is hardly fathomable. It is an unselfish earthly service, nobly conceived and unselfishly performed. 

What other people are attempting such altruistic brotherly love effort? 

Can we not point with pride to this evidence of being imbued with the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and are we not an example in these respects at least, of making progress in the accomplishment of the purposes of the Lord; to which might appropriately be added the payment of tithing, which I think is one of the surest tests of sincerity and honesty. 

Another unique conception and practice is characteristic of Latterday Saints, namely, the Fast Day donation, or contribution of the value of the morning and noonday meal on the first Sunday of each month for the relief of the poor. Greater stress could be appropriately placed upon its observance, as fasting is good for the body, as is also the giving, for the soul. 

If that practice, common to us for a hundred years, were followed by all in the United States at 25c per meal or 50c per month for each individual, it would eliminate the cry for bread. Fifty cents a month from a hundred million would be fifty million per month or six hundred million per year, which if conserved in prosperous years, for years of scarcity, would remove the possibility of extreme poverty. 

We have had ever since the days of the children of Israel in Egypt years of plenty and years of scarcity, and they will probably continue to come, and suffering will exist where there might be plenty, until that system of which I speak is established in the earth, and which I believe is nearer at hand than we realize. 

Out of this great financial distress there should come some great good. Nothing could be better than a greater brotherhood, a better comprehension of the responsibilities and duties of the strong to the weak. We are our brother's keeper, and those who are strong and able and more richly endowed with the ability to do good and to accomplish the most in this life, whether physically, industrially, socially or religiously, must help those who are weak. That is the greatest problem that now confronts the world. 

May the Lord help us to so live that we can enjoy his Spirit. I never was happier, I never enjoyed myself so much when striving only for selfish interests as I do now in working for the great cause of human redemption. His Spirit has been with me in this great and glorious work. It has enabled me to solve problems that I apparently could not see through and which looked dark indeed. I have gone to bed at night puzzled, but with a prayer for light and help, and have awakened in the morning with an understanding" as clear as the noonday sun. 

The Lord is blessing this work and those who give to its service their whole hearts, souls and minds. May he help us to so live that we may enjoy the companionship of his Spirit at all times, and have that joy and peace which accompanies it, and which I have experienced during the last two years and nine months of my life, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES E. ROWAN, JR. 

President of the Texas Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in this opportunity that I have of being here at this wonderful conference. Another evidence, to my , that God is still guiding his people, is the nomination of Dr. Merrill to become one of the apostles of our Church. 

I am happy to bring greetings to you people from the saints and missionaries in the Texas mission, and I am happy to say to you, brethren and sisters, that with but one exception all of our missionaries are enjoying health and strength, and so far as I know, every missionary in that mission is enjoying the Spirit of the Lord and enjoying the missionary work. I have had an opportunity of visiting^ with every one of them within the last sixty days, and I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, as I hear them bear their solemn testimonies to the people, and hear them expound the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is an evidence to me that there is still power in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I am happy to say to you that we are making many friends among those who have prestige and influence. I find that it is an advertisement to announce to the people of Texas and Louisiana that you are a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I am indeed grateful to my Heavenly Father for his many blessings. If I should be called upon to spend all the days of my life in the mission field, or in his service, I would not be able to repay him for his kindness to me. I am indeed grateful to him, brethren and sisters, for the fact that I was called on a mission twenty-eight years ago; that I had the pleasure of learning the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in the Southern States, under President Ben E. Rich; that I had an opportunity to travel without purse or scrip, and that I had many things to be thankful for. I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for the testimony that I received at that time, and as I go forward now as a missionary in the great state of Texas, I find there is a different feeling, a different attitude among the people generally, and that very largely because we are becoming better understood. 

May I read to you just a moment from the scripture: 

"A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than gold and silver. 

"The rich and the poor meet together. The Lord is maker of them all. By humility and the fear of the Lord are riches and honor and life." 

I have yet one individual to meet, who has been out in this country as a tourist and met our people, that has not been friendly, because they have discovered that our people, in the main, are honest; and the good name that you are establishing is making it possible for us to get into the homes of the people in the mission field. 

So I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this great calling, and as I study the Book of Mormon, as I read the revelations contained in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, and as I read the Pearl of Grea.t Price, my testimony becomes stronger, and I feel that there is abundant evidence to prove that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God. I am happy to say to you, brethren and sisters, that your boys and girls are well and happy; that I am trying as hard as I can to protect and safeguard their health; that I am trying to stimulate them to see the possibilities of the great vision of life that is before them; and that I am trying to impress upon them the seriousness and sacredness of the call which they have received from the Priesthood to proclaim this Gospel. I have enjoyed myself immensely. Never before in my life have I done anything that I have enjoyed so much as I have laboring as a missionary in that part of the Lord's vineyard. m 

I am happy to say, brethren and sisters, that these men whom we sustain as our Authorities are beloved by our people; that they respect them; that they reverence them. -Our people generally are a praying people, and as they pray night and morning they pray that our Heavenly Father will guide and direct these men whom we sustain as our prophets, seers and revelators; and I feel confident in my heart that he is guiding them. I hope and trust that you people will recognize the important positions that you occupy here in Zion; that you will live your religion, so that when tourists and strangers come among you they will see that you are indeed a chosen people. As you treat them with honor and with respect, and as your lives are reflected in the things that you do, you will make it possible for your sons and daughters to reach their hearts. 

May the Lord bless you. May you realize the importance of a good name, and may you keep alive the spirit that you received when you were confirmed members of this Church, and may we ultimately all come back into his presence to live and grow, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

"Then, say, what is truth? Tis the last and the first, 

For the limits of time it steps o'er : Though the heavens depart, and the earth's fountains burst, Truth, the sum of existence will weather the worst, 

Eternal, unchanged, evermore." 

We have been listening to those gems of truth this afternoon, and my heart has been made to rejoice in the testimonies of my brethren. 

During the summer just past, we took to the Alberta Temple 400 members of our mission to enjoy the blessings Of that holy house, many of them driving as far as 1200 miles distance there and 1200 miles back. One of our brethren whose health was impaired and who had been unable to work for years, his wife prevailed on him to go to the temple. "iWe can't both go," she said, "but you go and get a blessing." The malady with which this brother was afflicted doctors pronounced incurable. He went to the temple and spent two days with us. The third morning he left for home, traveling 150 miles. They stopped at a hotel, and he said to one of our missionary elders: "I went all this distance for a blessing and I am going home without it." 

The Elder said, "Why brother, you can't go home without it, let us drive back tomorrow morning and get your blessing." You will remember brethren and sisters, that when Peter and John were entering the temple, a poor man, born with an infirmity, lay at the gates pleading for alms; and as Peter and John entered they looked upon him, and Peter said : "Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I thee : In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk," and he was made whole. So this brother said, "In the morning we will go back." 

They drove back and they entered the temple. The President laid his hands upon this brother's head and said, "Brother, this malady, this disease, will drop from your body as a robe being discarded, and you will be made well." 

I was in Klamath Falls only a few weeks ago and shook hands with this good brother and his good wife, and he said: "President Sloan, I never was better physically in my life, than I am today." He too was made whole. 

"Sacrifice, my brethren and sisters, brings forth blessings. 

I bring greetings to you from the missionaries in the Northwest and from the far off land of Alaska. Some of you have very vague ideas regarding Alaska — its climatic condition and size. If you could transport it and set it down in the United States, it would cover almost the entire country. That is the size of Alaska. As to climatic conditions, some call it Seward's icebox, but our missionaries have been holding street meetings during the winter months in Juneau, Ketchikan, and Wrangell, with success. We need experienced missionaries in Alaska. You brethren who can afford the finances, and who have had experience, here is a glorious opportunity. Your sons and daughters in the Northwest are marvelous boys and girls; and, fathers and mothers, their love for you is becoming intensified every day they remain in the mission. They love you for that which you are doing for them. 

We released a splendid lady missionary not long ago. Her home is in Cardston. When she arrived there with the caravan, they drove to the temple first, circled around the city for a few minutes, and then she said, "I want you to drive me out to the cemetery." They did so, and there, on the arm of her companion, she stood over the graves of her deceased father and mother, to give her first report of the missionary labors she had performed, hoping for this privilege, and now ready to go forth and discharge her greater responsibility. 

I pray the Lord to bless us in this work, to bless these men who preside; may we sustain them with our faith and prayers and our confidence I pray, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I am very grateful that I can believe in spiritual realities. It is not difficult for me now to accept the statements of my brethren and sisters as to their knowledge of the Gospel, as to the goodness of the Lord to them. I can believe that there are powers beyond the material manifestations of man's intellect and his force. I am grateful that God has made it possible for me to recognize the presence of his Holy Spirit. I cannot contemplate complete happiness in life without that recognition. 

TOLERANT TOWARD OTHERS 

While I am grateful for these blessings to myself, I am aware that there are many men in the world who do not have similar blessings. 

They do not believe in spiritual realities. They do not understand the operation of the Spirit. Their heart's do not respond to impressions that come from divine sources. I regard it as unfortunate that it may be so, but I do not abuse men wh|o have not such realization. I do not attempt to pass judgment upon them. I desire to be tolerant and merciful in my feelings toward them. 

INFLUENCES THAT PERPLEX 

It is in my heart today to plead for tolerance. Not all of us are raised in the same environment. Not all of mankind are subjected to the same influences. We who have been fortunate enough to have our souls touched with the testimony of Jesus, ought to be very compassionate with those who have not had such manifestations. I recognize that in the educational processes of the day there are to be found many factors which militate against spiritual training. Theories of men — and I do not deprecate them, because they are often founded upon the best investigations that men are able to makef — are advanced for the solution of life's problems, and in answer to questions that perplex youth. They who are subjected to these educational processes and to the teachings of the day, are not altogether to be blamed because these teachings appeal to them; and they ultimately come to place reliance upon the philosophies, the systems and the theories which are advanced. 

RELIANCE UPON REASON 

The youth of today are taught to reason. Their intellects are highly trained, and they rely upon their reason. I know, and you know, that if their minds can but be kept open to the reception of spiritual truth,' such truth may be made to appear reasonable to them; but they demand reason. I would like them to have reason. I would like them to understand the beauties of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I would like them to come to feel the glorious impressions that a true conception of the Gospel brings, but I know that I cannot force them to these impressions. I know that our work is not one of coercion or of compulsion. I know that it is only by sympathetic, intelligent persuasion that the minds of youth, the intelligence, the reason, the sophisticated minds of youth can be made to ultimately comprehend the glories of the revealed truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I plead for some tolerance in their treatment. 

SYMPATHY IN TEMPTATION 

I recognize that in the temptations that are presented to them they are obliged to exercise tremendous resistance, if they would keep themselves clean and spotless from the sins of the world. I know that sometimes they have not the courage to resist, and that unfortunately many fall victims to systems of enticement, the like of which all the world has never known before. In their fall they have my sympathy, and I trust that they may have the sympathy of the Church. 

THE GOSPEL'S GREATER MISSION 

I know that we inveigh — and rightly soi — against the ills to which they are subject. We urge that they do not use tobacco, tea and coffee, and liquor. We point out in strong terms the consequences which ensue from an infraction of the Word of Wisdom, given of God. We engage in a great campaign to ban these evils from the Church, and it is well that we do so. But in our ardor, in our enthusiastic endeavor to prevent our youth from falling into these sins, God help us not to drive them out of the pale of the Church. The Lord help us not to ostracise them from our companionship and the saving grace of the merciful principles of the Gospel of our Lord and our Savior. I never want a youth who unfortunately takes to the habit of smoking to come to feel that he cannot enter with welcome the doors of our churches and the association of our church people. If there is ever a time when one needs the influence of the Church it is when, in the frailty of his human nature, he has transgressed a law of God and fallen from the standard of righteousness. I know that it might perhaps be misunderstood but I cannot help saying that I want the youth of this Church to come to know and understand that this great system of righteousness, the Gospel, is something more than just a mere campaign against tea, coffee and tobacco — important as is the abstinence from those noxious poisons to the human family. 

Oh, I think so much of the glorious light of truth that God has given, of the great exaltation that he holds out to us, to come back into his presence by living the Gospel, that I would not have our youth miss the epitome of it all, the prime essentials, the glorious hopes, the rewards, the promises, that await those who live' the truth and conform their lives to the teachings of the Church. I would like them all to know, however, that whenever one fails to keep a commandment he cuts himself off from so much of the glorious blessings which God has promised to the faithful. 

TEMPERATE IN JUDGMENT 

This is a church of free agency. Man may choose for himself.  We are to disseminate the knowledge, that he may choose wisely. When we have done that adequately our duty is performed. 

"Judge not, that ye be not judged," are said to be the most merciful words in all the world. We are not set to be the judges of our brethren, except in special cases. God is their judge. We are not always aware of the feelings that prompt them. We do not always know the temptations which beset them. We cannot always correctly judge of the struggles which they have. May we be temperate in our judgments. Sometimes I find myself failing to distinguish between' resentment at the sin and hatred toward the sinner. There is a pronounced distinction. We are not to compromise with truth. It has been given to us to preserve in its undiluted purity and beauty. 

I believe in the orthodox teachings of this Church. I do not equivocate about them, nor attempt 1 to explain away the requirements of the Gospel of Christ. But I want the Lord to give me sympathy and mercy and forbearance toward him who, in the weaknesses of the flesh, may not always sustain these standards and principles. So, to the leaders of the Church, the men and the women who guide the organizations of this great institution, I sincerely appeal to you to be considerate and merciful in your judgments, and to go, like the Savior, out to those who are sick, and bring them in for treatment, and not confine the functions and offices of the Church only to those who are spiritually well. 

I pray that God will give us all wisdom and inspiration to deal with our families as we should, to assist in the salvation of the families of others, and to ever keep within our own hearts, as well as within the portals of our churches, a welcome for him who has fallen, as well as for him whom God has blessed with purity and uprightness of living. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian, pronounced the benediction. 


