Afternoon 
03 10 1931

Promptly at 2 :00 p. m. President Heber J. Grant, who presided, called the fourth meeting of the Conference to order and announced the opening hymn "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire." 

After the singing of this hymn by the congregation, the opening prayer was offered by Elder Robert I. Burton, President of the Mount Ogden Stake. 

The congregation then sang the hymn "Come, come, ye Saints." 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, to have this privilege of meeting with you at this conference and of mingling my voice and testimony with that of the brethren in support of this great latter-day cause. 

I miss my associate who usually sits at my right at these meetings, President Joseph W. McMurrin. I remember that at the last conference he read, in full, the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants, a beautiful iand inspirational revelation outlining this great latter-day work. I know of .no finer preface to be found in all literature than the preface to the Doctrine and Covenants. 

I have rejoiced in this conference from the opening keynote speech by President Grant until the present time, including also the splendid testimonies by the mission presidents given in the inspirational way they have spoken in this conference. 

An editorial from a secular paper, The Toronto, Ontario, Globe,  a short time ago mentioning two books which I would like to mention here. I inquired of the librarian upon my arrival home but found neither of these books in our libraries. The librarian has kindly sent for and purchased each one of these books and I have really had a feast in reading such as I have been able to read of these two volumes. One of the books so mentioned is by Mr. Linton, who marshals the facts on the subject of belief in the Bible, and is entitled, "A Lawyer and the Bible," by I. H. Linton, published in 1929. It does not equal, I think, "Nelson on the Cause and Cure of Infidelity," which President Grant is very familiar with, and parts of which he has presented to the Latter-day Saints on several occasions. At least this book is a small replica of "Nelson on Infidelity," a book which I trust that each one of us will read who has not yet done so. This book of Linton is also well worth reading. 

The "Globe," published in Toronto, which has the custom of publishing each week a religious editorial, says this of Mr. Linton's book : 

"Here is a statement of remarkable significance from a lawyer. Mr. Linton marshals facts showing that when unbelieving lawyers who really supposed there was nothing to the claims of Christianity of the Bible, have honestly examined the evidence, they have come out uncompromisingly on the side of the old faith and have gladly admitted that they were completely convinced by the facts. The most charitable, and the most reasonable thing one can infer from Mr. Darrow's declared atheism — " 

In mentioning Mr. Darrow's name I feel the same charity in judging him as was expressed here by Brother Stephen L, Richards, and I mention his name only for the purpose of presenting some other matters that I have checked upon and think worthy of presenting here. 

The most reasonable thing one can infer from Mr. Darrow's declared atheism "is that he has never examined the evidence. For lawyers admittedly much greater than he have been convinced by a logical, dispassionate study of the facts in the case. 

"Simon Greenleaf was one of these. He was the greatest master of the legal subject of Evidence that modern times have known. The London Law Magazine said of him : 'Upon the existing law of Evidence (by Greenleaf) more light has been shown from the New World than from all the lawyers who adorn the courts of Europe.' His words, says Linton, 'are always listened to with respect in any court, even though it be the English House o'f Lords or the Supreme Court of the United States — the two most august judicial bodies in the world.' 

"Greenleaf applied his massive intellect to the study of the Gospels, and fortunately his work has been preserved for this generation in his book, 'Testimony of the Evangelists.' It is a classic work in the realm of logic and faith. By a study that makes the reasoning of most men seem childish and ignorant in comparison, Greenleaf patiently examines the available evidence, subjects it to unsparing scrutiny, and vindicates in triumph the utter reliability and unswerving accuracy of the Writers of the four Gospels. This great master of evidence expresses his conviction and conclusion that 'every honest and impartial man' will accept the testimony of the evangelists as unimpeachable in a court of justice. And that means, in simple honesty and inescapable logic, that Christ is the Son of God and the only Savior of men; that he died for our sins and rose again; and that all who believe in him are given eternal life." The book of Greenleaf's entitled "The Testimony of the Evangelists" — Matthew, Mark, Luke and John — was a new book to me. I was surprised that I, could not find it in either of the law libraries in this city, and upon application the general library sent for it and bought it and I have since had the pleasure of purchasing a copy for myself. It is the most valuable law book that I have ever owned or read. 1 have not read it all yet because a great part of it, some four hundred pages, is taken up with a very thorough synopsis of the harmony of the Gospels. The closing testimony of Dr. Simon Greenleaf is a wonderful eulogy to Christianity. 

I cannot understand in thinking about it how it could happen that such a valuable book on the Evangelists should have escaped my attention for so many years. It has really been a very great treat to me to read the work that he has so well done for the Christian religion in just presenting the testimony of the Evangelists together in a way that makes so strong a case. 

The work is dedicated to the members of the legal profession in such striking language. He says : 

"The things related by the Evangelists are certainly of the most momentous character, affecting the principles of our conduct here, and our happiness forever. * * * These are no ordinary claims and it seems hardly possible for a rational being to regard them with even ,a subdued interest, much less to treat them with mere indifference and contempt." 

I am going to read the closing testimony which Dr. Greenleaf gives to Christianity : 

"Lastly, the great character they have portrayed is perfect — " meaning of course the Savior and speaking of the evangelists — "It is the character of a sinless being; of one supremely wise and supremely good. It exhibits no error, no sinister intention^ no imprudence, no ignorance, no evil passion, no impatience; in a word, no fault; but all is perfect uprightness; innocence, wisdom, goodness and truth. The mind of man has never conceived the idea of such a character, even for his gods; nor has history or poetry shadowed it forth. The doctrines and precepts of Jesus are in strict accordance with the attributes of God, agreeable to the most exalted idea which we can form of them, either from reason of from revelation. They are strikingly adapted to the capacity of mankind, and yet are delivered with a simplicity and majesty wholly divine. He spake as man never spake. He spake with authority; yet addressed himself to the reason and the understanding of men; and he spake with wisdom, for men could neither gainsay nor resist. In his private life he exhibits a character not - merely of strict justice, but of overflowing benignity. He is temperate, without austerity; his meekness and humility are signal; his patience is invincible; truth and sincerity illustrate his whole conduct; every one of his virtues is regulated by consummate prudence; and he both wins the love of his friends, and extorts the wonder and admiration of his enemies. He is represented in every variety of situation in life, from the height of worldly grandeur, amid the acclamations of an admiring multitude, to the deepest abyss of human degradation and woe, apparently deserted of God and man. Yet everywhere he is the same; displaying a character of unearthly perf ectionj symmetrical in all its proportions, and encircled with splendor more than human. Either the men of Galilee were men of superlative wisdom and extensive knowledge and experience, and of deeper skill in the arts of deception than any and all others, before or after them, or they have truly stated the astonishing things which they saw and heard. 

The narratives of the evangelists are now submitted to the reader's perusal and examination, upon the principle and by the rules already stated For this purpose, and for the sake of more ready and close comparison they arc arranged in juxtapositon, after the general order of the latest and most approved harmonies. 

How this remarkable book could have existed so long and the legal profession not be in possession of it and not to be found in the law libraries here I cannot understand. 

"The question is not upon the strict propriety of the arrangement, but the veracity of the witnesses and the credibility of their narratives. With tbe relative merits of modern harmonists, and with points of controversy among theologians, the writer has no concern. His business is that of a lawyer, examining the testimony of witnesses by tbe rules of his profession, in order to ascertain whether, if they had thus testified on oath, in a court of justice, they would be entitled to credit; and whether their narratives as we now have them, would be received as ancient documents coming from tbe proper custody. If so, then it is believed that every honest and impartial man will act consistently with that result by receiving their testimony in all tbe extent of its import. To write out a full commentary or argument upon tbe text, would be a useless addition to the bulk of the volume; but a few notes have been added for illustration of the narratives, and for the clearing up of apparent discrepancies, as being all that members of the legal profession would desire." 

I have been instructed and thrilled with the work the author has done. It indicates much patience and interest on the part of this great jurist in placing and elucidating the testimony of the Evangelists and giving explanatory notes of some supposed contradictions which are not really such when they are carefully examined and considered in the light of rules of civil evidence as pointed out by a master mind and eminent authority such as Mr. Simon Greenleaf possesses. 

There is much in reference to the rules of evidence that has been presented from time to time, and in fact at our Centennial Conference some of those rules to weigh and measure evidence were presented and it would be useless or unnecessary to repeat them further now. 

I appreciate the kindness of my brethren, President Grant and the brethren who surround him, and the kindness of my friends and my people, and I am glad that I am regaining my strength and that I am able to appear before you and talk to you on this occasion. 

My testimony corroborates the testimony given by Dr. Greenleaf in this wonderful work of his, a powerful one from a legal standpoint. I give my testimony after an experience in this Church of more than a quarter of a century, and after working with these my brethren, and I bear this confirmation of the testimony just read, in the name of Jesns Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mex ican Mission 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I believe that this is the greatest occasion of my life. In all my experience I have never had the privilege of addressing such a vast and intelligent audience as this should be. It is only the realization of the fact that you are all friends and brethren that makes it possible for me to stand here at this time and mingle my testimony with the testimonies that have already been borne. 

In standing here I bring to you the greetings of people of a different race and a different hue from those into whose faces I am looking at this time. I bring you the greetings of about thirteen thousand people of the Pacific Isles. Every one of them would like to be here and greet you personally, to sit and listen to the words of exhortation that are given from this stand. This, on my part, is an unofficial greeting, but it is sincere nevertheless, for I know that those people with whom I have been laboring for the past ten years, each and every one, have the welfare of this work at heart. 

I bring you also the greetings of not quite so many, but a kindred people who are living nearer to us, the Mexican people. There are quite a number of them in the Church, and they are faithful and sincere and reasonably energetic in the performance of their duties. 

The work with that people was begun in the year 1875, when my father, as a junior companion with a party of half a dozen or more, rode his horse from St. George as far as the city of Chihuahua, in the State of Chihuahua and the Republic of Mexico, returning by the same means of transportation. Since that time various vicissitudes have befallen that mission. Men have gone and opened up the mission, then returned, and the mission has lapsed, and that has been repeated time and again. But every time that mission has been reopened people have been found who were willing to listen to the Gospel, people who had attempted, through all of the years of silence, to retain their faith in the Gospel. From those people I bring you greetings. 

It is going to be a difficult problem, I realize, to shoulder the burden that has fallen upon me with the death of President Pratt. He was a noble and valiant man. He labored with all the power, zeal and energy that God gave him ,to further the work among that people. He had their interest at heart, and he won their love and their respect. I pray that with the aid of your faith and prayers, with the power of God to back me up, I may have humility and faith sufficient to carry on the work that he so well and faithfully performed; that the work may not falter, but that it may go forward. 

Now, if this is done it will have to be done through the aid of your boys and girls. We have in that mission at the present time forty-one of them, all faithful and energetic and lovable, all of them that I have met. It has not been my good fortune to meet them all, but I hope that within a few short weeks I shall have been through that mission and met every boy and girl that is laboring there. 

It seems that the people of the Church are not entirely clear as to what the Mexican mission at present consists of. You will remember, those of you who have read the papers, that certain laws have recently been passed by the Mexican government, which forbid the entry into Mexico of priests and ministers of foreign birth; so that our own Elders were forced to leave Mexico under this rule. We have in 

Mexico, laboring, as an ordained missionary, only one person at this time, and he is a Mexican boy. He is laboring in the vicinity of Monterey and is doing a very excellent work. All of the other work that is being done by missionaries is being done in the United States. Our mission covers a length of two thousand miles, from Los Angeles to Brownsville, Texas. In addition to that we have a very "thrifty and vigorous branch in this city, and we have organized branches that are laboring under the guidance of native branch presidents in various cities in and around the valley of Mexico. 

I was very much surprised when I first learned, years ago, of the work that was being done among the Mexicans in the United States, but when you look into the matter it seems a logical field, for in the city of Los Angeles alone there are said to be no less than one hundred and fifty thousand Mexicans. We are attempting to make contact with those people. We are trying to do it with six persons — -four boys and two young ladies. They are accomplishing a wonderful work, but they are limited, naturally, by their number, and as much as might be accomplished with more people is not being realized. We have there a very fine congregation, however. They are diligent, energetic and faithful. 

From there our labor extends, as I have said, clear to Brownsville, and we have some of the finest young men and young ladies in the Church working with those people. We hope that you who are here and who are bearing the burden of that labor will have the wherewithal to supply them. Some of those boys right now are wondering how long they will be able to stay — iwhen their missions may be terminated by the lack of funds. I hope that they will be able to stay until they qare to return, for it is an unfortunate thing when a missionary from that field has to quit his work prematurely. It takes the first half of his period to learn the" language, and then if he has to go home we miss the great accomplishments that he is capable of during the latter part of the missionary period. I trust that you will be able to stand the burden, that you will sacrifice willingly in their behalf, for every one of them is interested.; every one of them is laboring with diligence and energy. Most of them are enjoying good health, and you have to worry little over that. However, they are in a warm country; they have differences of food to contend with, and occasionally some of them suffer because of that. Right now we have two or three boys concerning whom we have to be very careful, because they are suffering from the changes of food that they have had to meet. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us, that he will give us power to endure, for the power to endure is the genius of this Gospel. If we cannot endure, the Lord pity us. These times are trying, but if we will round up our shoulders I am sure that the Lord will come to our rescue, that we will be able to carry on, and that we will not be the losers because of these trying times. The times of thrift and prosperity are the ones that we should be afraid of, not the times of adversity. I bear you my testimony that this is the greatest work in the world that we are interested in. I hope the Lord will bless me with power to carry on, and with strength to continue to the end, and I do it in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

A vocal duet, "I would not part the curtain," was rendered by Martha Smith Jenson and Donna Cox Gunderson. 

ELDER JOHN W. HART 

Of the Church Auditing Committee 

This is one time in my life that I was really surprised. I was sitting very comfortably in the audience, with some of my friends, enjoying the services, as I usually do. However, being called upon I feel under obligation to respond. I never did, to my knowledge, refuse anything that was required of me by those who presided over me. I am very sorry that I missed the services yesterday. I was out in the state of Montana, and came directly from there this morning. I am very happy to get here for the second day's services. 

I hope and pray that the Lord will sustain me this afternoon for the few minutes that I occupy this position. I know that he comes to the rescue of those who are called upon to perform service in the Church. 

I was interested in the remarks of Brother Ivins this afternoon, as it was only last May that I had the privilege of visiting him in the Hawaiian Islands, and I was very happy to meet him. I was very happy also to note the progress of the work of the Lord in that island. While I was there one Sunday I had the privilege of attending the Sabbath school. I never in all my life attended a Sabbath school that was better disciplined and better organized, and that functioned any better than this Sunday school in Honolulu. There were practically all nationalities present. There were natives, Chinese, Japanese, Americans, and other people, but to my surprise, notwithstanding this great mixture there was order, and the Spirit of the Lord prevailed. 

I had the privilege of attending their sacrament meeting at night, it being Aaronic (Priesthood' night, i I sat there and listened to the natives — and it was principally natives that had part on the program — stand up and deliver their parts in a most efficient manner, enjoying the Spirit of the Lord. Their splendid chorus of about thirty-five singers rendered most efficiently the hymn, "An angel from on high." It was wonderful! I was asked to speak a few minutes, which I did. and can say that I enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord there as much as 1 ever enjoyed it anywhere in my life. This all goes to show, my brethren and sisters, that wherever we go, wherever we find a congregation or an organization of the Latter-day Saints, we find that same splendid, sweet Spirit of the Lord. 

I am very happy that I am a member of this Church. I have never seen the day that I have had to apologize for being a member. I have  told my own family, the people of the Rigby stake over whom I have the honor to preside, and others with whom I have come in contact, that the great thing for us to learn as Latter-day Saints, particularly the young men and the young women, is to find out God, the Eternal Father, and his Son Jesus Christ, and to know something about this great latter-day work; that if they would only inform themselves along these lines they would always have joy and satisfaction in meeting the public in any land, and discussing with them the beauties of this great and glorious plan that has been entrusted to our care as Latter-day Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, I am in strict harmony with those who preside over this Church. I know that they are men of God. The Lord will inspire them as long as they hold these positions, to direct the affairs of this people in the manner in which they should be directed. I am happy to have their confidence. I rejoice in beingable to associate with them, and especially when they come to the Rigby stake to have the privilege of entertaining them. They always bring with them a splendid spirit, and when they leave we are all better for their coming. 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that God the Eternal Father lives, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and that these men who surround me here are inspired of God, and are the living oracles. May God help us to understand and know these things, and to maintain them all the time, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, a speaker who stands before a congregation of this character very well understands that he is under a great burden of responsibility and is expected to speak the truth, and nothing but the truth. If he should advance false doctrine it would be immediately detected by those who preside in the conference, and I think likely it would be detected by a congregation of Latter-day Saints. No man can long deceive the Latter-day Saints. This, I apprehend, is because the Spirit of God rests upon them, and they are able to distinguish between truth and error. I have attended many conferences in this building, and have never yet heard a false doctrine advanced from this pulpit. I take some pleasure in bearing this testimony. 

PAST AND PRESENT LINKED TOGETHER 

I have reflected much upon conditions that exist. I think I am safe in saying, my brethren and sisters, that the past and the present are connected by a chain of divine historical events, and also of historical, secular events — a chain that cannot be broken. This might be demonstrated by many incidents. Let me refer to one or two. THE GOSPEL. — INDIVISIBLE AND EVERLASTING 

There is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Gospel was preached in the beginning, it is preached to the world at the present time, it will be declared to future generations. The teachings of the Gospel exert a profound influence upon the world. The Gospel is a code of principles which are declared to be principles of salvation to those who will receive and obey them. The Gospel is complete in itself. Nothing is to be added to it. Nothing may be subtracted from it. The Gospel cannot be divided up into sectional parts, and if it were these sectional parts could not be safely treated separately. The Gospel must be taken as a whole. It is everlasting in its nature. It existed before, it exists now, and it will exist hereafter. 

AN INCIDENT FROM THE DISTANT PAST 

Let me draw your attention briefly for a moment to another incident, taken from the distant past. Let us go back to the Garden of Eden, which is sometimes designated as the beginning. When Adam, who is referred to< by divine revelation as the first man, as "the ancient of days," as the father of the human family, — when he partook of the forbidden fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, mortality and death were introduced into the world, which has profoundly influenced the children of men from that distant day to the present time and will influence the world of men to the very end of time. Thus the past is connected with the present and will also have a direct bearing upon the future. 

A DREADFUL DAY 

Perhaps I may be pardoned if I particularize just a little further. One hears a voice coming out of the past. It is the voice of a humble servant of God, a prophet, and the words that issued from his mouth were also recorded in sacred writ and took the form of a prophecy which, if it shall be fulfilled, will influence the world of men very greatly. The prophet said: "A day is coming, a dreadful day will come upon the world." I fancy I hear some one say : "A dreadful day, Brother Clawson? We have had many dreadful days." Yes, we have had many dreadful days, when news came of earthquakes, destruction by fire and smoke, and waves of the ocean heaving themselves beyond their bounds, also cyclones and hurricanes sweeping over the earth. Yes, brother, these were dreadful days, but this particular day referred to by the prophet is somewhat different. It presents rather a different view. This day is called the "great and dreadful day of the Lord,") — quite different from these other days. And then we are told in a prophecy that before the great and dreadful day of the Lord shall come there must occur a very important circumstance, and it surely must precede the dreadful day of the Lord. Let us read the words of the prophecy, which is found in Malachi, the fourth chapter : 

"For, behold, the day cometh, that shall burn as an oven; and iall the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch." 

DESTRUCTION OF WICKED 

That is a dreadful day, and yet in connection with it, and somewhat related to it, is shown forth the mercy of God, for the record says : 

'But unto you 'that fear my name shall the Sun of righteousness arise with healing in his wings; and ye shall go forth, and grow up as calves of the stall. 

"And ye shall tread down the wicked; for they shall be ashes under tthe soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this, saith the Lord )of hosts." 

It would seem from this that the wicked are to be destroyed absolutely, root and branch, because of their wickedness, of which they will not repent, and hence a just judgment comes upon them. 

"Remember ye the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded unto him in Horeb for Sail Israel, with the statutes and judgments." 

MARVELOUS MANIFESTATIONS 

Now comes a very singular and wonderful part of this great prophecy that was uttered in the long distant past : 

"Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: 

"And he shall turn. ( the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse." 

. That is the. prophecy, brethren and sisters, and I doubt not that it is greatly misunderstood by the people of the world generally. It is quite easily comprehended by the people of the Latter-day Saints, because, as a matter of fact, this great prophecy has been fulfilled, fulfilled in the present age. I refer you to our Doctrine and Covenants, section 110, relating to certain visions and manifestation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple. Those were very remarkable visions; nothing quite like them in this age of the world; nothing quite like them in any other age, except the manifestation given to Paul, the apostle, when he was caught up into heaven and beheld unutterable things. 

In this manifestation the Savior appeared and stood upon the pulpit of the temple, and spoke to his servant, the Prophet, and to Oliver Cowdery, expressing his approval of the work that had been done in the building of that temple, and referring to the blessings that would result therefrom. Other glorious manifestations were given. 

THE COMING OF ELIJAH 

Finally, it was also said in section 110: 

"After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us; for Elijah ithe jprophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting dea; th, stood before us, and said : 

"Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of. Malachi— testifying that he (Elijah) should be sent, before the great aind dreadful day of the Lord come — 

"To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse — 

"Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of- the Lord is near, even at the doors." 

So this important prophecy, that comes out of the past, has been fulfilled in the present, and in a manner connecting the past with the present. We cannot, my' brethren and sisters, as a people, neither can the children of men, separate and detach absolutely the past from the present. 

THE WORD "TURN" 

Now, in respect to this word "turn," we do not understand that that means that the fathers should simply assume a sympathetic attitude toward their children, that the children should have a sympathetic attitude toward their fathers, their fathers being dead. It means,_ if we may rely upon the word of the latter-day prophet, Joseph Smith, that the word "turn" should be translated "bind or seal," and if that be the case what a flood of light is thrown upon this important matter! It signifies that a work must be done for the dead and that we are to manifest our faith in the Gospel and in the prediction that has been made, by our work. Perhaps I might read a word or two from the history of the Church by the Prophet: 

"Now the word 'turn' here should be translated 'bind or seal'. But what is the object of this important mission, or how is it to be fulfilled? The_ key& are to be delivered; the spirit of Elijah is to come; the Gospel to be established; the Saints of God gathered; Zion built up; and the Saints to come up as saviors upon Mount Zion. But how lare they to become saviors on Mount Zion? By building their temples, erecting their baptismal fonts, land going forth and receiving all the ordinances, baptisms, confirmations, washings, anointings, ordinations and sealing powers, upon their heads, in behalf of lall!their progenitors who are dead, and redeem them, that they might come forth in the first resurrection and be exalted to thrones of glory with them, and herein is 'the chain that binds the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers, which fulfils the mission of Elijah." 

WORK FOR THE DEAD 

Possibly some one will say : "Well, are we really required then to do work for the dead?" Yes, surely to do a great work.- Is that not indicated in the scriptures, that a work should be done for the dead, when the Apostle Paul said : "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" So you see that Paul, the Apostle, understood this principle of baptism for the dead. 

BY PROXY 

The question will naturally arise : "Well, how is it possible for one to stand for another in respect to this matter, one on the earth being baptized for one who is dead? It is done through the principle of proxy, a principle which is well established in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He, himself, the Savior of the world, stood as proxy for the children of men, as set forth by the great principle of atonement. This work for the dead is to be done in a temple and, I may here say that wherever the people of God are to be found upon the earth, you will  a temple-building people, and even now we are sitting under the eaves, as it were, of the temple of God — the temple, doubtless, that Isaiah saw in visioni— the mountain of the Lord's house that was 'to be established in the tops of the mountains. I believe that the temple seen by Isaiah is the temple that stands adjacent to the tabernacle in which we are now assembled, and let me add we have other temples, some six in number. 

THE CONNECTING LINK 

We are permitted, under the gracious mercy of the Lord, my brethren and sisters, to go into these temples if we are worthy, and to do a work for the dead. We should be wide awake to the importance of this matter, because we are told that they, the dead, without us cannot be made perfect, and that we without our dead cannot be made perfect. Temple work is the link that connects us with our progenitors in the spirit world. Will the Gospel be preached to them? Surely it will be preached in the spirit world to them who had not the privilege of hearing it in this world. We are told in the epistle of Peter: 

"For this cause was the Gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they may be judged according to men in the flesh, but live 'according to God in the spirit." 

Oh, the beauty of the justice and mercy of God, who is no respecter of persons! And let it be remembered that what it takes to save one who is living, it takes just that much to save one who is dead. Therefore, brethren and sisters, look well to this matter, and let your hearts be turned toward the dead, and avail yourselves of the opportunity of sealing them to the living. 

May the Lord bless us. May the Lord bestow upon us the spirit, the desire and the determination to hunt up and secure a record of our forefathers, and then to go forth and perform this important labor in their behalf. 

I know that this is the Church of God. I testify to you in all solemnity that I do know that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was and is a true prophet of God. 

The great truth that I have emphasized here today came through this modern prophet, and surely there were few greater prophets than he. God's blessings I invoke upon you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation arose and sang the first two verses of the hymn, "Do what is right." 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Western States Mission 

The opening song of the conference was "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." President Grant said in his opening remarks that when he sang that song he thought of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Many times recently I have sung that song with great pleasure, and I have thought of President Heber J. Grant, and his counselors, and of the Twelve, and of those brethren who are appointed with them to be prophets, seers and revelators to this people. Without reservation I have been able to sing it with great joy and thanksgiving because we do have these men to "guide us in these latter days." It is a great anchor to this people. We go out among other people who are not thus blessed, who are trying to find out something about God, and they are groping in darkness. They may be following the rules of logic and reason to the best of their ability, but they are not guided by inspiration as we are. 

In the Western States mission we have nearly seven thousand members of the Church. Any of them would be delighted to be present here today, as a few of them are, to listen to the inspired words of God's servants and to enjoy the spirit of this remarkable gathering. When I think of the greatness of this conference, as shown by the numbers of those who attend, I sometimes think that if all the members of the Church in the Western States mission were gathered in this tabernacle, it would be quite comfortably filled; and yet they are only a handful, as compared to the Church. Our Church is becoming numerous, and it is spread over every portion of the earth. The Gospel has been carried to nearly every part of the earth, and men and women have received it with joy and gladness. 

I wonder sometimes if when we think of our missionary work we do not think of it as wholly missionary work; but quite an important part of our labors consists in looking after the interests of the saints who are organized in small branches throughout our missions. The time is coming, and coming with great speed, when the larger of our branches will assume something of the perfectness of the wards of the Church. We are beginning to do things, in some of the branches, as they do them in the wards. Our auxiliary organization are following the splendid lead given to them by those who head these auxiliary organizations. Our manuals and our Church magazines are informative and helpful to them. Our people read them with joy and gladness and follow their instructions — so much so that the branches are becoming a little more proficient all the time in the work of teaching each other. 

The spirit and genius of this Church is that we help each other. Sometimes members of the Church get the impression that those who are unworthy or unfit should be cast out, and not permitted to enter into the house of worship. We welcome them that they may grow with us from a degree of weakness to a degree of strength. The Church was intended to be an organization for mutual helpfulness, and so Latter-day Saints are expected, and it is their duty, to help each other, to labor together for the improvement of each other. 

Our branches are doing those things with some degree of excellence. The missionaries are carrying on satisfactory work. We are doing our best, with the few that we have, to reach the people, to carry  message of the Gospel to them, trying to find better means all the time of engaging the attention of the people. 

Last night, when I read that our Station K-S-L was to become a fifty thousand watt station, my heart rejoiced, because I realized that it would be possible, at least in the Western States mission, and I am sure in many other missions, to hear not only the Tabernacle Organ concerts, which are now nationally broadcast, but to hear the sermons that our brethren preach, with some degree of certainty and clearness. Sometimes we hear them; sometimes we do not. If we could depend upon them — and I am sure we will be able to do so with that powerful station operating — it would be a simple matter for us to organize cottage meetings on Sunday evenings, and have small groups, directed by Elders or sisters, meet together to hear the sermon, and then perhaps continue the service by bearing testimonies and singing the songs of Zion, and thus increase in the hearts of people faith in God. 

Many of our friends who are not members of the Church listen in on the radio and are delighted with the organ recitals and with the sermons when they are able to hear them. Truly the Lord is utilizing, through his servants, the wonderful instruments of this great day for publishing the Gospel. 

I pray the Lord to bless you. I pray the Lord to bless those whose children are on missions, and who are making the struggle that they must of necessity make to care for them. I appeal to you fathers and mothers of missionaries — and I think you will hear this appeal — don't send them too much money. In spite of the hard times we do have a few parents who insist on sending their missionaries more than they need. They would be ever so much better missionaries if you limited them to forty dollars a month, or a little less than that, than they will be if you send them fifty. At least I am speaking for the Western States. I would rather know that our missionaries could have only forty dollars a month, than to know that they could have more. That should not be hard advice to take these days, and yet I know of some parents who say : "Well, my son or my daughter must not be deprived. We are willing tp deprive ourselves but they must have what they need." I want to testify to you that they will do much better if you will accept this advice. I know one young man whose parents sent him so much money that it almost ruined his mission. Finally the father and mother came out to see him. They were convinced that they had been making a mistake. They rectified the mistake, and tloday the boy is humble and sweet in his spirit, as energetic as he can be, filling a splendid mission, and happy to know that his source of revenue has been cut off, so that he has to depend upon his own efforts for his blessings. 

I want to say, with gratitude, that we are all well, with the exception of one Elder, and we think he is in no danger. We are grateful for the blessings of the Lord, grateful for his watch-care and his favor over us. I testify to you that he does bless us, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that this is his true work. Amen. ELDER JOHN V. BLUTH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

My brethren and sisters, it is a matter of delight to be able to meet with you in conference. When I look over this congregation I feel comforted by the assurance that I can say: "Brethren and sisters;" that your spirits are in harmony, that you have come here to worship, that in your hearts there is a prayer for the speaker and for yourselves, that the speaker may be inspired in his utterances, that your hearts may be receptive, and that you may receive strength and benefit from that which is spoken. 

I bring you greetings from the Saints, the Elders and sisters laboring in the Canadian mission. Wle have a glorious clay for our conference, and we have had practically this kind of glorious weather during the entire summer in the Canadian mission — only a few hot, sultry days; nothing like that which our people have experienced in the western part of Canada and here. We rejoice in the delightful climate and the delightful country in which we have to labor. Eastern Canada, to me, is a glorious land, a land of forest, lake and stream. The province of Ontario alone has a hundred and fifty thousand square miles of forest, and as the country is a rolling country it lends itself to a myriad of lakes and streams that are delightful to the eye. It is a paradise to the tourist, one who desires to see nature and to rest himself for a few weeks or months, as the case might be and his time permits, in that land. We rejoice in that glorious country, in the privilege of being there, and of drinking in its beauty and having it enter into our souls. 

Recently we have completed our third missionary trip since we went up to Canada in January — my wife and I and the secretary of the mission covering thirty-two hundred miles in making the circuit, which represented the eastern part of the mission, the western having already been covered. We held thirty-five meetings, and mingled with the Saints. We took three weeks for the trip. Brother Ballard visited it in June in shorter time. He visited the same part in twelve days, but it was holding meeting and catching train, holding meeting and catching train; very little opportunity to get very close to the people themselves; and for that reason we took a little more time. 

In our meetings we have devoted about one-half of the time in defense of the principles of the Gospel, answering attacks upon the doctrines of the Church. The other half we have devoted to the one thing that we think very essential: We feel that we are sent into the world to warn the people and to give them the message of the Gospel. When we have done this we must depend upon the Spirit of the Lord to enter into their hearts, convert them to the Gospel, and bring them into the fold. 

We also feel that our duty lies with those who have already accepted the Gospel, and that time must be given to hold them in the faith and to point out to them that which many of them cannot understand. In the world a great many people feel that they are "saved,"  by confessing the name of Jesus Christ they have already, at a certain hour, on a. certain date, in a certain place, become saved, and therefore they need not investigate the truth anywhere else. [Some of our Saints, after having entered into baptism, received the gift of the Holy Ghost, and become members of the Church, feel that by attending only a few meetings they are doing their full duty. To my mind it seems that they have only advanced a istep ahead of those who are still outside of the pale of the Church, and their entire journey still lies before them,_ the straight and the narrow |way, the continual repentance from things that are evil in their nature, bringing themselves nearer unto God. We have devoted a great deal of time in an endeavor to convince them that their mission is not finished, that their salvation is not secure, unless they continue -faithful in the keeping of the commandments of God. We have told them that blessings come through obedience, that our Father has said : "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say, but when ye do not what I say ye have no promise." i 1 , 

We call their attention to the necessity of prayer, of living close to God, citing them the fact that in the early days the saints were afflicted because they did not keep the laws of God, did not seek him closely. I remember that the Lord has said, in one of the sections of the Doctrine and Covenants, that "in the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but, in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me." 

We seek to teach them that they should so live that when adversity comes they can go to God with an assurance in their hearts that because they have sought to live his commandments, because they have been in touch with him in the days of their prosperity, he will answer their prayers; that they may not be like the man who, when in a dangerous position, knelt and prayed to God to save him, and, to make sure of an answer, said : "O Father, I have never troubled you before. Help me now." 

Our idea is to be in touch with him continuously, seeking his heip and his assistance, and giving unto him our praises, our rejoicing in the many blessings he has given unto us. 

I rejoiced here today, while listening to the opening hymn of this afternoon's session : 

"Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, But with joy wend your way." Compare the condition of the Saints some eighty-five years ago, when ' that was written, with the conditions under which we worship here! I think of them plodding over the rain-sodden plains of Iowa, some four hundred miles, in order to reach the Missouri river, half -clad, starved, weary. That song was written to cheer their souls while they surrounded the camp fires, and to give them new courage for their labors of the following day, knowing that when thev reached the Missouri river they still had another thousand miles of land travel before them, and that in hostile country. Compare that with the conditions under which we worship here, and then talk about adversity and depression! 

There are so many things which of late have become necessities that at one time werg luxuries, and a few years earlier were not even heard of. If we really thought so, we could dispense with them today, and thereby lessen the depression we now suffer. 

Brother McKay, in an earlier meeting, spoke of testing the spirits; and in our missionary meeting held on Wednesday there were many reports of the wonderful assistance of our Heavenly Father, as manifested in healings, in guidance under difficult circumstances, in providing for the missionaries on the highway, in their meetings, and in other capacities, showing that the Lord was with them and helping them; that there was power in the Gospel, and that the gifts and blessings follow the believers. 

An interesting incident occurred in our mission, in which the blessing of God followed even a non-member, but the blessing did not benefit him. A man studying for the Baptist ministry became interested in the teaching's of the Elders. He listened to them and declared his belief in what was stated as the truth. He learned that they had the gifts and blessings in the Church. He was afflicted with cancer, and his life despaired of. He lost all appetite and was unable to move about or to do anything much for himself. He asked the Elders — two of them — a young brother from Ogden and one from Salt Lake, to come and administer unto him. After questioning him, feeling of his spirit, probing his .sincerity, they decided to administer to him. They did so and he was healed completely. Later on he was able to attend to his work, restored fully to his health, vitality, and the life that had been despaired of. A few weeks later, after having further investigated the principles of the Gospel, he asked for baptism, and was baptized. Several weeks later he fell out over some little money matter with a member of the Church, became possessed of an unforgiving spirit, and absolutely refused to make matters right. From that time until this he has become so possessed of the evil power that he will walk the streets where street meetings are held, and laugh and deride and make fun of the Elders. He has threatened them with violence, telling them that if they came near him he would mark them for life. He says that he does not believe in them and that the members of the Church are all liars and hypcrites. That spirit has so taken possession of him that he is far worse than he was before the time when he received this wonderful manifestation from God, and from what I learned in the conference held two weeks ago the affliction is coming back upon him. That is testing another kind of spirit than that of which we have heard today. 

I pray God that he may bless us, that we may be faithful, keep our covenants with God, do everything that he desires, be ready to respond to every call and serve him so faithfully that when we have finished our work here upon the earth we may be counted worthy to dwell in his presence, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen, 

ELDER GEORGE S. ROMNEY 

President of the Northern States Mission 

I have the privilege of representing seventy-four young men and women who are preaching the Gospel in the Northern States mission, also more than seven thousand Latter-day Saints who are there I should like to tell you, if I can, something about the way these missionaries are meeting the great social problems which are confronting the people there. 

Just a few days ago, a man from Toledo, Ohio, who claims a membership in the Church, came to my office to ask for some help. He said that he and his wife had been hunting over the city of Chicago for many days for work. I asked him the condition of the many men whom we see sitting on the park benches and other places, idle, in the city of Chicago. He said : "Come and go with me tonight, and I will take you down on the lake front and show you twenty-five thousand men or more — men who are willing to work and want work, and men who have nothing to eat." I went down through the subway under Michigan Avenue, and there I saw men in crowds, lying on the ground, with just a newspaper under them, keeping warm by the fires that they made from boxes that they had gathered from the stores. 

This man said to me that he had made all the efforts that he could, and if it came to the worst, he had told his wife the day before that he would get a gun and go down-town and get food for her to eat. There are many of the larger steel mills, automobile factories and others, that are only employing now from forty to sixty percent of their men. 

These social problems produce a feeling of unrest, and the thinking people are facing these problems and wondering how to meet them. 

The feeling is growing, in the colleges and in the universities, that our problems must be solved, not by legislation, but by establishing character in the youth as they grow up, and in the people. 

A minister of the Presbyterian church recently invited me to speak to his congregation. I asked him to suggest a subject and he said : "Tell us how the Latter-day Saints are meeting the social and economic problems which the world is facing at the present time." I had the privilege of explaining to them something about the law of tithing, and fast donations, and the way we take care of our poor through the wards and the Relief Societies. I also explained to them something of the character of the education which we give in our Sunday Schools, and Mutual Improvement, and other auxiliary organizations. After the meeting was over, the way that group of people gathered around and asked their questions indicated the interest which people are taking in these social problems. 

Recently one of the boys (missionaries) wrote me that he had been traveling on the highway, and was picked up by the vice-president of one of the railroads. This Elder and his companion were invited to the home of this gentleman and had a long conversation. This official of the railroad expressed himself, as the boys were leaving, that he considered the type of work that they were doing was of the very highest nature. He said that if they could carry that spirit among the people, and get others to feel as they felt, (that they were willing to spend their time in teaching principles of such value) that it would help to solve the problems. 

We have many other incidents which I thought I would tell you, but cannot, of men who have expressed themselves in a similar way. That is, that the teaching, by example, of young men and women who are willing to spend their time, sustaining themselves while they are doing it, makes an impression. It is an object lesson that impresses the people of the world. 

Thinking men, so far as intellectuality is concerned, appreciate the work of the Latter-day Saints. 

But there is another way by which men and women are impressed by the work of the missionaries that is in addition to and I think far greater than this intellectual way. It is illustrated by a gentleman with whom I rode a few days ago, who is now a member of the Church. For a long time his wife was a member of the Church, and had been actively working, but he was in opposition. He was a user of tobacco. There was scarcely an hour or minute that he did not have tobacco in some form in his mouth. He said to me that he used foul language, that he was in opposition to the Church and felt that he treated his wife all the time in a very undesirable way. He went to a Relief Society meeting with his wife, not at her request, but just through a suggestion of his own. He sat and listened to the testimonies^ — because it was a testimony meeting — of some of the sisters, and he expressed himself something like this : 

"While I was sitting there listening to them, a feeling came over me that passed through me from my head to my feet. I can't describe it, but it was such a feeling that it made the tears stream from my eyes. I felt myself crying. I felt ashamed. I did not know what was the matter with me." He said : "I went home. I threw my tobacco away, and from that day to this I have never touched it. I have treated my wife as I should do." He is now a president of the Mutual Improvement organization, and is a very fine man. 

It is that type of thing, wherein men and women change their lives, because the Spirit of the Lord comes over them, that will solve our social problems. 

I am appreciative of the work I am doing, and testify to you that I know that the Lord does inspire the hearts of people through his Spirit. I pray the Lord to bless us, that we may all have the spirit of missionary work, and I do it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Lord dismiss us with Thv blessing." 

After the benediction, which was pronounced by Elder Edward C. Rich, President of the Montpelier Stake, the Conference adjourned until 10:00 o'clock Sunday morning, October 4, 1931. 

THIRD DAY 


