Morning 
04 10 1931

The Conference reconvened Sunday morning, October 4, 1931 at 10 o'clock. 

The great tabernacle auditorium and galleries were filled to capacity every seat being taken and all available space in the aisles and doorways being occupied by people who were unable to find seats. Thousands who could not be accommodated in the tabernacle congregated in the large Assembly Hall directly south of the tabernacle and on the tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast by radio. 

President Heber J. Grant presided. 

As an opening number the Tabernacle Choir and the congregation sang the hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

The invocation was offered by Elder S. Norman Lee, President of the Box Elder Stake. 

"An angel from on high," duet and chorus, was rendered by Cyril Martin and Ida Hepworth and the Choir. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, I stand before you this morning in humility and humbly ask that during the few moments of time I expect to occupy I may have your sympathy, the support of your faith, and the help of the Lord, that I may clearly outline to you the thoughts which I have in my mind. 

I am going to read from the Book of Isaiah, 19th chapter, 19th and 20th verses :! 

"In that clay shall there be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the Lord. 

"And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt: for they shall cry unto the Lord because of the oppressors, and he shall send them a savior, and a great one, and he shall deliver them." 

REFERS TO BOOK 

I have read this scripture, my brethren and sisters, as a basis for the brief remarks that I expect to make in regard to a matter that has caused more or less discussion among members of the Church because of the recent publication of this small book which I hold in my hand. The title of the book is "Our Bible in Stone." The author is Francis M. Darter of Los Angeles, a member of the Church, in good standing, an experienced engineer and a mathematician of ability. 

It treats principally the erection, symbolism and prophetic character of the pyramid of Gizeh, or in Greek, Cheops. Various other applications so far as the name is concerned have been applied to this structure. Because of its superiority over all other like structures it has come to be known and referred to as the Great Pyramid of Gizeh. 

SITUATED IN EGYPT 

The Great Pyramid of Gizeh is situated in Egypt, about ten miles west of the city of Cairo, and one hundred and twenty-five miles south from the city of Alexandria, which was founded by Alexander the Great 332 B. C. It is bounded on the west by the Libyan desert, and is therefore in the borders of the land. It is one of a group of nine other similar structures, which are known as the Pyramids of Gizeh. 

It is a noteworthy fact that while many pyramids are found in Egypt, none is known to exist in other parts of the world except in America, where many such structures are known to have been erected, but no other pyramids can be compared with the unusual structure to which my remarks are to be confined. 

The orientation of the great pile, as it applies to the points of the compass, and the accuracy with which its proportions are related one to the other, are a marvel to those who have made a study of it. 

GOVERNED BY STARS 

The relationship of the Pyramid to modern mathematics, by which scholars have endeavored to fix the date of its construction, indicates that in its erection the builders were familiar with and governed largely by the movement of the heavenly bodies, which science the moderns refer to as astronomy. 

Sir John Herschel, from astronomical calculation, places the construction of the Pyramid at 2160 B. C., and Professor Piazza Smyth at 2170 B. C. Basil Stewart, in his recently published book, "The Witness of the Great Pyramid," after a careful study of the application of astronomy in its construction, says : 

"The Great Pyramid therefore may be considered the earliest known record in existence wherein is embodied the fact of the immense cycle known as the precession of the equinoxes." 

OF GREAT MAGNITUDE 

The magnitude of the structure may be best understood by comparing it with something with which we are familiar. The area covered by the base of the structure is in excess of thirteen acres, or three acres larger than the block upon which this building stands, which is ten acres. The height of the Pyramid is 485 feet above the base, or more than twice the height of the temple to the east of us. The bulk of the building is more than ninety million cubic feet, and sufficient stone was used in its construction to build a wall four feet high and two teet thick, twenty-two hundred miles in length, or which would reach from Chicago to San Francisco. 

THE BUILDERS 

Who were the builders of the Pyramid no one knows. Khufu 

(Cheops, in Greek) is given credit for having been the builder. Thispersonage has been identified by some students as Seth, the son of Adam; others give Enoch, the son of Jared, credit for having been the builder; others Shem, the Son of Noah; while some believe that Melchizedek, that mysterious personage to whom Abraham paid tithes, and whom some of these scholars identify as the Patriarch Job, was the person who constructed it. 

Herodotus, who lived nearly five hundred years before the birth of Christ, and who is referred to as the father of history, knew of the existence of the Great Pyramid, and wrote concerning it. He says that the Egyptians detested the memory of the kings who caused their fathers to erect these structures, and besides compelled them to close their own temples, and for this reason they were not willing to mention their names, but called the two first pyramids erected after Philition, a shepherd who fed his cattle about the place. 

Manetho, himself an Egyptian, wrote as follows: 

"There came from the east, in a strange manner, men of an ignoble race, who had the confidence to invade our country, and easily subdued it by their power without a battle. All this invading nation was styled Hyksos, that is, 'Shepherd Kings'." 

He then relates how they departed for Judea and built a city there named Jerusalem. This he says was long before the exodus of the Israelitish people from Egypt under Moses. 

OLD THEORY CHALLENGED 

It is known that Hyksos, or Shepherd Kings, dominated Egypt at the time that Jacob and his family went into that country, during the period when Joseph ruled as vice regent of the reigning Pharaoh, and it was among this people that Joseph chose his wife, Asenath, who became the mother of his sons Ephraim and Manasseh. 

The first definite suggestion that the Great Pyramid was other than the tomb of a king, or other merely temporal monument, was in a work written by John Taylor in London in 1859. He conceived the idea that it was a divinely planned and constructed monument, designed to be a witness to the human race, showing in advance the history of mankind from the creation to the period of the second coming of our Lord, who would establish dominion over the earth upon which we dwell and usher in a reign of righteousness and peace. 

At a later date C. Piazza Smyth, astronomer royal of Scotland, wrote upon the subject, agreeing with the conclusions reached by Taylor. Sir W. M. Flinders Petrie, Professor John Edgar, D. Davidson, Joseph A. Seiss, Sir John Herschel, Basil Stewart and many other scholarly men, after making a study of the subject, became advocates of the theory advanced by Taylor, that the Great Pyramid has something more than human in its construction and symbolism. 

THE INTERIOR 

For ages after its construction the interior of the Great Pyramid remained a sealed mystery. Obsessed with the belief that within the great pile hordes of treasure had been concealed, men finally determined to penetrate and explore it. A tunnel was driven into the structure far towards the center, but the work was so difficult that it was about to be discontinued when the workmen unexpectedly broke into the passageway, and the mystery was solved. 

Nothing was found to indicate that the Pyramid had been constructed to be the tomb of a king, as was usually the case with the smaller structures of like architecture. It was discovered that the original builders had constructed a series of passages or galleries in the interior of the Pyramid, the entrance to which had been concealed and so strongly closed that it became necessary to blast around it in order that entrance might be made possible. This entrance is on the north side of the structure, and the first gallery or passage descends from the opening at an angle of about twenty-six degrees to a point far below the floor of the Pyramid into the solid rock upon which it stands, where it terminates in a chamber which is called the Pit. 

A short distance from the entrance, at the same angle, another passageway leads upward and communicates with two other chambers, one referred to as the Queen's Chamber, near the center, and the other, higher up, as the King's Chamber. 

CONCLUSIONS OF SCHOLARS 

It is the accuracy with which these galleries are constructed and certain markings and steps which are placed at intervals along the way, that have convinced scholars who have made careful study of the subject that the Pyramid was intended by its builders to represent the history of our race, as has been stated, from the remote past to the time of the second coming of our Lord. 

Discussion of the symbolism of the Great Pyramid is not a new thing in the Church. I well remember that Orson Pratt, during his lifetime, lectured on the subject and made mathematical calculations by which he reached the conclusion that certain measurements of the galleries and markings which were upon them had reference to the opening of the Gospel dispensation in which we live, and the final consummation of the purposes of our Father in heaven, by which peace would come to the world and happiness to mankind. 

I remember also that his calculations brought conclusions which differed from others who had made a study of the subject, but were in the main the same. Soon after the World War students of the Pyramid announced that according to their theory, and it is only a theory, the year 1928 would witness the beginning of a period of tribulation which would continue with increasing intensity until 1936, and would bring sorrow and mourning to the inhabitants of the earth. At that date their symbols and measurements bring us to the King's Chamber, and the record of the Pyramid, if it has a record, will cease with the advent of our Lord and the establishment of a period of peace, happiness and good will among men. 

QUESTIONS CONCLUSIONS 

The Church has not at any time, nor does it now, accept the conclusions of pyramid students to be definitely correct. In fact there is great doubt that the arbitrary basis upon which their calculations and conclusions are founded is correct-. 

I do not wish to be understood to say that they are in error. Neither do I say that they are correct. But this much I desire to declare to this congregation : While I have not given profound study to the theories of men regarding the origin and symbolism of this miracle in stone, I have read and studied it in a general way and have found nothing in it to convince me that the record of the Great Pyramid definitely forecasts coming events. 

OTHER SOURCES 

The Church does not depend upon Pyramids of Gizeh nor the conclusions of scientific investigators, however helpful they may sometimes be in the study of these questions, for an interpretation of the scripture which refers to the return of Christ our Lord to earth and the millennium of peace and good-will which is to be enjoyed under his personal administration. 

We believe in the literal gathering of the house of Israel, that Judah and Benjamin will be united with Ephraim and the ten tribes from whom they have been separated since the reign of Rehoboam, the son of Solomon; that Zion will be built upon this continent; that Christ our Lord will reign personally among his people; and that the earth will be restored to its paradisaical glory. 

This declaration of our faith is based upon the words of our Lord as they are contained in the Bible, and have come to us through modern revelation. 

PRECEDING HIS SECOND COMING 

As Jesus sat upon the Mount of Olives the disciples came to him privately, saying: 

"Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?" 

Our Lord warned them to take heed lest they be deceived. He told them that preceding the time of his coming there would be a period when war would prevail throughout the world; that nation would rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and that there would be famine and pestilences and earthquakes in divers places; that those who believed in him would suffer persecution, and that tribulation such as had never before been known would be experienced. But he assured them that those who had faith to endure to the end would be saved. 

He told them that before his coming the Gospel which he taught would be restored to earth and preached among all people, as a witness, before the end should come. And then he said, "shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven * * * and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory." 

At the time of his ascension, when the cloud received him, as his disciples gazed in wonder and astonishment, two men in white apparel appeared and said : 

"Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing np into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven." 

The affirmation of the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ and the further fact that he would at a subsequent period of time return to earth to assume control over its affairs and usher in a millennium of peace are so definitely attested that no real believer in the Bible can deny them. 

EXACT TIME NOT REVEALED 

Conditions which would prevail prior to his glorious appearance are definitely stated, but the exact time when he shall appear has not been revealed. He himself says, referring to the time of his glorious appearance : "But of that day and that hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father." 

He does tell us that he will come in an hour when we expect him not and warns us that we must always be prepared to meet him. He warns us further that if at that time we are found oppressing our brethren and eating and drinking with the drunken he will cut us off, root, and branch, which will cause weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth. 

THE AUTHOR'S OWN VIEWS 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I have referred to this little book and its contents as I desire that you might understand. It will undoubtedly go into the mission field and our Elders may make use of it. I simply want to warn you against sensationalism of any kind. 

While the author, as I have stated, is a member of the Church in full standing, this work goes out as his own views. I do not wish to deprecate the amount of work he must have applied in the preparation of this book, in the study of the scriptures, and in the preparation of the charts which are contained in it. I do not say that his conclusions are wrong, but I do say that they do not come to us as the voice of the Church, nor are they to be accepted as such. 

TROUBLES FORECAST 

Brother J. Golden Kimball told us yesterday that he was a great believer in dreams that come true. I am reminded of the fact that immediately after the close of the World War these students of the Pyramids announced and published it that according to their measurements and calculations there would begin in the year 1928 a period which would bring tribulation and sorrow to the people of the world; that they would be required to humble themselves before the Lord, and  that period of tribulation would continue until the year 1936. This was based entirely upon the measurement of the galleries and the steps that are in the Pyramids. 

We all know that a part of this dream at least has come true. Men come to us and tell us that there is no depression; that it is only our imagination. It is true that we are surrounded by plenty, but in the midst of plenty many are in want. Such talk to me is sheer nonsense. My father-in-law, Erastus Snow, used to say that such statements reminded him of a man trying to hold himself up by his own bootstraps. When Great Britain who has stood in the ages past as a financial master of the world sends out cries for financial help; when Germany who stands in the very forefront of the nations of the world in intellectual development ,in music, in chemistry, in mechanism, sends out calls for help, and is on the very verge of dissolution and anarchy, it is obvious that there is somethng wrong. 

TRIBULATIONS EVIDENT 

When our own government is wrestling with problems which they hardly know how to control, but are doing their very best to meet them; when banking establishments are going down like block-houses, and hundreds of millions of dollars of the savings of poor people are being lost to them because of these failures, it appears obvious to me that we are passing through a time of tribulation. I believe it is better at any rate that we should think so. I agree with the Governor of our state in his declaration that we are in a period which requires our most careful attention and our best efforts to avert. If there are those who do not believe it they will find it out before we are through with it. 

DEFENDS BANKS 

While I am on my feet I want to say one thing: This condition naturally brings trouble to banking institutions, and men are referring to banks as heartless usurers. Banks are not money-lenders alone, they are the custodians of the funds of the people. They do not lend their own money, they lend the money of the widow and the orphan and the fatherless which has been entrusted to them. They make investment of it that it may bring returns to these people who so greatly need it, and it is their sacred duty to preserve those funds to save them from loss. When men go to banks and borrow money they must do it with the expectation that they are to pay it back. It is not their money, it is not the money of the bank; it is the money of the people. And so when banks are careful to preserve their resources and to keep them liquid, so they can meet the demands that are made upon them, they should be complimented and not found fault with. 

This brings me right back to another thing that the Redeemer said. He told us, you know, that there would be weeping and wailing among the merchants — or the prophet told us that — because there would be no one to buy their merchandise. We have very nearly lived to see that. He told us that it will be the same with the giver of usury as it is with the taker of usury from him. This is not a condition which affects one class of our citizens only, it affects men from the wealthy of our country to those who are in the most humble circumstances. Well, now, my brethren and sisters, what about it all ? 

TRUST THE LORD 

Just be calm and turn to the Lord. It is not the result of any occurrence of the immediate past. We have been gradually drifting toward it for years and years, and personally I have known that it would come, and I bore witness of it from this stand to the people a year ago. I applied it to my own affairs. I pleaded with the people to put their houses in order and get out of debt, for I knew this was coming, because God himself through his Only Begotten Son had declared it. 

There is nothing that men can do, nothing that we can do that will avert the fulfilment of those sayings, and it is not the design of our Father in heaven at all either. It is simply the result of our own lack of wisdom, of our own disposition to be selfish, of the accumulation of the wealth of the country in the hands of a few men, which prevents its equal distribution among the masses. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, if the Church has anything to say to you it will come from them direct and not from the writings of other men. It will come to you in a manner that you will understand it. It will not be speculative. It will come to you philosophically, truthfully and governed by common sense. 

God bless you, is my humble prayer, through Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

This is a wonderful gathering, wonderful from many angles, and from every point of view outstanding and remarkable. 

I enjoy working in the ministry and always have done from my youth up. I have enjoyed working for the Church, but I must confess that of all the work I have to do and of all the duties I am called upon to perform I always approach this duty with fear and trembling. I pray that you will assist me with your faith and your sympathy, and that I may have the blessing of the Lord and the Spirit of the Lord to season my remarks. 

OMINOUS SIGNS 

We have fallen upon strange times, as have been outlined by President Ivins, and the end is not yet. The distress of nations, not this nation alone, this people alone, but the distress of nations and the perplexity of nations is here now at the present time. There are signs about us that are ominous, in some ways almost terrible. 

President Moyle yesterday pointed out to us some of the difficulties,  of the obvious reasons that go to show how dreadful, and ominous, some of the signs of the times are. There is unemployment by the millions, men who would like to work, not the idler, but men who want to work and are able to work and can find no work. 

Nearly one hundred and fifty years ago the great Scottish poet sang in a doleful refrain of this very condition in his day : 

"See yonder poor o'er-labored wight, So abject, mean and vile. Who begs a brother of the earth To give him leave to toil. And see his lordly fellow-worm The poor petition spurn. 

Unmindful, though a weeping wife And helpless children mourn." 

Then he passes on to say : 

"Man's inhumanity to man Makes countless thousands mourn." 

TO ALLEVIATE DISTRESS. 

And so we have that condition today. Committees are appointed, and well appointed, in every state, and the very head of the nation, the president, has appointed his committee, able men, the ablest men who can be found — good men, men who are desirous of the good of the people — to see if something cannot be done to mitigate these hard conditions. In our own state we have committees appointed by the governor and the mayor, and in small towns and villages of the country committees are at work to see if they cannot help out in this present situation. The work of these committees is to see that those who have, give up and contribute to those who are in need. That is the sum and substance of it all. We have heard that labor organizations are rather threatening. 

England's navy 

We have heard of one of the most ominous signs of the time that has occurred in England. President Moyle, I think it was, said that the dole alone, in England, stands between that country and anarchy; and one of the worst signs we have had in the last few weeks is a mutiny in the English navy. The chancellor of the exchequer, Philip Snowden, in paring down expenses, taxing to the last degree — twentyfive per cent of all the income of the people, and large incomes taxed much higher than that — trying to make ends meet, trying to get enough to stabilize the English pound and carry on with the government, and everybody is making sacrifices — in doing this he pared down a little on the English navy's sailors' compensation and the result was mutiny in the navy — in England's navy — something unheard of, unbelievable. Hardly can we conceive that such a thing would transpire. That doesn't have a good look, because it has been the English navy that has done more for the world than any one can imagine. From the days that the Armada of Spain came up the channel to overthrow England and take possession of the country, in 1588, when Drake and Hawkins and a few of the bravest sailors and leaders ever known came out to defend their country, and did defend it, and in the goodness of the Almighty a strong wind was sent to blow that Armada up the channel and help out the weak English contingent. The outcome of it was that the British navy from that day took possession of the seas, and from that day to this has held that possession. It made Elizabeth, who was then queen, mistress of the seas. Spain became a second rate or a third rate power a little later on. 

And now, after such a wonderful record, a record that when the Wlorld War broke out seventeen years ago this summer the one instrument of war that was ready and right on the spot was the English navy, this thing has happened. These things do not have a good look. That matter of mutiny was just patched up. We have not heard of anybody being thrown into chains or prison. 

THE LORD'S PLAN 

Well, now, in all this distress are we left without the word of the Lord ? Has the Lord not provided a way out ? I think he has. A hundred years ago last March a revelation was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I read from Section 49, 19th and 20th verses : 

"For, behold, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which cometh of the earth — " 

"I wish you to get that in your minds : "that which cometh of the earth," for when we come to think about it everything in the world that we have "cometh of the earth." We have not had anything of a material nature handed down from any other planet. And so this revelation says : i 

— "and that which cometh of the earth is ordained for the use of man for food, for raiment, and that he might have in abundance. 

"But it is not given that one man should possess that which is above another, wherefore the world lieth in sin." 

The revelation on the United Order had not yet been given. This revelation was given one hundred years ago last March, and has been in print for about a hundred years, and we have taken practically little note of it. We go on in the same old way. Of course, we do in some respects try to do a little more, I think, for our poor than many other people do. Some of us pay our tithes, and that tithing is administered for the good of the whole Church, every cent of it. We go on missions, our sons and daughters go, and they spend two or more years, I may say, working as in the United Order, working without money and without price for the benefit and salvation of others. And everyone who works faithfully at his mission comes back testifying, as I testify regarding my own case, that never in all the experiences of life was there a happier time than the missionary time. 

I have wondered if I would not be much happier, sleep better of , without trouble to a great extent, if I knew my family were provided for, just sufficient, not with riches, but sweet content, with enough. If that were the case why should I not give my whole time to the Church? 

IN MOSES' TIME 

In the days of ancient Israel, in the time of Moses, we find that the land, which we now mortgage and buy and sell, could not be alienated from the family to which it belonged, those who were born on it, so to speak. It belonged not only to those who were alive, but to the unborn generations as well. This is the law of Moses that I will read from Leviticus, chapter twenty-five: 

"The land shall not be sold forever : for the land is mine; for ye are strangers and sojourners with me. 

"And in all the land of your possession ye shall grant a redemption for the land. 

"If thy brother be waxen poor, and hath sold away some of his possession, and if any of his kin come to redeem it, then shall he redeem that which his brother sold. 

"And if the man have none to redeem it, and himself be able to redeem it : "Then let him count the years of the sale thereof, and restore the overplus unto the man to whom he sold it; that he may return unto hs possession. 

"But if he be not able to restore it to him, then that which is sold shall remain in the hand of him that hath bought it, until the year of jubilee: and in the jubilee it shall go out, and he shall return unto his possession." 

That was the law in olden times. People could not be dispossessed of their land. They did allow it to be sold, it seems, but there was a cloud on the title — it would revert back to the original possessor. 

EQUAL POSSESSIONS 

The Lord, in the revelation that I have read, given over a hundred years ago, states that it is not given that one man should possess that which is above another. I do not think that means that every man should have the same quantity of ground allotted to him. Every man shall be appointed to labor, just as our missionaries are now appointed to labor. The Presidency appoint presidents of missions, select the best men they can find who are qualified and who are willing and obedient, that is to say, obedient to righteous law, to take charge here and there. And so it would be if we had great, extensive operations. Every man could be called to the work which he is most fitted to do, and he could do it, and the proceeds, the surplus, should remain with the Church, not the individual. 

NOT DESTRUCTIVE OF INITIATIVE 

I know that some will say, Well that destroys initiative. Nothing of the kind. I was on a mission in the Liverpool office for two years on my last mission and I labored with Wiilliam Budge and John Nicholson, two outstanding men. I labored under their direction. They had great initiative. They were men of ability and capacity far more than I because I was younger, only twenty-eight years of age. while they had had much experience. In their minds they were planning and praying to know how to extend this work, in this direction and in the other. They were full of initiative, and yet I got just as much as they got. They got their board and clothes, what clothes were necessary, and I got the same. It was not given to them to possess that which was above me, and all were happy. We worked together and were like a happy family. It has been done; and with the tithing, as I say, and our fast offerings, expended for the benefit of the whole Church, we are ten per cent in the United Order. We should pay our tithes. Why could we not be twenty per cent, forty per cent, or all? Why couldn't I, I say again, if my family were cared for, work continually, helping for the benefit of others ? 

REGARD FOR OTHERS 

Here is something more that was given to us January 2nd, 1831 (Doctrine and Covenants, section thirty-eight) : 

"And let every man esteem his brother as himself — " That is pretty hard, I suppose, but there it is and it has been there for over a hundred years : — "and practice virtue and holiness before me. 

"And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother as himself. 

"For what man among you having twelve sons, and is no respecter of them, and they serve him obediently, and he saith unto the one : Be thou clothed in robes and sit thou here; and to the other : Be thou clothed in rags and sit thou there — and looketh upon his sons and saith I am just? 

"Behold, this I have given unto you as a parable, and it is even as I am. I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine." 

SELFISHNESS MUST BE OVERCOME 

1 do not know, I haven't the wisdom to understand, how we can take people who are still so selfish that they cannot part with ten per cent and make them so that they will part with all, being assured that they will share equally with all. We ought not to ask anything better than that, if we have assurance of that. What, justice would there be in our asking for more than that? And that could be done. Just how to do it and when it will be done I do not know, but I do believe this that for many years past, for all the years past, I may say — J do not believe that while times were prosperous it would have been possible to organize the Saints into the United Order. If we did accept it, if we did go ahead and become powerful and great and rich I am sure it would be taken that we were a menace to the country, too powerful, too rich, too much of oneness. "And if ye are not one ye are not mine." Wjell, then, we were not his up to that point, and up to this point. 

IF CONDITIONS MEND 

But now, things are coming about so that we ask, What are we to do ? We are waiting until things mend. How can they do so unless the farmers and working people get money to spend? If we go on in the old way, if we go on producing just as we have produced, in mass production, and if our labor-saving machinery that has been invented for the blessing of mankind, and which should shorten the hours of , shorten the work of the laborer, goes on producing and producing just as it has in the past two or three years, we will be flooded again and will be in the same old condition. I do not see any other outcome, even if times change so that we can go on a little way with the hire and salary method, and begging for a job to work. In the phraseology of the streets, we are right up against it. We really don't know what to do. 

THE WAY OF THE LORD 

I have only time to quote from another revelation that the Lord has given on this same subject. (Section eighty-two of the Doctrine and Covenants) This was given in April, 1832 — one hundred years ago next April: 

"For Zion must increase in beauty, and in holiness; her borders must be enlarged; her stakes must be strengthened; yea, verily I say unto you, Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments. 

"Therefore I give unto you this commandment, that ye bind yourselves by this covenant, and it shall be done according to the laws of the Lord. 

"Behold, here is wisdom also in me for your good. 

"And you are to be equal, or in other words, you are to have equal claims on the properties, for the benefit of managing the concerns of your stewardships, every man according to his wants and his needs, inasmuch as his wants are just — 

"And all this for the benefit of the church of the living God, that every man may improve upon his talent, that every man may gain other talents, yea, even an hundred fold, to be cast into the Lord's storehouse, to become the common property of the whole church — 

"Every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God. 

"This order I have appointed to be an everlasting order unto you, and unto your successors, inasmuch as you sin not." 

The Lord has provided a way out. People all over the world are groping for a way out. I do not know anything that quite equals this that was given a hundred years ago for the benefit of this Church and the revelations tell us that the center stake of Zion cannot be built up on any other principle. 

I see that my time has expired. The Lord bless you,, my brethren and sisters, you faithful workers in the cause of Christ. O, how my heart and soul go out to you! You are the salt of the earth. The Church depends on you. God bless you. Amen. 

The Choir and congregation arose and sang the hymn, "God moves in a mysterious way." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I appreciate very much the honor and privilege of expressing my feelings on this auspicious occasion when many thousands of people are assembled and many thousands of others no doubt are listening in on the radio to the proceedings of this conference. While I appreciate this opportunity T want to say that GENERAL CONFERENCE  is no other labor I have to perform in connection with my ministry that gives me so much anxiety and concern as that of anticipating a call to speak in the General Conferences of the Church. Notwithstanding the anxiety I have had I have enjoyed this conference exceedingly and I feel in my soul that it is one of the best we have ever had. 

I think that in considering the character of this vast audience I might conclude that there are present Latter-day Saints of every degree of faith and faithfulness, and others, good men and women, who have not identified themselves with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I desire with all my heart to be able to say something that will be of interest and profit to my listeners, and to this end I trust that the Lord will help me to bring forth some of the reflections which I have had while sitting here upon the stand. 

"We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God." 

This, without any qualification or apology. 

MORONl's EXHORTATION 

I want to read to you a few verses from the 10th chapter of the Book of Moroni in the Book of Mormon. It was Moroni who had the responsibility of hiding up in the Hill Cumorah, many centuries ago, the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated; and he had the responsibility of delivering those plates to Joseph Smith, and after they had been translated by the gift and power of God, received them back at the hands of the Prophet Joseph. 

Speaking of the time when this work should come forth he said : 

"Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your heart. 

"And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

"And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." 

THE REVEALED WORD OF GOD 

We read in the scriptures of the New Testament that "no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of men : but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost." 

The things contained in the Book of Mormon are the things of God given to the children of men by the inspiration and power of the Holy Ghost, and so are the things contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, in the Pearl of Great Price, and in the Holy Bible, which books constitute the standard works of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. If we can enjoy that measure of the Holy Ghost 101  was felt by and which actuated those prophets of God who spoke the things contained in these books, and wrote them, we will understand as they understood, and they will not be mysteries unto us. Every Latter-day Saint who is faithful, having accepted the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel, having had the Holy Ghost conferred upon him, if he is true to these things, will know the truth when he reads it or when he hears it spoken. 

MEN OF GOD 

When President Heber J. Grant stood up before the congregation in the first session of the conference and spoke, every true Latter-day Saint who heard him knew that he was and is the Lord's anointed, his mouthpiece and prophet to this people and to the world, as well as being the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I bear testimony to you that I know that he is God's recognized leader of this people and that he is guided by inspiration from on high — a humble man who seeks to know the will of the Lord in all matters pertaining to his work. I am grateful for the association I have had with President Grant and his counselors and with President Joseph F. Smith and those who were associated with him and are associated now in the leading councils of this Church. I know that they are prophets, seers and revelators in very deed. They are men of God, worthy the confidence and the following of this people, and if the people will follow them they will walk in paths which are straight and narrow and which lead to everlasting life. 

THE OFFICE OF THE HOLY GHOST 

By the power of the Holy Ghost which we through righteousness have a right to enjoy we know that all of those who have spoken in this conference in our hearing have spoken by the power of the Lord. They have spoken words of truth, and words which will make for salvation if we will receive them in good and honest hearts and live by them. This is the office of the Holy Ghost, who is a personage of spirit, one of the trinity of the Godhead. It is his mission and office to bear witness of the Father and of the Son and of the truth of all things. "No man may know that Jesus is the Lord except by the Holy Ghost." 

A MARVELOUS MANIFESTATION 

I want to say something about these other personages. I desire to call the attention of my hearers to an event which took place more than a century ago — to be more exact, in the spring of the year 1820 — when God the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ, in answer to humble but fervent prayer on the part of the boy, Joseph Smith, whom they, had raised up for the ushering in of this Gospel Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, appeared to him in vision. I would call your attention to and have you visualize that wonderful manifestation, the greatest perhaps that ever did transpire. I know of no record or GENERAL CONFERENCE  of an occasion when both the Father and the Son have appeared to any individual at any previous time. I would call your attention to the importance and necessity of that wonderful revelation. You have but to consider today the lack of knowledge on the part of religionists the world over, pertaining to God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost, to realize how necessary it was. 

OUR RESPONSIBILITY 

In 1820 it was just as necessary that this revelation should be given to the world as at any other time in the world's history, I am sure, and more needed because of the ushering in of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. We have had the revelation now for more than a century, and as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which Church has been established by inspiration from the Lord through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith and those who have succeeded him, we have accepted the Gospel and with it the responsibility of preaching it in all the world as a witness before the end comes. For a century we have tried to present this message to the world, that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ have revealed themselves anew to man on the earth, and that the children of men need no longer be in spiritual darkness pertaining to the personality and the attributes of these heavenly beings and the relationship which we sustain to them. 

IMMORTAL BEINGS 

You know the story of the appearing of the Father and the Son to Joseph Smith. Think of it, as the Father and the Son stood there we see them as men, not as women, nor as angels, nor anything else. They stood in the midst of a light although it was at midday, brighter than the noonday sun, and their countenances shone with a glory that was beyond description, showing that they were ' something more than are we mortal men. And what are they? They are immortal beings. And what are immortal beings? Immortal beings are those who have passed through the change by which there is a separation of the body and the spirit, and then the resurrection, which is a uniting of the body and the spirit, so that there will be no more any separation. And this inseparable connection of body and spirit is necessary in order that one may obtain eternal life. In these heavenly personages we see two immortal beings, two beings who are glorified and exalted, and one of them is the Father, and the other the Son — there can be no question about that, because the personage speaking said to the boy, "This is my Beloved Son, hear him." 

(CONTRARY TO SECTARIAN BELIEF 

Now we come to the scriptures to find out if that is in keeping with the New Testament, and we find that it is. (Yet the whole Christian world believe otherwise and have tried to disprove this for more than a century, but they have signally failed and they forever will 103 , for they cannot prove the truth a lie. The Gospel which we have received, with its principles and ordinances, is just as foreign to the views and ideas of the sectarian world as is the fact of the personality of God the Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, and yet it is scriptural and true. The belief that is almost universal is that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ are not personages having bodies of flesh and bones, but that they are something having no body, no parts, no passions; and that Jesus Christ has done for us all that is necessary to be done except to believe on him. I want to say that that is a grave and serious mistake. There has been a falling away from the true Gospel of the Master. Ordinances have been changed, the laws of the Gospel have been transgressed, the Everlasting (Covenant has been broken, as it has been predicted they would be. 

GOSPEL TRUTHS REVEALED ANEW 

The Lord has revealed anew the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, and it comprises faith in God the Eternal Father, in his Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. It includes repentance from sin and baptism by immersion in water by one having authority, for the remission of sins and the fulfilment of the law. It includes the laying on of hands by those in authority for confirmation to membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day faints and for the bestowal of the Holy Ghost. It includes other ordinances; and we have the holy priesthood. No man can under present rulings go into the temple to receive the ordinances there administered, above those of baptism and confirmation, without bearing the holy Melchizedek priesthood. And there are ordinances there administered which are absolutely necessary for those who would enter into the celestial^ kingdom, which makes the holding of and bearing worthily the Melchizedek priesthood, a conditinon necessary for any man to obtain a fulness of glory in the kingdom of God. 

Do the world understand that? They have not the priesthood; they have no power to receive it, only as they come into the fold of Christ and receive it at the hands of those who have authority to confer it. That priesthood is conferred upon those only who are proven to be worthy, if those who have the conferring of it follow instructions given and the established order of the Church of Christ. 

.MARRIAGE FOR ETERNITY 

There are other blessings and ordinances necessary to man's exaltation, that the sectarian world know not of; for instance, the eternity of the marriage covenant. Those who attain to a fulness of glory m the celestial kingdom are to have an eternal increase and a continuation of the seeds forever. It is unthinkable and untrue that that condition could exist without sustaining the marriage relation in the other world. But in order that men and women may live there as man and wite they must enter into most solemn covenants that they will be husband and wife for time and eternity, and there must be a solemn ceremony perGENERAL CONFERENCE  by one having authority, sealing them as husband and wife for time and eternity, and then they must live worthy otherwise to enter into the celestial kingdom. 

OTHER REQUIREMENTS 

There are commandments to be kept, laws to be obeyed, and there is service to be rendered. We have to engage in this work of preaching the Gospel abroad. We have to engage in the work of redeeming the dead. This is a service of the very highest type, like unto that which God our Father and his Son Jesus Christ rendered when the Father gave the Son, and the Son gave himself, to be the Redeemer and Savior of this world. Yes, and there are sins to be avoided. We are to learn to love the Lord our God with all our heart, might, mind and strength, and our neighbor as ourself, and manifest it in our life. 

Should we not be thankful, Latter-day Saints, for the light of the everlasting Gospel, and although it entails sacrifice, service, self denial, etc., we know that in the end our reward will be ample, even that of eternal life. 

I am grateful above all that I can express, for the understanding I have of the Gospel, and of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, and the testimony I have of the truth. I praise God for these things. May he add his blessings, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters and friends, to associate with you at this time in this splendid conference and to partake of the spirit of this gathering. But I tremble" in the occupancy of this position. 

We have met together in this conference to consider matters pertaining to the welfare and progress not only of the Latter-day Saints, but of all mankind. The principles of this Gospel which we accept, and the practices which we endeavor to carry forward are, we consider, not only beneficial to us but to all the people of the earth. We realize that this Gospel has come to us as a free gift. That is, we have not organized it, but the Lord has established it, and we ihave been offered the opportunity to accept it and enjoy the benefits which come from obedience to it. I am sure that all that has been said in this conference is profitable to all men everywhere. 

LEADERSHIP OF MOSES 

I am reminded of the time when Moses had endeavored to lead the people of Israel out of Egypt into the promised land. After they had rejected his counsels and instruction, and the Lord had declared that they, as a people, should not enter into the promised land, they were kept in the wilderness until that generation had passed away, with one or two exceptions, and a new generation had grown up. 105 

But under the leadership of Joshua they were permitted to go into the land of Canaan. After they had been in the land of Canaan and had subdued that country and had become established therein, many of them neglected the observance of the commandments of the Lord and fell away and were led into strange ways and to the worship of strange gods. 

CHOOSE WHOM YOU WILL SERVE 

We are told that shortly before his death Joshua called the people together and presented these matters to them. I should like to read to you briefly what he said : 

"Now therefore fear the Lord, 'and serve him in sincerity and in truth : and put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood, and in Egypt; and serve ye the Lord. 

"And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve; whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell : but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." 

FAITH IN GOD NEEDED 

It seems to me that if there ever was a time in the history of the world when faith in the living God was necessary it is the present time — faith which will produce works of righteousness; faith which will enable men to live in accordance with the will of God and be able to walk in his paths; faithv which will cause them to desire to consecrate themselves to the advancement of the purposes of the Lord. This will enable them also to cultivate the spirit of repentance, to realize from time to time, their shortcomings, their mistakes, and the things which they are doing contrary to the will of God, and to endeavor to overcome those things and thereby to develop in power, righteousness and truth. 

PURPOSE OF GOSPEL 

The Latter-day Saints believe that the Gospel comprehends the worship of the living God — the Father and the Son — as has been testified to by Brother Richards who has just spoken. We believe that this Gospel is intended for the welfare of all mankind. It will enable all who accept and live it to learn how to live together in unity in this life, and to prepare for eternity. It comprehends within itself those things which will help to promote not only the spiritual welfare of mankind, which is the most vital thing, but also their temporal progress. 

CONSIDERATION FOR OTHERS 

If this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, what does it do for us? It helps us first to improve ourselves, to put our own lives in harmony with the principles which the Savior declared at the time when he was upon the earth, and which have been revealed anew in these days; to live lives of fairness, of justice, of mercy, of sympathy and of righteousness. It enables us also to cultivate greater consideration for our GENERAL CONFERENCE  men and desire for their progress and welfare. Likewise, it helps men to cultivate that spirit of repentance which is necessary in order to be able to overcome past mistakes, and to resist highmindedness, pride and selfishness. 

PRIESTHOOD FOR GUIDANCE 

So also is it important that all who have accepted this Gospel should be able to keep ourselves free from the worship of strange gods, that will interfere with our progress, whether it be that of wealth, the desire for excessive luxury, incorrect principles, or what not. The Church has within itself the power to aid greatly in the solution of temporal as well as spiritual problems that trouble mankind, because it has that inspired leadership which leads to truth — the basis of all real progress. In this connection you will realize that when Joshua spoke to the people of Israel he spoke as one who had been ordained to lead the people by the authority of the priesthood, which Moses had conferred upon him. So, in these days, we have those who are called to lead this people by the authority of the holy priesthood and hold the keys of the authority thereof. They labor in all humility and faith, and with a desire to serve the people as their servants, as was expressed to us last night by President Nibley. 

DEMAND FOR A MODERN MOSES 

Recently, in a number of magazines and newspapers, articles have appeared calling for a modern Moses to lead the people out of the temporal depression which prevails throughout the world. When such a desire is expressed the question naturally arises whether the counsels of such a leader would be given any more attention than were those of that prophet by the people among whom he lived. Mankind is always much the same, except as it may be imbued with faith and the Spirit of God. You will remember that Moses himself - could not lead the people over whom he presided out of the wilderness, because they refused to accept his counsel, even though he spoke to them in the name of the Lord. They rejected him and, because of the rejection of the Lord through his servant, they failed to enter the promised land. But, in the thousands of years that have elapsed since the death of Moses, people have come to honor him as a prophet. As the Savior said, they honor the dead, but they stone the living prophets. It is probably natural for people to fail to accept the counsel of those who are in their midst — wise men, great men — who may be inspired to declare what is helpful and good for them. 

INSPIRED LEADERSHIP IN THE CHURCH 

The Latter-day Saints have been blessed in the leadership of men who have had wisdom and judgment. We believe not only in the teaching of spiritual things, but also of things that affect the temporal welfare of the Latter-day Saints and of mankind at large. The Lord has inspired his servants who lead this people, to declare the things that 107  good for them in the midst of this prevailing depression. I would like to recite to you some of the things that have been said by the leaders of this Church today, yesterday, the day before, and for a long time past, which affect the welfare not only of this people but of all mankind for good; and would have helped them to relieve themselves of much of the trouble that prevails today, if they had accepted and lived in accordance with these things. When I say these things I speak to myself as well as to you. 

Here are some of the things which I desire to call briefly to your attention because I think they are important. They are counsels that have been given us that would save us from trouble, distress and tribulation : 

Live within your Income : It is the only way to progress, peace and prosperity. President Brigham Young declared : 

"Learn to do without that which you cannot purchase and pay for; and bring your minds into subjection that you must and will live within your means." 

Cultivate Thrift: It is just as important for us to realize that we should save out of that which we earn for times of trouble and distress as it was for Egypt in the time of Joseph to save during the seven years of prosperity and of growing crops, for the seven years of famine and distress that would come after them, ft has been said that capital represents the savings of civilization. We should put aside our savings in the form of cash and place those savings where they will be taken care of and where they will be secure. That requires wisdom and judgment. 

Get out of Debt : We were told that last evening by President Ivins, and we have been counseled to this effect repeatedly in the past. How many of us have accepted that advice? All of us would be far better off if we had accepted it and observed it. 

Avoid Speculation : One of the important causes of the present depression and of every other panic is excessive speculation during prosperous times. In 1929 the fever of speculation spread everywhere. It has been said that periods of prosperity and of hard times will recur as long as the agencies of production and exchange are strained to the limit to meet demands stimulated to extravagance by a universal passion of speculation. 

Pay as You Go : We have been counseled again and again not to mortgage our futures. We should not be misled by those high pressure salesmen who will sell us continually on the promise of our being able to pay during our lifetime. Shall we profit by such counsel in the future ? 

Patronise Home Industry: We heard the counsel from President Grant last evening to support local industries, and we have heard it repeatedly from many other leaders of the Church. As stated by him, thousands, in fact I have been told by the Manufacturers' Association GENERAL CONFERENCE  in this State alone twenty thousand men and women, could be employed in addition to those already employed, if the people of this State were to buy the products that are manufactured here. In these intermountain states particularly greater encouragement and patronage of home manufactures on the part of people who live here are necessary for our mutual welfare, because we are not so favorably situated as the coast cities and others advantageously located for transportation rates and markets. But we have the raw materials, and it seems to me there should be nothing go out of this intermountain country as far as it is possible to avoid that is not in manufactured form. There should be no good reason why the price and quality of all our products should not favorably compete with others. 

Watch your Markets — Avoid Over-production: The people have been advised by Church leaders to study market conditions and to avoid excessive production, whether in farm products or in prepared commodities. Agriculturists have been urged to diversify, and to produce for their own requirements as far as possible. President Brigham Young told the people : "Learn to sustain yourselves. Produce everything you need to eat, drink or wear." Industries have been encouraged to cater particularly to nearby markets. One of the most powerful causes of the trouble that exists today is because of the difference between production and consumption. It has been declared that prosperity is a state of equilibrium between production and consumption. 

Overcome Selfishness — Avoid Greed : This counsel applies less to the Latter-day Saints probably than to any other group. But the prevalence of selfishness and greed among mankind has contributed greatly to the present situation. The free operation of economic laws is interfered with by selfish human interests. It has been said that the fundamental cause of unrighteousness is the desire for power and for wealth, coupled with the character and purpose of that desire. 

OVERCOME PAST MISTAKES 

My brethren and sisters, if we as a people had in past years observed these instructions, referred to here very briefly, we should hardly have noticed the depression. It would scarcely affect us, certainly not nearly to the extent that it has done up to the present time. If we will learn from our mistakes and repent of our shortsightedness and our failure to observe the counsel and advice of these men who stand here to lead and guide us, we shall profit in the future. And if the people of this nation and the world would generally observe these instructions which have been given from time to time by the inspired leaders of the Church, all would be far better off and there would not be suffering nearly to the same extent as that which has occurred. Neglect to follow such rules has contributed very largely to produce the present unfavorable conditions. 109 

CRITICAL ATTITUDE CAUSED BY ADVERSITY 

A critical attitude is prevalent at present throughout the earth with relation to existing conditions. Such an attitude is probably to be expected because of the adverse circumstances and the suffering that many people are going through for lack even of the necessities of life. They are almost desperate. It is, of course, very important that everything possible should be done through cooperation, by donations and every other available means to prevent suffering and assure at least the necessities of life for people everywhere. It is vital, also, that everyone, as far as possible, shall be given opportunity to work. 

PANACEAS SUGGESTED 

Many panaceas have been suggested to avoid the recurrence of such conditions as prevail at present. Some are constructive; others are destructive. Some proposals are altruistic in nature; others are utterly selfish. There are those who would forcibly and unlawfully take the property of others in violation of the rights guaranteed to all citizens under the Constitution. Naturally, the representatives of the people in Congress can, with the approval of the President, proceed to change the laws wherever necessary to protect the citizens as a whole from improper aggrandizement of property by a few, and to promote the general welfare. You cannot legislate righteousness into people, but you can and should bring about, through the law-enforcing agencies general respect for and observance of law. 

ALL THINGS IN COMMON 

There are others who advocate the principle of having all things in common. That is a very fine doctrine. Any group that can subscribe to it wholeheartedly, labor unitedly, wisely and diligently for the welfare of the whole, and maintain loyalty, altruism and kindliness constantly, can doubtless succeed in developing a splendid community. But it requires all of these qualities. There needs to be entire banishment of envy and greed from the hearts of those who would undertake it. How many are able to maintain the unselfishness necessary to bring about such a desirable condition? 

Then, there is the doctrine of communism, which is more extreme. Under such a system the properties of others might be forcibly taken for its adherents, and control exercised in all matters pertaining to labor, religion, and social relations. Some English writer, in a satirical mood, has given the following definition of communism in the extreme : 

"What is a communist? One |who has yearnings For an equal division of unequal earnings; Sluggard or scoundrel, or both, he is willing To fork out his penny and pocket your shilling." 

Such a description may not apply to many people, but it does apply to some who are selfish and covetous in their desires, and are not willing to do their part in helping to earn and to promote the welfare of the entire community. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

CHURCH STANDS FOR GREATER EQUALITY 

It is desirable, as stated by President Nibley this morning, that, there should be greater equality of wealth, and greater consideration on the part of those who have means in giving for the benefit of those who are not so favorably situated. Consideration by men for their fellows must be ingrained in them by some power other than politics, and that must, apparently, be through religion. The Gospel of Jesus Christ as taught and practiced by this people is, in my judgment, the most effective means ior the promotion of greater mutual interest. The Church stands for greater equality and cooperation among mankind, without in any way interfering with individual initiative. Any legislation that will help to promote the mutual welfare of all, and control the aggrandizement of wealth is, in my judgment, fully justified. Faithful Church members show continually their consideration for others by the spirit of brotherly kindness, and by material contributions for the temporal and spiritual welfare of their fellows. 

GOSPEL PROMOTES SPIRIT OF CONSECRATION 

The teachings of "Mormonism" are and always have been of such character as to stimulate in those who accept them the spirit of consecration of their time, means and efforts to the welfare of others as well as themselves. The observance of the principle of tithing, of fasting and fast offerings, relief of those in need, the missionary work, community building, all help to promote, through service to the Lord, the interests of our fellow members. 

OBEY THE LAW OF TITHING 

We have been continually encouraged to obey the law of tithing. It is a most effective test of our faith in God and his work. It helps to raise us to higher standards. It is a means for our temporal as well as our spiritual progress. Obedience to this law will aid us to conserve our pfoperty and to develop prudence and foresight in our affairs. The prophet Malachi declared anciently that if the Hebrews would observe this principle faithfully they should be materially blessed and the Lord would rebuke the devourer for their sakes. 

If we accept the principle of tithing in a half-hearted way, fearing that we are going to give too much or are making too great a sacrifice, we shall not enjoy the blessings which the Lord has promised. But if we give liberally in the spirit of that principle we shall be blessed. President Brigham Young declared on one occasion : "I would not give the ashes of a rye straw for the man who feels that he is making sacrifice for God. We are doing this for our own happiness, welfare and exaltation, and Inobody's else." Every principle of the Gospel is a privilege for us. It is a means for our growth and development, and if we shall observe it we shall enjoy the blessings that follow.  

CULTIVATE CONTRITENESS OF SPIRIT 

My brethren and sisters, I think we should accept and observe 111  counsels that are given to us by the Presidency of the Church and the other leaders who are inspired of God. In the spirit of humility we should cultivate the faith and repentance which is necessary in order that we may walk uprightly and in accordance with the will of the Lord. I am reminded of a statement in the Book of Mormon where the voice of the Lord declared unto the people : "Ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart and a contrite spirit." And Kipling in that wonderful poem, "The Recessional," after the great celebration in England at the time of the jubilee of Queen Victoria, reminded the people : _ 

"Still stands thine ancient sacrifice, An humble and a contrite heart . . . Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, Lest we forget, — lest we forget." 

May the Lord help each of us firmly to resolve in our hearts and minds that "as for me and my house we will serve the Lord," I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang the anthem, "Jesus Only." 

Elder Milton H. Welling offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 

THIRD DAY 


