14
Morning
08 10 1916
Elder James E. Talmage. 
41
73-76

None

A fulfilment of prophecy — The sure word of revelation compared with the deductions of men — Let God be true though men be liars — The coming forth of the Lost Tribes of Israel.  
  
I know that I have been in accord with the feelings of the vast multitudes that have assembled at the several sessions of this conference, in appreciation of the words of instruction and encouragement to which we have listened. The people have been fed upon substantial fare. They have heard the truths of the gospel declared in no uncertain terms. Your presiding servants have called your attention to matters that require your present attention. They have not confined themselves to words of praise unmixed with words of warning, but have adapted their testimonies, their admonitions, and their instructions to the needs of the hour.  
  
In the gatherings of the Saints at this time, as on other conference occasions, I find fulfilment of prophecy, and see a working out of the purposes and plans of the Eternal One, a vindication of the prophets of God who have spoken in days past, and of the words of the living prophets who minister amongst the people in the authority of their holy office. In this respect, I feel that the Latter-day Saints cannot be too careful lest they be led to doubt the strict and literal fulfilment of the Lord's word as it has been made known to them. There are men in the world who; have set themselves up against the God of Israel, men who have undertaken to measure arms with the Almighty, and to pit their wisdom against the eternal wisdom of God, men who have undertaken to construe, or rather to misconstrue the holy Scriptures, and to declare to the people that these writings do not mean what they say. Beware of them, Latter-day Saints. Stand we firm and steadfast by the revealed word of God and on the words of instruction that are given us from time to time by those whom we sustain before the Lord as his representatives in our midst; and should there come a question of issue between the opinions of men and the word of revelation, I say, as said the apostle, Paul, of old, in his written address to the Saints of Rome: "Yea, let God be true, but every man a liar." Men have made themselves liars before God because they have undertaken to question and even to deny his word.  
  
Do you lack or do you want illustrations? The restoration of the gospel furnishes one. The words of the Christ himself, the words of the apostles who followed him in the ministry on earth, the words of prophets who had preceded his coming, were to the effect that in the last days the gospel should be restored, for the reason that it would not be found upon the earth; and yet there were those who said that it had always been upon the earth. But the angel whom the apostle-prophet saw coming in the midst of heaven in the last days, has come, bringing the everlasting gospel to the inhabitants of earth; and God is true though men be made out liars by the fulfilment of that sure word. Again, after the restoration, when the words of the prophet declared that the people who had embraced the restored gospel, a mere handful in comparison with those who belonged to each of many so-called churches in the world, would come to the West and would establish themselves in the midst of the Rocky Mountains where they would become a great and a powerful people, the possibility of such was denied by the nation's wise and great ones, by specialists and leaders. Surely, no people could prosper and become a great and mighty commonwealth without ample means of subsistence. It was declared by statesmen that this vast domain in the West was a worthless area, incapable of supporting human life on a great scale. One of the greatest explorers and pioneers in that period of American history declared that not a bushel of grain could be raised in this valley. Yet the people came, and the prophet-leader pointed to the valley from the Wasatch barrier and declared it to he the appointed place of gathering. Again God had spoken and again men were proved to be liars. If the word be a harsh one, remember I speak it within quotation marks; I take it from the scriptural record.  
  
Would you have other instances? Scientists, psychologists, students of the human mind, have undertaken to analyze and dissect this strange organism "Mormonism," and they have said it arose from delusion; that it has sprung from the seed of deception; that it is the offspring of bigotry and fanaticism; and the man whom we call a prophet of the last days, through whom we say the gospel has been restored and the Church re-established, was an epileptic; and consequently, according to the laws of heredity, which they have diagrammed and set forth in orderly array, the delusion could not persist beyond the third generation, for such would be contrary to formulated law. The world took comfort in that assurance, for it was given by those in whom the people had confidence; but what see we? Under this vast dome here today, are hundreds of the fourth and many of the fifth generation. Yea, let God he true, though every man be a liar.  
  
Only a few months before the outbreak of the terrible world conflict, to which frequent reference has been made in this session and in earlier sessions of this conference, there stood here in this pulpit, where I now stand, one of the nation's great men, who set forth the results of his study and his investigations regarding certain problems; and who declared, as a result, that the conditions of the nations were today such as to make a great international war impossible. There would possibly be, said he, little uprisings, such as then had already begun in Mexico, but a war between the great powers could not take place. He emphasized by reiteration. The financial affairs of the world, he averred, were such as to link and weld the nations together; and should emperors, czars, or kings declare war, the bankers would veto their decision. I spoke with the gentleman here in this stand, at the conclusion of his address, in substance to this effect: "I wish I could believe you, Doctor." "You don't?" "I do not." "What is wrong with my deductions?" "They may be logically drawn, but your premises are wrong. You have failed to take into account certain essential factors; you have discarded and ignored the predictions of the prophets; and on such a question as this I shall accept the word of the prophet rather than the conclusion of the academician, even though he be as distinguished as yourself, sir." I could not discuss the matter at length, but such I said. Within a short span of months after that time, several of the most powerful nations of the world were locked in the death-grapple, which has been tightening with the passage of the years. So, as I read the words of the prophet that war should he poured out upon all nations, and that in this day and dispensation, in which we live, this the land of Zion should be the only land wherein safety might be found, I said to myself again: Yea, let God be true, though all the world's wise ones be liars.  
  
With such examples before us, can we doubt as to the future? How think you the Lord looks upon these "plans of mice and men" that "gang aft agley"? I take it that the contemplation of such developments is his humor; for, mark you, the God of heaven is a great humorist. I read that "He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh; the Lord shall have them in derision." I read in the further word of the psalmist that as the Lord looketh upon the wicked and seeth him in his temporary, seeming prosperity, spreading himself like a green bay tree, "The Lord shall laugh at him, for he seeth that his day is coming." When I see how often the theories and conceptions of men have gone astray, have fallen short of the truth, yea, have even contradicted the truth directly, I am thankful in my heart that we have an iron rod to which we can cling — the rod of certainty, the rod of revealed truth. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints welcomes all truth, but it distinguishes most carefully between fact and fancy, between truth and theory, between premises and deductions; and it is willing to leave some questions in abeyance until the Lord in his wisdom shall see fit to speak more plainly.  
  
As; the result of the combined labors of wise men I learn that man is but the developed offspring of the beast; and yet I read that God created man in his own image, after his likeness; and again, I stand on the word of God, though it be in contradiction to the theories of men. This spirit of misconstruction, this attempt to explain away the sure word of prophecy, the indisputable word of revelation, is manifest even amongst our own people. There are those who would juggle with the predictions of the Lord's prophets. I read that in the last days one of the conditions preceding the return of the Christ to earth shall be the gathering of the Jews at their ancient capital, and in the land round about; and that another sign shall be the gathering of the people who have been scattered among the nations; and yet another shall be the bringing forth of the Lost Tribes from their hiding place, which is known to God, but unknown to man. Nevertheless, I have found elders in Israel who would tell me that the predictions relating to the Lost Tribes are to be explained in this figurative manner — that the gathering of those tribes is already well advanced and that there is no hiding place whereto God has led them, from which they shall come forth, led by their prophets to receive their blessings here at the hands of gathered Ephraim, the gathered portions that have been scattered among the nations. Yea, let God be true, and doubt we not his word, though it makes the opinions of men appear to be lies. The tribes shall come; they are not lost unto the Lord; they shall be brought forth as hath been predicted; and I say unto you there are those now living — aye, some here present — who shall live to read the records of the Lost Tribes of Israel, which shall be made one with the record of the Jews, or the Holy Bible, and the record of the Nephrites, or the Book of Mormon, even as the Lord hath predicted; and those records, which the tribes lost to man but yet to be found again shall bring, shall tell of the visit of the resurrected Christ to them, after He had manifested Himself to the Nephites upon this continent. For, as not one jot or tittle of the Law has been permitted to fail, so surely no jot or tittle of the Gospel shall go unfulfilled.  
  
I have heard it said that the predictions relative to the coming of the Christ are to be explained in a figurative way, that he is to dwell in the hearts of men and that is the second advent. Verily, the Christ shall come in person and shall be seen of the righteous and shall stand upon the earth and reign as rightful King and Lord, and shall send forth the law for the government of the world.  
