18
Overflow
08 10 1916
Elder Hyrum M. Smith. 
33
89-92

None

The only true Church established by God and not by men — Our duty to teach all mankind freely this truth — Compulsion not a principle of the gospel — Those who neglect to accept the truth must take the consequences — Later-day Saints are obedient to the priesthood, because, they are a part of the priesthood which exercises its power in righteousness — They are obedient to an organization, because they are the organization — No man since the great apostasy has been able to organize the Church of Christ; it remained for the Lord to do, through the Prophet Joseph — We must continue to teach these truths to our children.  
  
The things we have heard this morning are some of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. They are some of the things that must not be forgotten by the Latter-day Saints. They are truths that must be taught by the Latter-day Saints to their children, and their children must be trained in the knowledg of them, and prepared to go out into the world and proclaim them for the salvation of the world. It must not be forgotten by the Latter-day Saints that the Church to which they belong is the only true Church in all the world. It must be remembered by them that there is no other church on the earth that is recognized of God as his Church. Will he acknowledge an organization that he has not established? Will he recognize ordinances and ceremonies and sacraments that are performed; by those whom he has not appointed? I tell you he will not. The Lord recognizes only those whom he has called and chosen and ordained and sent forth to do his work and accomplish his will. While it is true, as Brother Ballard has stated, that the world, the people of the world, are not necessarily responsible or blamable for perpetrating upon the earth false churches or denominations or religions, nevertheless it must not be forgotten that the world of mankind will be held responsible if they continue to perpetuate in the earth these false religions that were introduced centuries ago by uninspired men or by the adversary of the souls of men. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints did not come out of the Catholic church. It is not an offshoot of any protestant denomination. It is not a faction of any denomination or religion extant in the world. It is not something that has been established by men. It came not by the will of man, nor by the wisdom of man, but it came from God. God established it, not man. The truth of it came down from heaven, by the revelations of God, and is not founded upon the ideas nor the speculations nor the sentiments nor the will of men. The priesthood and authority of this Church is not a power that man has arrogated unto himself. It is not authority assumed by men or conferred by one man upon another; but it is an authority that came down from heaven and was restored unto men by the messengers sent from God, and those who received it are authorized to speak and to minister in things pertaining to the salvation and the redemption of mankind. These things are true. Therefore these things must not be forgotten; they must he remembered and taught unto our children and to our children's children to the latest generation, because these truths are what we must possess in order that we may come to an understanding and to the unity of the faith.  
  
I pray God to bless his people, and to make them able to accomplish the work he has called them to perform. As Brother Hinckley has suggested, because we are the chosen of God and have embraced the gospel of Christ and are members of the only true Church in the world, there is no reason why we should exalt ourselves and boast ourselves as better than others. That need not follow. We are what we are because we humbly accepted the word of the Lord, and did not reject the message of salvation when it came to us or our fathers. And some of you and many of your fathers were what the people of the world are now; and what we are now, multitudes in the world may he. All mankind may be numbered with the Saints of God, if they will forsake following the footprints as well as the will of the adversary, and submit their wills to the will of God. It is a matter that every man must regulate for himself. All men can serve God freely. All are invited to come and drink of the waters of life freely, and they may come if they will. No one will coerce them, nor compel them. Compulsion is not a principle of the gospel of salvation. The gospel will be preached to them. We will labor for them, and we will serve them. We will make great sacrifices for them, and endeavor to bring them to a knowledge of the truth, a knowledge of the salvation of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and of the kingdom of God; but if they neglect that message, they must, of course, take the consequences. Some of these learned ones, quoted by Brother Ballard, express themselves in their ignorance concerning this Church. Are the Latter-day Saints subservient to the priesthood? Yes in the sense of being obedient to the priesthood. Why, we the male portion of the Church are the priesthood. All men in the Church, those who are worthy, all are entitled to bear the priesthood, and do bear it, so far as we know. Each man exercises that power in his labor among the Saints. We rejoice in being obedient to God and to his power, and the priesthood is his power, and he has delegated it unto men, and those who exercise the authority and power of that priesthood, how have they exercised it? My brethren and sisters, have they exercised it in harshness? Have they exercised it in unrighteousness? Have they exercised any unrighteous dominion over you and your children, or have they exercised it as the humble servants of God, and your servants, your helpers, your instructors, your teachers, your leaders, your fathers, your husbands, your brothers, your sons? All these hold the priesthood, and the exercise of that priesthood has been manifested in love and sacrifice and service and brotherhood and mercy and charity and patience and tolerance and in good will. We know that. And that is one of the causes that has made the Latter-day Saints united. Are the Saints obedient to an organization? Why, they are the organization. The Church of Christ as organized in the world is composed of the membership thereof, set in order according to the wisdom of God.  
  
If there has been one single man, from the very first pope down to the last, in Catholicism, who has known what the Church of Jesus Christ is, or what the gospel of Jesus Christ is, then I say it is very unfortunate that he has never made it known to the world. If there is any man in any religious, denomination whatsoever, from the beginning of it until now, who has known what the organization of the Church of Christ is, and how to organize it, or who knew what it consists of, then I say it is a great calamity to the world, and the world is suffering terribly in consequence, that he has never made it known to the world, and organized the Church for the benefit and the salvation of the children of men. Is it not reasonable to suppose that if any man, in any dispensation gone by, or living at the present time, understood the organization of the Church, and how to effect it, who understood the order of the priesthood, and how to set in order the quorums of the priesthood for the work of the ministry, for the preaching of the gospel, for the perfection of the Saints, for the purpose of bringing all men to the unity of the faith — I say is it not reasonable to suppose that he would have made it known, and set up that organization, and set in order that priesthood, and commenced a work for the redemption and salvation of mankind. The very fact, then, that no man has been able to set up the kingdom of God and establish the Church of Christ, with prophets, apostles, etc., and the divine gifts of the Spirit, and set in order the quorums of the priesthood, and assign the duties of the priesthood to the members who hold it, that fact, I say, is positive, irrefutable evidence of the truth, that no man since the falling away, since the great apostasy which followed the establishment of the Church by Christ, has known what the Church is, or how to establish it, nor what is the power of the priesthood, nor how to regulate those who hold it. These things have been made known, in our day, not by man, but by the Lord. They have been declared by the revelations of the Lord. And this organization and this authority has been established in the world by the wisdom and mercy and loving kindness of God, our Eternal Father, for the salvation of his children; and its destiny, as has been said time and time again and as we must continue to teach and declare to our children, is to bring about the salvation of the children of men who ever lived, and who do live, and who shall ever live upon the face of the earth. I know these things are true. I know it, not by the wisdom of men, nor the learning of men, but by the witness and power of the Holy Ghost. He has borne testimony to my soul, that these things are true, the very truths of heaven, and that Joseph Smith was an instrument in the hand of God through whom they have been given again to mankind in the world.  
  
May God help us to remember these things, and cherish them, and hold them up paramount in our lives, and in all our activities while we live in the flesh, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
