19
Outdoor
08 10 1916
Elder Wilford Day. 
159
92-93

None

None

(President of the Parowan Stake.) 

My brethren, sisters, and friends, it is indeed gratifying to me to see such a large audience here this morning, in view of the fact that both of the main buildings are crowded to their capacity.  
  
As has been stated, I am the president of the Parowan Stake of Zion, two weeks old today. I, who am the baby member of the Stake Presidents, did not expect to be called upon so early. Some few years ago, as a shepherd from the range, I received a call to fill a mission, I responded, and the burden of my prayer was that I would be called into service. While I have made this explanation, this morning, it is not in the nature of complaining — I thank God, again, that I am put into service, because to me, with the limited experience I have had in this work, it means good feeling. For the more we work, the better we feel, the more we appreciate the gospel of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. I feel in every fibre of my being that this work in which we are engaged is, indeed, the Master's work. The teachings and instructions I received from the brethren, the presiding authorities, when they set me apart and called me to that mission in a foreign land, was of such, a nature, as every man and woman should have in this world. They taught me to pray for those who despitefully use me, to have no malice in my soul, and to be at peace with my God, my neighbors, and all mankind. Today I am happy to tell you, my brethren and sisters, that there is not a touch of spite in my heart toward any living being upon the face of the earth. People there may be who do not like me; there are people with whom I do not harmonize — we do not work together just right, probably; but, nevertheless, I do not have a bitter spot in my heart toward any man upon the face of the earth. That is one of the principles of "Mormonism." One of the teachings I received was that I should keep myself pure and unspotted from the sins of the world. That is a doctrine of "Mormonism." Every teaching that I have received, under all circumstances, has been of such a character as to cause me to grow stronger, and to become a better citizen of this great Republic, and a better member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
I have occasion at times to come in contact with people who are not of our faith, and I recall now a conversation I had, only a few days ago, with persons not of our faith, and not of our state, who were coming through the country, evidently anxious for information pertaining to our people. They wanted to know the conditions — wanted to know how we stood politically, how strangers were treated who were not of our faith. My answer was that if they exhibited manhood and womanhood, we knew no difference in the ordinary affairs of life. I presume there are many here, probably, who are not of our faith, but I want to say this: I have served in various capacities in our stake, away out in the far country, nearly three hundred miles from Salt Lake, in a school board, for instance, and have employed teachers, not knowing their political or religious beliefs. This was done in an inland, isolated "Mormon" community. I mention it to show you the attitude of our people toward all mankind. That is the teaching that we receive: that is the teaching it seemd to me that we should receive. Ability, and good character are what we desire in people, honesty of purpose and righteous desires — let their religious or political beliefs be what they may.  
  
My brethren, sisters, and friends, I want to bear you my testimony. I know of a surety that God lives, that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet, and his teachings that are being taught today are such as will elevate and strengthen and make for better manhod and better womanhood; and stand for those things for which we need not apologize, nor be ashamed. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in being a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know this, that if we will do the will of the Father, we will know of the doctrine, whether it be of man or whether it be of God.  
  
I pray that God, our heavenly Father, will bless us with ability to appreciate our position here in life, and our mission, and so be able to live in harmony with the gospel truths; and if we do this, we shall become even better citizens of this great Republic, better members of the Church, and have an influence for good among mankind with whom we come in contact. May God bless us to this end, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
