22
Outdoor
08 10 1916
Elder Joseph W. McMurrin. 
20
101-104

None

We live in our posterity — Many young people love the faith of their fathers — Our religion is one of power and life — It causes men and women to testify and render service freely and willingly — We are all under obligations to do so — Evidences of the fulfilment of the promises of the prophets — Prayer that the young men and women may love the truth given of God to the fathers.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I believe we have all felt that it has been good to be here in the worship of the Lord, and that our Father in heaven has been mindful of us, and has blessed his servants who have given us the word of the Lord. We believe in the power of God to so inspire his servants, that they can speak to the people the very word that the Lord would have spoken. Some might think this presumptuous, but it is according to the scriptures that have been given to men, both in ancient and in modern times.  
  
I thank God for the gospel, my brethren and sisters. In looking into the faces of those who have assembled here in this meeting this morning, I have felt to rejoice in that there is present a goodly sprinkling of young people, who are the sons and daughters of those who received the principles of the gospel in days that have passed away. We expect to live in our posterity. Our fathers and mothers before us have sought God our Father that his blessings might be upon them in the rearing of their families, that they might have sons and daughters who would honor God and keep his commandments. That has been the cry of the fathers. I have very often come in contact with it in the labors that I have performed as a missionary in far-off countries. Missionaries very frequently hear the declarations of fathers and mothers concerning the anxiety they have in their souls about gathering with the people of the Lord. I know something of how they have labored and saved that they might come up to the land of Zion — not that they were desirous to increase their substance, so far as the things of this world were concerned, but they were anxious to plant the feet of their offspring in the country designated by our Father in heaven for the gathering of his people. Such parents had become convinced of the truth and into their souls had come the testimony of Jesus Christ. They saw very clearly the importance of the gospel message that had been revealed to men in this dispensation; and they were anxious that their children after them might be in the companionship of those inspired pastors spoken of by holy prophets of old who had been wrought upon by divine inspiration and foresaw the gathering of the people together in Zion, where they should be given pastors after God's own heart — pastors who should feed the people with knowledge and with understanding.  
  
It gladdens my heart, my brethren and sisters, to discover that the hopes of the fathers and the mothers who have lived in the past are not to be in vain. There is growing up in the midst of this Church many young people who are the offspring of those who have labored so faithfully in days gone by, splendid sons and daughters who love the truth, and who stand pledged to keep the commandments of God. We should be able to see today in this great gathering of the people of the Latter-day Saints, a very remarkable evidence of the truth of the work to which we have given our allegiance. I do not suppose that anything like it has ever been witnessed anywhere else in the world. Where else do such hosts gather together for religious purposes? Our buildings are very commodious, but entirely too small to accommodate the people who desire to hear the word of God. Even in this overflow meeting, in the open air, notwithstanding the chilliness of the weather this morning, the people are anxious to come and hearken to the counsels that may be imparted.  
  
I thank God for a religion of this character, a religion of power and life, a religion that causes converts to labor for the uplift of humanity, and to feel that they are under obligation to give service to the work of God.  
  
I heard a young man, who is a superintenednt of a Sabbath school here in Salt Lake City, say just recently, that his school was visited a few weeks ago, by three ladies who were passing through the city. They saw people going into the little church, and supposing that a public service was going on, they entered, with others, and thus found themselves in a Latter-day Saints Sabbath school. The superintendent, seeing they were strangers, paid attention to them, and invited them either to join in one of the classes, or to visit the various classes as they might elect. When they expressed a desire to visit the various departments he escorted them from room to room. When they had gone through the school, one of the ladies said, "How on earth do you get the money to pay all these teachers?" They had a host of little children in the kindergarten department; and quite a number of teachers engaged with that department; and of course the usual number of teachers engaged in the other departments. She could not understand where the money came from to pay so many teachers in the Sabbath school. The superintendent himself was astonished at the question. He said, "I never heard of anyone being paid for work in a Sunday school. These men and women give their service freely and gladly to those who have assembled together." The lady desired to know how it was possible, and the answer was, "Because into their souls has come an understanding and knowledge of the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ; being converted themselves, they feel that they are under obligation to render service to their fellows and help to bring others to an understanding of the truth that has filled their own souls with surpassing peace."  
  
My brethren and sisters, that is what the gospel has done for men in all ages of the world, that is what the gospel is doing for men today. There cannot be found men or women who have received the truth understandingly and have been baptized by the Holy Spirit of intelligence, which Spirit takes of the things of the Father and reveals them unto men, who do not feel within their souls that they are under obligation to lend a helping hand to forward the work of God. You all know they are made anxious to labor, to speak, to bear testimony to the truth as it has been made manifest. That is your obligation, that is my obligation, my brethren and sisters, and the obligation of every soul who has been made acquainted with God's plan of saving the human family. God himself has said in the revelations given in our own age, that "He that hath been warned shall warn his neighbor." I hope we all feel this responsibility resting upon us. and that we feel under obligation to give that service for the advancement of the work of our God, that our Father in heaven demands of us and that we are all earnest laborers in his vineyard, and that not one of us shall be drones.  
  
I rejoice in the marvelous evidences of the fulfilment of the promises of the holy prophets — we see them in process of fulfilment upon this sacred square today, "a marvelous work and a wonder," as God declared over and over again by the mouth of his great prophet of the latter dispensation, Joseph Smith. "A marvelous work and a wonder is about to come forth among the children of men," — we could have read it frequently in the book of revelations, even before the Church was organized. When Joseph Smith stood as it were alone, among the great hosts of men living upon this earth, God said to him, under those conditions, that a marvelous work was about to be revealed to the children of men; and God made marvelous promises in connection with that work.  
  
I will read a promise or two that has been made:  
  
"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days.  
  
"And they shall go forth, and none shall stay them, for I, the Lord, have commanded them.  
  
"Behold this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth.  
  
"Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled."  
  
These words sound like one speaking who has authority. There is no uncertainty, my brethren and sisters, in the words of the living God, as they were given to the prophet at the opening of this dispensation. The words I have read were given to be published to all the inhabitants of the earth, as the preface to the book of revelations that was to be published to the people. The purpose was that all the people might know — members of the Church and non-members of the Church — that the Lord God of heaven had said that his servants who had been chosen to carry the message of his gospel to the inhabitants of the earth in these latter days should go forth and none should have power to stay them. And here is one of the evidences before our eyes today, in these meetings. We are gathered from every nation, and from every people, according to the promises and prophecies of both ancient and modern prophets. Wherever the gospel message has been sounded, men have been found who have given their allegiance to the work as it has come to them; and they have given the right kind of allegiance, the allegiance declared to be necessary by the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the lawgiver to the nations of the earth. They have been willing to forsake houses and lands, father and mother, wives and children, for the gospel's sake, and have been given, as our history abundantly testifies, power even to give their lives in attestation of the truth of the everlasting gospel.  
  
All praise to the name of Jehovah, who made such clear and marvelous promises, and who has so marvelously fulfilled and is fulfiling the predictions of the prophets. The work that is being accomplished, evidences the fact that God established it, that it is his cause, that it is the means and power of salvation to the peoples of the earth! God help us to love it! Young men and women, I say to you, love the truth that God gave to your fathers, and give that allegiance to this cause that has been given by the fathers and mothers of the past. God help us to be the class of men and women that the fathers and mothers who founded "Mormonism" have prayed for. If we are of that kind, we will bring honor to the cause of God, as well as honor to the names we bear.  
  
I bear record to the truth God has revealed. I know this cause has come from God, and not from man; and, as has been testified in this meeting, it will conquer, not in our might, or wisdom, or power, but in the might of God, who has so decreed. God help us to believe it, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 
