23
Outdoor
08 10 1916
Elder David O. McKay.
18
104-106

None

The Power of the Holy Ghost comes through those who have divine authority — Paul and the Sons of Sceva — A missionary incident — Our duty to prove, by our acts, that God acknowledges this Church as his.  
  
The power that has prompted the inspirational remarks of those who have addressed you this morning, was manifest in Ephesus, on one occasion, when Paul found twelve men there who had been following Apollos. He said to them: "Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye believed?" They said unto him: "We have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost." "Unto what then were ye baptized?" And they answered, "Unto John's baptism." Then said Paul, "John verily baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people that they should believe on him which should come after him, that is, Christ Jesus."  
  
There were seven sons of one Sceva, who lived by pretending to the arts of the magician. When they saw that Paul, through the power of God wrought miracles, they tried it. They commanded the evil spirit in a man to come out in the name of "Jesus whom Paul preacheth." But the evil spirit said: "Jesus I know, and Paul I know, but who are ye?" And the man who was possessed of the evil spirit leaped upon the seven sons of Sceva, and they fled from the house, naked and wounded. There are men in this day who perceive this power is manifest in the Church, but they do not know its source, at least they will not acknowledge its source, any more than Simon who received the rebuke of Peter, or any more than the seven sons of Sceva, who tried to use it without the proper authority.  
  
I call to mind now a man who devoted several years of the best part of his life, and concentrated his talents in an effort to disprove the divinity of this work. He was out visiting the members of his diocese, on one occasion, and while there, he met the president of the stake, and in conversation said: "While I speak thus against your Church, there are some things in it which I think most acceptable, and which I shall work to introduce into our Church." "What are they?" asked the president. "Well, there is your tithing system. I believe that that is the proper method of collecting church offerings. I think it is the right way." "Well," said the president, "why don't you have your people pay their tithing?" He answered honestly, "We would like them to, but they will not pay it." "What other feature is there?" asked the president. "There is your missionary work. I think," said he, "that the opportunity you give your young men to go out and preach what they think is the truth, is the greatest opportunity that can come to any young man." "Why don't you offer your young men this privilege?" "We would, but they will not go," was his answer.  
  
Contrast that with the experience of a young man who left this city about three weeks ago, the first time, practically, that he has ever been away from home. He was reared in the Church, trained in Sunday schools and other auxiliary organizations, with a course in our Church school, and two years in the University, scarcely twenty years old now. When his call came he accepted it without hesitation. When I said "good-bye" to him and his companions, as they boarded the Union Pacific, in Ogden, just three weeks ago, he could scarcely speak, and when I happened to mention his mother, he just broke down in tears and sobbed. But though he was going into an unknown world, to him, among strangers, he was glad in his soul — thankful that he had been considered worthy to represent his Church. He was sent, to the Eastern States mission, received his assignment to some litle town near Pittsburg, just out from that large city. When he arrived, there was nobody to meet him. He made some inquiry about the address which had been given him, and from which the elders had moved. There he was, alone in the city of Pittsburg. He went to a few houses in the neighborhood, inquiring if they knew anything about the "Mormon" elders who recently were there, and he chanced to meet a man who was conducting a mission there. The man looked at him, saw how young and inexperienced he appeared, and said: "Are you engaged in missionary work?" And the young elder answered, "Yes, I hope to be soon." Then followed a conversation of about thirty minutes, and the missionary of the other church said: "I would like you to come and speak at our mission headquarters next Sunday, if you will promise not to tell the people who you are." The young man answered tremblingly, "I will gladly come to your mission, but I must tell the people who I am." The minister evidently was impressed with the young elder's spirit, but could not stand to have it labeled "Mormonism."  
  
The power that is guiding that young man, today, and thousands of others throughout the world, in the mission field, and here at home, is the power of the Holy Ghost, which comes to those who accept the principles and ordinances of the gospel, administered by men divinely appointed in things pertaining to God.  
  
It is our duty, my fellow workers, to prove to the world, by our acts, that God acknowledges this Church as his, and is willing to bestow his Spirit upon those who diligently serve him. I rejoice in this service, in the testimony of those men who know, as you know, that God has poken again from the heavens, and that he lives to bless us, his children. May the peace of this meeting abide in our souls for ever, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 