26
Second Overflow
08 10 1916
Elder Orley S. Stapley. 
176
111-113

None

None

(President of the Maricopa Stake.) 

I bring you greeting from the Maricopa Stake, in Arizona, and I assure you that I feel my timidity in trying to address this inspiring congregation. I have listened with great interest to the testimonies borne during the different sessions of this conference. It makes me feel that I am well paid for the time which I have given to coming to conference. We live so far away from the headquarters of the Church, that there are only a very few of us who are able to come to the conferences. But we always try to have representatives here, so that they may bring back to us the words spoken by the mouths of the prophets of God, whose words may be thus disseminated among the people in our part of the country. We live in the south central part of the state of Arizona, near the capital. We have about 2,700 souls in the stake, and it takes us but a few minutes, less than an hour, to visit every ward in the stake except one, so that you can see we live very close together. A better people do not live anywhere. They are all full of the Spirit of the Lord, and feel to do their duties.  
  
There was considerable anxiety in our stake when the troubles commenced in Mexico; but at present one hardly hears of it, and yet we are within a hundred miles of the line. But there has been opened up a good market for the products of the soil among our people. Hardly anything that we raise there but what brings fabulous prices, and cash in hand, so that the people are prospering in that land. When I heard Elder Ivins, this morning, addressing the congregation in regard to his observations in the different stakes in which he had lately traveled, in regard to the extravagance of the people, it carried me back home to my people, and I wondered if it was the same in all of the different stakes of Zion: whether extravagance is running rampant everywhere and men and women are following the fashions of the world. Whether men who have not a roof above their heads, still put their little money into automobiles, getting time, and then live on expectations. Of course, they must dress accordingly, but when the rent period comes they are compelled to move, generally speaking. This is not as it should be among the Latter-day Saints. The first thing, I think, that the head of a family should do is to procure a home, no matter how small, nor humble it is, and pay for it, as soon as he possibly can, and add conveniences or even luxuries to it as circumstances will permit. O how I used to like to hear men not of our faith come into my place of business and say to me, "Mr. Stapley, we know that the 'Mormon' people are honest, and pay their debts." It made me feel good. I was glad to be associated with and numbered among a people of that character. But since fads and fashions have been introduced into our communities I am sorry to say that there are many who do not live up to this reputation. We want to go back to where we were before, We should avail ourselves of the opportunities that present themselves at present to pay our debts. Let it be said of us from henceforth, that we are an honest people. We are taught in knowledge, virtue, and all that will help us to build up character and make better citizens and husbands. These things I wish that we could remember.  
  
President Herrick was tellling you of his testimony that signs do follow the believer. I remember an incident that happened when I was in the mission field. My companion and I were lost. We came to a home, after wandering around considerably, where we met a family who had never before seen a "Mormon" elder. The lady of that home had been afflicted with rheumatics, for five years, so that she was unable to do her work at all. After we had visited their home several times, I placed in her hands the Book of Mormon, and asked her to read it. We visited again, numbers of times. One Sunday afternoon we were invited to hold services at her home. She called me aside, and said, "Elder Stapley, What am I to do to become a member of your church?" I asked her if she believed that the hook that she had been reading was true. She said, "I believe it with all my heart." "Do you believe that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God?" "Yes, I do, with all my heart." "Is your husband willing that you should be baptized?" "Yes, he is." And I turned to her husband, and asked him, and he said he was. After the service, I announced that this sister would be baptized. There were a number of people who came to witness the baptism. She told me that she knew that as soon as she accepted the ordinances of the gospel she would be made whole. After the services her husband Helped me to take her into the water. I baptized her and when I raised her out of the water, she let loose of my hand and said, "Elder Stapley, I will walk out," and she did so to the astonishment of her husband and all the people who witnessed it. I testify to you that the signs do follow those who believe and have faith in them.  
  
We live in a land once inhabited by the people of whom the Book of Mormon gives a history. It is recorded in the third chapter of Helaman, that they were great workers, canal builders, and agriculturists, no doubt. When our people went into that country, they asked for an engineer to run a line out for a canal to the river. He went over the land, and then said, "Gentlemen, it is impossible to bring this water up here upon this table land." Nevertheless, our brethren, with faith in their mission and in the call of those who were placed over them to go into that country, took a spirit level and went out to the river, and brought the water through the great, old canal constructed by that ancient people. The ancient inhabitants had their distribution of water two hundred yards below where ours is at the present time, south and west. That is another testimony to me, brethren and sisters, that the Book of Mormon is true. That book was brought forth in 1830, before ever this country was inhabited, in this age of the world, and yet that canal could he traced across the country, constructed by that ancient people, so carefully that it could not be done much better today.  
  
There is evidence all through there of great cities, fortifications of all sorts, and all that kind of thing, to be seen there at the present time.  
  
I trust and pray that we will always maintain the truth, that we will take the spirit of this conference home with us and give it to the people, so that they will be built up, and may be strong and able to uphold those who are placed in authority to conduct the affairs of the kingdom of God, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
