28
Second Outdoors
08 10 1916
Elder C. Alvin Orme.
93
119-121

None

None

(President of Tooele Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I am pleased and grateful unto my Father in heaven for the opportunity and for the confidence that has been placed in me that I should be honored to speak at one of the great conferences of our Church, which is the Church of our Father in heaven. I am also pleased to be called upon as a representative of the Saints who are living in the Tooele stake of Zion. I rejoice in the spirit I have partaken of with you in this tent and in reviewing our conditions as a people and the history of our Father's people in different dispensations.  
  
One circumstance comes to my mind that is recorded in the Book of Mormon, where King Benjamin gave an address and instructions unto the people just prior to delivering the kingdom to his son Mosiah. There were messengers sent far and near, and they came and pitched their tents, and there was a tower erected from which the great prophet could stand and speak to the people; and there wasn't room for them to hear his voice. It had to be carried by messengers or writing, that the people might hear his testimony concerning the work in which they were engaged, and concerning that great body of people. I am reminded of that today. This Church, which began with but six members, and grew, in poverty, being robbed and plundered and peeled by the enemies of the people — came into the valleys of the mountains, in fulfilment of prophecy by the Prophet Joseph Smith that they should come here and become a great and mighty people. I doubt whether in the history of nations or of men, any question could be discussed and presented before the people, that would bring them together as have the Latter-day Saints gathered upon this occasion.  
  
I am grateful for the faith of the Latter-day Saints, and as I travel from place to place, and come in contact with young men, I find that there is a growing interest in Church work. There are some with whom I am acquainted, young men who, before they were married, took but little interest in the Church, but now, having assumed the responsibilities of family life, are becoming interested. I have been asking them questions concerning the Church, concerning its growth and development. In some of them at least, I testify that the faith that has been transmitted from the parents to the children, is taking root, although for a few years it may have seemed that there has been indifference and lack of interest in the principles of the gospel. That they are awakening to the truth is a source of gratitude to me.  
  
Whenever opportunity presents itself, I ask my young brethren how they feel respecting the Church; how strong their faith is in what their fathers and mothers have espoused; what they know concerning the gospel; and in that way, I get an opportunity to speak with them. I like to put my arm around these young men and encourage them to seek after a testimony, for I am convinced that anyone who will ask and work shall be rewarded with a testimony, and with a knowledge of the truth.  
  
There are other conditions which are improving compared with what they were. I am reminded of a passage of scripture that I am going to read, and if I can get the inspiration and permission from the Spirit of our Father in heaven, I will speak concerning it. I refer to the closing verses of the epistle of James, recorded in the last chapter, commencing with the fourteenth verse:  
  
"Is any sick among you let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord:  
  
"And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him."  
  
I wonder, my brethren and sisters, how many of us there are who have implicit faith in this doctrine and teaching.  
  
I am called frequently to administer to people who are sick, and I bear my own testimony to you that there is efficacy in the anointing with oil and the imposition of hands and the prayer of faith offered unto our Father in heaven in behalf of the sick, and the afflicted. This passage of scripture is true and genuine. Modern revelation also gives unto us the same injunction, that the elders of the Church shall be called, and oil used for the anointing of the sick, and the prayer of faith offered in their behalf. Many times have we seen men and women who were in sore distress because of accident, or disease in the body, relieved through this ordinance even while the hands of the elders were still upon their heads! Not I alone, but you all have the same experience and testimony. Let us then carry out this injunction, and even more faithfully offer prayer unto our Father in heaven in behalf of the sick and the afflicted.  
  
Not only do members of the Church have faith in this ordinance of our Father's house, but even non-members have believed. Quite a prominent physician in this state, not a member of this Church, said to me one day, "I would like to converse with you a few minutes before we enter into anything else, on some principles of your Church, and in particular, on the question of administering to the sick, for I have had experience for a number of years with your people, and have performed a great many operations, and I am thoroughly convinced that when men or women are going to be operated upon, and elders of your Church administer to them, I am more successful. I have more confidence in what I do; and the individual I know is strengthened and benefited by the administration. I would like to know its source of power." I then explained to him our belief in those things.  
  
Another prominent physician made this statement, that in the state he came from "where I have been practicing, we can nearly tell the length of an individual's life when he reaches a certain stage of certain diseases; but here in your state, we give them up and set the time that they can live, and often when we return they are improved. I have asked the reason, and they tell me that the elders have administered to them, and the power of God has healed them."  
  
These words have come to me directly from these two physicians, and they are men of good, sound judgment, good, clean, honest-hearted men, who have sympathy with us as a people.  
  
Now I want to bear testimony to you that this work in which we are engaged, is the work of our Father. It is not the work of Joseph Smith, who was the instrument in the hands of God our Father, in establishing this work. All that he did was done under the inspiration of our Father in heaven. The visions of the Almighty were granted unto him, and he saw the existing conditions in the world. He was made to see the need of a Church directed under the inspiration of our Father in heaven. He knew that it could not be organized except under our Father's direction. He therefore placed his confidence in and relied upon the inspiration of our Father in heaven. Consequently we have what we have here represented today upon this Temple square.  
  
I pray our Father in heaven to bless and inspire us with zeal, with determination to serve him and keep his commandments, and that every man and every woman will go from this conference feeling renewed in their faith, and strengthened in their determination to go forward and perform the duties that devolve upon them in this Church. Even though it be only as members, it is better to have our names on the records of this Church, than to be honored among men without being enrolled upon the Church records. It is a great honor to be a deacon and fulfil that office in righteousness before our Father in heaven — or a ward teacher, and perform duties in visiting the families in the allotted districts — or presidents of quorums or bishops of wards or presidents of stakes or auxiliary organizations.  
  
In conclusion, my brethren and sisters, let me read the closing verses of the one hundred and seventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants, an admonition given to those who bear the priesthood:  
  
"Wherefore now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved, shall not be counted worthy to stand "  
  
May our Father in heaven bless us that we may hold fast unto this work, for it is the work of God, our heavenly Father, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 