29
Second Outdoor
08 10 1916
Elder Daniel G. Miller. 
177
122-124

None

None

(President of the Yellowstone Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice with you this day in the privilege we have had of listening to the servants of the Lord, and listening to the counsel that has been given during this conference. I rejoice in the great gathering here of the Saints of God, as they come together with that desire in their hearts to hear the word of the Lord. I am sure we will not go away empty, but that we will feel that we can be better men and better women because of that which we have heard, if we will only carry it out in our lives.  
  
It gives me much pleasure to see a great many young men and women in this audience, for the youth of Zion is the hope of Israel. I trust that they will remember the Lord in the days of their youth, for according to Ecclesiastes, he that remembers the Lord in the days of his youth, upon him an evil day shall not come. "O, young man, remember the Lord in the days of thy youth, that the evil day come not upon you." Youth is the time to form character, to lay the foundation of our lives. If we will be careful to remember the counsels of God , we shall keep our bodies clean before him, so that the Spirit of the Lord may dwell upon us, and we shall not partake of the evil habits that are besetting men today. According to the counsels of God, in the Word of Wisdom, they who keep themselves free from evil habits will never see the evil day; but those who partake of evils, and let evil become a part of their being, find that as age comes on, it is hard for them to get rid of their appetites and desires. Those who partake of the evils of the world, find when they become old and decrepit, that they have not the stamina and determination to resist their appetites and hence must give way to them. This condition leads them into the path of sin, and as they tremble and go toward the grave, the evil day is upon them.  
  
I often think of the great prophet Nephi, the son of Lehi, and his example. His father was told to prophesy unto the people of the evil of their ways. They were driven out, as we are told, because the wicked had sought their lives. They went away from Jerusalem, and traveled in the wilderness. When the time came, the Lord revealed unto Lehi that his sons should return and get the record which Laban had. It was then the older of the brothers rebelled. They said it was a hard thing that they should be asked to do this. But Nephi never wavered; he believed what his father said, and, "as the Lord liveth," he said, "we shall do that which he asked for, for he never requires anything of his children that he does not open the way for them to accomplish." And through the history of that boy we find that he always stood firm and steadfast. They returned to their homes, and those who have read the Book of Mormon know how they were turned away by their cousin Laban. He would not let them have the records. Nephi's brothers desired to turn back into the wilderness, where their father was, but he said, "No, as the Lord lives, we shall never return unto our father until we have accomplisheed that which God has asked us to accomplish." His confidence in his father, his obedience, made him strong. The Spirit of the Lord rested upon him. He did not fear men, but he feared to do that which was not in accordance with the will of God. He earnestly desired to carry out the counsels of God in his life. They finally did accomplish that work, and returned to their father; and in that journey across the wilderness. Nephi became really the leader of that colony, because of his faithfulness.  
  
When his father beheld that great vision of which he spoke to his family, he saw, six hundred years before the birth of Christ, down through the stream of time, to the coming of the Lord and Savior. In that vision it was shown unto him that Christ would come upon the earth, and be born of the Virgin Mary. He told the story to his family, and related how that his two oldest sons would not partake of the fruit of life which was offered unto them. When Nephi came to them, they complained and wanted to know why it was. Nephi believed the words of his father, and not only was satisfied with the words of his father, but wanted to know for himself. He went off into the mount alone. There, before God, he presented himself, and pleaded with him that he, too, might behold that which his father had seen. The Lord could not withhold it from him, because of the faith which he had. He told his brethren of the vision when they asked him to explain those things, and he said, "Have you asked God?" They replied, "No, he never makes himself manifest unto us." "Well," he said; "ask God in the humility of your souls, and you shall know."  
  
So I say unto the youth of Israel: If you do not know that the gospel is true, ask God, your heavenly Father; seek him earnestly, keep his commandments, and it will be made know unto you.  
  
I thank the Lord for so many of our young men who go out into the world willingly to proclaim the gospel. When they declare the truths of the gospel, that God has spoken again from the heavens, and has revealed himself to the children of men, that men now go forth with the authority to preach and to teach in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ — they fear not to promise men that inasmuch as they will keep the commandments of God, believing in him, turn away from their sins, and from that which is evil, and be baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that they shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and know of the doctrine for themselves. They need not take the testimony of any man, but shall know for themselves; and the elders fear not to state this unto the world of mankind for they know it is true.  
  
My brethren and sisters, I know the gospel is true, I know this is the work of God. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God. It has been made known unto me. I know that, although I might deny the faith, might go into sin and lose the spirit of this work, yet in my heart, I know that God lives, and that the gospel is true. I could not get away from it. It is impossible for a man to keep the spirit of this work and do nothing. He cannot do it. He must be busy, must seek and he shall find; for it is written, ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you. This is the work of God. He is leading this people. The man who stands at the head, even President, Joseph F. Smith, is a prophet of the living God. When I listen to him and hear the sound of his voice, I know it is of God that he speaks, and I rejoice in hearing him. I thank the Lord for this testimony of the truth that has come to me in my youth. I remember when I was a boy listening to the servants of the Lord speak of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Whenever I heard his name it caused a thrill to go through my being. I did not know why it was that I loved that name so well; but as I became older, and sought God in earnestness of heart, I came to know that he was a prophet of the living God, and had been chosen to bring forth God's work in this day and age of the world; and I rejoice in it, my brethren and sisters.  
  
May God bless us, and keep us true to him and the covenants which we have entered into; and may we remember that if we walk in the path of righteousness, God's spirit will be upon us; but if we depart from the path, we lose the Spirit, and begin to doubt within our hearts, and cannot testify as we do now. God grant that his Spirit may attend us throughout all our lives, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 
