30
Second Outdoor
08 10 1916
Elder Don C. Driggs. 
178
124-125

None

None

(President of the Teton Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I am certainly proud to be a citizen of Idaho, the Gem of the mountains, but I suppose I owe my allegiance to Utah, also, because it was here that I was born. I am one of the young men who swarmed over into Idaho, in the later 80's, about the year '88, when the borders of the Church did not reach much beyond the Utah line. Statistics of the Presiding Bishop's office show that there are now residing within, the State of Idaho about 75,000 Latter-day Saints. When I went to Idaho, I felt that I was going to a strange land. I hitched up my team, and, with a covered wagon, traveled the distance, and it seemed to me that it was a wilderness all the way.  
  
I am glad, my brethren and sisters, that I have learned something of pioneer life. I am glad that I looked upon a land that was uninhabited, so that I might appreciate that experience and learn to some extent what our fathers endured in settling this country. We live in the great Teton valley, and my first view of that country was a view that I imagined was like looking upon the land of promise, for it is certainly a beautiful country. We are right up against the National Park. Our boundaries on the north are the National Park, and on the east — I presume lies the Atlantic Ocean, because I do not know of any other stake of Zion between us and the Atlantic. (Laughter). We have two beautiful valleys in our stake, the Teton valley and the Jackson Hole district, Wyoming. The Wyoming and Utah line divides our stake in the center, so that we have the privilege of presiding over not only the Teton stake, but parts of the states of Idaho and Wyoming combined. ( Laughter. )  
  
I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege of being with you at this great conference, in seeing the great multitudes of people who have gathered here to be instructed, and to hear the word of the Lord, as it is delivered by his servants. We have been admonished, brethren and sisters, regarding our shortcomings, as well as praised for the good that we are trying to do. We have heard good reports from the Church officials. It seems that everything is prospering, and we ought to rejoice in the blessings that we enjoy.  
  
It is good, I believe, for us to be admonished and reminded of our obligations. In ancient times, or in the days when the children of Israel were driven into the wilderness, they were led to the land of promise by prophets of God, and the great prophet, but a great general and a great leader in Israel, — admonished his people that they were forsaking the true and living God, and were seeking to worship idols, to look after other gods. He remnided them of their shortcomings, and finally told them, "And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve; * * * * but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." That is the declaration of a great prophet, teaching his people, reminding them of their shortcomings; and the declaration of his testimony and what he and his family or house intended to do. And the people said, "Nay, but we will serve the Lord." And Joshua caused a pillar of stone to be erected as a testimony that the people had agreed to serve the Lord, and said, "Ye are witnesses against yourselves, that ye have agreed to serve the Lord." And they accepted that statement, and were indeed witnesses against themselves that they had agreed to serve the Lord. And we are told in this Scripture that the people under Joshua did serve the Lord, and the people that lived after him served the Lord, and were true to this covenant.  
  
My brothers and sisters, the thought comes to us: we are witnesses against ourselves that we have agreed to serve the Lord, and we ought to say in our hearts, as Joshua did, "But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord."  
  
I pray that we may have this spirit and this desire in our hearts, and that we will keep the covenant. It may not be necessary for a monument of stone to be erected as a witness that we have agreed to serve the Lord, but we all know that we have agreed to serve him, and that we continue to make covenants, day by day, to serve him and keep his commandments.  
  
I have a testimony that the work of the Lord is true, that this is his Church; and I desire to be faithful and true to the covenants that I have made.  
  
I am reminded, my brothers and sisters, that my grandfather stood upon this temple block, even before the great Tabernacle was erected, and preached to the people. He suffered imprisonment with the Prophet Joseph Smith. My grandfather, on the other side, helped to build the wagons to carry the Saints across the plains. I feel proud of this memory of my parents and grand-parents, and the part they took in the work of the Church. But I realize that their faithfulness is not sufficient for me. The only way I can honor their memory, and be a credit to them, is to do something for myself and for those whom I might help.  
  
I pray that the Lord may continue his blessings unto his people, and unto us all, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
