39
Afternoon
08 10 1916
President Joseph F. Smith.
36
154

None

A short sermon — Glorious destiny of the United States — An Opinion on the Mexican situation.  
  
I have just one little short sermon: Get out of debt, keep out of debt; never mortgage your homes nor your farms. Put down intemperance, and be a wise and sober people. Do not make war on, but love your neighbors. Keep the word of wisdom. Be wise and moderate in your amusements, and let your amusements be innocent and your enjoyment pure. Card-playing is an evil; pool playing is an evil, gambling is an evil; avoid every evil, and the waste of your time. Honor the Sabbath day and divine authority. Keep yourself pure and unspotted from the world. Let everybody, who can, raise his own bread and meat. Patronize home productions, and sustain home industry. Be not scoffers, but show kindness and sympathy to all, and especially to the unfortunate.  
  
I have a feeling in my heart that the United States has a glorious destiny to fulfil, and that part of that glorious destiny is to extend liberty to the oppressed, as far as it is possible to all nations, to all people. After hearing the remarks of President Rey L. Pratt, with reference to the condition of our people, and to the masses of down-trodden and oppressed people in Mexico, thirteen millions of whom are held under serfdom and slavery, by the descendants of their conquerors — who could not devoutly wish that some mighty and just power, equal to the task, would extend the hand of freedom to those oppressed people, even if it cost the lives of their oppressors. I do not want war; but the Lord has said it shall be poured out upon all nations, and if we escape, it will be "by the skin of our teeth." I would rather the oppressors should be killed, or destroyed, than to allow the oppressors to kill the innocent.  
  
The choir sang a chorus from Beethoven's oratorio, "The Mount of Olives."  
  
Benediction was pronounced by Presiding Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith who in his authority as Patriarch blessed the vast assembly.  
  
Conference adjourned for six months.  
  
It was announced that 15,064' people were in attendance at the meetings this afternoon.  
  
Prof. Anthon C. L un d conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the Conference meetings in the Tahernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon.  
  
The stenographic reports of the discourses_ were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker.  
  
Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of Conference.