4
Afternoon
06 10 1916
Prest. Francis M. Lyman. 
16
24-30

None

There shall be no inactive Latter-day Saints — Spiritualities as important as temporalities; people should be active in both — The authorities of the Church, the stakes and the wards, examples of thriving activity — Every member of the Priesthood should be active in like manner — Of what activity consists — The sisters should be also occupied in good work — Duty of stake presidencies to furnish employment for all officials and members of the Priesthood, and this is also a duty of the bishops for those under their care — How every Latter-day Saint may be kept busy — What stake of Zion will be first to report the Priesthood all active in that stake? — A strong injunction to stir up and look after the inactive members of the Church.  
  
I hope that you can hear me as we have heard our brethren. Their voices have been good, and I am sure that we have been greatly edified in listening to them. In looking over this body of Latter-day Saints, representing the various departments of Zion, I could not help thinking what a privilege is given us to come together to see and to be seen, to hear and to be heard. This body of people is not very large, considering the whole of the Latter-day Saints, but I take it for granted that all who are here and all who attend our conferences are active members of the Church, and not numbered among the inactive. This privilege we have of speaking to the representatives of the various stakes of Zion and missions in the United States, is a very great privilege, for when we talk, what is said will be taken to all the departments of the Church in gathered Zion.  
  
I have had occasion latterly to draw the attention of the brethren in various stakes of Zion to the reports that we receive in regard to the priesthood throughout the Church. The numbers that are active, and also the numbers that are inactive, are reported to us, and I have taken the privilege of advising my brethren such as sit before me here, — presidents of stakes and high councilors, bishops and heads of departments, — how to correct, measurably, the reports that are handed in to the Presiding Bishop's office and that are submitted to us. The fact is, there should be no inactive Latter-day Saints, for inactivity tends to death and darkness, whereas activity tends to life and animation and salvation. We believe that it is quite possible for you brethren who are leaders in the communities where you live, as we are here where we live, to set good examples, and not any bad ones, and that your good examples will be followed by the priesthood with whom you are surrounded and with whom you labor. If we can get you to understand and discover how to make correction of unsatisfactory conditions, it will be very profitable to you and to the Church, as well as to all who are brought into active service for the Lord every day. We are all industrious and persevering in regard to the things of this world, what we call temporal things, things of earth, which call for a good share of our attention; and it is just as important, and a little more so, that we should be industrious and occupied with the spiritualities, the religious side of our natures, and the service which the Lord requires of us for our salvation and the salvation of the children of men. There is no inactivity with the Presidency of this Church; there is no inactivity with the council of the twelve; there is no inactivity with the council of seventies; there is no inactivity with the presiding bishopric; there is no inactivity with the presiding patriarch. So that the general authorities of the Church, I am prompted to advise you, in this regard are setting a proper example, and we are readily and easily found on all occasions when we are needed and we are at your service. Four times a year we go to every stake of Zion as nearly as we can. The general authorities of the Church are not very numerous, not a very large body of brethren, and we have seventy-two stakes of Zion and a great many hundreds of wards to give attention to, as well as to all the missions of the world. They must be taken care of and considered and kept supplied with officials. We must supply the world with missionaries by the hundreds and thousands to preach the gospel, and they go out from tinder our hands thoroughly advised, thoroughly instructed and taught in regard to their duties. So with the brethren who are selected to preside over the stakes and over the wards, we give special attention to every man, as well as in the missions; and thus we are active, always. I believe that the presidencies of the stakes of Zion are always active. We speak of them as active men. The bishops of the wards and their counselors are active men. I think the high councilors, as a rule, are active men. So that these brethren, standing at the head of the people, are thoroughly well employed. But we do think and we do ask you, my brethren, who sit before us here today, from the various stakes of Zion, we want to ask you to see to it that every member of the priesthood is brought into active service, that is, that they do something every day. They may not all be called to be ward teachers, they will not all be called to be bishop's counselors, or high councilors; but there is no reason why a man bearing the divine authority of the Lord should ever be inactive one day. He should be able to report, and it be reported of him by his bishop, by the president of his quorum, that he is active, that he is performing some service, that he is intelligent enough to find employment, and that he does not have to be told everything that is to be done. It is quite an accomplishment for a high priest or a seventy, for an elder, or any other person bearing the priesthood of the Lord, to learn the lesson of employing himself. And whenever men say something, whenever they do something that is worthy of imitation, and that sets an example in the community of virtue, of righteousness and of truth and of justice, they are entitled to be considered active. Whenever they say to a little boy, "The Lord bless you, my little boy, George, or John, or Joseph," or a, little girl, school children, anybody — or they have restrained a person that is inclined to be reckless and disobedient, a transgressor in any line, whenever they have restrained those who are going astray, whenever they give encouragement to those who need it, whenever they open their mouths and bless, as President Smith suggested this morning, (he having the keys of the kingdom and the keys of authority and power to bless,) — that should be regarded as activity in the service of the Lord. We all have power to bless and to give instruction and to teach. I speak thus in regard to the brethren bearing the priesthood.  
  
I want to say also, although we are just a small representation of the Church here — yet it is a good congregation — not a large body of men, that the Church is well stocked with a numerous number of men bearing the priesthood. Almost all the male members of the Church bear the Aaronic or the Melchizedek priesthood, and how grateful these brethren should be! Then the wives should be as industrious and active as the brethren, and so far as I remember, there is no report in our official accounts and records, of the inactive women. Presumably the sisters are all active, they are engaged, they are active teachers in their homes and in their associations and organizations, and are performing their duties fairly well. I don't know whether the bishop is particularly favorable to the sisters, and does not tell us of those things, or whether he does not report that the sisters are inactive, but I presume that the sisters in this Church are, as a rule, very active, well occupied, their time well taken up and occupied in good things. I hope so; it should be so. But they need to labor, and their activities are just as much required with our sisters who are married and the young sisters who are not married. They are to labor among them and what they say and what they do and the good examples that they set in all the activities of life are just as important and valuable with their sex as the labors of the brethren are important and valuable among the brethren and the people generally. And I want to impress this upon my brethren: There is no one of us hardly that can visit all the brethren and teach them all the same lessons, but we give them the lessons here occasionally, twice a year, such as we have been listening to.  
  
I want to advise my brethren who preside over the stakes of Zion, seventy-two stakes, it is your duty to furnish employment for all stake officials and all men who bear the priesthood, that you furnish them occupation as far as possible and help them and devise means for their activities. Use the bishops, and help the bishops to bring about activity with their brethren, for I say that it is a reproach to the presidency of a stake, to the bishops of wards, when they have to report inactive men, whom they have entrusted with the priesthood under the direction of the Lord, and have not found a way to give them employment and make them active men. You don't need to worry particularly about the officials. You will find that the officials are pretty well occupied, pretty well employed, but the overwhelming, majority of the brethren who bear the priesthood could possibly make considerable improvement and increase their activities and take valuable lessons to the people. Those who are inattentive and careless in regard to the exhortations that have been given us today, in regard to their prayers, in regard to partaking of the sacrament, in regard to their tithes and offerings and so forth, they need to be aroused and stirred up, for their salvation, for their happiness, for their peace, their success and their prosperity in this life; for the Lord rewards us according to our works, I understand, and you will be rewarded, we will be rewarded according to our works, and it is important that we look after the salvation of the people, half of whom are compared to the foolish virgins by the Savior, — five wise and five foolish. We want to make more wise Saints and servants of the Lord. We do not want them to be hampered; we do not want them to be in questionable conditions and positions. We want them to be thoroughly established in the faith; we want them to so live that they can keep and do keep the commandments of the Lord, for that is the secret of their success; for when a man is inactive, he will not be saved. He must be occupied, he must be employed, he must work, he must labor, or he will be found delinquent and will be disappointed when the judgment comes. So I say to my brethren, these chief brethren in the stakes of Zion and in the wards and in all the departments, standing at the head of quorums of the priesthood, we expect you to be responsible and to be wise enough to provide means to employ the brethren and occupy them at home, when they don't go abroad, and we will find service for them abroad in the world, all that we can well take care of. And so I desire to impress upon my brethren presiding in these positions that the time may soon come — you are telling us now every three months what is being done by the teachers and whether they are coming up to one hundred per cent of visiting, when we want one hundred per cent of activity in all departments. Look over the field and discover if your brethren are occupied actively, so that there will be no high priests that are inactive, no seventies inactive, no elders inactive. The presidency of the high priests is responsible to see that the high priests are taken care of. In some of these large stakes of Zion they have a very large force of high priests. Then the seventies have their quorums and the elders theirs, and it is the duty of the brethren who preside, to look after them and help them; as we help our brethren. You will find the Twelve will not complain that Brother Lyman does not find something for them to do. They are occupied all the time, regularly. You see they go to you and they help you, and we want you to be taking as good care of the department of the Church entrusted to you as we are taking of the department entrusted to us. We are always on the line, on the firing line, going to the front, as far as we can make it, and we want you brethren to do the same. We will be delighted with the first stake of Zion that can represent that the priesthood in that stake are all active, no inactive members; that the high priests and seventies and elders and the lesser priesthood under the direction of the bishops can be reported as all active. Give the boys something to do with the older brethren. Don't take all the rights and privileges of teachers away from the deacons and teachers and the priests and give it all to the high priests and to the seventies and the elders; but let the boys go with you. Pray with them, labor with them, teach them, so that when they come to the age of marriage, settling down or going on missions and receive the Melchizedek priesthood, that they have had some experience, that they know how to pray, how to bless the food, how to bless the sacrament, administer it properly, and so forth, well instructed, well informed, well read in the scriptures. Call a young man an active young man if he studies the scriptures, and do not call him inactive; for if he is studying and qualifying and preparing himself for future life, that is magnificent activity and his example will help others, and he will naturally incline and encourage others to follow his good example in the study of the scriptures. If all the Latter-day Saint boys and girls are well informed in scripture reading, if they know the testament and know the Bible and know the scriptures of the Nephites and the scriptures of latter-times, the revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and so forth, they are well fortified. But let the effort be made to make a better report than we have succeeded in doing in the past in regard to the activities of the priesthood and of the people. Let us do that. And we want the assistance of our sisters therein, as well as of the brethren. We want every one to have an opportunity, and I believe that there is no excuse for any member of the priesthood in this Church or any member of this Church being reported as inactive, because there is opportunity in every person's way, for activity to labor. And I want to say this, it will not tax you so much that you need to neglect your temporal affairs or your business affairs. It won't injure you in your business affairs to be prayerful. It won't hurt you at all to spend the time that is necessary on the Sabbath day to partake of the sacrament, and the sacrament should be taken by all Latter-day Saints. There is an activity there and everybody who partakes of the sacrament should be considered an active member in the Church. Every one who attends to his prayers and responsibilities thereof should be counted an active member; every one who bears testimony in the fast meetings, and takes any part in praying or singing. I would not like to see the brethren and sisters who do the singing for us in this splendid choir, when it is here — I understand it is to be here Sunday — considered as inactive, I think they are active members of the Church and should be so reported; if they hear the priesthood or are only members of the Church, they should be reported and considered active and given all the credit that can reasonably be given to the members of the Church, for it is a nice thing for one to be patted a little on the back, a little on the shoulder, say, the Lord bless you; glad to know of your activities; glad to know what you are doing; I am glad to know of your life as a husband, or your life as a wife and your life as a son, one of the larger boys, one of the larger girls; that your example, your labors and activities are very delightful and pleasing to us, certainly to the Lord, and profitable — profitable, for there is not anything that we do for the Lord that will not redound to our health and our happiness and our stability and security and safety.  
 
So I want to impress upon my brethren, as there are stake presidents here who have already heard my talk on this subject in their stakes, as I have not been able to get to all the stakes of Zion, but all that are here can hear the suggestions that I make at this time, and I want to impress them and want them impressed upon the minds of the leading brethren, that they will magnify their calling; for if they are active as they should be, they will furnish employment and find something, find some way to advise inactive men in the future, until every man shall be doing something. Men grow by activity, by their labor, their efforts and their work; not by inactivity. The more they work, the more they do, as I suggest sometimes to my brethren when we require something extra of them, and something extra is required of them occasionally, I always draw their attention to the fact that that is what you are to be rewarded for is the work that you are doing. Don't feel bad about it because you are doing more than somebody else. Do all that you can for it will take all that we can do to work out our salvation and exaltation in the kingdom of God. You want to be busy, in order to be occupied. And these who are inactive, brethren, we want you to take care of them because they are in danger of being lost, losing the faith and losing their love of the truth and of the gospel. It is a great thing to enjoy the spirit of the gospel, for that brings peace, it brings security and life and salvation. We cannot accomplish these things without the Lord helps us, and he is ready and willing and generous to bestow upon us his spirit in just such abundance as we are ready and prepared to receive; for the Spirit of the Lord is as generous and as ready at our necessities and commands through our faithfulness, as the light of day, as the heat of the sun, and the cold and the warmth, and so forth. The Lord is near us by his Spirit and his Spirit is ready for our possession and for us to enjoy in our homes, in our labors, in our work, publicly and privately, at home or abroad. When we live under the inspiration and light of the Spirit of God, we will be happy wherever we are, and we will accomplish a world of good and those who are about us and associate with us will enjoy the spirit that we enjoy and will recognize it. Now, I have occupied my time as well as the other brethren. I thank you, brethren, for your attention, and I would like you to remember what we say — what the Presidency have said to us today. It is worth the time of coming here and spending a few days to hear what they have said, and the other brethren will have things to suggest that will refresh also and that we will intensely enjoy. God bless you, brethren and sisters, who are here, and bless those brethren just like you who are at home and bless those brethren and sisters who are at home that cannot come who need consideration and attention. It is the sick that need attention. Those who are always here, right up to the mark, we need not worry about them at all, because they know how to employ themselves and to be occupied and to be saved, but those who are not present and those who do not come to the sacramental table on the Sabbath day, whatever the percentage is in your ward, in your stake, those who are not there are the ones that need attention and consideration. Those who are always active will take care of themselves; they know how to employ themselves, well occupied, but look after those who need your attention and care, please, so that you can report that there is not anybody in your ward but what has attention and consideration and are in line, as near as it is possible for them to be. I bless you, my brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
