5
Afternoon
06 10 1916
Elder Heber J. Grant. 
10
30-33

None

Thankfulness for the plan of Life and Salvation — Willingness to labor in positions without thought of resigning — The greatest service men may render is to bring souls to a knowledge of the gospel — A plea for parents to look well after their children.  
  
I am very happy to have the opportunity of again mingling with the Saints at a general conference. I rejoice in a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Between the morning and afternoon meetings, I have had the privilege of attending the funeral of the mother of the President of the stake where I reside, Sister Margaret W. Young. I never attend a funeral of a faithful member of the Church but I thank the Lord for the gospel of Jesus Christ, and for the comfort and consolation that it gives to us in the hour of sorrow and death. I am convinced that the Latter-day Saints do not suffer as other people do when they are called upon to part by death with their loved ones. I never think of my own beloved mother without thinking of her as associated with those whom she knew and loved in Nauvoo, and with those whom she knew and loved in these valleys of the mountains. I never think of her as in the grave, but I think of her as one who has earned the greatest of all God's gifts to man, namely: life eternal. When I attend the funeral of a faithful, true Latter-day Saint, as I did today, one who heard the sound of the gospel in a foreign land, and who came to this land for the gospel's sake and who lived all the days of her life faithful and true to its teachings, I am indeed thankful for the plan of life and salvation which finds earnest, true people all over the wide world who, when they have embraced it, are ready and willing to make any sacrifice in reason to fulfil the duties, the obligations and the requirements that devolve upon them as members in the Church of Christ.  
  
I thoroughly enjoy my labors, as one of the general authorities of the Church, in visiting the various stakes of Zion. I find, as a rule, integrity and devotion and love of the work of the Lord in the hearts those who preside and a desire on their part to labor that is very pleasing indeed to me. I regret, however, that there is a growing tendency, as was referred to here by the President this morning, for many to desire to step down and out who occupy places of responsibility. I believe that the spirit which possessed the people thirty-six years ago to remain in office as long as wanted is not as strong as it was then. When, as a young man, I was made the president of the Tooele stake, although I considered it quite a financial sacrifice to be president, and to have to leave my business here which was reasonably prosperous — it never entered my head but what I was to stay there all the days of my life. I never thought of anything else. I remember, however, saying to President Lyman: "Brother Lyman, I am willing to have you send me on a mission for ten years, with the understanding that when the ten years are up, I may go back to Salt Lake City where my business, my mother, my relatives, and my natural associations are." The thought at the end of ten years or twenty years, provided I was wanted and possessed the ability to continue as president of the stake, of asking for a release never entered my head. I felt this way because of the training I got in listening, in this tabernacle, to President Brigham Young, and others in my early days also in listening to my own bishop, the late Edwin D. Woolley and associates, in the Thirteenth ward. I felt that when the Lord honored any man with a place or positions in this Church, that the first thing to which he should be loyal was the magnifying of that position. I found this spirit in the mission field. I can say of those who were chosen to preside over the various conferences in the British Mission, while I presided there, that they gave their first thought to the magnifying of the office of conference president, and endeavoring to the very best of their abilities to direct the labors of the elders who were under their jurisdiction. They had in very deed the spirit of the service of God referred to in the revelation to the father of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Section 4, of the Doctrine and Covenants:  
  
"Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men;  
  
'Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day;  
  
"Therefore, if you have desires to serve God, you are called to the work, for behold the field is white already to harvest, and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul;  
  
"And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work.  
  
"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence,  
  
"Ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto you."  
  
Today "the field is white already to harvest" because among the various stakes of Zion, there is growing up a carlessness and disregard for authority, a disregard upon the part of many for the advice, the counsel and the admonitions of the servants of the Lord. There is a running after pleasure, there is a desire to follow the styles of the world, there is a desire for wealth, and not that same loyal desire which formerly existed in the hearts of the people, to work for the salvation of the souls of men. I plead with all those within the sound of my voice, the fathers and mothers, to take an interest in the welfare of their children, and to teach them to follow the admonitions of the Lord's servants which have been given to the people. To urge their daughters to dress in such a way and manner that shall stamp them as modest, and not as having a desire to appear immodest. I desire that the spirit of seeking after pleasure which is today growing among the people may be curtailed. I believe that the fathers and mothers, by taking a personal interest in the social affairs of their children, and in all their activities, will have an influence for good over their children. I believe that each and every person who is called to any place or position in the service of God in this Church, should feel the spirit of humility, the spirit of thanksgiving, and the spirit of determination to do their duty, to the full extent of their ability.  
  
Men seek for the honors of men. They seek after place and position in cities, counties, states, and in the nation, and they feel honored and lifted up when any place comes to them, and I do not know any of them who have secured a place of honor which they wish to resign. Why should we want to resign from any place in serving God, in laboring for the salvation of the souls of men? I remember that in revelation after revelation given just before the Church was organized, and in its early days, that men came to the man whom God had chosen as his prophet, and asked that he inquire of the Lord what was the most important labor for them to perform. Uniformly, the answer came that the greatest and most profitable labor in which they could engage was to bring souls to a knowledge of the gospel, viz., to the knowledge of the great and marvelous work which was about to come forth among the children of men. If we have faith, and love, we will pay our tithing; we will keep the word of wisdom; if we have diligence, we will labor for the spread of the gospel at home and abroad.  
  
May God bless us and pour out his Spirit upon us through this conference, that we may have a time of rejoicing, and go home refreshed and with the determination more fully to sustain those who preside in the stakes and wards, and more faithfully to perform the duties which devolve upon us, is my prayer, and I ask it in humility, and in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
