8
Morning
07 10 1916
Elder Hyrum M. Smith. 
33
40-46

None

Greetings from the European mission — Terrors of the Great War — Failure of the Churches to influence the hearts and minds of men — Reasons therefor — The efforts of so-called Christianity to feed the people the bread of life have failed — The devil is stirring the minds of men to hatred and bloodshed — Only the gospel of Jesus Christ in the hearts of men will bring lasting peace — Duty of the Latter-day Saints to uphold God's ensign of peace, and bring a knowledge of his gospel to the children of men.  
  
I thank the Lord, this morning, for the privilege I have of meeting with the Saints upon this occasion. A long time has passed since I had the opportunity of attending a general conference of the Church and of meeting with multiudes of the Latter-day Saints here in the tabernacle. I have been laboring, as you know, as a missionary abroad, and I bring to you a greeting and a message of love and fellowship from the Saints of the European mission. The Latter-day Saints throughout that mission are like the Latter-day Saints here, in the valleys of the mountains, devoted to the gospel of Jesus Christ. They are full of the hope of salvation, and they place their trust in the Lord and in the gospel of Jesus Christ for that salvation. They are generally faithful and obedient to the laws of the gospel, and next to their desire to endure to the end, next to their hope of eternal salvation, is their desire and hope, sometime to gather with the Latter-day Saints in the land and the place appointed for the gathering of the Lord's people.  
  
In the countries comprising the European mission there is at the present time, great disturbance, great sorrow and anxiety, and the Latter-day Saints have their portion of these untoward things; yet they are enduring them in patience. They are going through these trying times trusting in the Lord and endeavoring to keep their hearts free from the spirit of hatred and animosity that seems to fill the hearts of the children of men in those troubled lands. I don't believe there is any spirit of anger or hatred in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints of any one of these countries against the people of any other. We have endeavored at least to instil into the hearts of the Saints a spirit of brotherhood and love, and a willingness to pray even for those who are called their enemies, and I believe they have succeeded and are succeeding to a marked degree in keeping their hearts pure from these defilements. I have been pained to learn that here at home Latter-day Saints who have emigrated from various countries in Europe, or whose fathers came from those countries, have taken a very active part in the conflicts now being waged in the world . They have taken sides with the countries at war, and they have upheld as right and just the cause of their own lands or the lands of their fathers, and have become more or less angry with each other in their discussions and arguments upon those questions. This seems to me to be quite wrong and altogether out of keeping with conduct of the Latter-day Saints. The Latter-day Saints who have been gathered out of the world and planted in the valleys of the mountains have in a sense been born again. When they have taken their citizenship in this goodly land they should have foresworn allegiance to foreign lands, and to the dominion of corrupt kings and princes, and they should hold themselves aloof and apart from the quarrels and the wars that the nations of the earth engage in. It would be just as consistent for the Latter-day Saints, who have come out of the Protestant churches or the Catholic church, or for the children of men and women who came out of the Presbyterian church or the Baptist, or the Methodist, or the Congregationalist, to take sides with those corrupt and apostate churches in their contentions and their quarrels among themselves. We, or our fathers who received the gospel of Jesus Christ, as it has been proclaimed by divinely appointed and authorized men in this dispensation, have been born again. We have forsaken the corrupt religions of the world, and we have foresworn all allegiance to these false churches. We have no interest in their contentions. At least the only interest we have in them is a desire that the adherents of these various churches may also see the light, come to a kowledge of the truth, and forsake evil and error and falsehood, and receive the gospel of Christ which is the power of God unto salvation. The only interest which the Latter-day Saints have or can have in the contentions of the nations of the earth, political or otherwise, is that the time may come when peace may be restored, when men shall cease to make war upon each other, and live in peace and love and in a desire to make every land a blessed land and all men brothers.  
  
You have been called out of goodly lands; but we have the word of the Lord for it that this land where the Lord has brought you and planted your feet is a land, choice above all other lands, a land held in reserve by the Lord upon which should be gathered the righteous, among his children, even all who would hear his voice and obey his commands. It is indeed the land, also, upon which Zion is being built and where the pure in heart shall dwell. Our only interests in other countries is, that out of Zion shall go forth the law that shall make all men lovers of God and friendly among themselves.  
  
Christianity, as it is known in the world today, has fallen far short of the accomplishment of what might have been expected of it. It has failed in establishing those principles which Christ taught among the children of men. The great Catholic division of the Christian world, the Catholic church, is a national liability to any country. It wields a great power over the minds and the hearts of the children of men, but it is a power for evil rather than for good. It brings countless thousands regularly to confession; it rarely brings a single man to repentance and the abandonment of his sins. The power wielded by that organization is one that does not promote civilization, nor advancement morally or spiritually, but it binds its adherents in the thralldom of superstition and ignorance and fear, and denies them the liberty to make an openminded investigation of other questions; and the nations and the people governed and controlled by that power are the least advanced intellectually and morally and industrially of any people in the world called Christian or civilized.  
  
The Protestant division of Chrstianity has practically ceased to exert any influence whatever over the hearts and the minds of the children of men. Mankind has largely ceased to be very much interested in Protestantism, as one promiment official in the British Government told me when I had occasion to visit him, that all professors of religion and particularly the ministers of religion were narrow-minded and that no broad-minded man. no thinking man in this day paid any attention to the religions of Christianity, or other religions for that matter. That was his view. My observation confirms, that view. What is the reason for this? Why, my brethren and sisters, even the dumb brute will not answer many times to the call to the crib or the lick, when no food or salt is provided. They will soon cease to come, when they have learned that nothing is provided for them, and it is the same way with Protestant Christianity. Are men less intelligent than the lower animals? The call is made to the people to come, and when the people have come they have been given, too often, the empty husk or the blighted ear, therefore many have ceased coming. Yet I would not have you understand me as believing all mankind, Christian or otherwise, have turned away entirely from thoughts of God and from the hope of salvation. The very image of God is impressed upon the children of men. They belong to him; He owns them, and he will never rest until he has brought them into a condition where they gladly and voluntarily render unto God that which belongs to God. They have been deceived and are deceived by corrupt professors, corrupt ministers.  
  
Let me explain, when I use the term "corrupt" with reference to these ministers of the gospel, that I use it in the same sense that I believe the Lord used it when he made that declaration to Joseph Smith, the prophet, in answer to the prophet's prayer. He did not mean, nor do I mean, that the ministers of religion are personally unvirtuous or impure. I believe as a class they, perhaps, in personal purity, stand a little above the average order of men. When I use the term "corrupt" I mean, as I believe the Lord meant, that they have turned away from the truth, the purity of the truth, the beauty of the truth, and have turned to that which is false. A false doctrine is a corrupt doctrine; a false religion is a corrupt religion; a false teacher is a corrupt teacher. Any man who teaches a false doctrine, who believes in and practices and teaches a false religion is a corrupt professor, because he teaches that which is impure and not true. That is the trouble with Christianity today. It is not true. Christianity is, perhaps, no truer or falser than any other religion, than Mohammedanism, Confucianism, Buddhism or any other ism or philosophy. In fact, my brethren and sisters, if the falsity of a religion can be measured in any degree by the amount of trouble and turmoil and strife and bitterness and hatred that it has engendered in the hearts of men, if it can be judged by the number of wars it has carried on and the rivers of blood it has shed, the amount of misery and sorrow, it has caused, or the extremes of impurity, found among its adherents, then Christianity, that which is known as Christianity, is the falsest of all religions in the world. For in these last sixteen hundred years, if not longer, the small minority of the population of the earth known as Christians, have carried on the great majority of the wars in the world and have destroyed the greatest amount of life and of property and have inflicted upon the world the greatest degree of misery. And, so far as my observation goes — and I have tried to observe some of these things — there is less of piety, genuine sincerity and honesty in living up to their professions among Christians, than you will find among the confessors of any other religion whatsoever. The trouble is, as God declared to Joseph the Prophet, mankind have gone astray. Their religions are an abomination in his sight, and their professors are corrupt because they have turned away from the truth and have turned unto fables. When men go to church nowadays they do not receive that which satisfies the soul, which the soul longs for; they are not instructed in the ways of life and of purity and right. They go away empty and disappointed.  
  
I look over the congregations of Israel, as they respond to the call made by the Presidency of the Church, from time to time, to come up here, to gather in our general conferences. For many years the call has gone forth, and each call seems to be answered by ever increasing numbers. When we come, my brethren and sisters, we come hungry; yes, hungering and thirsting after righteousness; and we are not fed as the world is generally fed, in their religious assemblies, upon platitudes and glittering generalities and sophistries and false philosophies and science, falsely so called, or empty eloquence, but we are fed the very bread of life. We go home again having been instructed, in sound doctrine, having been built up in faith, having been filled with the Holy Ghost, as the Lord promised to those who would hunger and thirst after righteousness. We are sometimes reproved, sometimes admonished and rebuked, but we realize and understand that even reproof is sometimes essential and is acceptable to the man who really desires to be corrected and instructed and taught how to overcome his own weaknesses and more fully do his duty. So we go home, rejoicing in that we have been reproved, that God has shown us some of the weaknesses that we failed, ourselves, to see, and we go away determined to strengthen ourselves and try to overcome these weaknesses.  
  
Well, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as established by the instrumentality of Joseph, the prophet, through the personal ministry of God and the revelations of God to him, is the truth; it is the church of God and the only one which he recognizes as his, the only organization where his authority obtains, where the ordinances of the gospel may be performed efficaciously in behalf of those who seek to obtain them, and where the gospel is preached with power and authority, by men recognized by the Lord.  
  
It is the word that if heeded will bring salvation to all who obey it, and that will bring condemnation to those who reject it.  
  
We stand in the world for peace among men and not war. We detest war; we love peace. Does the world love peace? No. Do they want peace? It is not apparent that they do. The devil reigns in the world, and he has stirred up the hearts of men to anger and to hatred and to bloodshed. It is terrible to contemplate that in certain nations, among millions of the inhabitants of this earth today, infants are drawing from their mothers very breasts the poison of hate of their fellow men. Hatred is being engendered in the hearts of innocent children by the placards posted upon billboards, in streetcar windows, in the newspapers and by cartoons and on moving picture screens. By picture and inscription, the teaching of parents, and even sermons in the church, the people, old and young, are being taught and pledged to the policy of the "absolute and permanent extirpation of all enemies and enemy goods from their countries." After this war is over will there be peace? No, there will be no peace. It will take generations to outlive the impressions of hatred and animosity that are now being made upon the hearts of the children against their fellow men. The nations, while looking forward to a cessation of hostilities in this great war, are laying the foundations right now for another war which they call an industrial war, pledging themselves to make war upon other nations industrially, to cease to trade with each other in a friendly, brotherly manner. What must be the outcome of it? Peace to be permament must come from within as well as to be seen externally. Man must have peace in his heart arid love in his heart both for God and man, else there will be no peace. It is as President Smith expressed it yesterday, the decision of the court, the decision of a battle that goes in favor of a man or a nation, fills that man or that nation with jubilance, with joy and even arrogance, and it fills the man or the nation against whom the decision goes with bitterness of hate. Externally he may appear to be at peace, but in his heart there lurks that hatred which but waits an opportunity to get even sometime in the future; and the peace that shall be established after open warfare has ceased, it seems to me, will be but the seeming peace that may be seen in the graceful coils of the rattler as he rests in that position which is the best one to strike the deadly blow. Not until man humbles himself before God and repents of his sins, acknowledges his guilt, asks forgiveness for his own wrong doing and stands ready to forgive those who have injured him, when forgiveness is sought; only when God Almighty is recognized as the Father, and Jesus Christ as the Elder Brother and Redeemer of men; only when those glorious principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of salvation, shall be believed in and accepted and obeyed, will there be peace on earth. Not until the kingdom of God is found within us as well as outside of us, can we hope for peace on earth and good will for men. To accomplish this God has spoken in the latter days; for this God has raised up prophets in the latter days; for this he has put his Spirit upon men, and inspired their minds and their hearts and brought them in humility to repentance; for this the priesthood of the Almighty has been restored to men, that priesthood which must be exercised in love and kindness and charity and mercy and patience for the salvation of men, and never for the oppression of men. For that purpose has the gospel been preached in the world by men called of God, who speak by the power and demonstration of the Spirit of God and exercise their authority as God has given authority for the bringing of peace on earth, for the preparation of the gospel of peace, for the preparing of the world for the coming of the Son of God who shall dwell upon the earth and who shall execute judgment in justice and mercy and love among men and nations. My brethren, for this reason was the gospel restored, and that is what this Church stands for. It is the destiny of this Church and this people and this priesthood to stand for these things and uphold these standards, to uphold the ensign which God has raised to the nations of the earth — an ensgin of peace — a welcome to all men to come to a place of refuge, a Zion for the pure in heart, where the oppressed and the downtrodden among men may find rest and peace to their souls, and teachers after God's own heart to lead them in the paths of truth and salvation.  
  
Are we doing our duty? There is a little law among the boy scouts which is admirable, but to no organization or people is it more applicable than to the Latter-day Saints. The scout law declares that a scout is clean, a scout is honest, a scout is truthful, a scout is kind, and so on and so forth. Now that is what Latter-day Saints are. A Latter-day Saint is a man of God; a Latter-day Saint is a man who loves the Lord first and foremost; a Latter-day Saint is a man who loves his neighbor; a Latter-day Saint keeps the Sabbath day holy; a Latter-day Saint honors his father and his mother; he revernces the priesthood, he honors it in himself and performs his duty in it; a Latter-day Saint is pure, he is virtuous, he is an honorable, upright, virtuous husband, and she is a pure, noble, motherly wife. Latter-day Saints are good fathers and good mothers; they are good brothers and sisters; they are good neighbors, and they are good citizens. Latter-day Saints are everything that God desires them to be; and it should not be said that Latter-day Saints ought to be, should be, might be, may be, or can be, what God wants them to be — Latter-day Saints are the chosen of God and the salt of the earth by whom the whole world will be salted and whose destiny, as we have said, is to bring the knowledge of God unto the children of men, until truth and righteousness shall prevail in the world and cover the earth as the waters do the mighty deep. Let us then arise to the great and glorious position and work that the Lord has placed us in and called us to perform, and let it be performed in humility and to the glory of God, the Eternal Father, and to the eternal salvation of his children, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
