Morning
05 10 1940

Conference reconvened Saturday morning, October 5 at 10 o'clock 

a. m. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

We are blessed again this morning in having with us President Grant, who is presiding at this meeting, and has asked me to conduct the services. 

The singing today will be congregational, under the direction of Elder J. Spencer Cornwall, except for one solo. Our organist is Alexander Schreiner. The opening song will be by the congregation, "O Say, What is Truth?", by Melling, hymn book, page 17. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "O Say, What is Truth?" (By Melling.) 

Elder Charles W. Fagg, President of the Grant Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Praise to the Man." (By William W. Phelps.) 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I feel very happy, my brethren and sisters, in my religion and the association I have with you this morning in worshiping the Lord in General Conference of His Church. Personally I appreciate your attendance at this Conference. I enjoyed very greatly, with others of my brethren and their wives, greeting about seven thousand five hundred people, leaders of the Church, at a reception held in the Hotel Utah Thursday evening; and I suppose you are all here, or most of you, today. To me it is an evidence of your faithfulness, brethren and sisters, and appreciation -of the Gospel, realizing that many of you have come from afar, great distances, and at more or less expense, and I believe that you have come in discharge of a sacred religious duty, and with a desire to mingle with the Saints of God, and to worship Him in His appointed way. 

FAITHFUL LATTER-DAY SAINTS COMMENDED 

I feel full of blessing for you and all the faithful Saints. I know the integrity of the Latter-day Saints, the sacrifices that many of them are making for the Gospel's sake. May God bless you and reward you abundantly therefor, and keep you in the faith. Those who are indifferent  careless in regard to their religion, I hope that the Spirit of the Lord will strive with them, that men in high places of responsibility will strive with them, and that they may be brought into real activity and appreciation of the Gospel, and take advantage of their opportunities in making their calling and election sure, while they are here and have the opportunity, and I desire to be one with them. 

I suppose that we are all candidates for the highest degree of glory in the Celestial kingdom. In order to attain to those heights we must serve the Lord and work the works of righteousness, as outlined by the Gospel which the Lord has given us for our guide. 

One of the articles of our f aith reads : 

We believe that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL EVIDENCES OF THE GOSPEL 

There are, I may say, two principal incentives for men to yield obedience Unto the Gospel in order to obtain salvation. We may say the one is the external and the other the internal evidences of the Gospel. If we ever attain to a fulness of glory it must be by the keeping of the commandments of the Lord, by living by every word that proceedeth forth from His mouth. We must have faith in order to do so. Faith is the first principle of revealed religion, the foundation of all righteousness, and the moving cause of all action. Faith comes by the word of God. Hence we preach and teach, that men and women may have faith, that they may repent of their sins, yield obedience unto the laws and ordinances of the Gospel, and through the atonement of Jesus Christ obtain eternal life and exaltation. 

The internal evidences of the Gospel are experienced by those who have received the Gospel, and they have the benefits of the external evidences as well; while those who are non-members of this Church have practically but the external evidences. 

When I speak of internal evidences, I regard the Holy Ghost as the soul of Mormonism, and Mormonism is the Church and Kingdom of God established on the earth, with the everlasting Gospel restored in these last days. 

We look at a man of fine physique and personality and admire him, but we do not know his real worth until we become acquainted with him and learn that he is a man of character, a man of integrity to truth and the principles of righteousness, and then we love him more dearly. 

THE COMPANIONSHIP OF THE HOLY GHOST 

People on the outside look at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints and admire its organization, its institutions, its accomplishments; but they have not felt as the Latter-day Saints have felt, who have embraced the Gospel and helped to make Mormonism what it is 

52 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

today. When a person has had faith to repent of his sins, and yielded obedience in the waters of baptism, and had hands laid upon him by those having authority, for confirmation to membership in the Church, and received the Holy Ghost, it is his right, through continued faithfulness, to have the companionship of the Holy Ghost with him all the time, to be, as it were, a lamp to his feet and a light to his path through life, to know the course that he should pursue, and have strength and power to pursue that course. 

That is the will of the Lord, and I understand what the Lord meant, when He said : "He that doeth the will of the Father shall know of His doctrine"- — it meant that very thing. Those who have taken that course in sincerity do know, by the revelations of the Lord, through the Holy Ghost, that His course is right, in accepting of the Gospel; that this work in which we are engaged is indeed the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

The scriptures tell us: "No man can say that Jesus is the Lord, except by the Holy Ghost." I bear you my testimony, brethren and sisters, that I do know, by the power of the Holy Ghost, and added evidences of the Gospel, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior and Redeemer of the world. I feel that I know it just as well and by the same means that Peter knew, when the Savior asked His disciples : 

Whom do men say that I the Son of man am? 

* * * * * 

And Simon Petter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. 

And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, SimonBarjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. 

MEN KNOWN BY THEIR FRUITS 

The Savior gave a test that people who are not members of the Church might apply in their investigation of the Gospel, particularly in regard to prophets, that they might know a true prophet from a false one. It is contained in the seventh chapter of Matthew, where He said : 

Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. 

Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 

Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 

A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 

Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. 

Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. 

By the fruits of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, its membership, we may be known as God's people, and this work as His work. 

THE PROPHET ISAIAH QUOTED 

I desire to read to you, brethren and sisters, a few words from the prophecy of Isaiah, who spoke under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost and for the Lord, so that this that I am going to read to you is the word of the Lord, and was intended for us. I read from the twenty-ninth chapter : 

Stay yourselves, and wonder; cry ye out, and cry; they are drunken, but not with wine; they stagger, but not with strong drink. 

For the Lord hath poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep, and hath closed your eyes; the prophets and your rulers, the seers hath he covered. 

And the vision of all is become unto you as the words of a book that is sealed, which men deliver to one that is learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee : and he saith, I cannot, for it is sealed : 

And the book is delivered to him that is not learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee : and he saith, I am not learned. 

Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precepts of men: 

Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder; for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid. 

THE PROPHECY FULFILLED 

Those of us, brethren and sisters, who are familiar with the circumstances surrounding the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, and the establishment of this work in the earth, can readily see in it a fulfilment of the word of the Lord as He spoke it through His servant, the prophet Isaiah. It was to be a marvelous work and a wonder that the Lord should bring forth at this particular time, when the Book of Mormon should come forth. The Book of Mormon itself contains a fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as taught by Him to the ancient inhabitants of this American continent, and it is before the world today. 

In the beginning of this work, in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, a wonderful work was accomplished. He laid the foundations for an ever growing and increasing organization and activities in the Church intended for the honor and glory of our Father in heaven. He was taken away in early manhood. He gave unto us the revelations of the Lord, for our guidance. At the time of his death there was but one auxiliary organization in the Church, that of the Relief Society. That organization has become a marvelous organization. Yes, I may say it has become a marvel in the eyes of men and women within and without the Church. 

ORGANIZATIONS PERFECTED 

It was in the days of President Brigham Young that the Sunday School organization was established. It has grown and increased until it is a mighty organization in the earth, a marvelous work and a wonder, the like of which cannot be found anywhere else. 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

It was in President Brigham Young's day that the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations were organized. Each of them has become a marvelous work and a wonder. 

It remained for the administration of President John Taylor to give to the Church the Primary organization, which is another marvelous work and a wonder in the earth today. 

DEVELOPMENT OF CHURCH UNDER PRESENT ADMINISTRATION 

It remained for President Heber J. Grant and his administration to carry on this great work in its development, increasing the Stakes and Wards of Zion. In the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith they had but one or two Stakes, and now we have a hundred thirty-two. They had a few Wards, and now we have more than a thousand Wards. We have Missions established, and for more than a century we have been carrying on at tremendous expense. Today we have something like two thousand missionaries constantly in the field. The expense to the Church and to the individual missionaries and their friends, valuing a missionary's time at $900.00 a year, reaches nearly $4,000,000.00 per annum. This gives evidence of the faith and the knowledge of the Latter-day Saints that they are engaged in God's work, and are willing to make sacrifices for its advancement in the earth. 

In the days of President Heber J. Grant and his administration there has been organized in the Stakes of Zion a missionary system, known as the Stake missionary work of the Church; and be it known, brethren and sisters and friends, according to the statistics of the Church, in the past two years, with fewer missionaries employed, there have been more converts made within the Stakes of Zion than in the mission field. If we compare the cost of maintaining the missionary work abroad, this work carried on at home is without practically any cost to the Church and its membership. The missionaries maintain themselves. They carry on their vocational work. They can sleep in their own beds at night, eat at their own tables, and the work goes forward, — a marvelous work and a wonder, to the credit of the present administration of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Another outstanding accomplishment in the administration of the present President of the Church is that of the Welfare work of the Church. Those of you who heard President Clark's talk yesterday morning upon this subject of the welfare work of the Church must have been convinced that it is indeed a marvelous work and a wonder, evidence that the present President of this Church has been divinely called as God's mouthpiece and prophet unto this people. Do we need these evidences? If so, we should make use of them and let them have their influence upon our minds, at least to lead us to a careful and thorough investigation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as it is preached today. 

This could not be accomplished, of course, by the leadership of the Church alone. It involves the faithfulness and integrity of the member of the Church; and may the Lord bless you, brethren and sisters, for such integrity and faithfulness. 

DUTY OF MEMBERSHIP OF THE CHURCH 

So this is the work of God, and it will go on, until God's purposes have been fully accomplished in the earth. It is for us as members of the Church to do our duty and to stand in holy places and watch the judgments of God go by. This we will do if we have the right spirit and are living our religion without any fear or trembling on our part, for we know that God will take care of His own. 

I bear my testimony to you, brethren and sisters, that I do know that this is God's work; that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and is and ever will be, as also his successors, one by one, down to the present time, and not the least among them President Heber J. Grant. Thank God for him. May he be preserved unto us and unto his work many years to come, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

Twice each year, for the last few years, I have had the privilege and pleasure of sitting and looking into your faces, and contemplating the things that are transpiring in your hearts. But I want to say to you now that it is greatly different from sitting and looking at you, in this position which I now occupy. Just a few feet above my seat makes considerable difference. 

There is one thing that we all have been contemplating, and I know that we have come to some definite conclusions concerning it, and that is the well-being and the safety of this people who have been gathered out from every nation and from every branch of people upon the earth, here to this land which has been consecrated and dedicated of God, our Eternal Father, for the gathering place of His own. I believe that we will come to the conclusion that we are perfectly safe in our daily walks and talks, if and when we devote ourselves to God's great work, in the right spirit. 

THE LIBERTY BELL 

You know that through one hundred and eighty-four years there has now come down to us a rather national emblem —  it has become almost a shrine. I speak of the old Liberty Bell, which, though voiceless for these many years, has served so well, and which was eagerly looked upon by the people on July 4th, 1776, as it rang forth its message that this country was in very deed free from tyranny and free from that which had caused mankind so much distress. You know it was brought from England in 1732, and it rested in the State House in Philadelphia for a number of years. Then in 1753 it cracked and was remolded by American workmen. This did not last very long. It cracked again, and Second Dag  was remolded. But the strange thing to me is this, that some twentyfive years prior to its being cast the last time, out of the scripture men sought that which was molded into its crown and that was, as it came from the holy writ : "Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto the inhabitants thereof." 

Now, this bell was in use by the City of Philadelphia until July 8th, 1836, when it cracked while being tolled at the funeral of Chief Justice John Marshall. 

It seems strange that God has prepared the way for His people, and perhaps strange to us that God is now preparing the way for His people, but such is the case. In the beginning of this earth of ours for this thing which God prepared for His children, He gave some definite, pointed instructions, and was rather jealous of what He said and what He desired, and to us have come these things which we would like to obey and love to keep. 

God has also given unto each of us the one and only tool by which we might gain honor and success and exaltation, or on the other hand, misery and disgrace and absolute degradation. Now, that tool is the free agency of man to choose between right and wrong, and God has safeguarded it, from time to time called our attention to it, and brought it home to us. 

LIGHT AND UNDERSTANDING TO BE STRIVEN FOR 

I read in the Doctrine and Covenants this : 

Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are edified and repoice together. 

And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness. 

That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day 

And again, verily I say unto you, and I say it that you may know the truth, that you may chase darkness from among you; 

He that is ordained of God and sent forth, the same is appointed to be the greatest, notwithstanding he is the least and the servant ol all. 

I feel that we should never imagine that we have seen the light at one time, and it becomes therefore unnecessary for us constantly to strive to glimpse those flashes from heaven that are coming to us, as they did in the past. I would that we might open the windows of our souls and receive that light which God desires to give and is giving to his people. 

You recall when Christ was with His Twelve, one thing that has always rather impressed itself upon me, was the time when the Twelve and Christ were together, and the Twelve, some of them were contending, one with the other, as to who might be on the right-hand side of God and who on the left, and these things were said: (This is in Mark, the tenth chapter.) LEADERSHIP THROUGH SERVICE 

But Jesus called them to him, and saith unto them, Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and their great ones exercise authority upon them. 

But so shall it not be among you; but whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister; 

And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all. 

The salvation of man is not brought about by force or coercion or the powers of dictatorship. These are not the methods God has used, nor are they the methods God will use. 

Refer to your Pearl of Great Price, and read in Moses that which God gave to us then : 

And I, the Lord God, spake unto Moses, saying : That Satan, whom thou hast commanded in the name of mine Only Begotten, is the same which was from the beginning, and he came before me, saying — Behold, here am I, send me. I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor. 

But behold, my Beloved Son, which was my Beloved and Chosen from the beginning, said unto me — Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever. 

Wherefore, because that Satan rebelled against me, and sought to destroy the agency of man, which I the Lord God, had given him, and also, that I sriould give unto him mine own power, by the power of mine Only Begotten, I caused that he should be cast down. 

Constantly there has come ringing into our ears these admonitions, these things, which bring us up standing, to realize that it is God who speaks to His people, to direct them and to cause that their minds may run in the proper channels. 

god's word given to his people 

The following was given in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments? 

Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled ? 

I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing. 

Then they say in their hearts : This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But woe unto such, for their reward lurketh beneath, and not from above. 

Now. these passages of scripture that I have read to you, I have read them for this one purpose, and they have led me to this thought, that every single last soul of us here, and all the members of this great Church of God, scattered throughout the length and breadth of the land, have seen the light, and we have had that light confirmed by the testimony of the Holy Ghost in our hearts and souls, that this is God's work, that God in His own way has wrought and brought to pass that which you and I now behold. 

Think of God's message. Think of His methods, the choosing of Moses, the call of Abraham, and the placing of Joseph sold into Egypt, the sending of His Only Begotten Son among the children of men, to 

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

bring about that which Christ wrought, which is sung by the millions upon this earth here today. Then think of the marvelous thing that He did in His quiet, unostentatious manner; how Moroni appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith, to bring forth this great work that you and I are now engaged in. 

All this being true, all this having been revealed to us, we knowing of its truth and virtue, I think is it quite necessary that we bring ourselves to understand that with the establishment here upon this earth of God's prophet, God's servants, we can say in our hearts that these are the servants of God, chosen absolutely and literally by Him for the guidance o'f His people here upon this earth. 

SUCCESS IN LOCAL MISSIONARY WORK 

Now, just one word: I am thrilled with that which has been told to you people by Brother Richards, Apostle George F. Richards, concerning the work which is going on here in the Stakes of Zion. Your sons and daughters have been sent abroad. They have been marvelously blessed. But here in your own Stakes, up and down these great stretches, your sons and husbands and daughters and wives are in this great missionary work, and up to July of this year we were just fifty-one baptisms ahead of the same time last year; and during this last month one hundred ninety-four men joined this Church, who never knew of its truth before. 

So I rejoice, and say to you I feel that it is not necessary that we should feel overly concerned about what will happen to us, if we will do that which God desires us to do. 

God bless you, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I had rather half-heartedly cherished the idea that the broadcast tomorrow morning would be accepted as my contribution to this Conference. It was almost the case six months ago, but five minutes at the last of the closing session saved the establishment of such a precedent, I am sorry to say. 

Usually when I occupy this position, which is at least once a week and often two or three times a week, I have the benefit of a radio script in front of me. It is much more comfortable, but not nearly so spontaneous. I ask at this time that if the Lord has a message that He would like me to speak, He will prompt it. I feel very weak in addressing this congregation. 

THE NEED FELT FOR TRUE LEADERSHIP 

In our conduct of the Tabernacle Choir broadcast over the nationwide Columbia network each Sunday morning, and over the nation-wide Canadian Radio Commission stations, and also by short wave and by electrical transcription across the seas and into other continents, we  mail postmarked from almost every section of the globe, and literally from every nook and corner of America. 

This mail reveals that people are hungry for leadership, that they are searching earnestly for a foundation on which to place their feet, for a fixed destination toward which to strive, and that they are sick to death of the confusion and the contradiction that they see about them. This hunger for leadership in one sense is a very happy thing, and in another sense it may be a very dangerous thing. When people are in that frame of mind it makes it much easier for a false leader to win their following. 

I am impressed with the fact that our responsibility in this Church is the responsibility of leadership, and that we must take it, whatever it may cost us, because the Lord has told us that we have been sent to be a light unto the world and to be saviors of men; and if we don't give this leadership, others will assume it, to the sorrow of mankind and to our own condemnation. I feel sure that this leadership must enter into all of the activities of living. 

President Clark mentioned here, yesterday morning, the fact that our fathers and grandfathers had prayed over the land and the water and the air, and all of the physical elements of production, much to their credit and to their blessing. I feel sure that we need to pray over a good many other things, including our scholarship, our academic activities, our political activities, our social activities. I am sure that we need to pray over every phase of thought and of life. 

It is a very difficult thing to take leadership in this day — so much is being discovered; so much is happening; so confused are the issues, I think it safe to say, without contradiction, that in a public sense we can't be sure of much of what we hear or much of what we see or much of what we read; that the phrase, "evil and designing men," has a much broader application, than the limited sense in which we use it in connection with the Word of Wisdom. Those things that are printed and spoken to shape our thinking, in all fields of communication and human contact, are largely designed and colored and adulterated and modified to bring men into the line of thought of other men, often without regard to the facts or the truth of the matter in question. It is very difficult to know, and I think man unaided, of himself, and without some Higher Help, cannot know what to believe and what not to believe of the maze of material that daily passes before our eyes and comes within the range of our hearing. 

THE SEARCH FOR TRUTH 

A cherished friend of mine, whose life paralleled mine for many years, up to a few years ago, when there was a parting of the ways, is now in one of America's greatest institutions of learning, and has achieved international eminence in his scientific field. A few weeks ago he wrote me and said : "I am conducting researches in many fields, and I am just beginning to learn the high cost of finding out the truth about anything." 

60 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

And he continued: "The problem is so complex that all we can do is arrive at half-truths and first approximations." 

I wrote him back and said : "It must be a great comfort to you, in your work, to know that you are a member of a Church that will accept everything of truth that you ever find in your researches, in whatever field of thought or activity, and all that we ask of you is to pursue them beyond that stage of half-truth and first approximations of which you have spoken, and conduct them to their final end, where there will be no question about their eternal verity — to that point where the generations to come will not of necessity repudiate them." 

I have a strong feeling that our young people who go into our universities and colleges should have before them constantly the promise of Moroni, that "by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things," which is repeated in substance in the Doctrine and Covenants to the effect that "the Holy Ghost . . . showeth all things and teacheth the peaceable things of the kingdom." I never remember having gone into an examination of any consequence in my life without making it a matter of prayer. I know that the young man or young woman who approaches any problem in the academic field, or any other field, would have a great advantage if he would keep as his constant companion the spirit of our Father in heaven, which would give him an active sense of warm assurance when he was in the presence of truth, and would give him a contrary feeling when he was not in the presence of truth. It wouldn't give him knowledge without study, or discovery without search, or truth without effort, but, granted that he pursued his work intelligently and diligently, he would have a great advantage in all of his findings and doings, academically and otherwise, if he made the spirit of all truth his constant guide. 

STRENGTH COMES THROUGH PRAYER 

This is the thing the Latter-day Saints have that helps them to take leadership regardless of the confusion and the contradiction about us. I know that in my home my widowed mother was constantly in an attitude of prayer. My most vivid memory of her — and I cherish it dearly — is a memory of her on her knees, pleading with the Lord, her Father in heaven, for a solution to the many problems and difficulties that beset her life. I suppose that I had had as much formal education by the time I was fourteen years old, in terms of days spent in school, as she had had in all her life, and yet after I had had the privilege of acquiring university degrees I could still go to her when I was troubled, and find the right counsel and the right answers to whatever was confronting me, and I am grateful to have had such a mother and such a home, and to have had evidence of the effectiveness of that approach, that promise which through prayer and through diligence and through walking in the ways of our Father, makes it possible for the Latter-day Saints to assume leadership, and we can do it in no other way, except by keeping constantly in touch with the spirit of our Father in heaven, by which we may know the truth of all things. 

This is our promise, if we live for it. It is the means whereby we can take leadership in spiritual matters, in economic affairs, in social conditions, and in all the ways of life — and the only way. 

SAFETY IN FOLLOWING TRUE LEADERSHIP 

Besides this we have our living prophet, for whom I am grateful, and I hope to follow after him all the days of my life. I know that when I don't follow him I am wrong, and I know that when I do I am right, even if I don't agree with him. To those who only follow him when they do agree with him he is not a prophet unto them. I am grateful to the Lord for preserving the life of President Grant. I know that the leadership of this people is a responsibility that weighs heavily upon him, and that he would avoid it if he could, ofttimes, but he has no choice in the matter; and by looking to his counsel and example we may also be helped to know when we are right and when we are not right in the presence of all the confusion we see about us. 

I wish to leave you my testimony that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that He shall one day reign upon this earth, in His own time, and that all those things that the prophets have spoken in all generations will come to pass, regardless of the belief or unbelief of men; and that he who leads us today speaks for God in the affairs of this world in this generation. 

May the Lord bless you and be with you and help you to give' the leadership that the Lord intends that you shall give, lest others take it, and lest we thereby be condemned for not having taken the place that was rightfully ours, and for which we had the guidance if we had lived according to the laws of God, our Father. 

May He bless us all. I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A bartone solo: If Christ Came Back Today," (by O'Hara), was sung by Elder Walter Welti. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

This crowded house on a week-day with beautiful weather, is an answer to the cry of the ancient prophet of Israel : "There is faith in Israel." It is good to be one of you in this, the Church of Christ. 

I have been impressed to speak to a theme which may not be strictly spiritual, but which in its relations to Gospel living seems to me to be of prime importance. 

PREPAREDNESS A PART OF THE GOSPEL PLAN 

Preparedness is today on every tongue. There is danger ahead, and defenses must be set up. Preparedness is not a new word to Latter-day Saints. For one hundred and ten years our voice has been one of warning to prepare against the commotion and calamities of the last days. We have taught and continue to teach that full preparedness and complete 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

defense against the devastation by evil is the acceptance of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. When every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ we may look for the peace of Eden, but not before. 

Our land is setting up defenses of powder and steel. That is well enough. But there are intangible defenses more powerful which direct the use of material defenses. These must be fostered, if our preparedness shall be adequate. To one of these defenses I call your attention — to the education we give our children, particularly in schools, as a determining defense against evil. 

TRUE EDUCATION A PROTECTION AGAINST EVIL 

Latter-day Saints believe in education; the Church itself is but a great teaching institution. We understand that to learn we must be taught; and also that our actions are determined largely by the teachings we receive. Therefore, we teach our children as a preparation for life. 

The example was set by the Lord. When Adam and Eve were placed in the Garden of Eden, in forgetfulness of their past, the Lord came and taught them the Gospel. This was done again later, to others, as eternal truth was forgotten or corrupted among the children of men. 

There is no place for ignorance in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Light and truth, ever increasing, the only safe protection against evil, must ever guide this people and all the world, if humanity shall find peace and happiness. 

Thus has come the exceedingly high educational standing of Latterday Saints — above that of any other group of like numbers in the world. We expect ever to seek after knowledge and to share in the great truthadvances of these latter days. 

However, knowledge alone contributes little to human welfare. Only when used for the good of man does it acquire real value. "The Glory of God is intelligence"; but the intelligent man gathers knowledge and proceeds to use it in harmony with the divine plan of salvation — for the blessing of the children of men. True learning comes when knowledge is used. Correct use gives life to knowledge. In Mormon terminology, wisdom and intelligence are synonymous. Wisdom in the use of knowledge is as important as knowledge itself. 

Such beliefs have made the Latter-day Saints supporters of all sound educational endeavors. We look upon our public schools, from kindergarten to university, as the finest expression of democracy. They are levelers and equalizers of our citizenry. They offer the even chance in life for rich and poor, weak and strong. 

THE DUTY OF SCHOOLS 

Therefore, we have given our public schools a great trust; and have endowed them with tremendous power. Our children are in their keeping during most of the formative years of life. As the schools teach so will the coming generation think and act. The conditions in our land today, good or bad, may well be laid at the doors of our schools, which nourished  in our immaturity with ideals which in our maturity are being translated into action. 

In return for this trust we expect our schools to be preservers of the principles of human welfare; bulwarks against every insidious, subversive foe of human freedom; defenses against all invaders of human rights; teachers of the way from war to peace, from poverty to prosperity. In times of moral, social or economic upheaval, our schools, ideal-builders, must be among the nation's most powerful defenses. We rely on our schools, for example, to prevent the unspeakable, blazing evil now raging in Europe from starting a conflagration in our land. We teach with easy precision protection against communicable diseases. It is more important to teach immunity against untruth; to show how the fruits of our civilization may be preserved and increased. Among the many instruments of democracy, the schools must stand foremost in preparing the people against coming evils, and for a better future day. 

We are in the midst of a changing day. It is folly to believe that we can go on happily with millions of men unemployed, and as many millions living under an inadequate standard of living. There will needs be much readjustment to secure prosperity for all. Many activities must be redirected to make every able-bodied person self-supporting. In this realignment of forces, and reorganization of resources, the schools must take an active, practical part. 

To do this, to be worthy of their high commission in this troubled day, two major objectives must be courageously reemphasized and accomplished by our schools. 

RELIGIOUS TRAINING MUST BE ENCOURAGED 

First, moral and religious education must be given hereafter an honorable and corresponding place by the side of the traditionally important subjects of the curriculum. For the safety of the nation, moral teaching should be given, at definite hours, in every publicly supported classroom. There must be eager cooperation with every project, such as our L. D. S. Seminaries and Institutes, to supply religious instruction outside the school. There must be no whining and hiding behind a misinterpretation of the constitutional provision for religious liberty. We still say on our coins, "In God we trust." There must be no attempt to place the sole responsibility upon the Church. The strongest defense of this or any other nation is not of sword and shot, of long range cannon and bombs from the sky. It lies in the spiritual domain of life, among the intangibles. The human will, according to its training, determines whether steel shall be shaped into swords or plowshares. The "fifth column" and other corroding influences, and all evil, often disdainful of exploding bombs, are conquered and chained only by spiritual weapons. Thinking citizens, the country over, are recognizing the danger of a citizenry, untaught and untrained in the moral and spiritual principles upon which human welfare has ever rested. Unless our schools resolutely place such training foremost, they will have sown to the whirlwind. 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

IMPORTANCE OF PRACTICAL EDUCATION 

Second, the right of way, after moral and religious training, in every school and college curriculum, must be given to useful knowledge  — knowledge that may be used in making a living, in meeting the actual and daily needs of life. Unless this is done our physical defenses will prove inadequate, and economic chaos will increase. We must dignify and ennoble the necessary tasks of life, to secure contentment among humanity. 

The activities of life center upon the business of making a living. Every man worthy of life desires to be able to sustain himself and a family of his own. This has always been an objective of the Latter-day Saints. In our welfare program the need of caring for the poor, necessary and beautiful as it is, is less important than the attempt to find ways and means to enable the poor to provide for themselves, and to raise the standard of living of all to meet their natural wants properly. Universal self-support will be a mighty defense against any enemy. A contented, self-supporting people will resist the cheap, enslaving offerings of evil. 

Practical education must be featured as never before. Men and women must be taught how to use the natural resources about them for their support in life. The economic possibilities must be set forth, of waters, soils, forests, mountains and hills. To solve the problems of the day, and of tomorrow, we need more trained farmers and mechanics, skilled craftsmen, business men and housewives who are so educated that they can do their work intelligently, and therefore with respect for their calling; and who are ready to wrestle joyfully with the gifts of earth. For these are the only true producers of wealth. There would be more prosperity and home happiness if more men toiled with the hand as well as with the head, and if every girl were trained in the processes of maintaining and running a household successfully with emphasis on child care and training. Such education for boys and girls should begin in the lowest grades for some do not reach high school and many fail to enter college. 

Such education does not require special industrial or vocational schools. That would defeat the spirit of democracy, for every boy, rich or poor, should learn how to support a family, and every normal girl looks forward to the joys of wifehood and motherhood. Besides in a true democracy, class consciousness must be avoided. Such important training should not be neglected nor left to chance. Our present system of education should direct from year to year, from grade to grade, the thought and training of students toward the application of knowledge to useful ends — life-sustaining ends. The colleges should gladly receive students so trained, and continue the training under college environment. 

Culture accompanies such training. The discipline of the mind is the essence of culture. The so-called "common pursuits," have in later years been invested with a variety of newly discovered knowledge. They are in this respect not surpassed by the so-called "professions." The study of agriculture and home making may be made as cultural as of astronomy; or of our own government as that of ancient Rome. Failing  recognize this, thousands of young people have failed to find their places in life. They find no jobs for they have not been trained to work, too often only to seek to avoid work. In the words of Brigham Young, "Education is the handmaid to honest labor." 

Moreover, they who have learned to work, and who have acquired their belongings through personal toil, are the safest members of society. They believe in private property; and what is more, they believe in allowing others to gather about them material benefits. They will be the last to attempt to dispossess others of property won through honest toil. Teaching men and women to work and to earn a living is the best insurance against the false economic doctrines which flood the land. 

OPPORTUNITIES LIE AHEAD 

One other thought remains. The pioneers who entered these valleys conquered the desert with such knowledge and strength as they possessed. Since that day, knowledge has increased immeasurably. By the invention of machines, man's strength has increased a thousand fold. Resources of earth lie about us which were beyond the reach of the early pioneers, but which may now be developed with our new knowledge and added power. There are more opportunities for youth today than in the pioneer years. It is our own fault if this has not been taught by our institutions of learning. In the development of practical education the pointing out of such possibilities will be of major importance. 

MORAL AND SPIRITUAL TRAINING ARE FACTORS AGAINST EVIL 

If the schools shall be powerful factors in building defenses against evil, and in preparing against the enemy, they must face about from traditional views and give undivided attention on the one hand to moral and spiritual training, and on the other to practical education. Such teaching, for that matter, has been the counsel and advice of the Church from the beginning. Never was it needed more than now. 

We who have been entrusted with parenthood must anxiously plan for the welfare of our children and the coming generations. If changes are needed, let us make them. The schools are ours, and the responsibility for the coming race is ours. The time has come when schools must train our children for safe living, that is for greatest usefulness, which means greatest happiness. 

The vast majority of the teaching profession, looking into the future, agree in the main with the view which I have here expressed. They recognize that schools must reflect the wishes of the people, by whom they are supported; and as good citizens, themselves, are ready to help our schools foster truth and destroy evil, thus making them main defenses of our nation. 

As a Church we have always tried to be in the forefront of progressive changes. An uncertain future looms before us. As far as we have influence we should turn our educational endeavors towards a secure and happy future. If we do so, we shall help build a mighty defense against threatened disaster. 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Day 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

The outstanding characteristic or difference between the religion of the Latter-day Saints and that of the various churches in the world is the fact that God has endowed this work with power from on high. In other words, divine authority is the distinguishing feature between the Church of God and the churches of men, that have been established by a great many various sects of so-called Christianity. 

PLAN OF SALVATION OF DIVINE ORIGIN 

The principle of authority was made manifest in the very beginning of the promulgation of God's work, and that occurred in that primeval day, before the earth was created, when God had assembled together His sons and His daughters to hear the glad tidings of great joy. 

It is only a natural and obvious conclusion which everybody should concede that if there be a plan of life and salvation, that it must be one of divine origin, for only God can save His children. And we ought to recognize the fact that we are here in a state of mortality; that death has come into the world as a result of disobedience in the Garden of Eden, under very peculiar circumstances; and the purpose of this thing is that mankind might be given the privilege of choosing between good and evil, and undergoing a test or a trial, and for that purpose God created this earth and placed His children upon it, that we might receive that education and that knowledge and understanding, that education pertaining to our spiritual and temporal welfare, that we might be able to combat with the powers of evil. 

How could we ever be saved, how could we ever be exalted, unless we should have the benefit of this earth life experience, and be in attendance and ready to learn in God's great school which He has established for the education and benefit and blessing of His children ? It must be then conceded that the plan of life and salvation would be one that was devised by the Lord Himself, and cannot be of any human invention. That being the case, we must look to Him for that all- wise plan and for that perfect system by which we may be prepared to receive what God intends we shall receive. 

man's three estates 

There are three estates of man : The first estate was when we dwelt with God as His spirit children, in His holy habitation, before the world was made, as we read in our favorite hymn : 

O my Father, thou that dwellest 

In the high and glorious place, When shall I regain thy presence 

And again behold Thy face? 

In thy holy habitation 

Did my spirit once reside? In my first primeval childhood 

Was I nurtured near Thy side? 

That tells, in those beautiful lines of Eliza R. Snow, what occurred before the world was made, to which the Lord referred when He said unto His servant Job : 

Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare, if thou hast uderstanding. * * * 

When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy. 

That is a question that implies a great deal. It contemplates and infers that there was a time and a place where God had assembled His children together to hear a proclamation. What was the occasion? We are told there that it was a time of rejoicing, and the Lord had assembled His sons, and His daughters, too, I doubt not, to hear the glad tidings of great joy. It was the proclamation of God's plan for the salvation of His children, for the education and the improvement of the children of God. It involved the creation of this earth, and it involved the knowledge of good and evil, that we might be tried, and for this purpose was it created that we might in our second estate through obedience to His plan qualify ourselves for the third estate, namely: eternal life in the Kingdom of God. 

COVENANTS MADE BY THE LORD 

We read all through the scriptures, both in ancient and in modern scriptures, that the Lord has made a covenant with His people. He has always called those to whom He has given a dispensation of His providence, "His covenant people". What was that covenant? We hear a great many talk about the new and everlasting covenant, even among our own people, and we sometimes jump at the conclusion that it refers exclusively to the marriage covenant. The marriage covenant is truly a very great and important part of that everlasting covenant, but it is only a part. 

The Lord made it known to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as you will find it recorded in Section 66, paragraph 2, of the Doctrine and Covenants, that the "new and everlasting covenant" is nothing more or less than the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in its fulness, as it was revealed and proclaimed in that primeval day when the great and noble ones, or the "morning stars," sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy — the day the Lord made known to them the terms of His everlasting covenant, setting forth what He expects us to do, and also informing us what He will do if we comply. 

What is a covenant? Our standard dictionaries define a covenant as "an agreement entered into between two or more persons or parties." It is just such an agreement that the Lord promulgated and announced to His spirit children, that filled their hearts with joy and gladness, and whereupon the morning stars, the great and noble ones, sang together and all of the sons and daughters of God made the heavens ring with the shouts of joy and gladness over these glad tidings. 

It is that one and only way that the Lord has ever revealed, that one and only plan, that one and only Gospel that was promulgated in that 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Dag 

early day. It is that which has been given to the children of men as the power of God unto salvation. It was first given to our father Adam, after his expulsion from the Garden of Eden. The Lord revealed that covenant to him, and explained precisely what it was and declared that it was the plan of salvation. It was continued with Enoch, and was also re-established with Noah and his sons after the deluge. 

It was again given to Abraham, and with him the promises of the everlasting covenant were made as frequently as stated in the Bible, and later it was established with Moses after the delivery of the children of Israel from their long bondage in the land of Egypt but under the "lesser law," the law of carnal commandments, the rebellious and stiff-necked Israelites not being prepared for the higher law, but were given the lesser law as a school master to bring them to Christ; and when our Lord came in the meridian of time, He again set up His Church and established the same everlasting covenant, but now under the higher law. 

In the light of these various dispensations, we can readily see the meaning of the words of our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ, which I now quote : 

O, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not! (Luke 13:34.) 

During each of these dispensations many generations have been brought into the fold by entering into the covenant through the holy waters of baptism and have gone to their reward, but let it be remembered that the Devil and his angels also came and led the children of men again into darkness and error and a general falling away from the Truth ensued, and always for the same reason as it was described by the Prophet Isaiah when he said, "because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance and broken the everlasting covenant" and thus the earth has been defiled. (Isaiah 24:5). 

ABRAHAM SHOWN SOME OF THE LORD'S WORK 

I have just stated that it was with Abraham that the promises were made; let me now add that it is from the writings of Abraham and those of Moses that we learn the particulars concerning the everlasting covenant as these writings are contained in the Pearl of Great Price, from which I now quote : 

Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones : 

And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said : These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me, Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. 

And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him : We will go down, for there is space there,  we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them. 

That is our part in the covenant, to do all things whatsoever the Lord our God shall command us. All things that the Lord our God shall command us are embodied in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in its fulness, for the Lord has said that "man lives not by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God". 

Then comes the Lord's part : 

And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon. 

Very significant language. What does that mean? It means simply this, that there shall be added to our immortal spirits these bodies of flesh and bones. 

And they who keep their second estate — [that is, our present estate here after we have received these bodies of flesh and bones] — They who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever. (Pearl of Great Price. Abraham 3:22-26) 

What a glorious promise! A never-ending glory that is to be added upon the heads of those who keep their second estate, by doing what the Lord commands them, obeying His glorious Gospel. That is the only plan. It is God's plan, and has been given to the inhabitants of the earth in the various dispensations of His providence. 

THE COVENANT RE-ESTABLISHED BY THE SAVIOR 

When the Lord our Savior came and dwelt upon the earth, the everlasting covenant was re-established among the children of men, under the higher law. Previous to the coming of Christ the lesser law ostensibly, but very imperfectly, was being administered by the various sects of that day. The children of Israel, fresh from their bondage in the land of Egypt, where they had imbibed much of the idolatry of that nation, were not prepared for the higher law, and the Lord gave unto them the lesser law as a schoolmaster to bring them unto Christ. 

But when the Savior came and ministered among men He established His Church and Kingdom anew, under the higher law. In the former dispensation it was the law of carnal commandments, they not being prepared for that higher law. Moses was complaining to the Lord that he was slow of speech and felt himself incompetent to lead the people, and he asked the Lord that He would give him someone in his stead. The Lord was not pleased altogether with his request, but finally it was granted, and He said unto Moses : "Take thy brother Aaron and his sons to act in the office of the priest." Then He conferred upon Aaron a part of the glory that was upon Moses — not all. The glory which was upon Moses was the glory of the Melchizedek Priesthood. The part that was given to Aaron is known to us as the Aaronic Priesthood. That was the beginning of this order of the Priesthood, and yet it is to endure forever. Second Dag 

The Aaronic Priesthood continued to minister in the affairs of the Church and the Lord took Moses out of their midst and with him the holy Melchizedek Priesthood, but the Aaronic Priesthood remained in the Church until the coming of John the Baptist. (Doc. & Cov. 84:25 and 26). 

From what I have said and from the inspired writings of the prophets, which I have copiously quoted, it will be obvious that there have been many dispensations of God's providence in every one of which prophets have been raised up duly commissioned of God to act in His name, foi\ as the Prophet Amos has declared it : "Surely the Lord God will do' nothing but He revealeth His secret unto His servants the prophets :" (Amos 3 :7). 

It will also be apparent that the everlasting covenant, or in other words "the Gospel of Jesus Christ" has been the very essence of God's dealings with mankind, even from the days of Adam until now — yes, and even antedating the creation of this earth to that primeval day "when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for 

It will also be noted that after each and every one of the various dispensations there has been a falling away and darkness has covered the earth and gross darkness the minds of the people, as prophesied by Isaiah the prophet. (Isaiah 60:2). 

Even the glorious Messianic dispensation when Jesus ministered among men and set in His Church firstly Apostles and secondly prophets, etc., for the work of the ministry, that we be not tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine, was no exception to the rule for it, too, was soon followed by a universal apostasy; and, indeed, heresies were creeping into the Church while the Apostles were still living, (see I Cor. 11:18, 19) but after the Apostles "fell alseep" and the prophetic spirit disappeared, they fell into the deepest gloom of darkness and superstition and paganistic ceremonials and mysticisms which were entirely foreign to the simple ordinances of the Gospel as they were taught and practiced in the primitive Church by the Savior and His Apostles. For a full discussion of this subject let me refer you to the series of radio addresses delivered by the late President B. H. Roberts over Radio Station KSL, which has been published in book form under the title of "The Falling Away". 

Now, however, came the promise of another dispensation, even "The Dispensation of the Fulness of Times". This dispensation has already been ushered in through the visitation of heavenly beings and the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, by whom the Lord has again set up His Church and Kingdom and established His everlasting covenant restoring the fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its primitive purity. This is the Church and Kingdom which the Lord has joy. ELDER JOSEPH JACOBS 

 up never again to be thrown down nor given to another people, but it shall stand forever, as foretold by the Prophet Daniel. (See Daniel II). 

And now again as on all previous occasions, He has endowed His Church with power from on high, the all important and outstanding feature which has always distinguished His Church from the man-made churches of the world. 

May we ever have an abiding testimony of the Truth and may our faith ever manifest itself in the works of obedience. May we hearken to the counsels of our leaders, upholding and sustaining them in their high office, for they are God's servants zealously laboring in building up His Church and Kingdom upon the earth, I pray in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

We have a number of released Mission presidents. We hope to hear from as many of them as possible. In order, however, that we may hear as many as possible, we shall ask them to be good enough to confine themselves to five minutes time. Anything under five minutes is five minutes. Five minutes is not six or seven or ten. 

Our first speaker will be President Joseph Jacobs, of the PalestineSyrian Mission. 

ELDER JOSEPH JACOBS 

Former President of the Palestine-Syrian Mission 

My dear brothers and sisters, I bring you greetings from the Saints in the Palestine-Syrian Mission. It was my privilege and blessing to be called to preside over that historic and interesting Mission in 1937. Although in numbers the Saints in that Mission are relatively few, yet in faith and works they are a great people. While there and since returning home, their reports show that over ninety per cent of those who should pay tithing, do so. In the payment of Fast offerings, in the attendance of their meetings, and other Church activities they compare favorably with the highest group in the Church. 

About three weeks ago I received a report from that Mission field about the condition of the Saints. The report states that they are all firm in the faith, are continuing their meetings, tithing is being paid regularly, and an entire family has applied for baptism. 

Incidentally, the report was mailed the latter part of May but just arrived here. 

Being literally located at the cross-roads of the world, from time immemorial wars have been numerous in that part of the world. And because of its geographical position it is dangerous to remain in that land whenever war breaks out in any of the nearby nations. Because of these conditions, that Mission has been closed four times since it opened in 1890. Intervals of closing range from two to thirteen years. But every time the Mission opened, the new Mission president has been able to find many of the Saints and has discovered to his surprise that they were still in the faith and carrying on. 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 5 Second Dag 

I rejoice in the privilege and opportunity that has come to me to proclaim the Gospel in that land — in the land where the Savior of the world did His missionary work while He was on the earth. Over twentyfive years ago a Patriarch promised me that it would be my privilege and blessing to preach the Gospel to them that are of the House of Judah. That promise has been fulfilled. 

The Lord was with us in our labors. He blessed us so that our way was always open. None in Our family nor any of our missionaries was seriously ill. We were not persecuted as the former missionaries were in the past in that land. Our efforts were blessed with some baptisms and many friends. 

That you may appreciate our difficulties I shall just mention one item. We used five different and distinct languages in our mission field, each with its own alphabet, grammar and syntax. 

Once I was giving an illustrated lecture to a group of professors from the University of Beirut. When I showed the Pioneer Trails film and praised the achievements of the pioneers and how they made the desert blossom as the rose, it sounded to them like I was over-rating the accomplishments of the pioneers and the beauties of Utah. At the end of the lecture one doctor stood up and asked to say a few words. He said he wanted to substantiate what I said. "Not only that, but," said he. "Rev. Jacobs did not state half of the beauty of Utah. I have been in Utah. Every city and village I passed through was clean and well arranged. I went through the Tabernacle grounds and want to witness to you that every word that Rev. Jacobs said is true and more so." 

One day I was explaining our beliefs to a minister. I read to him our first Article of Faith. When I got through reading it, he said, "Well that is nothing new — I believe in all of that. Why" he said, "I have made a special study of God, / know all about Him. In fact I wrote my thesis on God when I obtained my degree from college." When I mentioned that our God is a personal God, as we believe the Bible teaches, we disagreed. "We do not need a God in this day and age," he said, "we are too civilized to believe in such fancies." How thankful I was that God had blessed us in our day with a living prophet to reveal eternal truths! 

I want to thank my Heavenly Father for the privilege of living in this land of promise — in this land which is choice above all other lands — in this land of Zion. And above all I want to thank Him for my membership in this Church. 

May our Heavenly Father bless the leaders of this nation that we may be kept in the paths of peace. May he bless our Prophet and President and his associates that they may lead, guide, and direct this Church to its glorious destiny. And above all. may He bless us all with the spirit of humility and obedience so that we may follow our leaders and so live as to be worthy of all the blessings He has seen fit to grant us and may yet bestow upon us, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency To the minute! 

Obedient to my usual custom, I want to thank this choir for the splendid music which it has rendered. 

Remember, please, brethren and sisters, to drive carefully. Let us have no accident if it be in any way possible to avoid it. One police officer has sent word asking that I be good enough to add to my slogan, and I use his words : "Please ask the pedestrians to show a little sense." 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel". Elder Alonzo J. Gilbert, President of the Idaho Stake offered the closing prayer. 


