Morning
06 10 1940

Sunday morning, October 6. 

The great Tabernacle was crowded to capacity with people who had assembled many of them more than an hour in advance of the time to begin this session, to listen to the Conference proceedings. The large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle was also crowded with people, and thousands in addition assembled upon the Tabernacle grounds, where, by means of amplifying equipment that had been installed, they listened to the services as given in the Tabernacle. 

President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., who conducted, opened the meeting promptly at 10 o'clock. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

There are literally thousands of people who cannot get in the Tabernacle at all this morning, and hundreds are standing in the entrances and aisles. Please do the -best you can to give some of them seats. On the sides, too, as well as the center, and up in the gallery. Be good enough to move as close together as possible. It would be very helpful. 

We are again blessed with the presence of President Grant, who will preside at this meeting and who will speak to us. He has asked me to conduct the services. 

The music this morning will be by the Tabernacle Choir, under the direction of J. Spencer Cornwall. Elder Alexander Schreiner is at the organ. 

The hymn, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning," (By William W. Phelps), was sung by the choir and congregation. 

Elder John B. Reed, President of the San Luis Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

GRATITUDE FOR FAITH OF PEOPLE 

It is needless for me to tell you good people how grateful I am to be here today. I missed the Conference six months ago, and I am grateful beyond expression to all of you good people, to the Saints generally, and to some people who are not members of our Church for your and their faith and prayers in my behalf that I should be healed. I am grateful to the doctors who so kindly, carefully, and energetically at home, and while in Los Angeles, gave me the benefit of their services. 

I lack the capacity to express the gratitude and thanksgiving in my heart for the blessings of the Lord to me and this people. I humbly 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 6 Third Day 

pray that while I am speaking to you this morning the Spirit of the Lord may be and abide with me. I do not expect, however, to preach to you this morning, I simply desire to express my gratitude to the Lord, and I expect to have the pleasure this afternoon, as my doctor, Silas Smith, consented that I may speak again, at the close of the Conference. 

KINDNESS ACKNOWLEDGED 

I am grateful to my friends in California, to my relatives and to my railroad, banking and insurance friends, to Mr. Chandler of the Los Angeles Times, and to all of the officials of the Church in California, because of their fine attention to me and their interest in my welfare. I am grateful for the fine treatment I receivd at the Catholic Hospital in Los Angeles. 

I am very thankful for our fine Conference, for the wonderful attendance here today, and for the magnificent body of the Priesthood that were together last night. 

THE FILM "BRIGHAM YOUNG" COMMENDED 

I am thankful beyond expression for the very wonderful and splendid moving picture that has been made of Brigham Young. I have heard some little criticism of it, but we cannot expect the people who do not know that Brigham Young was in very deed the representative of God upon this earth, who do not know his wonderful character, to tell the story as we would tell it. We know that he was a prophet of the living God and the representative of the Lord here upon the earth. There is nothing in the picture that reflects in any way against our people. It is a very marvelous and wonderful thing, considering how people generally have treated us and what they have thought of us. Of course there are many things in the picture that are not strictly correct, and that is announced in the picture itself. It is of course a picture and we could not hope that they would make a picture at their expense, running into a couple of million dollars, to be just as we would like it. We know that Brigham Young was a powerful and wonderful man, the greatest man of his day, and one of the great things about Brigham Young was that he always gave credit to Joseph Smith for everything that he did. He claimed that he was simply building upon the foundation laid by the prophet of God, who had seen God and conversed with Jesus Christ. He never doubted for one minute the final triumph of the people here in Utah. He was a man of God, and the people thought the world and all of him. 

THE CHURCH MAKING FRIENDS 

I am very thankful for the health of the people. I am very thankful for the very marvelous and wonderful change that I find wherever I go in the attitude towards the Mormon people. To be known as a Mormon, living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, is a recommendation to all those that know us as a people. As the years come and go the Word of Wisdom  all the various teachings and doctrines laid down by the Prophet Joseph Smith and so faithfully and strongly carried out by Brigham Young are making us friends all over the world. 

BLESSING AND PRAYER FOR PEACE 

The doctor told me I could have five or six minutes, or even ten. I have occupied only about five, but as I am going to talk to you again at the close of the conference, and as I do not want to overdo in the least degree, I shall simply say, God bless you, one and all. God bless the honest the world over. God bless all good people, and hasten the day when people shall seek to God for guidance and direction, when wars will cease and peace will reign, is my prayer, and I ask it in humility and in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. I bless you by the authority of the holy Priesthood of the living God that I hold, and I do it in the name of Christ, our Redeemer, Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

President Grant : words cannot express the gratitude of the people for your presence, your message, and the degree of health which you have. May the Lord continue to bless you is the prayer of all the people of the Church. 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I am delighted, brethren and sisters, with this opportunity of standing before you for just a few short minutes this morning. The gathering of men who were here in this building last night, and the gatherings of men and women who have been here during this Conference, give new testimony to the fact that there is in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints still a fervent faith in God, our heavenly Father. 

PESSIMISM AND OPTIMISM 

There are people in the Church who have the temerity to say that our condition is such as to justify, perhaps, God our heavenly Father in taking the Gospel from us. I have had at least one man cite to me the sixteenth chapter of Third Nephi, tenth and eleventh verses, in which God says that when certain conditions shall prevail within the Church, He will take the Gospel from us, citing as justification the fact that we are now in such a condition that we might lose it — a pessimistic view, indeed, I take it. 

I insist on feeling, brethren and sisters, that I am an optimist. As I move about among you people I have many opportunities to see how you feel, to realize your trust in God our heavenly Father, and I believe that there is in the Church today still the same faith that characterized our Third Day  and grandmothers when this Church was re-established in our dispensation. 

If you will permit, I would like to cite you just one or two instances which make me feel this way. 

One time when I was in the Mexican Mission I passed through a little town in Arizona, and asked a man how he felt regarding the depression. He said: "We feel just as we always do, Brother Ivins. It is always depression in this section." I happened to know that that man had a family of six or eight, and that every boy and girl that he had, who was of age, had performed a mission for the Church, one of them at that very time serving in the Mission over which I had the privilege of presiding. 

Not very many weeks ago a man came into my office with his son. He said : "Brother Ivins, I am presenting this son for a mission." The few questions that I directed to him brought out the fact that this was the ninth child of his to fulfil a mission for the Church; that in addition to those nine, he had supported his brother on a mission, and was at that very time supporting a man, who was not of his family, in the New England States Mission. 

One time when I was interviewing a young man in Idaho, his father having brought him in, said: "Brother Ivins, we recommend this boy for a short-term mission. If, however, the leaders of the Church feel that he should serve a full term, they are welcome to his services, but in that event my wife and I will be forced to sacrifice our home, which represents the savings of our lifetime. We are willing to do it if the Church requires it." 

Those things indicate to me that in those instances, at least, there is a fine degree of faith within the Church. As we move around we interview prospective missionaries who are to be called to go out into the world, and we ask them some very pertinent and sometimes very delicate questions, to find out just what their attitude is, and how they have lived. I find, to my utter pleasure and satisfaction, that almost without exception those young men and young women are able to tell me, and look me honestly in the eye when they do it, that in preparation for this great event in their lives they have lived clean and pure lives. 

Now, when that type of faith exists within the Church I am not particularly worried as to the future. I feel that God is going to be justified in honoring the Priesthood which He has here in the Church at this time, and that He will not feel like taking the Gospel from us. O' l KsWe had portrayed the accomplishments of the Church Welfare work, the other day, in the program of one of these meetings. Nobody can look at those things and tell me that there is not faith still in the Church. I think we are meeting those problems with a wonderful display ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

 faith. It gives me an unbounded satisfaction to realize that men are willing to devote their time and their talents, not only without compensation, but at their expense, for the welfare of their fellows. 

The injunction of Christ was that we should love God, our heavenly Father, first, and our neighbor second; and this is indication to me that we do, most of us at least, love our neighbors, for we are willing to work for them, and work for them for nothing, help them over their pitfalls and out of their troubles, and to a higher state of living. 

Now, why should we be terribly pessimistic over this outlook, when we realize that those conditions prevail? We do recognize the fact, however, that there are conditions within the Church which need rectifying. There are too few of us who are living fully and completely up to our opportunities. 

MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD PERCENTAGES 

I have had the privilege of checking, this year, the relationship between the number of families in the Church and the number of members in the Melchizedek Priesthood. I find that in some of the Stakes the proportion between families in the Stake and members of the Melchizedek Priesthood is as low as fifty-five. In other places it runs up to eighty-eight or ninety. In Colonia Juarez, the other day, I checked that very item, and I found those people down there having representatives in the Melchisedek Priesthood to the extent of eighty-eight per cent of their families, I believe; but just recently another Stake checked as low as fifty-five. 

What does this mean? It means, to me, that too few of us are taking advantage of the sealing ordinances in the temple. Things like that, and other things, need rectifying, to be sure, but I insist, and I leave it to you as my testimony, that there is within this Church an honest, true faith in God our heavenly Father, and I think the manifestations of these Conference meetings bear me out in that testimony. 

I pray that God will help us to keep it bright within our hearts, that we may never falter in His service, and that He will be pleased to honor us and bless us in our operations. God bless you all, Amen. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST 

During the period from 10:30 to 11:00 a. m., the regular weekly National Broadcast of choral and organ music and brief spoken comment was included as part of the Conference proceedings. This program, now in its twelfth year of continuous nationwide broadcasting was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, and broadcast through the courtesy and facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting system network, throughout the United States and Canada, and by short-wave transmission to many foreign lands. This broadcast originated with Radio Station KSL, Salt Lake City, and, exclusive of routine introductory and closing announcements, was as follows : Third Day 

Choir Choir 

Crucifixus" — Bach 

Ella Entering the Cathedral" — Wagner. 

Announcer, Richard L. Evans : "And Jesus made as though he would have gone . . . But they constrained Him, saying, Abide with us : for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent." (Luke 24 :28-29) And blessed are they who abide His coming, as the gathering storm and the growing darkness of our times bring with them those events that move us on toward another eventide of which the prophets of all generations have spoken. And there is that about the record of prophecy which, even though it may not be pleasant to our ears, strikes conviction to our souls. For "all things must come to pass in their time." (Doctrine and Covenants 64:32) Time and the relentless march of events brought by its passing have been portrayed in musical symbol by the composer Vierne, and we now hear "Westminster Chimes" moving with the sweep of the hours and the march of the years — but "the day or the hour no man knoweth; but it shall surely come." (Doctrine and Covenants 39:21). 

"Westminster Chimes" — Vierne ..Organ 

Announcer, Richard L. Evans: And then Stephen said unto them: "As your fathers did, so do ye. Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted ?" This accusing question could be asked of any generation, for men have always persecuted those who have seen ahead of their own time — whose vision has been enlarged and whose understanding has been quickened by that Spirit which giveth light to every man that cometh into the world (Doc. and Cov. 84:46) — in all fields of thought and knowledge, pertaining both to things here and things hereafter. The Isaiahs, the Galileos, the Noahs and the Columbuses, the Peters and the Pauls, have never been popular in their own day — but they have been so right in spite of the unwillingness of their own generation to believe them. And it would not seem to be popular to say now in our day that the unprincipled chaos in which we find our world was foreseen by the prophets of God and will find no cure and no lasting peace until men turn to Him and pattern their lives in accordance with His ways. Mere lip service will not be acceptable, and the temporary repentance that is forced by immediate fear and present stress will not be mistaken for obedience and a contrite heart. Let the cynic enjoy his brief day; let the man without faith deny it, and let the unbelieving take such hope as they can find. But the unchangeable facts remain, and there rise to meet the dissenting chorus, the words of Stephen: "Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted ? And when they heard these things, they were cut to the heart . . . And they stoned Stephen." (Acts 7:51-59) "And he kneeled down and cried: To thee O Lord I yield my spirit." This event of New Testament record was given musical setting by Mendelssohn in the St. Paul from which Richard Condie and the Tabernacle choir now sing. 

"And They Stoned Him" and "To thee O Lord"— St. Paul 

— Mendelessohn Choir 101 

O My Father" (Tune "Harwell")— Lowell Mason. Beautiful Savior" 

Organ ..Choir 

The singing of the Choir was conducted by J. Spencer Cornwall. 

Alexander Schreiner was at the organ. The spoken word was by Richard L. Evans. 

Immediately following the conclusion of the Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast, the following nationwide Church of the Air program was presented by the Columbia Broadcasting system, as a part of the proceedings of the Conference: 

The Tabernacle Choir and the congregation sang two verses of the hymn, "For the Strength of the Hills We Bless Thee." 

Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven. 

For nearly twenty centuries millions of Christians have prayed for the coming of the Kingdom of God, and for more than twenty centuries millions of people have persistently rejected the conditions indispensable to the realization of this era of peace and brotherly kindness. 

Even though the essentials for a better world have not been generally accepted, yet mankind has ever striven for a better way of living. In every progressive age of the world's history thinking people have been dissatisfied with their current social and economic conditions, and have sought for remedial changes. Many of their hoped-for Utopias, however, though they have inspired men to action, have ended only as dreams and phantasies. 

In response to this urge for change, the twentieth century is no exception. Indeed, during the last fifty years people have witnessed greater political unrest, more stupendous upheavals than have probably  occurred in the same length of time in the history of the world. European monarchies have been overthrown, and rising out of the monarchial ruins have come the dictatorship of the proletariat in Russia, the Fascist regime in Italy, the Nazi rule in Germany, and the Fascist form of government in Spain. Democracy, as exemplified in Great Britain and her dominions, and in the United States, has successfully withstood the battling horrors of a World War, and now, after only a quarter of a century, is again either actually participating in or standing on the brink of a second devastating conflict. 

If, in the spirit of charity, we say that misguided men have brought all this about because of their desire for a better government, the fact still remains that civilization is encompassed by social upheavals that threaten to divert if not entirely thwart the progress and happiness of the present generation. PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

102 

Sunday, October 6 Third Day 

FUNDAMENTALS IN DISCARD 

Humanity is passing through one of its most crucial experiences. We are in the midst of a revolution both of thought and mode of life. Beliefs of parents are questioned, old ideals are in the discard. Communism, Naziism, Fascism, Totalitarianism are giving birth to new conceptions that strike relentlessly at beliefs and teachings which were accepted a decade ago as fundamentals and unassailable. "Under the influence of a science as superficial as proud," writes M. Paul Gaul tier, a leading publicist of France, "old beliefs have been turned into ridicule, conscience is treated as a superstition, and honesty as a prejudice. Self-interest alone remains as a motive, and pleasure as the sole end of life. For too many people," he continues, "evil consists not in infringing social laws, but in getting caught. Morality and duty figure in their eyes as so many prejudices out of fashion, and vestiges of centuries gone by." 

Granting the severity of this arraignment, the fact still remains that moral and religious skepticism is too generally apparent, and political chicanery, fraud, and civic unrighteousness all too common. 

In the words of an assistant Secretary of State: "We seem to be slipping backward in the long march of progress. We are in danger of losing part of the precious heritage for which our ancestors fought and gave their lives. Human liberty, democracy, parliamentary government, freedom of speech, tolerance, faith — these in important parts of the world have ceased to exist. Autocracy and dictatorships are demanding men's allegiance. Political institutions are cracking ominously. Democratic government is fighting for its life." 

To climax these distracting conditions, war, with all its attendant horrors, is sweeping the earth as a devastating conflagration, leaving in its wake only ashes, agony, and death. 

Truly, the time has come as perhaps never before when men should counsel together, and in wisdom determine how the world may be made a better place in which to live. 

THE PERFECT GUIDE 

To achieve this desired end, the first and most important step is to choose as leader one whose leadership is infallible, whose teachings when practiced have never failed. In the present tempestuous sea of Uncertainty, the Pilot must be one who through the storm can see the beacon in the harbor of peace. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints proclaims that there is but one such Guiding Hand in the Universe, but one unfailing Light, and that the Light of Christ who said : "I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly." An active, sincere faith in the basic teachings of Jesus of Nazareth is the greatest need of the world. Because many reject this truth is all the more reason why sincere believers should proclaim it. 

The ultimate purpose of Christianity is to develop honorable, upright individuals in an ideal society known as the Kingdom of God. No one. 103  even the unbeliever, can gainsay this as a most worthy goal. True, nearly two thousand years of trial have failed to bring about even an approach to the realization of either the perfecting of the individual or the establishing of an ideal society. As a result, Christianity and its handmaiden, Democracy, are now on trial before the world tribunal. The fact is, however, that conditions in this war-torn world instead of proving, that Christianity has failed, emphatically bear witness that men are forever learning, but never coming to a knowledge of the truth; or, as one man cynically remarked, "Men's lives consist mostly in making the same mistakes over again." 

Christianity, as summarized in the divine admonition, "Love the Lord thy God, and thy neighbor as thyself" has never yet been accepted and practiced by the nations of the world. Were that principle even partly applied, our advanced scientific knowledge, our almost unlimited mechanized power, our unexcelled opportunities for education would be directed, not as now, for the destruction of human beings, but for the betterment of individuals, and for the advancement and redemption of mankind. 

As the first essential to a better world, therefore, we declare with the Apostle Peter that there is "none, other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved." 

IMPROVEMENT IN MORALS 

It is charged that "one of the distinctive traits of modern society in every country is the sinking of the moral ideal in the minds and life of the people." Manifestly, then, a second essential in world betterment is the raising of the moral standard. 

If anyone listening in is saying to himself "this is trite," then I say such a thought itself justifies the call for men who will re-dedicate themselves to the principles of honesty, justice, tolerance, and love, and who will practice these virtues in their business and professional activities. "And this life is possible," as someone has declared, "in social conditions the most diverse, and with natural gifts the most unequal. It is not fortune, or personal advantage, but our turning them to account that constitutes the value of life." "Nothing," says Emerson, "can bring you peace but the triumph of principles." 

In the light of political scandals recently disclosed in some of our States, what a brilliant though discarded gem, for example, is the plain, every-day principle of honesty. Though as genuine as the blue-tinted diamond, how little it is valued in a world where "business is honeycombed with dishonesty, and the political world abounds in duplicity and chicanery." Even to repeat such a charge makes one feel heavy-hearted. In contrast, recall the calm assurance, the confidence that pervades your soul when you konw you are in the presence of one whom you can trust. Let us re-polish, and make more brilliant this old-fashioned principle so essential to human happiness. Would that all men and nations might unite with the Church in saying: 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 6 Third Day 

We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men. 

A RE-DEDICATION TO PRINCIPLES OF UNSELFISHNESS 

Man needs a re-dedication to the principles of unselfishness. No peace or freedom can come to this world so long as men live only for themselves. It is true that self-preservation is the first law of nature, but it is not a law of spiritual growth. He who lets selfishness and his passions rule him binds his soul in slavery, but he who, in the majesty of spiritual strength, uses his physical tendencies and yearnings, and his possessions to serve purposes higher than personal indulgence and comf ort, takes the first step toward the happy and useful life. This truth was taught not only "in the Beginning" when the Gospel was first revealed to man, but also when the Savior began His earthly ministry. On the Mount of Temptation was enacted the first scene in the Christ's earthly drama of the abundant life. There He resisted the challenge to gratify His appetite; He turned aside the appeal to His vanity and pride; He scorned the bribe of worldly wealth and power, as in spiritual victory He said to the Tempter, "Get thee hence," and "angels came and ministered unto Him." Only thus by the brilliant triumph of the spirit over the flesh can we hope for a better world. 

UPHOLDING THE CONSTITUTION 

Finally, if we would make the world better, let us foster a keener appreciation of the freedom and liberty guaranteed by the government of the United States as framed by the founders of this nation. Here again self -proclaimed progressives cry that such old-time adherence is out of date. But there are some fundamental principles of this Republic which, like eternal truths, never get out of date, and which are applicable at all times to liberty-loving peoples. Such are the underlying principles of the Constitution, a document framed by patriotic, freedom-loving men, who Latter-day Saints declare were inspired by the Lord. 

This date, October 6, has been set apart by churches as "Loyalty Day." It is highly fitting, therefore, as a means of making the world better, not only to urge loyalty to the Constitution and to threatened fundamentals of the United States government, but to warn the people that there is evidence in the United States of disloyalty to tried and true fundamentals in government. There are unsound economic theories; there are European "isms," which, termite like, secretly and, recently, quite openly and defiantly, are threatening to undermine our democratic institutions. 

Today, as never before, the issue is clearly defined — liberty and freedom of choice, or oppression and subjugation for the individual and for nations. 

As we contemplate the deplorable fact that within the brief space of one year, TEN European nations have lost their independence, that over TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY MILLION people have surrendered all guarantees of personal liberty, deeper should be our gratitude, more intense our appreciation of the Constitution, and more strengthened our determination to resist at all costs any and all attempts to curtail our liberties, or to change the underlying system of our government. , , ,. .' .; , 

CONCLUSION 

When the people who call themselves Christian militantly enlist under the leadership of the One to whom they refer as King of the World; when they accept as facts and not as theories His moral and spiritual teachings; when for selfishness they substitute kindness and thoughtf ulness for others; when they aggressively defend the principles of true liberty, then may we begin to realize the hope that Wrong may be abolished, Righteousness be enthroned in human hearts, and honest relations and justice become the daily practice of society. Then, and not until then, will the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of our God. 

Then shall all shackles fall; the stormy clangor Of wild war music o'er the earth shall cease; Love shall tread out the baleful fire of anger, And in its ashes plant the tree of peace! 

The Tabernacle Choir sang, "To Thee O Lord Do I Lift Up My Soul," by Kalinnikoff, and "Doxology." 

J. Spencer Cornwall led the singing, Alexander Schreiner was at the organ, and the program was announced by Richard L. Evans. 

(End of the Church of the Air Broadcast) 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

We have all been edified, instructed, and built up by President McKay's great address. 

Our next speaker will be Elder George Albert Smith of the Council of the Twelve. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

No normal man, having partaken of the inspiration that we have enjoyed this morning while singing the praises of our Heavenly Father and listening to the addresses of the brethren, could stand in the presence of an audience like this without realizing his need for divine guidance. I would not undertake this responsibility if I did not believe that the Lord would help me in what I may say. 

This is the 222nd Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Each one preceding it has been favored by the Lord in 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 6 that he has fulfilled his promise to his sons and daughters who were assembled in worship, that he would be with them to bless them, and he is fulfilling that promise today. 

SABBATH OBSERVANCE UPLIFTING 

This is the Lord's day, an appropriate time for us to meet together in His name, for He has commanded that we should assemble on the Sabbath to pay our devotions to the Most High. I know of no more beautiful spot in all the world than this in which- people are permitted to worship. I avail myself of the opportunity to thank those who look after this block, particularly Brother Nauman, the good man who has devoted much of his life to making Temple Square delightful to all visitors. The flowers that have adorned the stand during this conference are his contribution to our happiness in this sanctuary and I know of no place where flowers are more appropriate than in the House of the Lord. 

What an uplift would come to the world if all of our Father's children on this, the Sabbath day, instead of warring on one another were seeking Him in worship and humbly praying for His all-wise guidance in conducting their lives. With that attitude among men war would cease, but if men continue to refuse to obey the counsels of the Master of heaven and earth destruction will increase until civilization may disappear from the earth. 

PROPHETS HAVE RAISED A WARNING VOICE 

The Lord has warned us of our danger and advised how to escape it. Amos, the prophet, said, "Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but He revealeth His secret unto His servants the prophets." Many prophecies are already fulfilled and others will be in the near future. 

Centuries have passed since our first parents began their mortal existence and were advised by the Lord how to obtain happiness. For hundreds of years we have had His instruction through His prophets recorded as scripture so that we could know what He had desired of us. Isn't it strange that after centuries of opportunity to know the truth as taught by the Father of all a majoriy of the people of this world do not believe it or accept him as the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. That they do not accept His teachings is evident that they do not believe in Him, and it is disappointing that in the year 1940 in our own land there are many who fail to realize that God is our Heavenly Father. 

Men cannot justify their delinquencies before the great Judge by declaring that they have not had the opportunity to know, for all down through the ages prophets of the Lord have been teaching what He desires us to know, and in our own day and age opportunity unparalleled in the history of the world has been offered to the children of men to know that there is a God and that we are His children. Here we are in worship enjoying the peace and the inspiration of our Heavenly Father with the assurance that He can hear and answer our prayers. Yet in some parts of the earth today there are multitudes who are seeking to destroy one 107 . They have no desire to worship God or accept His advice. They prefer to have their own wrong way and be wilful in having it. 

The Holy Bible is a most wonderful record and if there ever was a time when we should know what it contains it is now. Many would be surprised if they would read it, to discover that some of the predictions that were made by the servants of the Lord thousands of years ago are now in course of fulfilment. It would astonish some people to know that the Prophet Isaiah, seven hundred years before the birth of Christ, predicted His coming. Two hundred years before the fall of Babylon he predicted its destruction, and told in remarkable detail what would follow even down to this day. He said (Isaiah 13 :19-22) : 

And Babylon, the glory of Kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees' excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. 

It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from generation to generation; neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there; neither shall the shepherds make their fold there. 

But wild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their houses shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and satyrs shall dance there. 

And the wild beast of the islands shall cry in their desolate houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces; and her time is near to come, and her days shall not be prolonged. 

' If the Lord had not revealed it to him Isaiah could not have known these things. We today are witnesses that that promise is still in effect, notwithstanding that when the prophecy was uttered Babylon was the greatest city in all the world, the wealthiest and the most powerful of all kingdoms, and was governed by the greatest of all earthly kings. 

Sometimes we forget that the Lord has spoken and we fail to inform ourselves to His decrees. Read the prophecies of Jeremiah and Ezekiel with reference to Tyre, or the strong city, and how they were fulfilled and the city overthrown. The ruins are still visible in the bottom of the sea, and the original site is a barren rock. 

The dream of Nebuchadnezzar about the great image, interpreted by Daniel more than two thousand years ago, was still in process of fulfillment when the Church of Jesus Christ was organized in 1830. 

Read in Joshua, Chapter 6, of the threat against the man who dared to rebuild the city of Jericho and its remarkable fulfillment when Hiel after hundreds of years, disregarding Joshua's warning, lost his two sons when he laid the foundations and set up the gates of the city. 

The scriptures are replete with the prophecies of the servants of God that are fulfilled. They were humble men such as are here in this house today; but under the inspiration of our Heavenly Father the heavens were opened to them, the future was revealed and they predicted with certainty what should occur. They could foretell the future but it required the Master of heaven and earth, our Heavenly Father, to fulfill their promises. 

A PROPHECY FULFILLED IN LATTER DAYS 

We find one promise was made that particularly points to us. I refer to that of Micah when he said: (Micah 4:1-2) 

108 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 6 Third Day 

The mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. 

And many nations shall come, and say, Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. 

Can you think of any place but this to which the people of the various nations of the earth have been gathered in fulfillment of this prediction? Micah did not know of himself that God would establish this Church; he did not know that another prophet would come and predict things with reference to this time; no man could know. But the Father who knoweth all things revealed it to him; he predicted it, it was recorded and the children of men are fulfilling the prediction. 

Dozen of passages in the scriptures could be cited as evidence that our Heavenly Father in mercy and kindness has been talking to the chilof men all down through the ages, not only telling them what would occur, but pleading with them to turn from the error of their ways lest destruction should overtake them. 

The destruction of Jerusalem was foretold by Jeremiah, a prophet of the Lord, and his prediction fulfilled to the very letter. The scattering of Judah was predicted by the Prophet Ezekiel hundreds of years before it occurred and Judah is still scattered. Isaiah named the man who should rebuild Jerusalem a hundred years before he was born. How did that prophet know that his name would be Cyrus if the Lord did not reveal it unto him ? 

PROMISES MADE REGARDING AMERICAN CONTINENT 

In the Book of Mormon, "The American volume of scripture," the Lord has given to us information pertaining to this land upon which we dwell and called it a land favored above all other lands. I recommend that not only you Latter-day Saints read the Book of Mormon, but that our Father's other children read it. They will find that it contains, in addition to what the Bible has told us about the world, what the Lord has said about this Western Hemisphere — that this should be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles and that no king should dwell upon this land, but that He, the God of Heaven, would be our King and would fortify this land against all the nations, that this should be a land of peace and happiness, on condition that we would honor the God of this earth, the Father of us all. The factor controlling this promise is that we must keep the commandments of our Heavenly Father or it cannot be realized. 

MODERN PROPHECIES 

In our day the Prophet Joseph Smith has spoken. Through him there have been given to the world many things that are important, many revelations that later were fulfilled. 

Nearly thirty years before the Civil War commenced in our country he predicted that it would occur and that it would begin in South Carolina. How did Joseph Smith know that if God did not reveal it to him? How 109  he pick out the very place that it should begin ? I think it would be desirable to read what the Lord said at that time, December 25, 1832. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 87 : 

Verily, thus saith the Lord concerning the wars that will shortly come to pass, beginning at the rebellion of South Carolina, which will eventually terminate in the death and misery of many souls; 

And the time will come when war will be poured out upon all nations, beginning at this place. * * * 

With the sword and by bloodshed the inhabitants of the earth shall mourn; and with famine, and plague, and earthquake, and the thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid lightning also, shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the wrath, and indignation, and chastening hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption decreed hath made a full end of all nations. 

Just as in the centuries that are past when the Lord spoke through Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel and his other prophets he has spoken in our day through His prophet, Joseph Smith. When the Church was still building the beautiful city of Nauvoo, Illinois, he predicted that the Latter-day Saints would he driven from their homes, that they would find a place in the tops of the Rocky Mountains, and that they would become a mighty people in the midst thereof. How did he know? He knew by the same power that Isaiah and the Prophets of old knew with reference to the things , they predicted. 

Read the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants that inform us how we may escape the calamities that are to cover the earth and afflict all mankind. We are better than other people only as we live better. We have the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The responsibility of disseminating it among the children of men has been magnificently performed in all parts of the world by more than 60,000 of the sons and daughters of the living God. To the ends of the earth from this sacred building have been broadcast by radio songs of praise, accompanied by the great organ sermons of truth, expressions of gratitude and thanksgiving intended for the blessing of all mankind. We meet today in this great Tabernacle built during the poverty of the people and dedicated to the Lord, the father of our spirits, and while we have been sitting here the voice of one of his faithful servants has gone out not only to all parts of our nation but to the islands of the sea and other distant lands. 

RESPONSIBILITIES OF CHURCH MEMBERS 

Our Heavenly Father, through His faithful representatives, has told us of the important things that should occur and we can read about them in His holy scriptures. If we really desire to be saved and exalted in His celestial kingdom He has told us how to proceed and has warned us that we must discharge the obligations entitling us to that exaltation. While we enjoy this blessing it carries with it a tremendous responsibility. Every man and every woman under the sound of my voice who has accepted the Gospel of Jesus Christ, who has gone down into the waters of baptism and been confirmed a member of His Church should so live that others 

110 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 6 Third Dag 

seeing their upright lives may be constrained to accept the Gospel of our Lord and prepare to become faithful sons and daughters. 

Now in conclusion, let me say that God lives, I know that the Bible contains His holy word. I know that the Book of Mormon is a history of the ancestors of the American Indians and tells of God's hand-dealings with His children here in America in an early day. I know that the Doctrine and Covenants contains the promises of our Heavenly Father to the children of men — wonderful promises that can only be realized by us if we make ourselves worthy of them by living correct lives. Let us who have accepted the Gospel of our Lord evidence our knowledge of its truth, let us demonstrate our assurance of its power and set such an example before all the world that our Father's other children, whom he loves as much as he loves us, may desire not only to search the old scriptures but to read the new scriptures and listen to the voice of His servants who today are in different parts of the world calling all men to repentance, with the promise that if they will repent and receive the Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed by Him in former days and in this latter-day, all — not just a few — but all may be exalted in His celestial kingdom and obtain glory, immortality and eternal life. That we may be worthy of our heritage, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, Amen. 

ELDER THOMAS E. McKAY 

Acting President, European Missions 

My brethren and sisters, I am very pleased and thankful to report that in spite of the unsettled and rapidly changing conditions in Europe, our Missions are functioning almost as usual, in the hands of local people. All headquarters, with the exception of one, are maintained. That one exception is the French Mission. The headquarters at Paris have been closed temporarily, but Brother Gaston Chappuis, who has just returned from Paris with his wife, received permission just before leaving to visit Belgium, and he reports that the work there in that part of the French Mission is well organized; and before we left Switzerland this spring, the other part of the French Mission in Switzerland was placed in the hands of a very capable brother, and the French-Swiss district is also progessing nicely. 

As I stated, all other Missions are well organized. We receive letters quite regularly. We have asked for at least a letter a month. These letters, of course, are censored, and the brethren cannot report about other than Church affairs — nothing political. On all the mail from continental Europe we find stamped upon the envelope the word "Geoffnet," or "Gepruft," the German word for censored; and the letters coming from Great Britain are stamped in large letters, "Opened." 

All the Missions report that Sunday Schools, Relief Societies, sacrament and Priesthood meetings, as well as branch and district conferences are being held as usual; and nearly all of the Missions report baptisms. In a letter received last week from one of the Missions, they reported 111 -five baptisms for the first eight months of this year. Three of the Missions have' reported an increase in tithing and Fast offerings, as compared with the same period last year. 

We are very happy, too, and thankful to report that in those countries that have been invaded not one of our members, whether a soldier or lay member, has lost his life or been injured. In Norway, and also in Holland and Belgium, a number of our members lost their homes and everything of an earthly nature that they had, but their lives were spared. One brother is reported missing in the British Mission, but it is hoped that he is in Switzerland. 

In a letter just received from our brother in charge of the FrenchSwiss district, in expressing his appreciation for a few extra Eras that we had sent him — he was very honest — said : "I am receiving the Era already from Brother Ursenbach," (a former Mission President), "but I am very glad to get these extra numbers, President McKay, because we send them out to the Tommies who are interned here." Until that time we had not realized that some of our British soldiers were interned in Switzerland. Once in a while a little political news creeps through. 

We are pleased also to report that in Great Britain all members of our Church holding the Medchizedek Priesthood have been excused from army service, so as to take care of their Church work. The following is a copy of a letter to Brother Andre K. Anastasiou, acting President of the British Mission regarding this matter : 

Sir: 

I am directed by the Minister of Labour and National Service to refer to your recent meeting with an officer of this department and your letter of 22nd July regarding the position under the National Service (Armed Forces) Acts of men in Holy Orders in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

In reply, I am to state that it has now been decided that men in the major Orders may be regarded as covered by the provisions of Section 11 (1) (e) of the National Service (Armed Forces) Act, 193.9. Such men are not, therefore, liable to be called up for service under that Act and they are not required to register when other men of their age class are called upon to do so. 

As regards the list which you submitted with your letter of 22nd July, I am to state that all the men referred to therein will be regarded as covered by the statutory exception conferred upon men in Holy Orders except the two Priests named. 

I am, Sir, *  " Your obedient Servant (Signed) R. A. Luce . 

A. K. Anastasiou, Esq. 149 Nightingale Lane London, S. W. 12 

Now brethren and sisters, in conclusion may I express my heartfelt appreciation for the opportunity that has been given to me to continue, although rather remotely, in contact with these brethren and sisters in war-torn Europe. For nine years I had the privilege of associating with those people, and, brethren and sisters, they are good people. They love 

112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 6 Third Dag 

the Gospel; they are finding in very deed that the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation. It is a great comfort to them. They write : "We are all right; we have the Gospel." 

May I commend to you, brethren and sisters, in concluding, the beautiful remarks of President Grant at the opening of this session, permeated with tolerance and love; also the message of the First Presidency read at the opening of the first session of our Conference. Read that, and re-read it. Tolerance and love permeated every sentence. 

Who seeks for heaven alone to save his soul May keep the path, but will not find the goal; While he who walks in love may wander far, But God will bring him where the righteous are. 

God help us to walk in love, to keep His commandments, that we may enjoy true happiness here in this life, as well as in the life to come, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

The Lord moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform. I know that all of our hearts rejoice in the report which President McKay has been able to make. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang, "Alleluia," by Mozart. 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder George H. Robinson, President of the Bear Lake Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 :00 p. m. 


