Morning
05 10 1934

When the time for commencing the Conference arrived the large auditorium and galleries; of the great Tabernacle were filled with people from the various stakes and missions of the Church. 

The first session commenced promptly at 10 o'clock, Friday morning, October 5, when President Grant, who presided, announced that the congregation would sing the hymn, "Come, let us anew." 

After the singing of this hymn the opening prayer was offered by Elder George H. Robinson, President of the Bear Lake Stake. 

A soprano solo, "The mighty God hath spoken," was sung by Sister Laurinda P. Brewerton. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Again I express my great pleasure in being present at another general conference. I hope that the prayer which has been offered may be answered, that we may have a time of rejoicing, that we may be encouraged and blessed and strengthened in the faith of the Gospel of our Savior, and that the inspiration of the Lord may be given to those who shall address us. 

PAYS TRIBUTE TO DEPARTED LEADERS 

I shall make a few remarks this morning with reference to Brother Anthony W. Ivins and Brother Charles H. Hart, and also pay a tribute of respect to Brother Franklin S. Richards. 

One of the greatest, most devoted and splendid members of the General Authorities of the Church has been taken from us at the ripe age of eighty-two. From his childhood until his death he has been a very studious man, gathering information on many subjects, and he was successful in all the walks of life in which he engaged. He was successful in more things than any other man I ever knew, and all his life fulfilled the requirements made in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88, verses 124, 125, 126 : 

Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 3 

cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated; 

And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bonds of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace; 

Pray always, that ye may not faint until I come; behold, and lo, I will come quickly, and receive you unto myself. 

Each and every requirement therein made Brother Ivins fulfilled, except the one "retire to thy bed early." I believe that he would have lived longer had he fulfilled that requirement, but he generally studied until midnight. Seldom did a day pass that he did not consult the dictionary. He fulfilled to the very letter the commandment — "Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." 

BORN OF GOODLY PARENTS 

Like Nephi of old, he was born of goodly parents. I know of no man of all my acquaintance who was a greater reader than his father. He read "The Native Races of the Pacific Coast," by Bancroft, as most of us would read a continued story in the newspaper. It was simply wonderful the fund of information that Israel Ivins had. He was an outstanding man, one of the greatest students I ever knew. He was president of the branch of the Church in New Jersey, which Erastus Snow and the Prophet Joseph Smith visited as young missionaries, and when he decided to come to Utah with his brother, Anthony Ivins, almost the entire branch came with him. There has never been a branch there since. 

I was told by Joseph Benedict, of the famous firm of Benedict Brothers, that Israel Ivins was the best read man on the subject of medicine that he had ever met; that he had studied and read more than a graduate physician. He was a man of great character and of great love. He was known as "Dr. Ivins" in southern Utah. In that hard country, where there was very little money, he gave his services mostly without money and without price. 

SERENE WOMEN 

Of all the women I have ever known in my life — though it might be said I am not a fair judge — the two most serene and splendid women were my own mother and her sister, the mother of Anthony W. Ivins. His mother was a student also, and so from childhood he had the advice and counsel of two very wonderful, studious parents. He honored them; he respected them; he listened to their advice in childhood and in young manhood; and to those parents is due a great deal of credit for the success of his life. If all children would listen to good parents, as this man did, there would be few mistakes made in the battle of life. 

I, too, had the great blessing to be born of goodly parents. I remember reading a trbiute to people who possess the characteristic of serenity, and I remember that when reading that tribute I wrote on the margin of the book, "The two most serene women I have ever known are my own mother and her sister, Anna Ivins." 

LETTER OF SYMPATHY 

When my mother died the general manager for the United Kingdom of the great New York Life Insurance Company wrote me a letter of sympathy, and in it he referred to my mother as "dear Aunt Rachel." She kept boarders for a living, and the boarders called her "Aunt Rachel." Tony Ivins' sister waited on the table without pay and called mother "Aunt Rachel," so the boarders adopted that title. This man was agnostic believing only in the God of nature. He said: "If the God of nature ever did stamp peace, nobility and serenity upon any human countenance, he did upon the face of dear Aunt Rachel." And that same stamp was on the face of dear Aunt Anna. 

HIS FATHER 

I know nothing of course of the advice and counsel of a father because mine died when I was a baby, but I have learned, of his reputation from others. People assure me that Jedediah M. Grant was one of the noblemen of this Church. > 

I remember at one time asking Captain William H. Hooper to sign some bonds for me, when I was a youngster of twenty just starting in business. 

He said : "I never do such a thing; never do such a thing." I had no more than returned to my office when a young messenger came from the bank and told me the captain wanted to see me. I said : "I don't want to see him." "Well, he sent me to bring you to the bank." 

I went back, and he said: "Boy, boy, give me those bonds." I did so, and he signed them. Then he said : "When you went out I turned to Mr. Hills and said, 'Lew, who is that boy? He has been bowing to me on the street for years. I don't know who he is. I never sign a bond for somebody I don't know. Who is he?' He said 'Why that is Jeddy Grant's boy, Heber J. Grant'. 'Jeddy Grant's boy? Bring him back. I would sign that bond if I knew I had to pay it.' " 

A MARVELOUS HERITAGE 

I am mentioning these things in the hope that parents will realize that the example of integrity, of devotion, of loyalty to the Gospel, and the disposition not to find fault, but to labor diligently and unceasingly for the advancement of truth, is a marvelous heritage to leave to their children. Anthony W. Ivins and myself have that heritage. 

a millionaire's tribute 

I know of no more charitable man than Anthony W. Ivins. He had charity even for the erring and for the wicked. He reformed many  vicious man by his love and charity. I remember meeting on the streets of Salt Lake City a man named David Wood, of the Wood-Hagenbarth Livestock Company, the morning after Anthony W. Ivins was made an apostle. He said : 

Hold on, Grant, don't walk so fast. I want to tell you something. I am mighty glad you are running your "Mormon" Church just to suit me. If you had come to my office yesterday and said, "Dave Wood, you know the 'Mormon' people, and their leading men from Canada to Mexico. You have been a friend of ours for 25 long years. You have never indulged in any lying against the 'Mormons.' You have never joined any anti-'Mormon' party. You have always spoken well of the 'Mormon' people at home and abroad, in the United States, and even in Europe, and I have been sent down to your office to tell you that we appreciate that and that we are going to permit you to name the man whom you consider to be the very finest and best man in all the Church to fill the vacancy in the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles." Why, do you know, I would not have batted an eye or taken a breath. I would just have hollered "Ivins." I amf glad you are running your Church to suit me. Good-bye. 

It is no small thing to receive compliments of this kind. There is nothing that so completely rebukes the falsehoods against our people as the fact that in the judgment of a millionaire who had lived with us for 25 years we had chosen the best man in all the Church to be one of the apostles. 

PERSONALLY ACQUAINTED WITH GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

It fell to my lot as a child only five years of age to become acquainted with Brigham Young, and I came to know him as a God-fearing, honest, upright man, and that the one supreme thought of his heart and his soul was the advancement of his people. It fell to my lot as a member of the General Authorities of this Church to be associated with John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, and Joseph F. Smith. I know as I know that I live that all the slanders that have ever been published against these men are falsehoods. They were honest, upright, God-fearing men, living in communion with God our Father. 

The very life of Anthony W. Ivins is a testimony of the work in which you and I are engaged. Men of his caliber, of his honesty, of his charity, of his love for his fellow men, men in communion with God, would not stay in this Church unless they had an abiding faith in the divinity of this work. 

AN EXAMPLE OF HONESTY 

I prize very highly a letter I received from a non-member of the Church, the general manager of one of the greatest insurance companies, congratulating me on having been made an apostle. He said : "I have known you from childhood. I know you are fundamentally honest from the crown of your head to the soles of your feet. I never had a very good opinion of the leaders of the Church. I had read so much against the Church." Of course there have been about 2,000 books published against us. But there is an old saying that a lie can travel clear around the world while truth is getting out of bed and putting on its boots, but sooner or later the boots arrive, overtake the lie, and step on it. This man said : "Heber, though I have had a poor opinion of the leaders of the Church, now that you are one of them I apologize to the other 14. I know that they would not dare invite you into their councils unless they were honest. You would give the whole thing away if there were anything crooked." 

REJOICES IN TRIBUTES TO PRESIDENT IVINS 

I rejoice in the wonderful testimony to all the world in the life of Anthony W. Ivins. My heart is full of gratitude and thanksgiving for the wonderful tributes paid to him by the people in the Church and out of the Church. I think it is little less than wonderful to note the splendid tributes that have been paid to him in newspapers that are owned by those not of our faith. I rejoice in the tribute paid by the bishop and other officials of the Catholic church, and the tolling of the Cathedral bells as the funeral cortege passed that great structure. I have never known such an outpouring of expressions of love and appreciation from all classes of people for anybody that has passed away, as have come regarding Brother Ivins. 

EXPRESSES THANKS 

I rejoiced in the very wonderful editorial written by Noble Warrum years ago published in the Salt Lake Tribune when President Smith passed away. It was one of the most splendid tributes ever paid. I said to Mr. McKay, then manager and dictator of the editorial policy of the Tribune : "I accept that as a complete apology for all the cartoons and the vicious things that were published in your paper, years ago, against Joseph F. Smith." I appreciate and thank Noble Warrum for the splendid editorial written about Anthony W. Ivins. I am grateful beyond expression for all of these tributes that have been paid to him. I am thankful that the president of the United States saw fit to send a telegram of congratulation on his birthday. 

I could go on talking for hours regarding Anthony Ivins, but I think perhaps I have said enough. I wish to say however, that in every particular he fulfilled the advice of the mother to her son: 

TO MY SON 

Do you know that your soul is of my soul such a part That you seem to be fiber and core of my heart? None other can pain me as you, dear, can do; None other can please me, or praise me as you. 

Remember the world will be quick with its blame, If shadow or stain ever darken your name. "Like mother, like son," is a saying so true The world will judge largely of mother by you. 

Be this, then, your task, if task it should be, To force the proud world to do homage to me. Be sure it will say, when its verdict you've won, "She reaped as she sowed. Lo, this is her son." 

I paid a brief tribute to Brother Hart yesterday, and I wished to offer that tribute here. I intended to bring the report of that five-minute sermon with me, because I want it recorded in the Conference Pamphlet, but I forgot it. One of the truest, noblest, most splendid men that I have been associated with, as one of the General Authorities of the Church, was Charles H. Hart. You will hear my tribute later, so I will say nothing further about him now. 

PRESIDENT IVINS LOVED BY YOUTH 

One of the things to which I wish to call attention with appreciation is the wonderful respect shown in the attendance of young people of the Church at the funeral of Brother Ivins. If there was one man more than another of the General Authorities whom the young people admired and who they felt was their true friend, who had a sympathy for them and was always charitable toward the mistakes that they made, that man was Brother Ivins. This was appreciated, as shown by the splendid turnout of young people in his honor at his funeral. 

TRIBUTE TO BROTHER RICHARDS 

It fell to my lot to be associated for many years, during the presidency of John Taylor and Wilford Woodruff and Lorenzo Snow, with Brother Franklin D. Richards. A more gentle, kind, considerate, thoughtful man than Franklin D. Richards, I never knew. I remember one day getting quite angry at something, and talking pretty loud to Brother Richards, and he paid no attention to what I said. I went away and came back and apologized to him. He laughed and said : "I knew you didn't mean it. It did not affect me at all." 

Franklin S. Richards, like Brother Ivins, was the son of a most splendid father, a man of integrity and devotion to the work of God. I have known Franklin S. Richards very intimately, from the time I was a boy of twenty-two, having become a partner with his brother, Lorenzo L. Richards, in the insurance business in Ogden, under the firm name of Grant and Richards. I also became his partner under the firm name of Richards and Grant, owning a vinegar factory in Ogden. He subsequently engaged in the wholesale dry-goods business, and I bought his interests in those two firms. I never met a brighter, more remarkable man, in my judgment, than Lorenzo L. Richards. Many is the night I have slept in Franklin D. Richards' home, and I became intimately acquainted, of course, with the father and the sons and the daughter. 

Franklin S. Richards was all that a father could ask of a son. No truer man, no more faithful man, no more humble man and no more intelligent man have I ever known. He was a splendid lawyer. During all of the dark days of trouble when we were disfranchised he was the "wheel-horse," figuratively speaking, in trying to change the condition of affairs in Washington, and he labored unceasingly to the day of his death. He had the unlimited confidence, I am sure, of each and every one of the members of the High Priests' quorum of Ensign stake over which he had the honor to preside at the time of his death. I loved him truly. It was a source of regret to me that I had to be absent from the city at the time of his funeral. 

GRATEFUL TO PRESS 

I do not feel impressed to say any more this morning, further than to extend to the members of the press — The Deseret News, the Telegram and the Tribune — my heartfelt thanks for the most splendid and wonderful notices and articles that were written regarding Brother Ivins; and when I express this thought I know that I am also expressing the thought of gratitude that is in the heart of dear Sister Ivins and her children. May God bless and comfort them. May he lead us all to follow the example of our beloved fellow member of the Church, Brother Anthony W. Ivins, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer. Amen. 

The congregation arose and sang the hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have listened with much interest and appreciation to the remarks made by President Grant. I have felt the spirit that came from him to us — a spirit of love, admiration and appreciation for our brethren who have been called home and for all faithful Latter-day Saints who have fought life's battle wisely and well. It was my privilege to know, with some intimacy, the three brethren to whom President Grant has referred. They were men of God, wise men, kind men, generous men, for whom there grew up in my heart a deep and abiding love. I wish to add, without multiplying words on this occasion, my own appreciation, my own high estimate of these brethren whom we have lost during the last few weeks as they have gone to their eternal home. 

NO DEVIATION FROM FUNDAMENTAL TRUTH 

While President Grant was speaking, the question ran through my mind, more than any other : Just what made these men great ? What made them worthy of the great praise given to them by the President of the Church? The thought came in answer that ever since the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, to the present prophet, Heber J. Grant, the men who have stood at the head of this Church have taught the same doctrine, have left behind the same message. There has been a  of declaration on their part. There has been no deviation from fundamental principles. Undoubtedly the reason why these brethren, who have been held before us as examples today, were great, is because they also clung to the fundamental principles of truth which make up the foundation and the frame work of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

For a number of years I was engaged in reading the sermons of Brigham Young, having in mind a compilation of his wise sayings for the benefit of the Saints. I was amazed to note how closely, how carefully, he followed the doctrine laid down by the Prophet Joseph Smith who himself only taught the pure, unchanged Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. As I read on, studying the teachings of those who came after Brigham Young, I found the same thing to be true. I have listened in this tabernacle, for many years, to the words of President Heber J. Grant, and I have found him likewise a teacher of the same doctrine that was taught by Joseph Smith, by Brigham Young, and by the others who have preceded President Grant in his high office. There has been no deviation in his teachings from fundamental truth; not by a hair's breadth. 

In this changelessness of fundamental teaching, lies not only a testimony of the truth of this great work but also a principle of comfort to all who belong to the Church. I belong to various scientific societies. In them I find that theories come and go. We all belong to various organizations, political parties, and we observe that from day to day the principles that guide the membership of these associations seem to vary, to change. I can cling safely to the Church, to the Gospel of Jesus Christ; it has steadying power, it does not change nor vary. It is the same today, yesterday and forever. 

THE STORY OF MAN'S HISTORICAL DIFFICULTY AND SUCCESS 

I am wondering if in this principle does not lie the real story of man's historical difficulty and success. The history of the world indicates that any nation, country, or group of people which has set up a righteous principle and has lived by it and died by it, has risen to greatness, both before their own generation and those that came after. Perhaps the greatness of the British people, admired over the world, is due in great measure to the fact that for three-quarters of a millennium they have clung to a doctrine of human liberty expressed in the famous document known as Magna Charta. Perhaps the greatness of the United States of America is due, in largest measure, to the clinging to the simple principle that every man is entitled to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. It is by the adherence to such fundamental principles that men and families, peoples and nations, grow great and persist among the generations of men. 

THE CHURCH NOT STATIC 

 Do not misunderstand me as I speak on this theme. Every man clothes his ideas in his own words. Joseph Smith did not speak as Heber J. Grant speaks. The principles, the ideas were the same, but the words used, the forms of expression, belong to the speaker; and every man has a right to express as best he can in the words God gives him, the eternal truths that he may obtain from a divine source. 

Again, do not misunderstand me. I do not mean that this church and kingdom is static, that we stand still. I believe in a living, growing Church, which is in need of and does receive revelation from day to day. Nothing is more certain to me than that we were founded in revelation from God, and that we are guided daily by such revelation. We shall have revelation for our guidance to the end of time; but such new revelations as may come will never supersede, destroy or abrogate the fundamental principles upon which this Church rests its body of doctrine. A new revelation merely adds and develops and more nearly completes that which has formerly been given. 

APPLICATION OF ETERNAL PRINCIPLES TO PRESENT NEEDS 

The conditions of our people, the Latter-day Saints, in the days of Ohio, Missouri and Illinois, were as different from the conditions of today, almost as night is from day. Our people then lived under pioneer conditions, with no knowledge of the things which have given us the most remarkable mechanical civilization of all earthly time. We cannot expect that the exact application of the eternal principles of the Gospel should be the same today as in the days of Ohio or Missouri, but we do expect that any new revelation will be very largely the application of the eternal principles of truth to present needs. I rejoice that as far as I have been able to read the history of this Church and as far as I have lived life in the Church I have seen from day to day such application of fundamental eternal unchanging laws of the Gospel to the needs of the changing, existing today. 

GUIDED BY SPIRIT OF REVELATION 

I speak from a firm conviction, having tried the Gospel. When I say that this Church is guided and led today as yesterday by the spirit of revelation issuing from God to and through his servants who are called from time to time to guide, on earth, the destinies of the Church, I am certain that President Ivins possessed the spirit of revelation and was guided by it. President Hart, Elder Richards and all other faithful people who have lived the Gospel and gone to their honorable reward, have lived righteously because they in their respective spheres were under the guidance of the spirit of revelation. Every person is entitled to communion with God and guidance from him in all that has to be done from day to day. All officers of the Church, in the Priesthood, or the auxiliary organizations in their official labors, have the right to enjoy that spirit of guidance which we call the spirit of inspiration or revelation. The man who stands at the head of the Church receives such guidance for all of us. He is indeed a revelator for the Church. Our safety li-s in listening to that which he says, in being guided by what he counsels. We  as nothing, in this Church and kingdom, if we are not founded upon revelation and guided by continuous revelation. The urgent need of the world is the wisdom that comes by revelation from the Lord. There will be no peace on earth, no final solution of man's vexing problems, until leaders and followers humble themselves to receive guidance from the heavens. 

MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING AND COMPREHENSION 

In concluding this thought let me say that not only must the speaker, standing in this or any other pulpit, be guided by the spirit of revelation in what he says — if he is to serve well the cause that he represents — but those who listen must also be directed by the spirit of revelation. The speaker and the hearer together must be guided by the voice that comes from God's presence. Then there is mutual understanding and comprehension. That principle was beautifully told to the Prophet Joseph Smith at the very beginning of the Church. The doctrine is set forth in section 50, of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, in which it is explained that when both the hearer and the speaker are moved upon by the same power and spirit the greatest joy is attained. I may be permitted to read at least two verses of that glorious revelation which should be known by all Latter-day Saints : 

Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understandeth one another, and both are edified and rejoice together; 

And that which doth not edify is not of God, and is darkness. 

THE SPIRIT OF LIGHT AND TRUTH 

Then follows what is to me perhaps the most beautiful saying among the many beautiful sayings in the revelations of God in these latter days : 

That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light and continueth in God, receiveth more light, and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day. 

The day for which we hope, the day towards which we move even in this life. 

When apostasy comes, it is because the spirit of revelation departs from us. The wire is broken between us and the source of truth. We cannot understand, though truth be spoken, since we are not possessed of the spirit of truth. We misunderstand and misinterpret. 

There is only one way, brethren and sisters, to obtain and possess this mighty spirit which led Joseph Smith into the grove, there to receive the first vision, which made him the head of the last dispensation, which guides the Church today and enlightens every soul, and that is by obeying strictly, with all our might, as far as we poor mortal beings are able, the laws of the Gospel. If we obey, if we practice in our lives the truths given us, then as certainly as we do that, the enlivening spirit of light, of revelation, of understanding will come to us, comprehension will enter our minds and hearts and we shall know the true joy of being Latter-day Saints. BEARS TESTIMONY 

I bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, that President Heber J. Grant is called and inspired of God and that he speaks the words of God. I bear witness that revelation continues in this Church, that, the door of divine communication is as open today as it was in the days of Joseph Smith. The great men mentioned here today so lived the Gospel that they will reap the rich reward of faithful living, and also have become examples fit to hold up in a. general conference for us all to follow. They walked in the light of revelation. 

May God grant us power to understand the principles of the Gospel and power to live them, so that we may win for ourselves the abiding great joy that all faithful Latter-day Saints have the right to claim, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

As an officer of the Mutual Improvement Association of the Church, I desire to speak briefly in this conference of some of the ideals we are striving for in this great young peoples' organization. This M. I. A. structure of activity, this Mutual Improvement program that means actions noble and high and exalted on the part of your young folks, speaks louder than can words that we are giving genuine allegiance to the Church. 

M. I. A. SLOGAN 

Our slogan for the present season is : "By my actions I will prove my allegiance to the Church." Our young people are repeating it everywhere. Perhaps most of you who are in attendance at this General Conference have also repeated it. Judging from the spirit of the Mutual conventions which, during the last three months, have been held in nearly all of our stakes, our young folks, our young men and young women, have been found putting forth an effective and commendable effort, they have been struggling earnestly, and it seems successfully, to live in accordance with this practical teaching, this intensely practical doctrine of letting their conduct tell of their interest in and their devotion to the Church. Their attitude is giving us cheer and encouragement. 

MISUNDERSTANDINGS BETWEEN YOUTH AND MATURITY 

There have always been misunderstandings more or less serious between the younger and the older folks and probably this condition will always prevail. Maturity always fears for the morality, for the faith and for the safety of those who are young; while on the other hand, those who are young feel keenly that they are not understood by those who are older. In the past, however, youth seems always to have gotten along fairly well in some way or . Remember we who are the grown-ups of today, we who have the gray heads now were the youth of yesterday. 

M. I. A. MANUALS AND BOOKS 

As an evidence of our sincerity in adopting this year's slogan, I refer you to our M. I. A. manuals and the books on our reading course. I need not name them. They are available to you since they are being studied in all your wards. Concerning one of these, the manual for the M Men department, written by Dr. Lowell L. Bennion and entitled "What About Religion," I understood President Grant to say that this little volume pleased him greatly, so much so in fact that he regards it as one of the best pieces of literature the Church has produced. 

But it is not of this but of our Adult Manual that I desire on this occasion to say a few words. This publication has been prepared by our able writer and scholar, John Henry Evans, and its title is "The Leadership of Joseph Smith." Realizing that members of the Church cannot learn too much of this strong, outstanding, divinely guided leader, we have had this manual prepared confident that as you read and study it you will find new joy and faith and testimony. The more we learn of Joseph Smith the Prophet, the greater and grander and nobler as an inspired leader and prophet will we discover him to be and the more we will desire to follow his inspired leadership. 

A SUBJECT ON WHICH ALL CAN AGREE 

The divinity of the teachings, the revelations and the messages ofl the Prophet is one subject on which all genuine Latter-day Saints, young as well as old, can and must agree. We have in him a man genuinely great. He was made so, we verily believe, by the power of God. I have been looking all my days for some one, philosopher, statesman or scholar, who could account for the numerous outstanding accomplishments of Joseph Smith in any way other than that he was guided by divine power. Thus far I have found no one, scholar, philosopher or other wise man, who could account for him and his accomplishments in any other way. 

THE PERSONALITY OF JOSEPH SMITH 

In this outstanding personage, the Prophet Joseph Smith, no one was ever disappointed. The fondest anticipations of those who had heard of him as a new and modern and marvelous prophet were mild indeed compared with the actual impressions that his presence, his personality and his individual contact produced. Dr. Andrew D. White, outstanding teacher, president of Cornell University, scholar, diplomat and statesman, told me with his own lips that while he had seen the Prophet in Nauvoo for but a moment he regarded him as not only a strong personality but as a most unusual and magnetic one. Joseph Smith aroused the keenest interest in every' one who met him. From those who are not members of our own Church, he invariably commanded respect and admiration. From his fellow churchmen he drew forth an undying 1 love that we might call almost adoration. Our outstanding leaders who traveled far to see the Prophet soon found themselves tied to him with that affection which nothing else can produce but the power of Almighty God. Parley P. Pratt came to him from Ohio, Orson Pratt from New York, Sidney Rigdon and Edward Partridge from Ohio, John Taylor from Canada, Brigham Young from Vermont, Willard Richards and Orson Spencer from Massachusetts, Charles C. Rich from Ilinois, etc. Many other outstanding scholars, pioneers and great men of the Church came from all parts of the nation and not one was disappointed in the character, the personality and the leadership of Joseph Smith. All were glad of an opportunity to follow his inspired leadership and considered so doing an outstanding privilege. Strangers who came to see him, even from foreign countries, invariably looked upon him with admiration. 

TRIBUTES BY CONTEMPORARIES 

"Although in him there was nothing strange or different from other men in his personal appearance," said Amasa M. Lyman who came from Massachusetts, "yet when he grasped my hand in that cordial way known to those who had met him in the honest simplicity of truth, I felt as one of old in the presence of the Lord. My strength seemed to be gone, so that it required an effort on my part to stand on my feet. 

But in all this," says he, "there was no fear. The serenity and peace of heaven pervaded my soul, and the still, small voice of the Spirit whispered its living testimony into the depths of my being that he was a man of God." (Joseph Smith the American Prophet, Evans, p. 5.) 

Josiah Quincy has said that it is by no means improbable that some future text book will state that the historical American of the nineteenth century that has exerted the most powerful influence upon the destinies of his country is Joseph Smith the Mormon prophet. "Born in the lowest ranks of poverty," continues Quincy, "he had, without book learning, made himself at the age of 39 a power upon the earth. If the reader does not know what to make of Joseph Smith, I cannot help him out of the difficulty since I myself stand helpless before the puzzle." (Joseph Smith the American Prophet, pp. 4 and 13.) 

A GREAT LEADER AND PROPHET 

It is certain, says John Henry Evans (p. vii) that "no more spectacular or strange or dynamic or fascinating personality can be found in modern history." Evans further writes : 

Here is a man who was born in the stark hills of Vermont; who was reared in the backwoods of New York; who never looked inside a college or a high school; who lived in six states, no one of which would own him during his lifetime; who spent months in the vile prisons of the period; who even when he had his freedom, was hounded like a fugitive; who was covered once with a coat of tar and feathers, and left for dead; who, with his follow, was driven by irate neighbors from New York to Ohio, from Ohio to Missouri, and from Missouri to Illinois; and who, at the unripe age of thirty-nine was shot to death by a mob with painted faces. 

Yet this man became the mayor of the biggest town in Illinois and the state's most prominent citizen, the commander of the largest body of trained soldiers in the nation outside of the Federal army, the founder of cities and of a university, and aspired to become President of the United States. 

* * * On the threshold of an organizing age he established the most nearly perfect social mechanism in the modern world, and developed a religious philosophy that challenges anything of the kind in history, for completeness and cohesion. And he set up the machinery for an economic system that would take the brood of Fears out of the heart of man — that is, the fear of want through sickness, old age, unemployment and poverty. In thirty nations are men and women who look upon him as a greater leader than Moses and a greater prophet than Isaiah. (See introductory page of Evans' book.) 

Is it any wonder that we recommend, in fact that we urge not only the youth but all other members of the Church to make a more careful study of the outstanding accomplishments, teachings, life and doctrines of this great leader and prophet under whose inspired leadership the Church of Jesus Christ has been restored and reestablished ? 

Perhaps by reading and studying his life we ourselves may be able to acquire in some small degree some of his marvelous traits of character. It is certainly our duty as members of the Church of Jesus Christ — believers in the Gospel plan restored and established by the power of God through this Prophet, to know more of this great character. 

SAMPLES OF INSPIRATION 

Listen to a few sentences from some of the revelations which have come to us through this modern Prophet : 

Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea listen together. 

For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see; neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. (Doc. & Cov. 1:1-2.) 

And further : 

I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance. (Doc. & Cov. 1:31.) 

These are but samples of the language and the inspiration contained in some of the words given to us by the Prophet, our Prophet, the Prophet of the Lord, the Prophet of these last days. 

Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation. (Doc. & Cov. 89:4.) 

NOT GOOD FOR MAN 

This Word of Wisdom informs us that tea and coffee and tobacco and strong drinks are not good for man. While it is true that on the 7th day of November in the year of our Lord 1933, the people of the United States by their votes repealed Prohibition, while they repealed the Eighteenth Amendment, the people did not then nor will they ever repeal that law of nature which says that alcohol is a poison. The people did not then nor will they ever repeal the Word of Wisdom which says strong drinks are not good for man. 

Actions not only speak louder, but they speak much louder than do words. He who belongs to the L. D. S. group and drinks tea or drinks coffee or uses tobacco in any form or fails to resist the temptation to drink his glass of beer or any other beverage containing alcohol surely cannot regard himself as being true to his own group. Certainly he is not by his actions proving his allegiance to the Church. 

What actions of mine are referred to in this slogan? As I repeat it do I give proper consideration to Church standards and do I analyze my conduct with regard to these standards? 

HONESTY AND FAIR DEALING 

First, we believe in being honest. Do we have this in mind when we say that by our actions we will prove our allegiance to the Church? If we live up to the ideal expressed in this slogan, then in our dealings we are to be fair. When we speak we are to tell the truth. If by our actions we are to show ourselves to be honest, we will not create a false impression by telling only half of the truth. In short, our dealings with our fellowmen will be so fair and so frank, so honest that we shall have nothing to conceal. By thus living and thus acting we shall so teach the Gospel that by our actions, which speak louder than any words, we shall teach our neighbors and our business associates that we* not only believe the Gospel as it has been revealed through Joseph Smith the Prophet, but we in our very lives are practicing it. We shall then be proving by our conduct our allegiance to the Church and our faith in the divinity of the message brought to us through this outstanding and marvelous modern man, the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

IN ACCORDANCE WITH HIGH IDEALS 

Next, we believe in being true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men. In our dealings with our fellows day by day and all the time if we are true to the promise in this pledge, this slogan, then we must try unceasingly to live in accordance with all these high ideals. Thus we shall prove that we have faith in and that we are struggling to live in accordance with the high ideals, the standards of the Church of Jesus Christ. 

By being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men, by going forward literally by the tens of thousands and thus by our actions proving our allegiance to the Church, we are, as our new M. I. A. song by Miss Beesley says, "Building  the house of youth. Its foundations are strong and secure. Faith in God and devotion to truth, honor that shall endure. Its walls are adorned with garlands bright," in which "virtue and love entwine; and its structure shall rise till it reaches the skies, gleaming with light divine." 

It is not by our words only but by our actions, by living in accordance with the ideals expressed in this new and noble song that we are building a structure that will be great and glorious and beautiful. The structure will rise until it reaches the skies and it will be lighted with the light and power and inspiration of Almighty God. It will indeed "gleam with light divine." 

THE ROAD TO PERFECTION 

I am speaking now of the ideals of our institution, the ideals of the Church. As M. I. A. workers we may not be able always to live strictly in accordance with these, all cannot reach the top; this would be impossible since our goal is perfection. With us who have weaknesses, with us who lack strength to resist temptation, I appeal to you to have patience and charity. We pledge ourselves that all the time and without ceasing we shall try to do and to be better. We have had come into our souls that light and inspiration which comes with the receiving of the Holy Ghost, we have tugging at our feet constantly that pull to do right, that pull whose aim is to bring us back into the straight way, that way which is narrow. We expect this pull to continue as long as in our souls there is that glow of joy and satisfaction that nothing else can give but a testimony and knowledge of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet. I mean that knowledge and testimony which nothing else can bring but righteous living and the power of God. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of The First Council of the Seventy 

I sincerely hope that I may be led to say this morning that which the Lord would have me say for the good of all who are here and for all who may listen. This, I think, is a great opportunity that the Lord has given his children, to gather together upon occasions of this kind, to give a reason for the hope that is within them, and to gain more evidence of him and his great plan. 

I am sure that this is the work of the Lord. There is not any question in my mind concerning the truth of his great revelation and his organization in these the last days. We are not so sure of the things of this world. The mediums of exchange that are used everywhere may change. They may lose their value entirely. Principles may prove to be valueless in the management of nations. But the plan of God, our Eternal Father, will not change. The great institution that he established through his Son, in the days of the Prophet, over a hundred years ago, will not change. It is the right and the privilege of all men to become acquainted with the plan of life and salvation, which provides for their welfare, not only here but in the world to come. There never was a greater opportunity than now, I am sure, for the youth of Zion, and all the inhabitants of Zion, to become acquainted with this great work of our Redeemer. 

The law of baptism was instituted as the means by which men were to gain admission into the Church of God our Father in the earth. The mode is indicated by the word from which "baptism" is derived, and when this ordinance is administered in any other way we know it is incorrect. There, is no other way than by immersion for the remission of sins. We may be challenged on this point, but the language itself concerning the mode of baptism clearly defines the way by which men are to be brought into the Church, and no other way could be considered. So we. stand, as a church, absolutely sure of our ground. Men have changed the ordinance, but our Eternal Father's plan never changes. His language pointed out the mode in the beginning. It will be so in the end. 

Following baptism is the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost. This is the birth of the Spirit which completely immerses the souls of men and fills them with the inspiration and power of the Eternal Father, bears witness unto them that they have received the knowledge that he wished to convey, a knowledge of their Redeemer, a knowledge of his great plan for the redemption of his children. It is within the reach of the entire human family, if they will but read aright and pray unto God, their Father, for understanding. 

The youth of Zion should become acquainted with this ordinance of baptism. I am sure that we do not understand it as well as we ought to do. Hundreds of young men and young women have not learned, as they must learn, the reason why men and women are baptized, the mode of baptism, who are to administer it, and what it means to be a baptized member of the Church and to receive the inspiration and power of the Holy Ghost. 

The things of this earth will pass away as the frost before the sun. Men and women will come and go. Great institutions will be organized and fail. But the plan of our Eternal Father will always live. It will be found in eternity as well as here. It is the thing by which men may measure themselves. It is the thing by which they may know whereof they speak. It is the thing that will keep them in the straight and the narrow way. 

There can be no question at all concerning this great Church. Men and women in the Church may fail, but the great Church is the one that our Eternal Father established in these the last days, by which men and women should return unto him. If men and women will but keep the commandments of God as well as they can they need have no fear. Life is but a short span. We are here but a few moments of time, compared with the great periods of time of our Eternal Father. It is your day and it is mine to live in the earth and to obtain a knowledge that will take us back into the presence of God, that will give us the power  overcome, to live down weaknesses that are natural to the flesh. It is the great school that our Eternal Father planned for us, and we of all people can be most sure of our position, and give unto God, our Eternal Father, the praise and the honor and the glory. We can afford to be charitable in every way. We can afford to be kind and to be diligent. We can extend, every courtesy to others who have not received the light that has come to us in this day. 

I have heard that the Gospel is termed "dry" by some people. But it is the most interesting thing in all the world. It has a foundation and assurance by which every man and woman may know their possibilities, as the days come and go and as they advance. It is the great plan which our Eternal Father sent from heaven to us. We became acquainted with it long before the foundation of this earth was laid, and we now have the opportunity of taking part in it. This is a temporary world to which there will be an end; the bodies of men will grow cold and inactive; life will depart. But while we are here, away from home as it were, our Eternal Father has given us the privilege of proving ourselves to him. We are here, to learn the truth, to speak it and to live it, and to overcome the power of the adversary, who is in the earth to thwart the purposes of God. He challenged God long before the foundations of this earth were laid. He went into battle against him, and he has renewed it here, every day and every hour while men live in the flesh. He will claim as many as he can, and the only weapon by which men may reach him and be able to withstand his attack is to learn the paths which our Eternal Father has laid out for us. He desires his sons and his daughters to know the Church and to enter into it; and to know its principles; to teach them to others. This is the great plan by which men and women may come unto him. 

Our Heavenly Father gave us our own free agency. He taught it to us, gave it to us when we walked by sight and not by faith. He planned for our redemption, but gave us the privilege to receive or reject. I am sure that if all men could know the plan of our Eternal Father, as he has outlined it in his revelations, they would be able to meet the advance of the adversary in every form, and be led to glorify God, for great is the work of God, and great are the purposes of our Redeemer! 

This is the day for men to become men, and for women to become women. It is the day, as Alma the prophet, said, when men are to prepare to meet their God. While here in mortality we enter into business, into commercial relationships with men, but there is a right way to do it. God never i intended that it should be done in a dishonest way, any more than he intended that men should be untruthful. He planned the greatest scheme by which men should become strong, and by which they might come unto him as only real sons can come. He provided a great course of study for his sons and daughters in the earth. 

When men can see their way clear to enter into the Church, through the door of the sheep-fold, to obtain that witness that comes from him that this is his work, it is the happiest and most privileged new birth that they have ever received. There are millions of men in this world who need the support of this Church. They need the testimony of men who know the truth; they need the explanation of the principles of it. It isn't hard; it is easy to understand. The people of the world need it more today than they ever did before. The world is in trouble. Trouble is everywhere. It is in the family, it is in the nations. The voice of God is ready when they are ready to receive it, but they can only receive it when they hear it, and they cannot hear it except men be sent to provide for their hearing. In the fulness of time every son and daughter who may be entitled to the testimony of Jesus in the flesh shall hear it. 

As I see it this morning this is our mission : To provide for the welfare of the children of men, to sustain the holy Priesthood of God the Father in the earth, vested in his sons, to carry on the plan that he intended, to speak the truth and to live it, and to overcome. I think that men and women will never be perfect in the flesh. It is not a perfect world. But we can go on every day acquiring the power to perfect ourselves, and thus be better prepared when we leave here to enter into another great school of experience that shall be ours before the time comes for men to receive their bodies, resurrected and assigned to a glory. 

This is a great life, brethren and sisters and friends. It is a glorious opportunity to acquire knowledge. The knowledge of this Gospel is the most interesting thing in the world. The exchanges of this world and their values may pass away in a night and be of no more use to us, but the things that God revealed for the benefit of his children shall always be useful, as long as the earth stands, and in the eternities to come, forever and forever. 

May we keep these things in our minds, and sustain the authority of the Church. I tell you those men who stood by the Prophet in the days of Nauvoo, and who stood by the Prophet Brigham Young, and who have stood by the leaders of this Church, from then until now — they and their seed are the ones upon whom the Lord counts. I find them in the stakes of Zion where I travel. I have been away from home a long time and have rtot had an opportunity to visit the stakes of Zion, but now, in these stakes and in these valleys, I find the descendants of these men standing valiantly for the great plan of our Eternal Father. I bear witness to you, that it is because of the faith and devotion of their fathers that was taught them and written in their hearts by those early leaders with whom they associated. I hope the men and women of Zion, the youth of Zion, will learn the principles of the Gospel, and will love them. That this may be our privilege, more now than ever before, I humbly pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES E. ROWAN, JR. 

President of the Texas Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I feel it is a great privilege to be in attendance at this conference. I desire to add my testimony to  tributes that have been paid here this morning with reference to the loss that we have sustained in this great church. 

I bring you greetings from the Texas Mission, and am delighted to say that your sons and daughters, in the main, are well and happy. I believe that without an exception they are enjoying the Spirit of the Lord, that they are enjoying their labors, and that they are anxious to put the message of Mormonism before the people in that part of the Lord's vineyard. I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for the opportunity of serving among those fine people. 

I am happy to say to you, this morning, that the mission, so far as I am able to interpret, is going forward. Saturday, as I left the office, the secretary of the Sunday Schools of the mission handed me his report, and he said all of the Sunday Schools have reported the Dime Fund except nine, and ten of them have reported more than one hundred per cent collection. I believe that condition is reflected in most all of the auxiliaries in the Texas Mission. 

These branches and these auxiliaries are officered by men and women who have embraced and accepted the Gospel in the mission field. I am happy, my brethren and sisters, I say, to be associated with those fine people. We have had some wonderful things happen to us during this year. The Lord has been kind in opening up the way for our Elders to preach the Gospel. I am sure President Bennion will be happy when I tell him that in one of the southern cities in which, I believe, we have never been privileged before to preach the Gospel, this summer the Elders have been granted the opportunity of preaching on the streets, and they are meeting with a wonderful reception. As I passed through Dallas Sunday morning I met one of the young men who was instrumental in the hands of the Lord in securing permission from the mayor and the chief of police to preach on the streets in that city, and he was telling me of the splendid reception they were having. In this city they have a higher school of learning which is operated by one of the great churches, and he told me that one of the leading professors in that institution had offered him a scholarship if he would come and attend that institution. A wonderful spirit is prevailing and many people are being led into the Church. We are grateful for these things. 

I rejoice in the testimony that the missionaries have. I rejoice in the power and manifestation of the Spirit of God that is present in that mission field. I have here a testimony that I would like to read that seems to me to be rather unusual. It is about a young man who lives in Evanston, Wyoming. He has been a student in the East. I think he spent four years studying to become a doctor. After that I understand that he specialized in abnormal psychology, and was employed in that profession at the time this accident occurred. I am going to just take the time to read the story as it was written to me by the sister of this good man. With a group of friends Carlton went to Galveston Bay to swim. There were many people there enjoying the swimming and diving. My brother became separated from his friends, but as he ran along the pier and was about to make a dive his feet slipped and he fell, striking the bottom of the Bay, breaking his neck (6th and 7th Cervical). Strange as it may seem, he was not knocked unconscious, and the first thought that came was that he was at the end of his life; no one had seen the accident. He was determined to hold his breath as long as possible, but just when he realized his end was near, and he had found it was impossible to move on account of being totally paralyzed from his neck down, he found that someone had found him and was bringing him to the surface of the water. Strange as it may seem, one of his companions stopped for a moment on the pier and amid those hundreds of people saw this man disappear, and found that he did not come to the surface. He dived in after Carlton, and when he brought him to the surface found it was his friend. He said: "Carlton, put your arm around me. I did not know that I was rescuing you." Carlton replied and said : "I can't move : I have broken my neck. Get me to the hospital as quickly as possible." 

Arriving at the hospital the best doctors were called into consultation. They marveled, when they had Carlton on the operating table, that he helped to diagnose his own case. He asked their opinion about the possibility of his living. He was informed that it would be impossible for him to live three days. He smiled and said: "Well, I just can't die. Life is sweet. I must live for Mother." 

The next morning after the operation the doctors expected him to be unconscious, but when they opened the door of his room he greeted them and said : "Good morning, doctors. I have a hard fight before me, but I am going to win." 

Awaking from a short sleep he saw a minister standing over him and he said : "Young man, I have come to have you make peace with God before the end." Carlton asked him to please leave the room; that his church had always taught him to love God. 

For two weeks after his loved ones arrived from the West they tried to locate the Elders, and finally located President Rowan. President Rowan and Brother Baxter came to the hospital and administered to Carlton, and from that time on Carlton began to improve. So wonderful was his recovery that the doctors marveled. They were impressed with the fine young missionaries who came from time to time to visit. They were eager to know who the group of fine men were. Those doctors did not take credit unto themselves for this miraculous recovery, but said : "It is Carlton's faith in God that has accomplished this." Another one said : "Give all the credit to God. It is Carlton's fine clean living and his faith that has accomplished this." 

I talked with a lady, the sister of the president of that stake, yesterday, and she told me that he was continuing to improve. They removed him from the hospital in Houston, and he has been brought back to Wyoming, where he continues to improve. We feel that the Lord was unusually kind to; him. 

During the summer we have had a little sickness among the Elders. One of them developed heart trouble, circulatory trouble of the heart. We took him to one of the best heart specialists in the South, and discovered, when we found this man, that he was a friend to the Church; he was a friend to the members of the Church. He was born and raised in Canada, a highly educated man. He told me with his own lips that in 1907 he spent three months practicing in the state of Utah, in a little country town, and that his association with the Mormon people had been most pleasant. Said he to me: "Brother Rowan, I realize that there is power in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." 

This doctor gave a remarkable testimony of a case of healing that came under his observation. He said a woman had been attended by a midwife and she, after several days, had developed blood-poisoning and was in a very critical condition. They called in this doctor. "Too late," he said, but he worked with all his might, with all the power he could muster, and with all of the intelligence that he had. He said two men came into the home and asked him if he would have any objection to them going in and administering to this woman, and he said : "None whatever." Then he asked these men if they had any objection to his going in with them. He said this bishop went in, together with his companion, clothed in overalls, and one of them poured oil on the head of this woman. The other, in company with his companion, laid his hands upon her head and gave her a marvelous blessing. Then a beautiful smile came over her face and she said : "Now I shall live, doctor"; and she lived. I have his letter with me, and he says in this letter that it was a power greater than his that restored the life of that individual. 

May God bless you, brethren and sisters. May you live your religion. May each of us appreciate our heritage, and may we live in such a manner that the Lord our God will continue to bless us, I humbly pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

