Afternoon
07 10 1934

The closing session of the Conference convened at 2 o'clock Sunday afternoon, October 7. 

Once more the Tabernacle was crowded to capacity, and thousands who could not find accommodation in that building assembled in the Assembly Hall and on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast by radio from the Tabernacle. 

The opening number was a sacred solo, "The Publican," by Sister Jessie Williams. 

Elder Elias S. Woodruff, President of the Western States Mission, offered the invocation. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is four years ago since Evan Stephens became sick while at conference, returned to his home, and passed away. We will now sing his anthem, "Let the Mountains shout for joy." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I feel that we owe a deep debt of gratitude to Evan Stephens, George Careless, Joseph J. Daynes, and many others, for the splendid music they have prepared for our hymns and our anthems. 

The choir then sang the anthem, "Let the mountains shout for joy." 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of The First Council of the Seventy 

I desire at the beginning to express my delight in the selection of the men who have been chosen to fill the vacancies occasioned by the death of President Anthony W. Ivins, of the First Presidency, and Brother Charles H. Hart, of the First Council of Seventy, and also in the filling of the vacancies occasioned by the promotion of our brethren in the Council of the Twelve and in the First Presidency. I love these men, as I do all of, the General Authorities of the Church. I have always sustained them; I have personally known them for many years. 

Two of the brethren who have been thus chosen have been, my intimate missionary associates; Elder David O. McKay and Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley were fellow missionaries with me in the European Mission. I rejoice in the honor that has come to them and feel in my heart to uphold and sustain them, and ask God's blessing upon them. 

At the opening of this morning's session of the conference the choir sang : "An Angel from on High," and that led me to thinking of the mission of the angel Moroni, and of the scriptures which foretold his coming; when to John, on the Isle of Patmos, the visions of the future were opened unto his mind, as expressed in this quotation from Rev. 14 \6,7: 

And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, h'aving the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 

Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come; and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters. 

As I contemplated this oft-repeated passage of scripture, many thoughts came into my mind. 

I have just been attending the German conference in the Assembly Hall, and as I realized that these Swiss and German Saints, whom I was addressing in their own language, had been gathered here in response to the message of that "Angel from on high," I gave expression, in part, to these thoughts; but I desire to still further give expression, during the few moments that I have before me, to the thoughts that came to me in contemplating that wonderful message to the world. 

First of all, it is the promulgation of this Gospel, that it is to go to all nations, kindreds, tongues and peoples that dwell upon the face of the earth. This Gospel message — not a new Gospel, but the everlasting Gospel, the Gospel that was proclaimed from the very beginning of the world unto the children of men — that same everlasting Gospel must be carried to all of the various nations of this earth. 109 

That is some work to accomplish, the fulfilment of that prophecy, which prophecy must be fulfilled by carrying the Gospel to every nation. We are told in a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 90:11) that the time is to come when every man shall hear the fulness of this Gospel in his own language and in his own tongue. Think of the immensity of that work, what a prodigious undertaking it is to carry the Gospel to all the various nations, and that too in their own language. 

We have made some headway, but there are many nations that have not heard the word of the Lord, the Gospel in its fulness and purity as it has been restored in this day and age by the coming of that mighty angel which John the Revelator saw flying in the midst of heaven. 

There is one country alone with its 163,000,000 people speaking a foreign tongue, and probably many dialects of that tongue. The Gospel in its purity has not been preached to them. The scriptures have not been translated — those that were given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Book of Mormon, and many others in defense of the faith and explaining the Gospel in its purity have not been brought to the understanding of that people. Many of the children of Israel are there and must hear the Gospel and be gathered into the fold. And there are also other nations to whom likewise this Gospel must be| preached. I merely mention this as an illustration of the prodigious work that lies before us in carrying the Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. 

We must not forget that when it first came to us it came engraven upon golden plates uncovered by the Angel Moroni, for : 

Lo! in Cumorah's lonely hill A sacred record lies concealed 

This record, containing the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, was engraven upon the plates of gold in a foreign language, which no one understood but which nevertheless was translated by Joseph Smith, through the gift and power of God, into the English language. How fortunate for us that we were born in a country where the English language is spoken and that we have the privilege of hearing it in "our own tongue, in our own language." Well this same privilege must come to "every nation, kindred, tongue and people" before the words of that prophecy can be fulfilled. By whom shall this Gospel message be delivered to the nations ? Surely by those to whom it has been committed — by the Latter-day Saints. — None others. And for this we must prepare ourselves by learning their languages and translating into them the written word. And what is the message we have to bear? We must declare the restoration of that everlasting Gospel through the coming of holy beings from the realms above — declare that the Church of Jesus Christ has again been set up on the earth and has been endowed with power from on high — even the power of the Preisthood, which gives to men the authority to administer the saving ordinances of the Gospel. 

There are two methods by which the Lord endeavors to save his people and bring them to a knowledge of the truth. One of these methods GENERAL CONFERENCE  based upon fear and the other upon love. Both are good and the Lord employs them both. 

There is much wickedness in the world, for "the earth is denied under the inhabitants thereof," and the warning voice must be given: "Fear God and give glory to him for the hour of his judgment is come," calling upon all men to repent and be baptized and be warned that the time is drawing near when the judgments of the Almighty shall be poured out upon the nations, "when sin and iniquity shall be banished from the face of the earth, and righteousness shall predominate and cover the earth, even as the waters cover the mighty deep." That is the warning that goes out. It is based upon fear, it is wholesome fear, and all the nations who give heed and listen to that everlasting Gospel rendering obedience to it, shall escape the judgments. 

But there is still another method given which is based upon love. First let me say of the wickedness — and there is much of it in the world — some people have said, and tried to shift the responsibility upon nature, that men are by nature sensual and devilish. I wish to challenge that statement. I do not believe a word of it. It is not true; we are not by nature sensual or devilish. We are the children of God, and we have been formed and fashioned in his image — not only in his bodily image, but have been endowed with his divine attributes. We are by nature then the children of God, divine, not sensual and devilish. 

We read an explanation of these things in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, wherein the statement is made that in the beginning we were created in the image of God, and that God gave commandments unto the children of men, but through transgression of those holy commandments, men became devilish and sensual. (Doc. and Cov., 20:18, 19, 20.) 

But there is a difference in saying that men have become sensual and devilish, and saying that they are by nature so. They are not; they are God-like, formed in his image, endowed with his divine attributes. The devil is exercising influence over the children of men, and the Lord has given us our free agency and freedom of will to think, to determine, and to do the thing that we will. Some have made a mistake by imagining that the power to do these things is salvation. Nothing of the kind — that is free agency. 

We have the privilege of choosing. If we choose to do right, it will lead to our salvation, very true. But., if we exercise that freedom of will and that free agency in doing evil it will just as surely lead to our damnation. 

But we are not by nature vile. I know that many people in the world justify themselves by blaming it on to their nature. Poets have written so; even the poet Byron in summing up the character of men, after paying his tribute to his Newfoundland dog, pays, a very questionable compliment to mankind, in an epitaph he wrote on that dog's tombstone. Said he : 

Oh man! thou feeble tenant of an hour, Debased by slavery, or corrupt by power, 111 

Who knows thee well must quit thee with disgust, 

Degraded mass of animated dust! 

Thy love is lust, thy friendship all a cheat, 

Thy smiles hypocrisy, thy words deceit! 

By nature vile, ennobled but by name, 

Each kindred brute might bid thee blush for shame. 

I think that is a pretty good explanation of the present condition of the world, to a very large extent. But it does not apply to all. There is one statement in it that I take exception to, that is : "By nature vile." It is not so. Men became vile by transgressing the laws, therefore they should repent and be baptized every one of them that they might not be overtaken by the judgments of God. 

The other method is based on love. How can we look out into this natural world and behold the beauties of nature, how can we look into the starry heavens, how can we behold the blazing sun at noonday without being impressed with the divinity of God's work? How can we contemplate those things without being filled with love for God and worship him who made the heavens and the earth and the sea and the fountains of water, who made the stars and the sun. He is in the sun and is the light of the sun, and is the power thereof by which it was made. He is in the stars and is the light of the stars, andi the power by which they were made. Worship him; love him with all your heart. Adore him; think of him grandly as the Creator of the heavens and earth and all that in them are. And worship him who made the sea and the fountains of water. How can we look upon them without being overwhelmed with the goodness of God unto us, for he made the sea and the fountains of water. We see the water come trickling down the mountainside into the canyon creeks, and from the creeks into the rivers, and from the rivers to the sea; there to be caught up through evaporation into the clouds and wafted by the winds back to the mountain tops to begin its course anew. We may divert those streams from their natural channels onto our arid lands and produce an abundant harvest, or we may harness them and propel the machinery of the world, illuminate our streets, our public buildings and our homes; but the water thus diverted seeps back into its natural channels, in its downward course to the sea and back to the mountains, to feed the everflowing fountains of water. Surely in these times of drouth we ought to appreciate the value of the sea and fountains of water. 

Therefore, worship him in spirit and in truth, and then in the abundance of your love for God, keep his commandments, and he will surely lead you, not only to escape the judgments which are to come, but lead you into the celestial kingdom, to come forth in the resurrection of the dead, clothed upon with immortality and eternal life. These are the promises of the Father to those who love the Lord and who worship him in spirit and in truth. 

Then let us worship the Lord, keep his commandments, and so live that we may have part in his glorious work and be numbered among those who shall receive the crown of eternal life, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

When President Holger M. Larson spoke yesterday concerning the work of the Saints and missionaries in the Danish Mission, I recalled the time when I wandered through the campus and buildings of the University at Copenhagen. Above the gate of that great institution is an eagle sculptured in marble, and underneath an inscription in Latin which translated into English says: "The eagle is looking toward the celestial light." Every student takes off his cap as he passes through the gate, on his way to the lecture hall, and he keeps in mind for the day that lovely .thought : "We will keep our eyes toward the celestial light." What a beautiful ideal for the youth. 

On the 17th of September, 1887, a great celebration was held in front of Independence Hall in Philadelphia in honor of the 100th anniversary of the adpotion of the Constitution of the United States. The President of the United States, Grover Cleveland, and other distinguished guests were present on that occasion. A chorus of one thousand people rendered the beautiful poem of the German poet Schiller, entitled "An Appeal to Truth," which had been put to music by Mendelssohn. As they sang the lines of the poem: "Upon the divine truth of the freedom of man and the knowledge of God, does our civilization stand," the guests stood with bowed heads in gratitude for the blessings of the Lord. Then President Cleveland arose and among other things said : "When we look down one hundred years and see the origin of our Constitution, when we contemplate all its trials and triumphs, when (ve realize how completely the principles upon which it is based have met every national need and every national peril, how devoutly should we say with Franklin, 'God governs in the affairs of men,' and how solemn should be the thought that to us is delivered this ark of the people's covenant and to us is given the duty to shield it from impious hands . . . Another centennial day will come, and millions yet unborn will inquire concerning our stewardship and the safety of the Constitution. God grant that they may find it unimpaired." 

Today, there are forces at work to undermine this sacred gift of our fathers. These forces are expressed in acts and words of disrespect for law, order, and authority. Lord Macaulay feared for our democratic institutions, and once expressed the thought that institutions purely democratic "must sooner or later, destroy liberty or civilization, or both." In reply to this thought of the great English essayist, we can only say that we hope that the citizens of our great republic will have from age to age a finer reverence and greater love for the principles of human rights which are set forth in the Constitution of our country. 

When our fathers wrote the Declaration of Independence and gave us the divine thought : "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by 113  Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," we must ever remember that there are no rights that are not duties. The Declaration of Independence was not justified if it was not obligatory. So this is true with the still greater document of government, the Constitution of the United States. "There are no rights that are not duties." 

The Prophet Isaiah once wrote: "Look unto the rock whence ye are hewn," and the ancient Psalmist of Zion warned us when he said: "Remove not the ancient land-mark, which thy fathers have set." I believe that the life of America depends upon the religion of America, and if this our government is to be preserved, it will be because America is pervaded, inspired, and controlled by the spirit of a faith in Almighty God. Our country was settled by people imbued by deep religious convictions. When the Pilgrim fathers came and landed at Plymouth Rock in 1620, they drew up the Mayflower Compact which in part reads : "In the Name of God, Amen. We whose names are written, the loyal subjects of our Lord, King James, by the Grace of God King . . . having undertaken for the glory of God, and the advancement of the Christian faith . . ." "In the name of God" those Pilgrim fathers brayed the terrors of the deep to plant homes in America and to establish religious freedom. The Quakers came to Pennsylvania, the Catholics to Maryland, and the Methodists to the Carolinas. James Oglethorpe who brought colonists to Georgia required that his people draw up a form of government based on the fundamentals that were given by God to Moses on Mount Sinai: the Ten Commandments. This nation must naturally be pervaded by a spiritual life, and we have today no more important duty than to inspire the youth with a true religious spirit. When the First Continental Congress met in Carpenters' Hall in Philadelphia in September, 1774, Dr. Jacob Duche was called in to offer prayers, and as he prayed, John Adams of Massachusetts tells us that tears "gushed into the eyes of all present." This prayer I want to quote to you in full : 

O Lord our Heavenly Father, high and mighty King of Kings, Lord of Lords, who dost from Thy throne behold all the dwellers upon the earth, and reignest with power supreme and uncontrolled over all kingdoms, empires and governments, look down in mercy, we beseech Thee, upon these American States who have fled to Thee from the rod of the oppressor and thrown themselves upon Thy gracious protection, desiring to be henceforth dependent only upon Thee. , , ,  , f  <r„ 

To Thee have they appealed for the righteousness of their cause, lo Thee do they now look up for that countenance and support which Thou alone canst give. Take them, therefore, Heavenly Father, under Thy nurturing care Give them wisdom in council and valor in the field. Defeat the malicious designs of our cruel adversaries. Convince them of the unrighteousness of their cause, and if they still persist in their sanguinary purpose, U let the voice of Thine own unerring justice, sounding m their hearts, constrain them to drop their weapons of war from their unnerved hands in the dav of battle. , , ~ ., f 

Be Thou present O Lord of Wisdom, and direct the Council of the honorable Assembly. Enable them to settle things upon the best and surest GENERAL CONFERENCE , that the scene of blood may speedily be closed; that^ order, harmony and peace may effectually be restored, and truth and justice, religion and piety, prevail and flourish amongst Thy people. 

Preserve the health of their bodies, the vigor of their minds. Shower down upon them and the millions they here represent, such temporal blessings as Thou seest expedient for them in this world and crown them with everlasting glory in the world to come. All this we ask in the name and through the merits of Jesus Christ, Thy Son, our Saviour. Amen. 

We are right in saying that our government had its beginning with a people who had faith in God and his work. After the American Revolution, people began to cross the mountains to the West, and after 1800 they read the Bible and had deep faith in its teachings. In 1830, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized as a result of the Priesthood of God which was restored from heaven to Joseph Smith. Then came the march across the continent, which ended in the settlement of the far West. Methodists and Presbyterians went to Oregon; Catholic priests carried the message of the Cross into all parts of the northwest; the Latter-day Saints redeemed the desert waste of the Great Basin. Every one of the migrations was inspired by the belief that God and the message of the Redeemer of the world must be taught to the Indians. 

I believe that in the heart of the average American there is a deep religious conviction. Our nation has a religious life which must be maintained in determining national questions and controlling national policy. The spirit of mutual respect and good will, of justice and peace, of human brotherhood, is the spirit of the Christian religion, and this spirit teaches us one and all that the object of political activity is not merely to vote or to take sides in elections, but to direct our thoughts and deeds to noble actions and Christian principles. For this reason, we must educate the youth in an understanding of freedom and democracy; we must teach them that the perpetuity of our government depends on a deep conviction of the reality of the kingdom of God and the spiritual quality of life. We Latter-day Saints believe implicitly in the kingdom of God and that in time it will be established upon the earth with Christ our Lord as King. No more beautiful ideal of government can be known than this. The unity of Christianity is dependent upon the teachings concerning the kingdom and the life of the Savior — the divine birth and the atonement; the resurrection and the assurance that Christ our Lord will come again. In this teaching is envisaged the kingdom of God which becomes our vision. So America has a dream, a vision, the purpose of which is to cause us to understand the spiritual quality of life, for all our civilization must be a spiritual achievement. "Look unto the rock from whence ye are hewn, and remove not the ancient land-mark which thy fathers have set." May the Lord help us to look to the rock and to stand by the land-marks of justice, faith, and the knowledge of the living God. May the Constitution of the United States be preserved and sanctified in the hearts of all Americans. It 115  George Washington who replied to a question as to whether or not the people would support the Constitution. "Let us raise a standard," said he, "to which the wise and just can repair; the rest is in the hand of God." 

May we live for the right; and do what we can to live nearer the kingdom of God. May we do everything we can to preserve the integrity of the Constitution of the United States. May we look toward the celestial light. Amen. 

The choir and congregation joined in singing the hymn, "O ye mountains high." 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Jesus said : 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that receiveth whomsoever I- send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. 

And again : 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father. * * * * 

He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him^ and will manifest myself to him. 

Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world ? 

Jesus answered and said unto him, if a man love me he will keep my words; and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him. 

A LESSON FROM A LIFE SERMON 

I believe that the most powerful sermon any of us shall ever preach will be the sermon of our lives. I should like to draw a lesson that I feel is needed just now, from the life sermon of President Anthony WIvins. I recall that one of the most impressive things that touched my life was an act of his years ago. If I refer to something that is personal it is but to teach the lesson that I should like to present to you. 

Years ago, as a young man, I was active in the same political party to which President Ivins belonged. From a convention about the time Utah became a state an invitation was sent to President Ivins to accept the nomination as Governor of the state. He could have it by unanimous vote, but he declined it and turned aside from that very inviting offer full of promises and hopes, to accept a call from his Church to break up his home in southern Utah and go to Old Mexico and suffer financial loss through colonizing in that very difficult place. This act of this man GENERAL CONFERENCE  a more profound impression upon my life than the act of any other man," and I owe to him today, by reason of that/ act, most of what I am. 

AMBITIOUS FOR AN EDUCATION 

That is the tribute I want to pay to him, because it was just shortly after this that I had graduated from the Brigham Young College at Logan and was planning to go East and continue my work at Harvard, for I had aspirations and hopes to acquire a higher education. I found myself without funds to accomplish that; so, having an offer to teach, I accepted it and taught for two years. I thought I could save enough to take me through at least a year of school. 

In my second year of teaching there came into my class a very charming young woman. I taught her that winter, and she has been trying to teach me ever since. 

AN IMPORTANT DECISION 

Two weeks before that school closed and the happy event of our marriage was to take place, I received a call from President Wilford Woodruff to go with Brothers B. H. Roberts and George D. Pyper to open the missionary work in the large cities of the United States. That was a crushing blow to all my hopes and aspirations as I had worked so long and planned and saved to get the means to continue my education. We debated the question but a short time, and before night came the answer had gone back, bidding good-bye to our hopes, then, of further education; and the means we had saved, which would put us through the first year of college, we used on that mission. It is true we got married all right, but she stayed home — the bride of two weeks. That was no small trial to me. She volunteered to teach school and assist me in the completion of that mission. 

WONDERFUL WOMEN 

I want to pause here to pay tribute to the wives of these General Authorities of the Church, and to the wives of you stake presidents and you bishops, for these women are all the same kind. No men in any part of the world have been blessed with such wonderful women as the wives of the men who have been leading and directing the affairs of this work. How willing they have been to make their sacrifice, to stand in reflected glory and "play second fiddle," and let us go on while they perform the great service, often as father and mother in the home. God bless them for it. 

DISAPPOINTMENT AND TEMPTATION 

I was not in that mission long, however, until the greatest disappointment of my life came in the release from the particular work we were doing, and an assignment to become a traveling missionary, and it came at a time when I was alone. I wept all night about that, and the devil tempted me to quit and come home. But I thank the Lord that I turned to him for aid and help. Before morning came I had mastered 117  own spirit and had written a letter accepting the disappointment. It was then I found the song that I have been singing for all these thirtyeight years, and which I brought into the literature of the Church. I found it in a little book called "Make His Praise Glorious" : 

I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord; I'll be what you want me to be. 

It was like a message from heaven to me, and what a joy it has brought to my life to try to live up to the sentiments expressed in it. 

I also recall being impressed when the call came to leave the business that I had built up, and that was so profitable, to go out to the Northwest. I suffered financial loss, and some of my associates thought it was foolish. I remarked that had the sacrifice been ten times as great, it would be no sacrifice for me to leave it, because I owed the Lord more than I could ever pay him if I gave him my whole life. 

I thank the Lord that the example of this man that I have always admired, and whose course' and conduct impressed me at that early period of my life, has influenced me right through until this day. 

AT HARVARD THIRTY-FIVE YEARS LATE 

I got back to Harvard later but I was thirty-five years late. I was installing a mission president and it was vacation time. As I stood on the threshold of that great institution I saw myself as I might have come thirty-five years earlier, with hopes, with successes that might have been; and notwithstanding I appreciate titles and degrees I was not disappointed. I saw on the other hand what had happened to me: Eleven years as a bishop's counselor and high councilor; fourteen years as a missionary of the Church; fifteen years as a member of the Council of the Twelve — forty years of glorious living! The joy that had come out of it, the honors and the favors of the Almighty, I would not change for all the titles and degrees that Harvard offers, much as I admire them, if I had to sacrifice for them the joys and the happiness that came to me through yielding obedience. 

AN IMPORTANT LESSON 

This is the lesson that I learned : If I do what the Lord wants me to do I shall live to fulfil my life in the fullest and the most glorious way. I cannot always see what he wants me to do, but he often inspires those whom he has called and appointed to direct the labors of my life, so that if I am obedient to them and listen I shall come to find myself prepared. 

Oh, how grateful I am that when these responsibilities came I had had some training for them! How grateful I am for the example of President Ivins! Was it profitable to him? Do you think President Ivins ever would have stood in the Council of the Twelve, or as First Counselor to the President of this Church, if he had not accepted the call of the Lord ? Never! I wouldn't be standing here today if I had not followed his example. I thank God I had strength to do it. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

NOT BLIND OBEDIENCE 

I am not asking for blind obedience. One day the angel of the Lord commanded Adam to build an altar and offer sacrifice, and he did it, not knowing why. But on another occasion, when the angel came and said : "Adam, why do you do this thing?" he gave that majestic and sublime answer : "I know not, save God has commanded it." It was enough that the Lord had required the sacrifice. But what did it yield Adam? It brought from the lips of the angel the first explanation concerning the coming of the Messiah, the Lamb that was to be slain. His obedience brought knowledge. I am not pleading for blind obedience, but there are two ways by which obedience may be secured. 

It was stated a long time ago by an eminent authority in this country, that the two most efficient organizations in the world were the German army and the Mormon Church, but he wished that we might have equal efficiency without loss of individual liberty, as he regarded us under the domination of the heirarchy that directed us, and assumed that obedience was secured here as it was in the German army. 

THROUGH DISOBEDIENCE 

It is true that obedience may be had by force and compulsion. In the very beginning, when the Lord desired to know whom he should send to represent him here in the earth, who offered themselves ? Two glorious sons of God. One was accepted and the other was rejected, and the one who was rejected rebelled and was disobedient. I would like to say to you that the foundation of all the sorrows and distresses that have ever come to men, from the very beginning until this day, have come through disobedience. No man commits sin but that he is disobedient to the law of God and man. I could name, if time would allow, the men of history, even to our own day, who have lost their place and standing in the high councils of the Church, through disobedience. 

THE METHOD OF THE CHRIST 

Yes, obedience can be secured by force and compulsion and that was Satan's method, but it was not the method of the Christ. Jesus Christ had the power to whip the world into absolute obedience in the three years of his ministry, if he had only used his power. He had power to speak, and not only would the winds and the waves obey his voice but they would become his instruments to thrash the nations and bring them to their knees through fear. He had the power to speak and the very trees would not only wither, but famine could have been spread all over the earth. Still, he could speak to the elements and secure food to supply his followers. He could not only speak and the dead would come back to life, but he could speak and the living would perish. That was his power, but he did not use it to bring men to bow down before him, for where there was no faith there was no miracle. He would call, persuade, in numerous ways be good and kind, but he would not force the human mind. 119 

BY FORCE AND COMPULSION 

Contrast the work that went forward under the administration of Constantine the Great, who built on the ruins of the church that Christ established, that mighty institution that ruled during the long, dark ages. That institution was not established by love and gentleness and persuasion, but by the might and the power and the force of Roman arms. Nation after nation was conquered and found peace only when they accepted Christianity. They gave it but lip service. No wonder the Lord Jesus Christ said of this brand of Christians, long afterwards : "They draw near me with their mouths, and with their lips they do honor me, but their hearts are far removed from me." It was the only kind of worship they had known. They had not only been brought within the pales of the institution set up under that method and rule, by might and force, but by that same force they had been compelled to remain for long ages. 

OBEDIENCE THROUGH LOVE 

What is the method in this Church ? It is obedience through love, not obedience through force. We have not known force. What was it that prompted the Latter-day Saints to love their prophet and that caused them to be so united in following him and his teachings ? I often contrast his life with the life of John Alexander Dowie, who also came representing himself as a prophet. He performed some miracles and secured a following, and then abused their confidence by enriching himself. Later he was rejected and went somewhere else to die, unhonored, unwept and unsung. But not the "Mormon" prophet, Joseph Smith. He might have asked and received. Everything that his people had they would have given to him. But he asked for nothing save the bare necessities of life, and even these he shared with his friends. They were never in any difficulty but that he was at the front, between them and their enemies. When his followers were exiled from Missouri he was a ransom. They could go free but he was condemned to lie for months in one of the foulest dungeons that has disgraced the foot-stool of God. When he realized that he must go somewhere else and find a home for his people he started for the Rocky Mountains, where he predicted they would go. When he crossed the Mississippi River and was ready to come west the word was passed that he was a shepherd deserting the flock. It stung him to the quick. Had he ever deserted the flock ? Never. He might have snapped his fingers at all his enemies and been free. He surrendered and went back. He not only went to his flock but he went to Carthage and drew the fire from their heads upon his own until he gave his life. The very last act of his life, after the mob had assailed that prison and had slain his beloved brother Hyrum, was to walk to that open window from whence the bullets of the mob had been coming— and he knew it was certain death — but he saved two of his beloved brethren, John Taylor and Willard Richards. So that from the beginning of his life to the last act he was giving himself for his friends, and "greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Do you wonder that we love him? We do not worship him. We regard him as one of God's greatest prophets, and his successors down to this day have had that same spirit in their hearts. I know it is in the heart of President Heber J. Grant. I know that the only motive that dominates his life is to do the will of God and to serve this people. 

THE WILL OF THE MAJORITY 

There is a principle lying at the very foundation of this Church, and it is at the foundation of this government as well, for in the laying of the foundation of this government it was conceded that it would be impossible for us to go forward unless it was agreed that the will of the majority, expressed in law, must be regarded as the rule governing the conduct of the minority as well. Hence our Constitution came into existence. 

It is so in this Church. No man is muzzled. President Grant does not muzzle his brethren. He seeks for all the light and wisdom that they have. But there is also a rule that when we reach a conclusion the decision of the majority obtains, and it is the duty of the minority, either in the government or in this great American church that is also builded upon this 1 same glorious principle, that we obey the will of the majority expressed in law. 

FIRST GREAT LESSON IN AMERICANISM 

I remember that the first great lesson in Americanism I received was in the first great campaign under statehood in Utah, when we were in a presidential election. I recall how my father, a leader of one of the parties here, had been urgently recommending and doing everything in his power to get his candidate elected, but he was defeated. I recall the practice of my father to always pray as earnestly for the President of the United States as for the President of the Church. Now, the morning of the inauguration of this successful president, who was not my father's candidate, it was my father's turn to pray and I was watching. But to my astonishment he prayed more earnestly for that man than he had ever prayed for a president before; and I said : "Father, you surely forgot yourself this morning. You did not intend to pray for that fellow. You did not vote for him. You did not want him. You thought your man would be a better president." He said : "I certainly did not forget. It is true I thought my man would have been a better president, and I still think so, but the majority of the people did not agree with me; and the majority of the people having spoken he is now my President, and I am going to support him as though I had voted for him; and pray for him, yes. And he will need my prayers much more than the other fellow would have needed them." 

SATAN ON THE ALERT 

I say it was my first great lesson in Americanism, and it is a lesson I should like the Latter-day Saints today to bring to their homes. We are in a period of peace, so far as the Church is concerned, but the enemy, 121  has fought us by bonds and imprisonment and martyrdom, has not quit the fight. Oh, if he could get a wedge between the people and their leaders, get us to quarreling, get us to disregard that principle that has brought us all the success that we have ever had, from the very beginning, the principle of union and obedience, — if he could do this it would be his great pleasure. Don't you let him fool you. I know there are some who think : "Oh, if President Young were only here, or President Taylor, or President Joseph F. Smith, they would do so and so." Here is another principle the Latter-day Saints must learn : to follow your living leader. "Whomsoever I the Lord appoint ye shall accept," the Master said. "And whosoever receives whom I send unto you, receives me and receives the Father." 

THE MAN FOR THE TIME 

Every man who has presided over this Church had a mission, a destiny, and he performed it gloriously, but he was the man for the time. President Young could scarcely have endured what President Taylor did, and President Taylor would have found it almost impossible to carry the Lord's program through as the meek and mild President Woodruff did. Likewise on to this day, every man for his time, and the Lord knew what he wanted done in the next program of the Church. 

No man — and I say it with all regard and respect for the men who have presided in the past — no man, in my judgment, of all these glorious men, could have served this people and done God's work better at this time than President Heber J. Grant has done it. He is the man for this time — progressive. You young people who think he is not, go study the history and you will find that he has been one of the most progressive presidents this Church has ever had. He has conducted it through its greatest building program. May the Lord preserve his life until he has filled to the uttermost his mission. It isn't filled yet. And then the Lord will raise up another, for this is his work and it is mightier than man's. 

BLESSINGS AWAIT THE FAITHFUL 

God bless us, that we will stifle that spirit that would criticise and find fault. Some of you may be disappointed, that you were not called into the Council of the Twelve. There are hundreds of men in this Church worthy, if the Lord would call them, to fill these places. The Lord called the right men. I know it. You brelhren, take peace and comfort. Whatever disappointments may come, still be true to him and I promise you, in the name of the Lord, that if not in time, in eternity, you shall have like honors and glory and privilege. If you are faithful over a few things here, you shall be ruler over many things there, and become kings and priests unto God. And you sisters who have dwelt in reflected glory will shine in your own light, queens and priestesses unto the Lord forever and ever. 

God help us to be loyal to each other, loyal to the cause, obedient to the counsels of those whom God calls to direct us; and the enemy GENERAL CONFERENCE  has sought to destroy us shall be no more successful in new methods than he was through bonds and imprisonment and mob violence. 

IN THE HANDS OF GOD 

Don't worry about the future of the Church. It is in the hands of the Almighty. Don't worry about the future of the Government. That, too, is in the hands of God, and he will guide it and direct it aright, and carry it forward until it, too, shall find its glorious mission. God speed his cause on. Wars, yes, and bloodshed will come, and thrones will totter, but out of every conflict will come the onward progress of truth and righteousness in the preparation of this world for its golden age, for the coming of the Son of God! 

God help us to be true under every trial, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation then sang two verses of the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I rejoice exceedingly in the very splendid conference we have had. I feel very grateful to the Lord, beyond my power of expression, for the great blessings poured out upon us during our conference. 

I am indeed grateful that in these times of distress there has been a remarkable increase in the tithes of the Latter-day Saints. Although I am sure that the actual income of some of the people has not been anywhere near what it was three years ago, yet our tithing is better than it was three years ago. "By their fruits ye shall know them." 

BLESSINGS COME THROUGH ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS 

There is an increase in the attendance of the people at meetings. There is nothing that causes the people to grow more in the Gospel than attending their meetings. There is nothing that is more calculated to cause the spirit of the Gospel to dry up, figuratively speaking, than to stay away from our meetings. When we are in a meeting we partake of the spirit of that meeting. When we are absent from it and somebody tells us of the wonderful spirit that was present and what was accomplished by being there to partake of it, we cannot appreciate those things. It is very much like the man who was hungry and someone told him of a fine dinner, but he did not appreciate that dinner. We have to eat for ourselves, we have to live for ourselves, we have to be in the line of our duty in order to partake of the Spirit of the Lord, if the Spirit of the Lord is manifest. 

I call to mind that a brother who lost his standing as an apostle was a very, very poor attendant at the meetings of the Council of the Twelve, other matters occupied his attention. Francis M. Lyman had to come from Tooele the night before our meeting and spend one night here and 123  day in order to be at the meetings of the Presidency and Apostles which lasted two or three hours, but he never missed one of them. 

I said to him one day: "It is remarkable to me that you are so prompt and always present at our meetings." 

He said : "I do not want to miss any inspiration from the Lord; I do not want the Spirit of the Lord to come to me second hand. I want to partake of it, and to feel it, and to realize it, and to know it for myself." 

RICHARD W. YOUNG'S EXPERIENCE 

Speaking of not being there to partake of the Spirit, I am reminded of an incident in the life of my nearest and dearest friend, Richard W. Young. Richard had graduated from West Point and had gained a knowledge of law while stationed at Governor's Island, and attending the Columbia university and graduating from that institution. After he had graduated he was chosen by Gen. Hancock, because of his admiration for the studiousness of the young man, to be a major on his staff. I took some pride in looking out of a window on Broadway at the fourmile-long procession which was the funeral of President Ulysses S. Grant, and seeing a grandson of Brigham Young riding on horseback at the head of the funeral procession with Gen. Hancock and others. The general made him judge-advocate-general of the eastern department of the army. But Hancock died and another Pharaoh arose who did not know Joseph, so Richard fell back to first or second lieutenant, I have forgotten which. 

He came home for his vacation, and he said to me : "Now, Heber, I took the advice of President Taylor at your suggestion, and instead of resigning years ago in order to get a legal education I stayed in the army. Now I have my legal education. There are more lieutenants in the army than they want, and they would like me to resign, with the understanding that I will volunteer if there is trouble. I do not want to ask President Taylor, but I wish you would plead my cause for me at the meeting next Thursday in the Endowment House, and Uncle 'Briggie' has promised to do the same." 

We two pleaded his cause and some others also, and not a word was said in favor, of his staying in the army, but after we had got through pleading, President Taylor said : 

"Tell that young man it is the proper time for him to stay in the army." 

Richard was in Logan at the time. His aunt, Mrs. George W. Thatcher was entertaining his friends in his honor, and he received my telegram reading, "Stay in the army," just as they were about to sit down to dinner, and it took his appetite away completely. 

ASKS FOR REASONS 

When he returned to Salt Lake City, he said : "What were the reasons why I am to stay in the army? What arguments were given ?" "None. All the arguments were for you to resign. President Taylor said, 'Stay in the army.' " 

"Well, I would like some reasons." 

"You cannot have them, as none was given. You got your education for nothing by following his advice. I think you should do it again." 

"Oh, my gracious, I am going to do it, but I would like some reasons." 

I said, "Well, I cannot give you any. If you had been there, if you had felt as I did when President Taylor spoke, you would have felt as I felt it in my heart, that he was right." 

Richard went East and met one of his classmates who said : "Where are you stationed, what is your place?" And he told him. 

MAKES CHANGE 

The other man said : "Lucky dog! You had the best station in the whole army — Governor's island — and now you have got another good one, and I have to go away out in the wild and woolly west to Salt Lake, to Fort Douglas." 

Richard said : "I would just as soon change with you if the Secretary of War will consent." 

So they wrote and asked for a transfer and got it, and Richard returned, went up to Fort Douglas, with a street car running every ten or fifteen minutes, came down to the city, and went into LeGrand Young's office — he could not go into court of course — and got through the four years of starvation period as a young lawyer. 

I happened to be in the President's office one morning and I saw in the morning paper that Richard's four years at Fort Douglas were up, and it told where he had to go. 

President Taylor said : "Heber, I see your young friend, Richard Young, is going to leave Fort Douglas." 

"Yes." 

"Well, you tell him that he is released now, and it is time for him to stay home." 

SACRIFICING PERSONAL AMBITIONS 

There have been experiences in my life during the last fifty-three years, from the time I went to Tooele, illustrating the benefits that come through obedience, the benefits that come when we sacrifice our personal amibitions for that which we feel in our heart is our duty. Like Brother Ballard, I had an over-weening ambition for a university education and a degree from a great school. I had very little hope of obtaining it, having no means and having a widowed mother to look after. 

I met President George Q. Cannon, then our delegate to Congress, and he said : "Would you like to go to the naval academy, or to West Point?" 

I told him I would. 

He said: "Which one?" I said: "The naval academy." 

"All right. I will give you the appointment without competitive examination." 

For the first time in my life I did not sleep well, I lay awake nearly all night long rejoicing that the ambition of my life was to be fulfilled. I fell asleep just a little before daylight; my mother had to awaken me. 

I said : "Mother, what a marvelous thing it is that I am to have an education as' fine as that of any young man in all Utah. I could hardly sleep, I was awake until almost daylight this morning." 

I looked into her face, I saw that she had been weeping. I have heard of people who when drowning had their entire life pass before them in almost a few seconds. I saw myself an admiral in my mind's eye; I saw myself traveling all over the world in a ship, away from my widowed mother. I laughed and put my arms around her, and kissed her and said : 

"Mother, I do not want a naval education. I am going to be a business man and shall enter an office right away and take care of you, and have you quit keeping boarders for a living." 

She broke down and wept and said that she had not closed her eyes, but had prayed all night that I would give up my life's ambition so that she would not be left alone. 

We all have temptations, we all have things come into our lives which iii we give them proper consideration we will reject. 

Brother Ballard has referred to the invitation that was sent to President Ivins to accept the nomination as governor of the state of Utah, which reminds me that a telegram came to me from Ogden at that time asking me where they could find Anthony W. Ivins. It said, "We will nominate him by acclamation to be the first governor of the state of UtahJ or the first representative to Congress." 

I answered to the effect that he was on the Kaibab mountain and had accepted a call to go to Mexico. Nothing in the world would cause him to fail to fulfil that call. 

I received another telegram telling me that they could not nominate me by acclamation, but that they had the majority pledged to me, and believed it would be by acclamation before the voting was through. 

I showed the telegram to Heber M. Wells, who had been nominated by the Republicans. He said: "Well, my name is 'Dennis', the people don't know me. You are sure to be elected." 

I said; "Well, I am not sure that I am going to run, I will let you know later." 

CONFERS WITH PRESIDENT 

I went to President Wilford Woodruff and handed him the telegram. I said: "How shall I answer that?" 

He said: "What are you bothering me with your affairs for? Haven't you got enough inspiration as one of the Apostles to know what your duty is ?" GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I said : "Thank you. If you had wanted me to run, you would have said so. Good-bye." (Laughter.) 

I sent a telegram saying: "It will be a personal favor to me if my name never comes before the convention." And it never did. 

Do you think I would not like to have been the first governor of the State of Utah, where I was born? If you do you are mistaken. I do not know of anything that I should have liked better than that at that particular time. Thank the Lord I did not get it, because I think that perhaps I should have made a failure of it. It was not in my line, it was just an ambition. My education, my knowledge of government laws, and such things were just thqkind that did not fit nor qualify me to be the governor of a state. I thank Brother Woodruff for the inspiration that kept me from making a serious mistake. 

ENDORSES REMARKS 

I endorse with all my heart the remarks that have been made here during our conference, but particularly and especially do I endorse the remarks of Stephen L. Richards and others who have talked about our being honest and not imposing upon the government, but maintaining our manhood and our independence and living if necessary under difficulties, instead of rejoicing that we can get our share of the government's funds. 

I regret beyond expression the change that has come over many of the people. I went into business with my brother and my cousin-in-law way back nearly 50 years ago. We sold $120,000 worth of goods in the implement business to farmers. I think I am safe in saying that ninetynine out of a hundred of them were "Mormons," and; $90,000.00 of the sales were on time. I have asked many men to guess how much our losses were. Some have guessed 5 per cent, some 10 per cent and one 15 per cent. Our losses were $300 on $90,000 — one-third of one per cent. 

That business grew from a little business of twenty-odd thousand dollars in capital to $2,500,000.00, and we have cut the capital from $2,500,000 to $1,500,000. We have had to charge off a loss of over $1,000,000 of farmers' paper. True, a great deal of it is due to the hard times, but I want to say to you that that spirit of determination to take care of ourselves, to build for ourselves, to be independent, and to be sure to meet our obligations, is not so strong today as it was at that time, and there is more of a disposition to lie down, figuratively speaking, on the government. 

REPUTATION FOR HONESTY 

George A. Lowe tried to sell us his business when we were a little institution of $21,000, and I laughed and said: "We could not think of such a thing. We haven't any money." 

He said in substance : "I will take your note at a low rate of interest for the entire purchase price." 

I said : "But we would have no capital to carry on the business." 127 

"You do not need any with these Mormons," he said. "I have charged every loss from selling machinery to the people in Utah and Idaho to what I term 'farmers' paper'; I have charged all the interest I have paid to 'farmers 'paper'; I have credited the notes and the interest that come in to my 'farmers' paper'; I borrowed from McCornick's Bank every dollar with which to carry it. I have not put up a dollar and I have got all my money back and in addition $2 and a few cents on every hundred — the difference between the interest that I have collected and the interest that McCornick's charged me. 

"He will credit you for all the paper that you take from these farmers, because he knows it is worth one hundred cents on the dollar." 

I remember that Howard Sebree asked us to buy his business for $60,000. I told him we did not have the money. 

He said : "Go over and tell McCornick that you would like $60,000 credit to buy me out and he will let you have the money." 

I laughed, but went to McCornick's as a joke. He let the company have the money and we bought Sebree's business. We did not lose anything on the transaction. 

When I was in England, J. M. Studebaker, the last of that wonderful quartet of Studebaker Brothers, visited Salt Lake and he was interviewed by the newspapers. He said that for ten long years Studebaker Brothers sold wagons and carriages in Utah to the Mormons on commission, and during that whole ten years they collected the money for every wagon and buggy they had sold. 

The day was, years ago, when to be classed as a good Mormon was to be classed as a man who paid his debts. Let us, wherein we may have failed in the past to live up to that record, make up our minds that we are going to live up to.it again in the future. 

A PERSONAL EXPERIENCE 

Do not go into bankruptcy unless you are forced to do so. My nearest and dearest friends pleaded with me to take bankruptcy when I was ruined, according to their idea, beyond the hope of recovery. I said : "If I live to be a hundred years old, I will not do it. I will go on working to pay my debts. If some one knocks me down, I can not help that, but," I said, "if a giant tackles me, I will defend myself. And if, after a hundred years, I have not paid my debts, then I will pray to the Lord to let me live another ten years in the hope of doing so." 

I was security for a note of a friend of mine, a good Latter-day Saint, I thought, and he was going to take bankruptcy. He showed me that I would be relieved because the rate of interest had been increased without my knowledge or consent. He brought me legal opinions to the effect that that released me as endorser. I laughed, and said, "That does not make any difference to me. If you do not pay that note, I will." 

There was a loss on that note of $4,700 in the shrinkage of security. I said, "I will see you tomorrow." 

I went to the bank. I said, "Now I will give you three of my notes GENERAL CONFERENCE  $900 each if you will renew this note, without my endorsement, for $1000 more than the collateral is worth; and if the man will not do that, will you take his notes for $900 payable each year for three years ?" They said : "Yes. Either way." 

I went to him and told him to take his choice. He said : "I will not do it. If you are foolish enough, when you are not legally obligated, to pay that note, that is not my concern. I am going to take bankruptcy. You do not have to pay it unless you want to." 

A PROFITABLE TERMINATION 

I said: "That settles it. I will assume it." And I did. And what was the result? In the providences of the Lord I changed the securities on that note, got them to take other securities, and finally sold part of the securities that I took off the note and paid part of the note with the money that I received, and I kept) $5000 of a certain stock that I had only paid $3,250 for, and in the providences of the Lord it paid 100 per cent cash dividend — $5,000. Afterwards it paid another dividend, and I made enough to pay that note (instead of losing $4,700) and $3,000 or $4,000 additional, inside of two or three years. He took bankruptcy and injured his good name and his reputation in the community. 

There are those who have been forced into taking bankruptcy. That is what it is for. We can not help that. We can not help it if a bigger man than we are knocks us down, but we should never lie down and ask somebody to step on us. 

CIGARET SMOKING 

It fell to my lot to accompany the choir to Chicago on their recent trip. I never saw a cigaret between Salt Lake City and Chicago, or between Chicago and Salt Lake City. Every one that I met, railroad men and others, was loud in his praise of the choir. Hotel people said they had never met such a fine group of young people, people of such fine character. To me that was of much more value than their winning — as they did — laurels for their singing. 

The presidency of the Liberty stake have sent out a circular for ward teachers. I would like to read it all, but I see the time is shorter than I had figured on. 

Dr. Hugh S. Cummings, United States Surgeon General, has said: 

If American women contract the smoking habit, as reports now indicate they are doing, the physical tone of the whole nation will suffer. The habit harms a woman more than it does a man. 

And Dr. D. H. Cress of Washington has written: 

When women take up with this practice of smoke inhalation the race will be doomed For both man and wife to be addicts to smoke inhalation is destructive of everything that is good. Children born to such a pair had better never have been born. 129 

NEED WORD OF WISDOM 

That is pretty serious talk, isn't it? Never in the history of this Church have we needed so much as we do today the Word of Wisdom. No nation can ever prosper, this nation being no exception, that undertakes to pay part of its obligation and to build up the nation by licensing the sale of liquor and allowing people to make millions upon millions of dollars by selling liquor. I have never felt so humiliated in my life over anything as that the state of Utah voted for the repeal of prohibition. I do not want to interfere with any man's rights or privileges. I do not want to dictate to any man. But when the Lord gives a revelation and tells me what is for my financial benefit and the financial benefit of this people, because "of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days," I do think that at least the Latterday Saints should listen to what the Lord has said. 

Can there be any meaner or more devilish thing than the advertisement showing cigaret smoke as an engagement ring ? That is the kind of advertising cigarets are getting. 

We have a newspaper that does not pay, known as The Deseret News. We have to put up money in order to keep it going. It would pay tomorrow if we would advertise beer that does not intoxicate, — of course that is, white people, but it does intoxicate Indians when they drink it. Legally it does not intoxicate, but actually it does. 

MORE DRINKING THAN PREVIOUSLY 

Every one said : "We do not want the saloons to come back." Well, they have more than come back. It is said that on Second South street today there is more drinking than there was in all the saloons we had formerly in the same amount of territory, and it is said there is also as much if not more boot-legging than there was before we repealed the prohibition law. 

I could not help but feel humiliated when the Latter-day Saints knew as well as they knew that they lived that I wanted them to remain true to the Word of Wisdom and not vote for the repeal of prohibition. 

A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the council of high priests, assembled in Kirtland, and the Church, and also the Saints in Zion : 

To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint — 

Some people say : "That is the way I get around it — 'not by commandment or constraint' — we can do as we please." 

WILL OF GOD 

But what else does it say ? It says "by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth — " What? "Showing forth the order and the will of God." I say to such people, you do not want to know the will of God, do you? I think one of the weakest excuses I ever heard of in my life is that one — "not by commandment or constraint" — when, before GENERAL CONFERENCE  verse ends, it tells you that it is the will of God, "in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days." 

Now, I see there is no time left, so I will ask you, one and all, as a favor, every Latter-day Saint within the sound of my voice, to read the Word of Wisdom as contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, and do it tonight or tomorrow. Do not put it off longer than tomorrow, and it will save my reading it and saying any more about it now. 

I thank the Lord for the splendid record made by the choir. 

PRESIDENT YOUNG'S ATTITUDE REGARDING CREDIT 

I intended to bring a letter here to read to you over the signature of Brigham Young. I shall publish it in the Conference Pamphlet, and shall ask that it be published in The Deseret News, following my remarks here, because I have not time to read it now. A firm refused credit to Z. C. M. L, and President Brigham Young wrote to the firm and thanked them and said that his advice to the people always had been not to go in debt. 

This letter from Brigham Young upon which President Grant commented is printed herewith as follows : 

St. George, Utah. March 27, 1877. Messrs. Meyer Bros. & Co., St. Louis, Mo. Gentlemen : 

A few days ago we received from Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution at Salt Lake City, a copy of your communication of the 3rd inst., in which you inform that institution that you prefer to do only a cash business with it hereafter. 

We are thankful to you for giving them this notice. 

It is in exact keeping with our repeated instructions to the officers of that institution, to do all their business on the no-credit system. 

If those officers, and all of our people engaged in business would only be advised by us they would do their business, and all of it, on the cash-down principle and not a dollar on credit. 

We desire to see our people invariably adopt this manner of doing business — go with their money and buy where they find they can do so to the best advantage. Be self-sustaining in this, as they are in so many other respects. In this course, we do not fail to see abundant increase of business thrift and financial prosperity. 

For this reason we most earnestly desire, that all with whom our people of this territory do business, would refuse credit; and thus teach the very useful lesson of making them self-reliant and sustaining in their commerical transactions. 

The triumphs of the people in this before-time, so-called desert and forbidding wilderness, have been achieved by this very principle of self-reliance, coupled, of course, with the blessings of the Almighty. 

We would that the same principle were invariably to rule in all our monetary transactions likewise. And, therefore, again thank you for refusing to sell your wares on time to Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution and remain Gentlemen 

Yours Very Respectfully, 

BRIGHAM YOUNG. 

I wish also to compliment the director and the good sisters of the Singing Mothers chorus. 131 

WORD OF THE LORD TO HYRUM SMITH 

I want to read something that the Lord said to Hyrum Smith : 

Seek not for, riches but for wisdom; and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me so it shall be done unto you; and if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation. 

Say nothing but repentance unto this generation. Keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my work, according to my commandments, and you shall be blessed. 

They were working at the time on the translation of the Book of Mormon. 

And now, verily, verily, I say unto thee, put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good — yea, to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously; and this is my Spirit. 

Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy;' * * * * 

Wait a little longer, until you shall have my word, my rock, my church, and my gospel, that you may know of a surety my doctrine. * * * * 

Keep my commandments; hold your peace; appeal unto my spirit; 

Yea, cleave unto me with all your heart, that you may assist in bringing to. light those things of which has been spoken — yea, the translation of my work; be patient until you shall accomplish it. 

Behold, this is your work, to keep my commandments, yea, with all your might, mind and strength. 

Seek not to declare my word, but seek first to obtain my word, and then shall your tongue be loosed; then, if you desire, you shall have my Spirit and my word, yea, the power of God unto the convincing of men. 

Now this is the part I want you all to remember : 

Behold I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickles to reap. 

Behold I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God, I am the life and the light of the world. 

I am the same who came unto my own, and mine own received me not; But verily, verily ,1 say unto you, that as many as receive me, to them will I give power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on my name. 

ANY MAN WHO RIDICULES THE SAVIOR 

We are told that agitation is going on in some sections of the country in favor of so-called "liberty," which instead of being liberty is anything but liberty. I do not want to be accused of engaging in politics, but let me tell you that if any state in the Union of the United States shall elect a man to stand at the head of that state who has ridiculed the Savior of the world, it will be as bad as the rebellion of 1861. I lift my voice against it, and I am willing to have it said that this is politics, if they want to make politics of it. Any Latter-day Saint who sustains or votes for a man to be governor of a state who has ridiculed in print the Savior of the world, is doing that which I as President of the Church hereby condemn. GENERAL CONEERENCE 

GIVES TESTIMONY 

The time is up, but I am going to say something more. I want it distinctly understood that in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Germany, France, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Canada, Mexico, from Portland, Maine, to Portland, Oregon, in the Hawaiian Isles, and in far-off Japan, I have lifted up my voice, and I want to lift it up here, before closing this conference, to the effect that I know as I know that I live that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, and that Mormonism, so-called, is in very deed the plan of life and salvation. 

God help you and me and every Latter-day Saint to prove to the Lord by our lives, that our testimony of the divinity of this work is not merely lip service. God bless you, and bless all honest men, and defeat all men who are working to destroy churches. Roger Babson tells the truth when he says we need more religion. God bless every man that believes in Jesus Christ and is working for the uplift of mankind, and God defeat every man who ridicules the Savior of .the world, the Redeemer of mankind. This is my prayer, and I ask it in all humility, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer and Savior. Amen. 

An anthem, "Then shall your light shine forth," was sung by the choir, after which the choir and congregation sang "Doxology." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph J. Daynes, President of the Western States Mission. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

The singing at the various sessions of the Conference was conducted by Anthony C. Lund, Conductor of the Tabernacle Choir, assisted by Albert J. Southwick and Charlotte O. Sackett. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Frank W. Asper and WadeJ N. Stephens. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 45 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 115 

A lesson from a life sermon, 115 — Ambitious for an education, 116 — An important decision, 116 — Wonderful women, 116 — Disappointment and temptation, 116 — At Harvard thirty-five years late, 117 — An important lesson, 117 — Not blind obedience, 118 — Through disobedience, 118 — The method of the Christ, 118 — By force and compulsion, 119 — Obedience through love, 119 — The will of the majority, 120 — First great lesson in Americanism, 120 — Satan on the alert, 120 — The man for the time, 121 — Blessings await the faithful, 121 — In the hands of God, 122. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O. 17 

Bluth, Elder John V 28 

Budge, Elder Oliver H 65 

Callis, Elder Charles A. 103 

A tribute to President Ivins, 104 — inspired appointments, 104 — The value of the scriptures, 104 — Origin of anesthetics, 104 — The Savior's spoken word, 105 — Divinity of Christ apparent, 106 — Rays of light harnessed, 106 — Rays of living light, 106. 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 83 

Increase of respect for the Church, 83 — A balanced budget, 83 — Building improvements, 84 — Cease fault finding, 84 — Examples of honesty, 84 — Importance of honesty, 85 — Honesty in government, 85 — Honesty and truthfulness in politics, 85 — Honesty in our lives, 86 — Breakdown of honesty and fair dealing, 86 — Divine injunctions, 87 — Needs do not justify dishonesty, 87 — Honesty of individual at heart, 87-r-Honesty with the Lord, 88. 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 96 

Conferences to impart spirituality, 96 — Latter-day Saints should set example, 97 — Despotism, destructive to religion and government ideals, 98 — Substitution, 98 — Rely on the Lord's plan, 99 — Through honesty comes power and dignity, 99. 

Clawson, President Rudger 100 

Intelligence necessary to acceptable worship, 100 — Attributes ascribed to God, 100 — Wicked will have opportunity, 101 — The two roads, 102 — Changes in presiding councils, 102 — Bears testimony, 103. 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 25 

First Day, Morning Meeting . 2 

General Authorities of the Church 45 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Auxiliary Officers 46 

General Officers of the Church 46 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Pays tribute to departed leaders, 2 — Born of goodly parents, 3 — Serene women, 3 — Letter of sympathy, A — His father, A — A marvelous heritage, A — A millionaire's tribute, 4 — Personally acquainted with General Authorities, 5 — An example of honesty, 

5 — Rejoices in tributes to President Ivins, 6 — Expresses thanks, 

6 — President Ivins loved by youth, 7 — Tribute to Brother Richards, 7 — Grateful to press, 8. 

Grant, President Heber J 23 

Changes in Church officers since last April Conference, 23. 

Grant, President Heber J 42 

Remarks at Charles H. Hart funeral, 42 — A righteous judge, 43 — Engaged in a noble cause, 43 — Rich blessings earned, 43 — Not in the grave, 43. 

Grant, President Heber J 45 

Presentation of General Authorities of the Church, 45 — General 

Officers of the Church, 46 — General Auxiliary Officers, 46. Grant, President Heber J. 55 

Mission presidents limited in their remarks, 55. Grant, President Heber J 89 

Regarding Rufus K. Hardy, 89. Grtint, President Heber J 107 

Gratitude to composers, 107. Grant, President Heber J 122 

Blessings come through attendance at meetings, 122 — Richard W. Young's experience, 123 — Asks for reasons, 123 — Makes change, 

124 — Sacrificing personal ambitions, 124 — Confers with President, 

125 — Endorses remarks, 126 — Reputation for honesty, 126 — A personal experience, 127 — A profitable termination, 128 — Cigaret smoking, 128 — Need Word of Wisdom, 129 — More drinking than previously, 129 — Will of God, 129 — President Young's attitude regarding credit, 130 — Word of the Lord to Hyrum Smith, 131 — Any man who ridicules the Savior, 131 — Gives testimony, 132. 

Hinckley, Elder Alonzo A 53 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 40 

Kirkham, Elder J. M 55 

Kooyman, Elder Frank 1 61 

Larsen, Elder Holger M 76 

Lyman, Elder Richard R. 12 

M. I. A. slogan, 12 — Misunderstandings between youth and maturity, 12 — M. I. A. manuals and books, 13 — A subject on which all can agree, 13 — The personality of Joseph Smith, 13 — Tributes 135  contemporaries, 14 — A great leader and prophet, 14 — Samples of inspiration, 15 — Not good for man, IS — Honesty and fair dealing, 16 — In accordance with high ideals, 16 — The road to perfection, 17. 

McKay, President David 89 

President Grant a true friend, 90 — Love and admiration for President Clark, 90 — Lives consecrated to service, 90 — Appreciative of trust, 91 — Man destined to be happy, 91 — Distressful conditions, 

91 — Sunshine needed, 92 — The purpose of worldly possessions, 

92 — A proper sense of values, 93 — The secret of happiness, 93 — Fundamental conditions, 94 — Count your blessings, 94 — Social intercourse, 95 — A guide, 95. 

Pratt, Elder Harold W 81 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr 57 

Richards, Elder George F 71 

Inspired appointments, 71 — Thankful for restored health, 72 — The Gospel — what it is, 72 — Must be taught the law, 72 — Must be born again, 72 — The only true mode of baptism, 73 — By one having authority, 73 — Conditions prescribed, 74 — "Judged according to men in the flesh," 75 — A vicarious work, 75 — Saving our dead, 75. 

Richards, Elder LeGrand 59 

Richards, Elder Stephen L. 33 

Phases of relief program cause concern, 33 — Indication of suffering and distress, 33 — Maintain self-respect, 34 — Factors in economic and spiritual welfare, 34 — Charity seekers, 35 — "Sponging" on the government, 35 — Contempt for impostors, 35 — Farreaching results, 36 — The Latter-day Saint attitude, 36 — To restore our morale, 36 — Latter-day Saint liberality, 37 — Outlook for coming winter, 37 — Basis of mutual confidence, 37 — Thankful for Church, 37. 

Richards, Elder Wilford W 56 

Rowan, Elder Charles E., Jr 20 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 67 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 45 

Sloan, Elder William R 79 

Smith, Elder David A 25 

Smith,, Elder George Albert 47 

A marvelous change, 47 — Recipe for true happiness, 47 — Old age pensions, 48 — The Lord's way, 48 — Our leaders today, 49 — Should be industrious, 49 — The faults of others, 50 — Following the narrow way, 50 — In the homes of the Latter-day Saints, 51 — In this building, 51 — Three mighty men, 51 — Leaders who have gone home, 52 — Opportunity for preparation, 52 — Sustaining our leaders, 53. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 63 

The revealed word of the Lord, 63 — To establish truth of scripGENERAL CONFERENCE , 63 — Lack of faith in Christ's mission, 64 — In conflict with God's word, 64 — Bears testimony of Christ and his mission, 64 — Joseph Smith and his work, 65 — That we may walk in the truth, 65. 

Charges in Smoot investigation, 68 — Faith in God and his revelations, 68 — Tribute to the Choir, 68 — Words of Orson Hyde, 69 — Land of Palestine blessed, 69 — Prophecy fulfilled, 70 — Inspired utterances, 70 — Work of God, 70 — Prays for President Grant, 71. 

No. deviation from fundamental truth, 8 — The story of man's his-, torical difficulty and success, 9 — The Church not static, 9 — Application of eternal principles to present needs, 10 — Guided by spirit of revelation, 10 — Mutual understanding and comprehension, 11 — The spirit of light and truth, 11 — Bears testimony, 12. 

Taylor, Elder John H 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting Third Day, Morning Meeting 

Welling, Elder Arthur 

Wells, Elder John 

Wells, Elder Rulon S. 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 

107 108 112 

A Few of the Books that will Help You to Understand "Mormon ism" 

The Book of Mormon 

The latest edition comes to you in four different bindings. Of course the text remains the same but there are added features which make the edition more complete. 

Missionary Edition # .50 

Cloth binding, embossed - 1.50 

Full Morocco 3.00 

The Gospel and Man's Relationship to 

Deity 

BY B. H. ROBERTS 

"It is to place within their reach a brief and simple exposition of the first principles of the Gospel that this work has been prepared, and is now presented to the youth of Zion; and it is the earnest hope of the author that by a patient perusal of these pages those who now believe the Gospel will find their faith strengthened and confirmed; and those who do not believe it will be convinced of its truth." 

Price #1.25 

The Story and Philosophy of "Mormonism" 

BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 

Comprising "The Story" as told in addresses at Cornell and Michigan Universities | and elsewhere, followed by an address delivered at the Panama-Pacific Exposition, entitled "The Philosophical Basis of 'Mormonism.' " 

Cloth -r- $ -75 

In Search of Truth 

BY ELDER JOHN A WIDTSOE OF THE QUORUM OF THE TWELVE Bound in Art Cloth #1-00 

This new book answers the questions, "What is Science" and "How does the Church view Science." A practical book for our THINKING, young people. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

Mormonism 

and n 

reemasonry "This brief treatise is addressed primarily to the members of the Masonic fraternity. The author requests Masons and others who may read it to patiently consider its contents, and in a spirit of fairness and reason determine whether the ground taken by the writer is truth or error." 

Price $1.50 Postpaid 

+ 2% Sales Tax in Utah 

Distributed by the 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







