Afternoon
06 10 1934

Conference reconvened at 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon. 

President Grant announced that the congregation would join in singing the hymn, "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire." 

After the singing of this hymn, Elder Heber J. Burgon, President of the East Jordan Stake, offered the invocation. 

Sister Bessie Morley sang a sacred solo, "To every heart." 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I do not think that I ever attended a General Conference of the Church when I have felt a greater portion of the Spirit of the Lord and when I have been more in accord with the statements made by those who spoke. There is an echo in my heart to all that has been said, and I am quite sure that everyone present has that same feeling of loyalty to the Church. 

CHARGES IN SMOOT INVESTIGATION 

I picked up volume three of the "Investigation of Reed Smoot," and it opened to page 593. I read these words, which are part of the charges made against me by Mr. Tayler, the prosecuting attorney, I may term him, at that time : 

Several hundred thousand sincere men and women have believed and now believe, as they believe in their own existence, that Joseph Smith, Jr. received revelations direct from God, and if anyone ever believed that we must assume that Senator Smoot believes it. 

Now a Senator of the United States might believe anything else in the world but that and not be ineligible to a seat in the body to which he belongs. He might believe in polygamy; he might believe that murder was commendable; he might deny the propriety as a rule of life of all the ten commandments; he might believe in the sacrifice of human life; he might believe in no God or in a thousand gods; he might be Jew or Gentile, Mohammedan or Buddhist, atheist or pantheist; he might believe that the world began last year and would end next year, but to believe with the kind of conviction that Reed Smoot possesses that God speaks to him or may speak to him is to admit by the inevitable logic of his conviction that there is a superior authority with whom here and now he may converse, and whose command he can no more refuse to obey than he can will himself not to think. 

FAITH IN GOD AND HIS REVELATIONS 

My brethren and sisters, in my answer to the charges of Mr. Tayler, do you think for a moment that I would admit that I was not to be a Senator because I believed in a living God; because I believed that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God, establishing God's work here upon this earth in this dispensation ? No. I wanted every Senator and every person in all the world, if it were possible, to understand that the charge that was made against me upon that occasion I agreed was correct as far as my belief in receiving revelations from God, or that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God. I never want to live long enough that that testimony shall not be burning in my soul. Rather would I die than have such a thing happen to me. I know that he was a prophet of God. I know that God and his Son Jesus Christ appeared to him. I know that this is the work of God, and just as sure as we live the world will acknowledge it some time or other. 

TRIBUTE TO THE CHOIR 

I received a letter the other day, and while I have listened to the choir and know what a wonderful agency it has been to allay the prejudices of the people against the Church, I would like to read this letter to you. It is from 370 Seventh Avenue, New York, and dated August 26th, 1934: 

For more than a year I have promised myself that I would do what I am now doing, to express to you as one of the heads of the Mormon Church our  for the wonderful contribution you folks are making in your Sunday presentation of the Mormon choir. 

Vacationing down along the coast during August, eight of us, including our organist and director, piled into one car to listen to your choir. The owner of that car took out an old radio set and put in a new one because he was warned in advance that nothing was to interfere on Sundays at twelve with listening to the Mormon Choir. 

I wonder if the members of your Choir realize the sheer, unalloyed joy their music is bringing to so many people! I wonder if Richard Evans realizes how gracious and fitting are his announcements and how truly, coupled with the music, they do bring peace through the week! I wonder if Frank Asper realizes that, not deprecating the work of a guest organist, we would rather hear him play. I wonder if those who pay the bills realize the great gift they are making. 

This letter is not from a gusher or a publicity seeker. We have tasted the emptiness of the gusher's words. We don't need any publicity. But when the Mormon Choir can make such heathens of Methodist singers, who love to sing, that they stay home to listen, what truer tribute could there be? 

Can't someone send us a copy of your Choir's theme song, just one copy, words and music? And might we use it in our opening service? If so, we will be singing with you. I do not mean for regular use or for broadcasting but just occasionally when we must miss your choir. I hope you can read this scribbling, but if left until tomorrow to be typed in the office it will be passed by as it has been for a year and this "thank you" has waited long enough. 

What nicer tribute could any man pay to our choir than this ? 

WORDS OF ORSON HYDE 

I believe in revelation as every Latter-day Saint must. I picked up an old History of the Church the other day and I found these words, which I endorse with all my heart. They are from an address made on April 6th, 1840, at Nauvoo, by Orson Hyde, one of the great men of this Church, one of the pillars of the Church in its early days, one who traveled in Europe, in parts of the great countries of Europe, early in the forties. I read this from his journal : 

On Sunday morning, October 24, 1841, a good while before day, I arose from sleep and went out of the city (Jerusalem) as socn as the gates were opened, crossed the brook Kedron and went upon the Mount of Olives and there in solemn silence, with pen and ink and paper, just as I saw in the vision, offered up the following prayer to Him who lives forever and ever. 

LAND OF PALESTINE BLESSED 

I quote one or two paragraphs only from that lengthy prayer: 

Grant, therefore, O Lord, in the name of thy well beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to remove the barrenness and sterility of this land, and let springs of living water break forth to water its thirsty soil. Let the vine and olive produce in theic strength, and the fig tree bloom and flourish. Let the land become abundantly fruitful when possessed by its rightful heirs; let it again flow with plenty to feed the returning prodigals who come home with a spirit of grace and supplication; upon it let the clouds distil virtue and richness, and let the fields smile with plenty. Let the flocks and the herds greatly increase and multiply upon the mountains and the hills; and let Thy great kindness conquer and subdue the unbelief of Thy people. Do thou take from them their stony heart, and give them a heart of flesh; and may the sun of Thy favor dispel the cold mists of darkness which have beclouded their atmosphere. Incline them to gather in upon this land according to Thy word. Let them come like clouds and like doves to their windows. Let the large ships of the nations bring them from the distant isles; and let kings become their nursing fathers, and queens with motherly fondness wipe the tears of sorrow from their 

Let the nation or that people, who shall take an active part in behalf of Abraham's children, and in the rising up of Jerusalem, find favor in Thy sight. Let not their enemies prevail against them, neither let pestilence nor famine overcome them, but let the glory of Israel overshadow them, and the power of the Highest protect them; while that nation or kingdom that will not serve Thee in this glorious work must perish, according to Thy word — "Yea, those nations shall be utterly wasted." 

He then states : 

It was by political power and influence that the Jewish nation was broken down, and her subjects dispersed abroad. And I will here hazard the opinion that by political power and influence they will be gathered and built up; and further, that England is destined, in the wisdom and economy of heaven, to stretch forth the arm of political power, and advance in the front ranks of this glorious enterprise. 

PROPHECY FULFILLED 

Now let us see if that has been fulfilled. On November 5th, 1914, England declared war against Turkey. General Allenby, in command of an army of English soldiers, began his triumphant march to recover the Holy Land, driving the Turks before him and destroying their power of conquest and possession forever. He captured Gaza on November 7, 1917; Jerusalem, December 9, 1917; Nazareth, September 22, 1918; Damascus, October 1, 1918; and proceeded to Aleppo October 26, thus sweeping Palestine from Beersheba to Dan. This campaign was marvelous in many ways. It was led by an Englishman who is reported to be a man of faith and prayer. The favor of the Lord was made manifest in the comparative ease with which it was accomplished and in the few casualties of the English. The Turks were completely defeated and the surrender of the Turkish Empire followed October 30th, 1918. 

INSPIRED UTTERANCES 

My brethren and sisters, for the last few months I have been reading the old prophecies as recorded in our Millennial Star, and it seems to me that no human being could read them and know the history and look at it as it is today without acknowledging that those men were inspired of the living God, and spoke as they were inspired to speak by a higher power than man. 

I wanted to call attention to that, my brethren and sisters, for I think sometimes we who are living in this material world are so busy working hours and hours into the night— and I was going to say that ninety-five per cent of us have but one goal in view, and that is gathering to ourselves the things of this world. Most of these ninety-five per cent think of God but a few hours perhaps once a week. 

WORK OF GOD 

So, my brethren and sisters, I want to testify to you that I know that  is the work of God. I know that all that has been promised will be given if we but fulfil the requirements made by the Father. May God's blessings ever attend you in your every-day life. May his choicest blessings be upon the brethren who have been appointed to responsible positions in the Church this day. I know them, I know that our Heavenly Father knows them. I know they are worthy, and I am sure that God will be with them, and they shall have influence wherever they go, not only among our own people, but among the peoples of the world with whom they come in contact. 

PRAYS FOR PRESIDENT GRANT 

Father in heaven, bless President Grant. Thou knowest his labors and his devotion to thy cause. May he be beloved by all men for his greatness and his goodness and his love for thy cause, and may I ask the same prayer, the same blessing upon every man who is serving God in any way. May his Church grow and increase. No matter how soon the day comes when the world shall end may we all be prepared for the salvation of the children of men, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

We have sung this afternoon that beautiful hymn, "Prayer is the Soul's Sincere Desire." With the Latter-day Saints, prayer is a sacred form of worship. We are all taught to observe prayers — in secret, prayers in the family, prayers in our public worship. The prayer of an honest, faithful man availeth much with the Lord. Prayers of many faithful men and women, centered upon the same object and purpose, must avail much more -with the Lord. 

INSPIRED APPOINTMENTS 

I have prayed earnestly that the President of the Church would be inspired of the Lord in the selection of men to fill the vacancies in the councils of the General Authorities. No doubt you, my brethren and sisters, have prayed just as earnestly. Our prayers have been answered and our souls are made to rejoice in the selections that have been made. With all my heart I sustain each one of these brethren, and thank the Lord for them, as I sustain and thank the Lord for those who were already members of these councils, all of whom I know to be men of God, who are devoted to the work of the Lord, and who are willing to do anything that they may be called upon to do, always acknowledging those in authority who may make these appointments from time to time as being the Lord's representatives, they having authority to speak and act for the Lord. 

In responding to such calls to the ministry we answer the call of the Lord to engage in his work, and when thus engaged we are performing the greatest service that it is possible for a person to give to God and to his fellow men. THANKFUL FOR RESTORED HEALTH 

I rejoice in being here today. Six months ago I had a lameness, an illness, which prevented my attending the General Conference. The prayers of the Saints have been offered in my behalf; the blessings of the Lord have come to me and effected my recovery so that I am able now to carry on my work. I praise and thank the Lord, and thank the Saints for their faith and prayers in my behalf. 

Believing that I have your confidence, your love and faith, I desire to say something pertaining to this Gospel that we have received, which is of more worth than anything or everything else with which we have to do. 

THE GOSPEL WHAT IT IS 

We read in the Scriptures a definition of the Gospel given by the Apostle Paul to the Romans wherein he says: "I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ : for it is the power of God unto salvation." To enlarge a little upon that definition, we might say that the Gospel is the plan of the Gods in the councils of heaven before the world was, for the existence of this earth upon which we live and of man upon the earth, for the fall of man, for the redemption of man, and his exaltation through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ and obedience unto the laws and ordinances of the Gospel, and for the glorification of the earth. This plan involves also the acceptance of certain principles, the receiving of certain ordinances, the keeping of the commandments of the Lord, obeying his laws, rendering service to the Church, service to the Lord, service to fellow men, public service and private service, financial aid and spiritual blessing, and whatever else can be done for the blessing of mankind. 

MUST BE TAUGHT THE LAW 

The Gospel requires the keeping of oneself free and unspotted from the sins of the world, and the living of a God-like and Christlike life. It is the law by which all mankind are to be judged, and by which they are to be condemned or justified, according to merit. The scriptures tell us that until the law, sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed where there is no law. 

VVe read in the Book of Mormon also that where there is no law given there is no condemnation. Therefore, in justice, the law of the Gospel must be taught unto all men. No man can be judged by that law until it is taught to him and to his understanding. 

There are but few people, comparatively, who have had the Gospel in its fulness and simplicity taught to them so that they could conscientiously receive it, — very few of the teeming millions of our Father's children who have lived upon this earth down to the present time. 

MUST BE BORN AGAIN 

What is going to become of those who have not subscribed to  conditions? The Savior said to Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews : "Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God." Also he said: "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.'' The expression, "being born again," Nicodemus could not understand. There are many people today who do not understand this "birth,'' but we have an explanation in the vision of Moses contained in the Pearl of Great Price, which makes plain the meaning of this Scripture. For the benefit of those who have not understood it let me read a few paragraphs : 

Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children saying : ' 

That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit, which I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the kingdom of heaven, of water, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood even the blood of; mine Only Begotten; that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory; 

For by the water ye keep the commandment; by the Spirit ye are justified, and by the blood ye are sanctified. 

THE ONLY TRUE MODE OF BAPTISM 

Does "being born again" mean a sprinkling of water? Hardly Let me read further from the Book of Moses : 

And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water. 

And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man. 

And he heard a voice out of heaven, saying : Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever. 

Herein is described the mode of baptism originating with Adam, the first man. God has never authorized any other kind of baptism by water. And baptism by water is not complete until the individual has been baptized by fire, or the Holy Ghost, or, in other words, has had hands laid upon his head for confirmation to membership in the Church of Christ and the bestowal of the Holy Ghost, as was the order of things in the Primitive Church. 

BY ONE HAVING AUTHORITY 

I shall read from the 20th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 73-74: 

The person who is called of God and has authority from Jesus Christ to baptize shall go down into the water with the person who has presented himself or herself for baptism and shall say, calling him or her by name : Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Then shall he immerse him or her in the water, and come forth again out of the water. 

Brethren and sisters, observe that the person baptizing must be "called of God" and have "authority from Jesus Christ" to perform this sacred ordinance; for no other authorization is accepted of God. Note also that the officiator and the applicant for baptism are to "go down into the water," which, obviously, does not contemplate or justify baptizing in a bath tub, with the baptizer standing outside of the tub. 

There is no justification in any of the scriptures, ancient or modern, for any other mode of baptism; and the ordinance must be administered by one having authority. 

CONDITIONS PRESCRIBED 

In the 20th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we have the direct word of the Lord in regard to this principle of baptism, verse 71: 

No one can be received into the Church of Christ unless he has arrived unto the years of accountability before God, and is capable of repentance. 

This means that baptism is not necessary for little children who are not capable of repenting. The Lord has informed us by revelation that the normal child eight years of age is to be regarded as being accountable, and therefore should be baptized. 

The Lord has said concerning the qualifications necessary to receive this ordinance, Doctrine and Covenants, section 20, verse 37: 

All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the Church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into his church. 

Mankind everywhere must subscribe to these conditions. There are no other conditions prescribed by the Lord by which we may obtain entrance into his kingdom and obtain salvation. These requirements are very plain, simple, and easy to be understood. 

What we may read in the Pearl of Great Price, and in all of the other standard Church works regarding these principles and ordinances is a confirmation and a making plain of the statements which are set forth in the King James translation of the Bible — the Old and the New Testaments. 

"judged according to men in the flesh" 

Now what are we going to do with these teeming millions who have not entered the Church and Kingdom of God by receiving this sacred ordinance and other sacred ordinances which are just as necessary for man's exaltation as are baptism and confirmation, and which men and women must receive ? Those who have not had the  of hearing the Gospel in this life will have the privilege of hearing it hereafter. Otherwise they could not be judged by the Gospel law. Hence we read in the scriptures : 

For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. 

Peter says : 

For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the spirit : By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. 

A VICARIOUS WORK 

So that the preaching of the Gospel to the spirits in the spirit world is not a new doctrine; it is a Bible doctrine. But what are they going to do when the Gospel is preached unto them and they become converted, if baptism is necessary and they have not been baptized? The Lord has made this provision, that a vicarious work may .be done for them; and he has laid the responsibility directly upon the members of this Church, who have received these sacred ordinances, to officiate for their kindred dead. 

We have no right to go into other people's lines to do temple work without permission from them. We may receive or give assistance in temple work, either gratuitous or paid-for service. President Wilford Woodruff received gratuitous assistance from a number of the Saints in doing his temple work in the St. George Temple. President Heber J. Grant has set the Church a wonderful example in this respect, both by going to the Temple himself and by taking his family with him to do ordinance work, and also by employing additional help in order to discharge the sacred duty resting upon him pertaining to his kindred. 

SAVING OUR DEAD 

The Lord has said, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that no greater responsibility has he placed upon us than that we look after our kindred dead. 

There are many faithful Saints who are out of employment. Why not spend some of our means in paying them to assist us in doing our temple work, and by so doing be a blessing to both the living and the dead? 

I desire here to make an appeal to the Latter-day Saints not to overlook this responsibility. We should awaken, go forth, and do our duty. God expects it of us. Saving the dead is just as important as preaching the Gospel abroad and bringing the living into the fold. 

In the temple we are prepared to take care of the Saints, who may come at almost any hour of the day, — from early morning until late at night, as they have a few hours to spare, and surely their work outside of the temple ought not to take all of their time. Come to the temple; redeem your dead; and be blessed. May God help you and me to this end I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

At the request of President Grant the congregation arose and sang the hymn, "O say, what is truth ?" 

ELDER HOLGER M. LARSEN 

Former President of the Danish Mission 

I appreciate, my brethren and sisters, this opportunity of reporting conditions in the far-oft' land of Denmark. It has been my good fortune, for the past five years, to labor as a missionary in the Danish Mission, and to endeavor to preach the Gospel unto that people. I want to tell you that the condition of the Danish Mission at the present time is very good. 

We may not have made very many converts during the past few years, but we have tried to teach the people how to take care of themselves. The call came to us through President John A. Widtsoe, of the General Authorities, at the time that I arrived in the field, to try to install local branch presidencies, to try to give all the responsibility we possibly could to the local brethren and sisters. We have tried to do that and the result has been most wonderful. 

The people of the Danish Mission have commenced to feel a greater interest in the Church, they have commenced to feel that they really belong to the Church; they feel that there is something for them to do. Many of the missions had almost got into the same condition as is existing in the other churches — we had ministers to do almost everything for us. But when the local brethren and sisters learned that it was necessary for them to do something for themselves, they really appreciated their membership in the Church. 

Through the generosity of the brethren of the General Authorities at home we have been able to erect in the city of Copenhagen one of the finest chapels the Church has anywhere in Europe. It has been a great asset to the Church, inasmuch as we now have a beautiful building in which to meet. 

I want to tell you, brethren and sisters, that we have appreciated the missionaries that have come into the mission field from time to time. We have appreciated the brethren who have been sent to us, and we have tried to help them in every possible way. There is no better work, there is no work that will give a person more joy and more satisfaction than that of trying to bring souls unto God. 

The missionary life is the life that is giving joy and satisfaction to the membership of the Church. One of the stake presidents whom I met this morning told me that his stake had more missionaries in the field than any other stake in the Church. I told  I could see that that would be an asset to his stake. When we receive the good reports from the missionaries, when we receive their letters full of the spirit of the Gospel, full of the missionary spirit, we cannot help but try to live better lives. 

Although the Danish Mission is perhaps one of the smallest among the European group, we were the first mission in the European group to install complete local boards for the different auxiliary organizations. We are having the same kind of church in Denmark at the present time as we have in the stakes of Zion. Although small in numbers, we try to carry on the same lessons and the same work that we have at home. The Elders who have been sent to us are splendid young men, and I would like to commend the parents who have sent their sons into the field; and I would also like to say to the fathers, that the crying need in the European missions at the present time, and particularly some of the missions where we have been accustomed to having middle-aged men, is that some of the fathers of these boys come into the field and do missionary work. 

Sometimes I am afraid we have grown into a condition where we are not depending upon our Heavenly Father as much as we used to do, we have not the faith we formerly had. We fear that he will not help us and bless us in doing missionary service. We would rather send our boys into the mission field. In many places some of the older brethren could do much more good. 

We are not complaining; we are grateful, and we are thankful for the young boys, but it would be a great help to the mission presidents to have some brethren a little older who could help steady these boys along. 

I want to testify to you of the truthfulness of the Gospel, and I want to tell you that the Lord has been merciful and has blessed us during the past five years in the missionary work in the Danish Mission. We are grateful for the degree of success that we have had, and we are willing to give the honor and the glory unto our Heavenly Father. It has been through his Spirit and through the united efforts of the missionaries who have labored in that field that we have been able to do anything to further this work. 

I want to testify to you that I know the Gospel is true; had it not been for that testimony, I do not believe that anything could have persuaded me to go back to my native land and try to induce people to join the Mormon faith. 

I am grateful for this testimony. I am grateful more than words can express for my membership in this Church. I am grateful for the association I have had with you, my brethren and sisters. It is a pleasure to come back home and to attend the conference sessions. That is one thing that we very much miss when we are in the mission field. We can read the report of the conference, we can read of the talks that have been given, but it is not like associating with you brethren and sisters. 

I ask the Lord to bless the Presidency of this Church and every member of the Church. I want to testify to you that I know that our leaders are men of God, I know that they are working day and night in order to fulfil and magnify the calling which has been placed upon them. The Lord bless us all, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING .... Former President of the North Central States Mission 

I am grateful, my brethen and sisters, for the opportunity of again joining in testimony that this is verily the Church and Kingdom of God, and of making final report of my labors in the North Central States Mission, over which I have had the honor to preside during the last five years. 

I rejoice that I have membership in what I believe to be the most perfect instrument for individual development, mutual improvement, social service and moral and spiritual welfare upon the earth today — The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints— whose maker and builder is God. 

I join and rejoice in the testimony that the mission field offers one of the richest of these opportunities for development. Missionaries soon learn to rely upon the truth announced by Nephi that the Lord requires nothing of his servants but that he provides the means by which that which is required may be accomplished; also the truth of the Savior's assurance that he that seeketh his life shall lose it; but he that will lose his life for my sake shall find it." And so, realizing his dependence upon the Lord and his partnership with him in a great cause, he serves unselfishly and well himself and fellow men. 

The first time I was called to make this report five years ago it was near the end of the final session of the conference. As I! waited a moment for my turn, that peerless leader and teacher, since gone to his reward, Dr. James E. Talmage, said impressively to me: "You used to be a student of mine. Don't waste any time explaining that the time is short." 

I have greatly appreciated that lesson and the spirit in which it was offered. The time is short, here, in the mission field, everywhere. My five years in the field were all too brief, and I am glad now that I did not wait until the end to appreciate that fact. Traveling approximately forty to fifty thousand miles a year, over an area a thousand miles square, and holding not quite an average of one public meeting a day, but more than one every other day. I enjoyed every minute of it. The other missionaries were equally busy and happy in their work, and the Lord blessed our efforts; and he blessed the people that they bore with patience our imperfections, and we were all happy in service. But that is over; and we return, "with glad heart and cheerful countenance," to the work awaiting us here, for which also I am grateful. 

I rejoice in the appointment of my successor, President Wil W. Richards, who now presides in the North Central States Mission. Already the people love him; and I bespeak for him and them the further favor and blessing of the Lord in rich abundance. 

I am glad to find myself in complete harmony with the Spirit of divine guidance which is manifest in the selection of brethren to fill important vacancies at this conference, Presidents Clark and McKay, and Elders Hinckley and Hardy. I have always worshipped from afar the General Authorities of the Church; and the better I get acquainted with them the more I love them. I know and bear record they are men of God. 

A final word of testimony I wish might reach the youth of Zion^ everywhere: I believe in God as our Father and in mankind as his children; in the ultimate triumph of truth and righteousness; and in prayer as a source of spiritual strength. I like a story one of the brethren tells about prayer : 

A little boy was going to bed without saying his prayers. "Haven't you forgotten something?" inquired his father. 

"No father, I haven't," said the boy. 

"Aren't you going to say your prayers?" 

"No. I've quit." 

"Quit?" 

"Yes, I've quit. You know father, you used to tell me, and mother did too, that if I would ask God for things I needed badly, he would answer my prayers and grant my requests; but when mother was sick and I prayed that she might get well, God didn't hear nor answer our prayers, but took her away instead; and so I don't see the use of praying any more, and I've quit." 

How would you have answered that little boy? 

Do we remember that one sad night the Son of God himself knelt in the garden of Gethsemane and prayed : "Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass." Was he answered? Did the cup of which he prayed pass? We know it did not. On the contrary, Son of God though he was, he drank and saved a world. 

But there was another part to the prayer he prayed in Gethsemane: "Nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done." Possibly the little boy did not know or had forgotten that part of the Savior's prayer, as likewise have too many of our Father's children, who, like the little boy, have "quit." 

The greatest need of the world today, I believe, is a disposition to concur in that second half of the Master's prayer: "Thy will, O God, not mine, be done." 

To which humble report and testimony may the Lord add his blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 

Former President of the Northwestern States Mission 

For seventeen successive conferences of the Church it has been my happy privilege to stand before a congregation such as this and give a report of the Northwestern States Mission, over which Sister Sloan and I had been called to preside. We were called to this responsibility on the 19th day of October, 1926. A few days later we were set apart, and the latter part of November I went to the mission and toured it with my predecessor, President Brigham S. Young. 

I am happy to say, in your presence that our life has been tremendously happy, and if you brethren and sisters, in your homes, have enjoyed life as much as my companion and I have done during the past thirty years, you have tasted a little of the joys of heaven, I am sure. We believe that the heaven received in the hereafter will be commensurate with what we make it here, and the first place to establish those heavenly relations, I believe, is in the home. 

Had it not been for the help of the Lord, the faith and prayers of my brethren, and the untiring support of my good wife, my success in life would have been greatly diminished from what it has been, if there has been any success. Oh, we are not half so appreciative of the blessing of good companionship as we should be. 

We have enjoyed the work of the mission; we are happy that Brother and Sister Joseph Quinney, Jr., have been chosen to succeed us. We have known these good people many years, they are not going to be found wanting in their responsibilities, I am sure. They are presiding over one of the finest missions in the world, and they are meeting a wonderfully fine people. I am sure that success will crown their noble efforts. 

I am grateful, above all, to you good fathers and mothers who have trusted your sons and daughters with us. Oh, what an enrichment has come into our lives in the companionship of those noble young men and women. Finer men and women do not live in any part of the world than those among whom we have labored in the Northwestern States Mission, and if I might ask only one favor of my Heavenly Father today, it would be that those young men and young women might be as loyal to this Church all the days of their lives as they were while they labored with May God grant that we too, Sister Sloan and I, may never find ourselves becoming soured, may never find ourselves disappointed, may never find ourselves in a condition or position where we have aught to complain about regarding our brethren in this Church. 

I love the leadership of this Church. I am in strict accord with them. I am happy to say that we have had almost five hundred young men and women labor with us in the mission field. Tens of thousands of copies of the Book of Mormon have been distributed in that mission almost twenty-five hundred baptisms have been performed during our term of office; and so we have watched the mission grow Many new chapels have been erected, the people have prospered and developed and they are enjoying the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ today 

I am happy, upon our release, to cast my lot with the people of the Northwest. I am happy for the favorable comments that have been made concerning our work. I was delighted a few weeks ago to be invited  a meeting of the leading business men of Portland, among them a former governor of the state, the mayor of the city, and other noted men of Portland. I sat at a luncheon with them. At the close of the luncheon they said: "Mr. Sloan, would you object to giving us a brief resume of your life." 

This I did, and they said : "You are the man we are looking for." I was offered then a very fine position with those gentlemen, and I am happy to tell you that I have accepted it. 

A few days later I was in the presence of one of these men, and during the course of our conversation he said these words : "Mr. Sloan, do you know why you were invited into that meeting ? Do you know why you were given this position?" 

I said, "I have no idea. Probably it would be interesting to me to know." 

He said: "I will tell you, then. Mr. Sloan, the reason you were given this position was the fact that you are a Mormon.", 

Oh, how my heart leaped with joy. "You are a Mormon." What greater heritage could I ask for ? 

God bless this Church, its manhood and its womanhood. As this gentlemen said those words the face of my mother was pictured in my mind and I remembered her teaching from infancy: "Son, your moral character is worth more to you than all life itself." 

Standing before you today I bear witness that the teachings of my mother and the teachings of this Church have carried me on, and now to stand and look honorable, virtuous men and women in the face, this is the heritage of this Church. Be not ashamed of it. Let us emulate the teachings of this Church. 

You brethren holding the Priesthood, I commend to you the reading of the book of Doctrine and Covenants. I commend to you that you obtain a knowledge of that book. 

May we cherish this work above all else in the earth, for it is not the work of man, it is of God. He is at the helm and it shall never fail. This is my testimony; I leave it with you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HAROLD W. PRATT 

President of the Mexican Mission 

My very dear brethren and sisters : Words cannot express the humility and the thankfulness with which I stand before you. I have not vocabulary sufficient to express to you the happiness, the honor, and the gratitude that Sister Pratt and I feel in having the opportunity of representing you, in representing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter^ day Saints, in the mission field, among the Mexican people. 

I bring you greetings from the southern republic and from the thousands of Saints who have accepted the Gospel there. I should like to have time to tell you of the work we are doing. You have been told this afternoon of the work that has been accomplished in Europe in organizing the branches there and in placing the local Priesthood in charge. 

That work is being undertaken in the Mexican Mission today. In part it has been accomplished, through necessity, in the central part of the republic, due to the fact that our missionaries cannot work there on) account of the religious laws. Those people have responded wonderfully, and even in our branches along the border today we are following the example of the European missions, and find that everywhere the local Priesthood, our Mexican brethren, are responding to the call of duty, and taking an active part in the management and self-government of their branches. 

As has been expressed regarding the European Saints, the same is true regarding the Mexican Saints. They feel more interest in the work, they feel that they are now becoming real members, participants in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Much has been said, my brethren and sisters, during this conference in tribute and honor to those who have passed recently from our midst. I should like to take time to express just one more thought of appreciation of President Anthony W. Ivins. I knew him intimately when I was a lad. He and my father at that time were closely associated, and it is thus that I remember him best, expressed in the thought that he was a man to whom I could go, even then, with any questions that might arise, confident that I would get an answer. He was my ideal then and has been throughout my life. I have watched him and watched his career; I have watched the reports regarding him, and have failed to find one point in him which I might criticize. 

I only wish that I might emulate his example, and might be as good a Church-man as he. It has been difficult to see who could pick up his burden, but I feel that the Lord has made the proper choice. I testify to you this afternoon that this is the Lord's work, and it does not depend upon any one man. The Lord can always supply a man to pick up the duties laid down by any man whom he sees fit to call home. 

I testify unto you, my brethren and sisters, that I know that God lives, and that this is his work. I know that the General Authorities of this Church are called of him; I testify that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and further, that Heber J. Grant is today our prophet and seer, the representative of God upon the earth. 

We today have held up our hands sustaining him and sustaining those called to assist him in presiding over us. As for me and mine, I hope that we shall always be able to sustain him and those associated with him in very deed. 

May the blessing of our Father be poured out upon the Church throughout the world. May his blessings be poured out upon the world, may the serious times of which we have been told, and of which we know, pass by, and may his directing hand guide the nations of the earth and the peoples of the world, that his will may be accomplished, I ask in his name. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of partaking with you of the spirit of this session, and of the preceding sessions of this conference. I am happy in the selection of the splendid men who have been called into these positions in the Church. I support them with all my heart, just as I support all of the General Authorities of the Church. Likewise, I sustain and have faith and confidence in the stake and ward authorities and the mission officers and all of the members of the Church. I rejoice in the spirit of faith that has been evidenced in the sessions of the conference. I have been greatly edified, strengthened and encouraged. I rejoice in the progress that the Church is making in every direction. 

INCREASE OF RESPECT FOR THE CHURCH 

Recently I had occasion to visit throughout the East, and also in the West; and everywhere I have gone I have found that the Church is growing in respect and recognition among the people who are not of our faith. There are many things that are helping to bring about this condition. I am sure that we have a power in this Church that we scarcely appreciate . That is the power of righteousness, of dependability, of integrity. Through the coordination, cooperation and united effort of the Latter-day Saints, even greater progress and greater recognition can be brought to pass, not only in this nation, but throughout the nations of the world. As people of the world come to understand our actual motives and efforts, they are bound to give greater consideration to our message. For the real purpose of this work is to promote the welfare of mankind here and hereafter — to bring them unto truth and the way of eternal life. 

A BALANCED BUDGET 

The Church is progressing financially as well as spiritually. I may say to you that the Church has a balanced budget. The First Presidency, and those associated with them, have made estimates of income and expenditures for the Church as a whole for the year. For the first six months of this year the expenditures have been less than half of the budget set-up. The income of the Church has increased this year, the tithes, as well as the number of tithepayers, showing a material increase, and this in spite of the fact that we have had drouth and other unfavorable conditions. Whether it is an evidence of improvement in financial conditions or not, I am not able to say. But I am grateful that the Latter-day Saints are appreciating in larger measure the divinity of this principle, as well as of other principles of the Gospel, and are endeavoring to live in accordance therewith. May I say to you that the tithes are being expended entirely in accordance with the revelations of the Lord as contained in the 119th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants and with the general Church policy. They are being disbursed with economy and with care for those purposes that are of great concern, not only to the Latter-day Saints, but to the people of the world, for whom so much is being done because of the responsibility that is upon us to preach the Gospel and promote this message with which we are charged. 

BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS 

Among other things, the Church is doing more this year in the way of building improvements in the various wards and in a number of the missions. I believe that more commodious and more convenient buildings are being erected at less cost than has been the case almost ever before. I hope to see the time come, as conditions will permit, when every ward throughout the Church, and every branch in the various missions that warrants such a thing, shall have the conveniences of a suitable meeting house which will provide the facilities necessary to carry out the various activities of the Church, as well as the proper conditions for divine worship. 

CEASE FAULT FINDING 

I was impressed when President Grant read certain parts of a section of the Doctrine and Covenants while referring to President Ivins and his outstanding habits and characteristics. He referred to a statement made in that revelation to the effect that we should cease to find fault with one another. That reminded me of an axiom with regard to fault-finding. "Nothing is easier than fault-finding; no talent, no self-denial, no character, no brains are required to set up in the grumbling business." It is true that all of us have weaknesses, none of us has reached perfection, we are all subject to, criticism, and we are all able to improve. If people are fair, if they are honest, and if they have criticisms to make, they will make them to the ones of whom they complain. They will tell them either personally or in writing, with their names signed to that which they write. If they have the courage and the honesty to do that, then the one who is criticized has the opportunity either to admit that their criticisms are right and profit thereby; or prove to them that their criticisms are wrong, in which case it is the critic's business to apologize. That is, I think, the only fair way to criticize. But to go about fault-finding and undermining the character or influence of those who are engaged in constructive activities, is a very unfair and cowardly method. 

EXAMPLES OF HONESTY 

Referring to the tributes that have been paid to the great men who have recently passed away in the Church, I am impressed with the fact that prominently among all the qualities they possessed was their unquestioned honesty and integrity. I think it was Pope who said : "An honest man is the noblest work of God." President Anthony W. Ivins and Elders Charles H. Hart and Franklin S. Richards were men of strict honesty. The statement made by the president of that great  insurance company to President Grant, when he was selected a member of the Council of the Twelve, that because he recognized him to be fundamentally honest he changed his opinion regarding the other General Authorities of the Church, was impressive. I know of no man who is fundamentally more honest, whose honesty is less questioned, than that of President Heber J. Grant. That has been true of all the leaders of this Church from the beginning. They have set outstanding examples of trustworthiness. 

IMPORTANCE OF HONESTY 

Reference has already been made to the last Article of our Faith, that refers largely to the cardinal virtues, which are just as much a part of the Gospel and a part of our lives, as any principle. "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men," and so forth. This tenet expresses the importance of practicing these fundamental virtues. Honesty lies at the very foundation of our individual and community life, our civilization, our organizations of government, and the membership of the Church. If we live the Gospel we can not be anything but honest; if we are good citizens of this nation we can not properly be anything but honest. If honesty is lacking in the government, then it will gradually disintegrate. If graft, if racketeering, if other dishonest practices prevail, then there is bound to be lack of confidence, and there will develop an increasing attitude of disrespect for law and for those who are called to administer the laws. 

HONESTY IN GOVERNMENT 

We are entitled to expect from every officer of the government that he be honest in his dealings; and when he has the direction of employees of the government, that he shall require honesty and honest service from them; and that in the handling of funds there shall be strict honesty, and great care and accuracy maintained. Honesty is a disposition to conform to justice and honorable dealing, especially in regard to the rights of property. Likewise, it involves a determination to conform to justice and fair dealing in all our relations one with another. We can apply honesty to our actions as well as to our words. That is, of course, truthfulness and straightforwardness. 

HONESTY AND TRUTHFULNESS IN POLITICS 

We are now engaging in a campaign for political purposes. It is important that every one who engages therein shall be careful to be honest and truthful in the statements! that he or she shall make, so that we may not indulge in acrimonious discussion and develop antagonism and ill feeling which is contrary to proper principles of political activity and of government. Our statements should be matters of fact and not of assumption. Our political views should be constructive and not destructive. Any candidate who makes wild promises or advocates specious plans impracticable of fulfilment, or who has not previously proven himself worthy of trust, should be rejected. Honest, dependable and capable citizens should be sought for positions in government. It is our business as voters to analyze carefully the character of the candidates and their viewpoints on public questions. 

HONESTY IN OUR LIVES 

It is expected of every one of us who are engaged in Church work, whether as members or as officers of the Church, that we shall exemplify in our lives the principle of honesty just as we do every other cardinal virtue, and every other principle of the Gospel. Thereby the Church will grow and thereby the faith and confidence of the people will be increased. I am happy to say that so far as my experience goes, almost without exception, the officers of the Church are thoroughly straightforward and honest in their dealings. While it is true that, in large measure, I think in larger measure than in any other religious organization, men are called upon to handle trust funds in this Church, they are, generally speaking, very careful and strict. I think it is of great importance that we should stimulate in even larger measure this condition among the younger members of the Church who are growing up, that they may also develop that spirit of honesty, fair dealing and justice in their lives. 

BREAKDOWN OF HONESTY AND FAIR DEALING 

There is a trend in the world and throughout this nation in large measure, because of adverse conditions that have developed in the last few years, to break down the spirit of honesty, fairness, justice and truthfulness. There is a tendency to repudiate debts, whether international or local. There is a tendency sometimes to go into avoidable bankruptcy, whether it be in a municipal or in a private capacity. It is important that we, as parents, in our homes, and as officers of the Church, should fulfil the responsibility to teach and inspire in thei young people of the Church an appreciation of the worth of honesty; and to inculcate in the lives of every one who has to deal with funds and who has to deal with his fellow men, an appreciation of the spirit of honesty, fairdealing and justice. 

I have been astounded in hearing reports that come from business men of misconduct on the part of young men and possibly older men. There are, unfortunately, all too many instances in business life of young men, supposedly of good character and trustworthy, who have embezzled funds from their employers. In a number of such instances employers have protected the losses and protected their employes from prosecution. But, of course, having been found unworthy of trust, they and their families have to suffer through loss of employment and loss of confidence. Honesty is not only the best policy, it is the only policy that can bring peace and satisfaction to every individual. Concealment of misdeeds may be possible for a time, at least, but sooner or later anyone who fails to practice those virtues of trustworthiness and fair dealing will lose the confidence of his fellowmen and fail in those qualities  lie at the very foundation of character and progress. Men may succeed, by devious means, in taking property that does not belong to them, but such practices will destroy the moral fiber of their being. Right of property is guaranteed to us under the constitution. It is true we are subject to the government and to its regulations; and it is true also that we must cooperate in sustaining the government, but at the same time the rights of property can not be made null and void without destroying the spirit and appreciation of fairness among mankind. 

DIVINE INJUNCTIONS 

From Mt. Sinai, many centuries ago, came the injunctions which are just as binding for our welfare at present as at that time : "Thou shalt not steal," "Thou shalt not bear false witness," and "Thou shalt not covet." The prophet Micah, at a later period, made the statement : 

What doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God? 

Upon every one of us rests that obligation to endeavor to be fair, just, honest, straightforward and respectful of mutual rights in our association with our fellow men. If we take advantage of others by fraud, we are just as guilty as one who steals. If we are employees, it is our place to give full, true service for the compensation we receive; if we are employers, to deal justly and fairly with our employees; if we have the handling of trust funds or funds belonging to others, that we manage them strictly and carefully, with a full sense of our responsibilities, and not for a moment touch one cent for our own purposes. 

NEEDS DO NOT JUSTIFY DISHONESTY 

It is true that in some instances people are greatly in need. Sometimes there is real suffering. But there are ways and means whereby needed relief can be obtained, without taking that which does not belong to them. The Church is doing, and will do, that which is necessary for the welfare of; its members who may be in need. Besides, the government and the other agencies that have the handling of relief funds are prepared to do that which is right, proper and fair, according to actual needs. 

HONESTY OF INDIVIDUAL AT HEART 

Unless there is ingrained in the "heart of the individual a real determination to be honest and straightforward, the trials and temptations which he or she will encounter in life will be such as to almost, if not quite, overpower their better motives. Therefore, the importance of thorough home training by the parents by example in their every act and by wise and frequent teaching of their children. At a certain age in childhood the desire to have that which they see is great, and the sense of propriety or ownership is lacking. So the careful training by parents, especially during such period of life, is particularly vital. As Shakespeare very aptly makes one of his characters, Polonius, say to his son Laertes: "This above all, to thine own self be true, and it shall follow as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man." In like manner, the officers of the Church can be very helpful in stimulating constantly an appreciation of the necessity of strict honesty in all matters pertaining to Church membership and activity, and to the affairs of life. 

HONESTY WITH THE LORD 

Just as we should undertake to be true to ourselves and in our relations with our fellow-men, so we should determine to be honest with the Lord. If we have faith in him and in the divinity of this work, we shall endeavor to be true to every principle and seek to practice every virtue which will help us to improve in right living. If we recognize our stewardship here upon the earth, we shall strive to be honest in our donations for the advancement of God's purposes. I believe that any man or woman who is a faithful tithepayer, who lives in accordance with the spirit of that principle, will be honest in his or her dealings with his fellow man. I know it has been said by a banker here — not a member of our Church — that he was willing to trust a faithful tithepayer. I am sure that viewpoint is correct. Rarely, if ever, can you find one who, is faithful in the spirit and practice of that principle who would act dishonestly or unfairly, so far as his understanding goes, with regard to other things. 

The Apostle Paul says: 

Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things. 

May the Lord help us in this respect, and in all other efforts to serve him, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "How firm a foundation," after which Elder Walter K. Barton, President of the Franklin Stake, offered the closing prayer. 


