Morning
07 10 1934


When the time arrived for commencing the fifth session of the Conference, every seat and available space in the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries was occupied by the people who had gathered from the stakes and missions of the Church. The large Assembly Hall on the Temple Block was also filled with people who could not find accommodation in the Tabernacle, and hundreds of others assembled on the Tabernacle grounds, where they were able, by means of amplifying equipment that had been installed, to listen to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle Choir, under the direction of Professor Anthony C. Lund, furnished the music for this session. 

The meeting commenced promptly at 10 o'clock. 

The choir sang an anthem, "An Angel from on High," duet by Cyril Martin and Ida Hepworth. 

Elder Asael E. Palmer, President of the Lethbridge Stake, offered the invocation. 

The choir sang, "Lead kindly light." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I would like to announce, as many of you may not be informed, that Brother Rufus K. Hardy is now presiding over the New Zealand Mission, which is the reason he does not appear on the stand. 

I wish to say for Brother Hardy that he is a man who is loved by all who know him. The older members of the Council of Seventy have nominated Brother Hardy, and we are very pleased indeed to approve their nomination. He is a tried and true Latter-day Saint. He had one of the most remarkable and splendid mothers. All of the rest of us have been talking about our mothers, so I will talk about his. 

Annie K. Hardy was an outstanding woman. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

My beloved brethren and sisters, if it were possible I would have you interpret my feelings this morning by looking into the depths of my soul, and thus save me the seeming impossibility of describing them to you. Needless to say I am overwhelmed. During the past few days I have had difficulty in keeping my thoughts and feelings under control. The light heart, the buoyancy of spirit that should accompany the high appointment that has come to me has been somewhat counter-balanced by a heaviness incident to the realization of the great responsibility that comes with the call to the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT GRANT A TRUE FRIEND 

I love President Heber J. Grant. He has been to me a true friend; more than that, since my father died I have felt free to go to President Grant for help and counsel as I would go to my own father. His nature is as open, as pure and clear as a faultless crystal — open, loyal, true. I esteem it indeed the highest compliment and privilege to have this expression of his confidence. With all my soul I pray for strength that I may not disappoint him, and that I may be true to the trust that he and my Heavenly Father have thus reposed in me. 

LOVE AND ADMIRATION FOR PRESIDENT CLARK 

I have known President Clark since my school days in the University of Utah. 1 admired him then. I considered him one of the choicest young men I had ever seen or had ever known. His ability was evident even to his schoolmates. He and the sweet girl who later became my sweetheart and wife, were graduated with their A. B. degrees on the same day. We have followed him in his work in Washington, we were thrilled when we learned of the responsibility that he carried there, and the trust which the members of the Senate of the United States placed upon him even before his name was generally known. I love him as a friend, and to be associated with him now in this high quorum, the highest in the Church, makes me feel very happy and thankful, but also very humble. 

LIVES CONSECRATED TO SERVICE 

And so if you could look into my soul you would see sincere gratitude and deep appreciation. You would find there also a regret that I am leaving the immediate association with the members of the Council of the Twelve. For twenty-eight and one-half years it has been my privilege to work side by side with these good and able men. President Clawson I love with all my soul. His worth and ability are not generally known. He is retiring, he is quiet in his labors, a perfect gentleman, genial, kind, and considerate. As the president of the Council he is prompt in attending to questions and problems referred to the group, as loyal and true in his testimony as the polar star, unwavering, undeviating in the discharging of duty and trust. It is not easy to disentwine my soul directly from his, my president. That entwinement is just as binding with the hearts of these brethren with whom I have worked daily, at times in committees, considering the welfare of the Church at large, and the welfare of individuals. I want to bear witness today that you may travel the world over, you may read your histories of men devoted to great undertakings, and noble problems, but you cannot find a group of men whose lives are more consecrated, whose desires are more noble in the interests, the happiness and peace of mankind, than are the lives and desires of these, my associates in the Council of the Twelve Apostles of this Church. 

You must live with them to know them. You must be in daily contact with the burdens they are carrying, with their concerns and anxieties for the youth, their willingness to go to the ends of the world at a moment's call if need be to establish better conditions, to make the world happier, more peaceful, more just, and bring about more amicable conditions and relationships in human society. And so it is not an easy task, I say, it is not without regret that I withdraw my membership in that Council. 

APPRECIATIVE OF TRUST 

I appreciate the trust you, my brethren and sisters, have manifested in me. It is a wonderful thing to be trusted. I said last night to the brethren of the Priesthood that I agree with him who says that to be trusted is a greater compliment than to be loved. Love is the sweetest thing in the world, but to be trusted throws upon him who receives that trust an obligation that he must not fail to discharge. And so I pledge you here, my fellow workers in the First Presidency, you my brethren of the Priesthood, in whose company I have spent so many happy hours in Priesthood and auxiliary work, I pledge you, my brethren and sisters, to give my best in the service of God. 

I uphold before you this morning the President of this Church as God's representative, divinely appointed, and say to all Israel, stand by your chief. Let that spirit of unity and oneness for which our Lord and Savior prayed on the night of his betrayal, be characteristic of this his Church : Father, keep them one, as thou and I are one. 

' MAN DESTINED TO BE HAPPY 

I am happy when I know that my associates are happy. We cannot be happy if our loved ones are discouraged or ill. We are social beings and our lives are intricately woven one with another, and we progress as a body when individuals in the body progress. I have noted recently something which has given me concern. I have thought that I have detected in men and women who have called upon me and whom I have met in my travels just a little evidence of discouragement, and yet it is our right to be happy. It is the destiny of man to have joy, and I ask, during the few moments that I further stand before you that you direct your attention with me along some lines which may help us to keep that joy, notwithstanding the economic conditions and the failures that have brought about many moments of discouragement- and sadness. 

DISTRESSFUL CONDITIONS 

Difficulties and sorrows have recently been dominant in our lives. The unprecedented crises in the financial world have dislodged men from their old moorings and set them adrift in confusion and in many cases despair. Land owners have seen their farms pass to others' hands, while they themselves distractedly seek new arid strange employment. Families have lost their homes with which are associated the tender memories of half a lifetime. Young men and young women recently graduated from college, eager to start out in a chosen vocation or a profession, find avenues that were formerly open and inviting now closed against them, and they seek advice and guidance, and sometimes we find difficulty in pointing out to them an encouraging road. 

To these and other distresses has been added the sorrow associated with, the passing of loved ones and to the Church the loss of great and able leaders. I had the privilege and honor through the kindness of President Ivins' family to express my feelings towards that great leader and I sense with you all that his passing means to this Church. 

SUNSHINE NEEDED 

But notwithstanding these conditions I feel like pleading with my brethren and sisters to set their faces firmly to the front and decide to enjoy the blessings with which our Father has blessed us. 

There are seeds of happiness planted in every human soul. Our mental attitude and disposition constitute the environment in which these seeds may germinate. There is as much need for sunshine in the heart as for sunshine in the world. Today as perhaps never before mankind needs encouragement and cheer. One writer says : "Not having enough sunshine is what ailed the world. Make people happy and there will not be half the quarreling nor a tenth part of the wickedness there is." 

It is a duty to seek to acquire the art of being cheerful — "A cheerful spirit is one of the most valuable gifts ever bestowed upon humanity by a kind Creator. It is the sweetest and most fragrant flower of the spirit that constantly sends out its beauty and fragrance and blesses everything within its reach." I think the writer goes to a little extreme. Cheerfulness is but one quality, but it is a wonderful strength in time of distress. 

THE PURPOSE OF WORLDLY POSSESSIONS 

If the experience of the past few years has taught us anything it has taught us that it is unwise to seek happiness in worldly possessions only. I say only because I do not minimize the value of material things of the world as contributing factors to man's peace, joy and contentment. The Lord himself has said that if we worship him with rejoicing and prayer, with glad hearts and cheerful countenances, the fulness of the earth is ours. 

In the Doctrine and Covenants he says plainly: 

The fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth; 

Yea, and the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards; 

Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart; 

Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul. 

And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither for extortion. 

However, to seek happiness or even contentment in the acquisition of these worldly things alone is to lose sight of the higher purpose of life. And that is one reason why there is discouragement and why there is despair generally in the world. The seeking of these material things has been the end, and now that they seem to be suddenly wiped away, men are distracted: 

A PROPER SENSE OF VALUES 

In "The Simple Life" by Charles Wagner, he writes upon this theme and says, referring to material things : "Let your needs rule you, pamper them — you will see them multiply like insects in the sun. The more you give them the more they demand. He is senseless who seeks for happiness in material prosperity alone." 

Recently I re-read an excellent book written by one of our educators, Dr. R. V. Chamberlain, as a tribute to his departed brother. It is a treatise on the philosophy of a good man's life. From it I quote the following : 

The world has progressed because of people who cared but little for material rewards, people who knew that mortal self-denial is the only path to self-realization. By sacrificing our ideals we do not throw ourselves away, but achieve the higher sides of ourselves. Civilization has come from the struggles of men and women in the past who risked all for ideals, for spiritual values that they might become the common possession of the race. We who see the path today are unworthy if we do not take up the burden. The race goes down when it loses its sense of values, and the success of democracy depends upon the people's living in the understanding of the spirit and the obligations of righteousness. In the world today men have not advanced their ideals with an intensity commensurate with economics and material expansion. Wisdom has not kept pace with learning, nor righteousness with power. 

So many people have lost the proper sense of values, and have sought peace and happiness in vain in the acquisition of wealth at the expense of spiritual growth. 

THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS 

Wherein then does the secret of happiness lie ? The Savior gives us the key to it when he says : "The kingdom of God is within you." The power is within man to choose the right or to choose the wrong. Happiness is not an external condition, it is a state of the spirit and attitude of the mind. 

It's no' in titles nor in the rank, It's no' in wealth like Lun'on bank, To purchase peace and rest. It's no' in makin' muckle mair, It's no' in books, it's no' in lear To make us truly blest, 

If happiness ha'e not her center i' the breast. We may be wise or rich or great, But never can be blest — 

Nae pleasures, nor treasures can make us happy lang, The heart aye's the part aye That makes us right or wrang. FUNDAMENTAL CONDITIONS 

Let us consider this morning four conditions in which we can always find happiness, conditions which are to the little seeds of joy in our souls what the ray of light and moisture are to the flowers and growing plants. 

First is Trust in God. To have faith that God is our Father is the safest anchorage of the soul and brings peace and solace under any condition; and the second is Confidence in Our Fellow Men. You note at once, of course, how these go back to those two great commandments : "Love the Lord with all thy might, mind, and strength, and thy neighbor as thyself." 

Now let us not consider these merely as orthodox principles. They are fundamental in our happiness and salvation here. I know that it is a little difficult today to keep confidence in certain groups of men. It is dreadfully discouraging to lose confidence in an associate. When we see and read about human jackals who are preying upon society, we find it hard sometimes to keep our poise and let the sunshine of confidence enter our souls, and yet I believe it is true that mankind generally are growing better. This I do know that often when we misjudge a brother and seem to lose confidence in him, if we will go to him and find his point of view our confidence will be restored. The poet was right when he said : 

Have you ever sat down and talked with men in a serious sort of way, 

Of their views of life, and pondered then on all they had to say? 

If not, you should, in some quiet hour; 

It's a glorious thing to do, 

For back of the wealth and back of the power 

Most men have a goal in view. 

Associate that thought with the fundamental teaching of our Lord and Master, who said: "If ye have aught against a brother, go to him." 

COUNT YOUR BLESSINGS 

Brethren and sisters, with debts piled upon you, with difficulty to pay your taxes, with the loss of your home pending, if you would still be happy, look to yourself and count your blessings, and keep confidence in your God and in your fellow man. 

Another source of joy within your reach is the proper evaluation of blessings. You have your health. Next to life itself that is one of the greatest blessings that can come to you — the second blessing that we mortals are capable of receiving, a blessing that money cannot buy. If you have it, thank the Lord night and morning that he has given it to you. 

In addition to this he has given you ability to appreciate his glorious Gospel, the sunshine, the voice of nature speaking to you. Do you open your eyes and see it? I have rejoiced during this conference to hear the brethren acknowledge the blessing of our environment, the products of the field, scanty as they are, in some sections of the country, the flowers blooming, the sunsets, and above all the realization that we are living in 

God's world and that he is the Creator of it. If you stop to think you still have the power and ability to appreciate and to enjoy things which no one, no depression can take from you. 

There is something else which we sometimes do not properly evaluate. That is our family. I know it hurts us if we see our loved ones hungry. As President Grant so impressively said, there is no need of any child being hungry in this Church. Let us thank God for the organization and say we will buckle to and make our contributions so that these conditions will be removed, and thank him for our loved ones, ours for time and all eternity. 

SOCIAL INTERCOURSE 

Finally, you have the opportunity for social intercourse, an ever present condition of happiness. If you affiliate with your quorum and other organizations, meeting regularly with your fellow men, you will know what that brotherhood is to which I have referred in my association with these brethren in the Council of the Twelve, a brotherhood which is eternal, a family relationship and social contact which will drive sorrow away under any conditions, and you have too the realization that even if death should come you have the assurance that death is now victorious but has been overcome in the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. Count these blessings. They are within the reach of every soul, no matter how humble or how great. 

Admire the goodness of Almighty God. 

He riches gave, He intellectual strength to few, 

Nor now commands to be nor rich nor learned, 

Nor promises reward of peace to these. 

On all he moral worth bestowed, 

And moral tribute asks from all, 

And who that could not pay ? 

Who born so poor of intellect, so mean 

Who born so poor as not to know what seemed the best, 

And unknowing might not do? 

And he who acted thus fulfilled the law eternal 

And its promises reaped in peace. 

That means that you know what is right. If you have lived true to that prompting of the Holy Spirit and continue to do so happiness will fill your soul. If you vary from it and become conscious you have fallen short of what you know is right, you are going to be unhappy if you have the wealth of the world. To do that is to "seek roses on the cheek of death," "grapes 'neath the icy pole," "substance in a world of fleeting shades." 

A GUIDE 

And so, brethren and sisters, what if we do have economic distress, universal almost? Let us ever keep in mind that life is largely what we make it, and that the Savior of men has marked clearly and plainly just how joy and peace may be obtained. It is in the Gospel of Jesus Christ and adherence thereto. Do your duties no matter how humbly, and resolve even in the face of difficulties and discouragements to be : Like the man who faces what he must With step triumphant and a heart of cheer; Who fights the daily battle without fear; Sees his hopes fail, yet keeps unfaltering trust That God is God. 

Happy the people whose God is the Lord, says the Psalmist 

— that somehow, true and just 

His plans work out for mortals; not a tear 

Is shed when fortune, which the world holds dear, 

Falls from his grasp; better, with love, a crust 

Than living in dishonor; envies not, 

Nor loses faith in man; but does his best, 

Nor ever mourns over his humbler lot, 

But with a smile and words of hope, gives zest 

To every toiler! he alone is great 

Who by a life heroic conquers fate. 

And the Holy Ghost, to which each one who has obeyed the first principles of the Gospel is entitled will give him or her that heroic soul and bring peace, peace even in the midst of disaster. 

May God bless us all with power to keep our post, to do our duty, and under all circumstances to be true to him and to each other, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation joined in singing the hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, once more I stand before you, the beneficiary of your trust and confidence. You have honored me as I have never been honored before. You have placed upon me a responsibility which I never before had. I can only say to you that every atom of strength which I possess will be used so to live that I may merit the trust and the confidence which you have indicated, and that I may receive the inspiration and the blessings which I must ask you to ask the Lord to give unto me. 

We are missing today the face, perhaps not the presence, of one who has been with us during a long life, President Ivins. For his great work, for the lesson of his life, for his faith, for his counsel, we are all devoutly grateful. The most earnest hope that I myself have is that while it shall please the Lord to have me in the place which he held, I shall be measurably able to do the work which he performed. 

CONFERENCES TO IMPART SPIRITUALITY 

I missed this morning, speaking personally, the broadcast of the choir. It has seemed to me, in the times that I have been here, that nothing has given us more of the Spirit with which to begin a session than their beautiful singing. I accompanied them to Chicago. I rejoiced in their . I congratulate them in their excellence. I pray the Lord to continue to bless them. 

We are met today in a general conference. Sometimes, I hear, the people feel, some of them, that perhaps we are not quite as "peppy" as we ought to be. But this is not a Church convention. This is a general conference where we meet for general counsel and advice. It is a place to which we come for the results of the reflective operations of our minds. We expect to hear reflective discourse. It is a sort of spiritual stock-taking for us. It is not so much the mechanics of the operation of the Church, that is concerned in a general conference, as it is the spirituality with which each and every one of us shall approach his respective duties in the Church. 

I want to approve, with all of my heart, all that has been said during this conference. This morning, if the Lord shall so lead me, I want to follow along the lines that were drawn by Brother Stephen L. Richards and referred to by Brother George Albert Smith, and in doing that I wish to assure you that I have in my heart nothing but the deepest sympathy for those who are in distress. And yet, as Brother McKay has beautifully pointed out to us this morning, there are other things in life than those material blessings to get which so many of the world have solely set their hearts. 

LATTER-DAY SAINTS SHOULD SET EXAMPLE 

Eighteen months ago, when first I stood before you I called attentention, as earnestly and seriously as I knew how, to what looked to me to be the dangers that were ahead, and I urged you at that time to practice the old virtues of thrift, of honesty, of truthfulness, of industry, and so on through the list of those I named. All that I said then I say again. 

One year ago, on this occasion, I called your attention to the abuses that had crept into the distribution of our public funds, and I urged you and pleaded with you that, so far as the Church and its membership were concerned, we do not soil our hands with the bounteous outpouring of funds which the government was giving unto us. I renew that plea now. My brethren and sisters, for the sake of the government which we love, for the sake of the government which we believe was divinely inspired, be honest with it. Be honest, just ordinarily gold honest. That is all I ask. 

Do you know that all of the money that we are spending, that the government is spending, must come from you ? The government has no great pile of gold to which it can go to -get what it gives you. The government has not one cent that it does not take from your pockets. Do not imagine, do not believe, do not go on the theory that you are not to pay this bill, unless the fundamentals of our government are to be overturned. 

What we get, we members of the Church, compared with the total mass that is distributed, is almost microscopic, but the spirit in which we might take it, the spirit in which we might spend it, is the leaven that might leaven the whole lump. Let us be patriotic; let us love the government under which we live. 

I am persuaded, from all the facts that have come to me, that it would have been possible, if we had functioned as the Lord intended us to function, if we had paid our tithes and our offerings as the Lord intended us to pay them, we might have gone on without one dollar from our federal government. And has it ever occurred to you what a mighty influence we should have exercised for good and for respect and for all of the virtues that we have been taught, and that God has commanded us to exercise and cultivate and practice, if we had just followed along what he has asked us to do ? 

DESPOTISM, DESTRUCTIVE TO RELIGION AND GOVERNMENT IDEALS 

My brethren and sisters, there are abroad in the world forces — and this I have been saying to you on every occasion that presented itself for the last fifteen years, here in this pulpit — there are forces abroad that do not come from God. There is no dictatorship in the world today, whether that dictatorship be of one man or of a group exercising such control as exists in Russia, that is not striking first and foremost at religion. They are trying to tear down the worship of God and to substitute something else in its stead, and I regret to say that in some parts of this country, in some states of this Union, the issue now seems to be between an ordered, law-governed society and a despotism destructive of religion and of all that our government stands for. I assume this because of the past record of those who are advocating the measures to which I refer. 

May I say this : We believe that Christ will come and reign personally upon the earth. But that is no reason why I should advocate the establishment of a monarchy to overturn the government of the United States. We believe in the United Order, something that was taken away from us because we could not live it, and the lesser law was given, the law of tithing — which we are not living either; but our belief in the United Order is no reason why we should support a movement for Communism, to the overturning of our government. These two propositions are absolutely parallel, the one as rational and reasonable as the other. When the Lord wants his people to move into the United Order he will use his anointed servant to direct the way. 

SUBSTITUTION 

My brethren and sisters, this same element of which I speak — small, I feel sure, and I thank God for this — this same element would substitute for the law that has come to us for over thirty-five hundred years, "Thou shalt not steal," and "Thou shalt not covet," they would substitute the opposite "Steal from those who have. Covet all that your neighbor possesses." 

The Lord has spoken very clearly about these things. He has not left us in darkness on these matters. I am going to read a few verses from Section 56 of the Doctrine and Covenants, given in connection  the rapacity, the pride, and the selfishness of one of the early members of the Church: 

Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my people, you have many things to do and to repent of; for behold, your sins have come up unto me, and are not pardoned, because you seek to counsel in your own ways. 

And your hearts are not satisfied. And ye obey not the truth, but have pleasure in unrighteousness. 

Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation and of judgment, and of indignation: The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved! 

RELY ON THE LORD'S PLAN 

I refer to the words of Elder Richards, and I tell you that any Latter-day Saint who does pay an income tax, and who at the same time pays his tithing, his fast offerings, his donations, his help for the poor, will never be able to get the full benefit under the fifteen per cent which the tax income provides for. In other words, those men among us who have the Spirit of the Lord, and who obey his laws, will always spend more than fifteen per cent of their income for the Church and its work and people. That is one reason why I say to you as I said a few moments ago, that if we had but hearkened to the Lord and obeyed his commandments there would have been no occasion for us to have drawn on the federal government. I also say to you that in my opinion, reached after mature reflection, this people would have been better off materially and spiritually, if we had relied on the Lord's plan and had not used one dollar of government funds. 

This revelation goes on: 

Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies arel not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, and who will not labor with your own hands! 

Those are not my words, my brethren and sisters. Those are the words of the Lord, a commandment to this day and generation. 

For behold, (the revelation continues) the Lord shall come, and his recompense shall be with him, and he shall reward every man, and the poor shall rejoice; 

And their generations shall inherit the earth, from generation to generation, forever and ever. And now I make an end of speaking unto you. Even so. Amen. 

THROUGH HONESTY COMES POWER AND DIGNITY 

My brethren and sisters, once more I appeal to your patriotism, I appeal to your integrity, I appeal to your standing in the Church — in your dealings with the government be just plain, simple, money honest. Then there will come among this people such a spirit of power and dignity and of uplifting, that has not been known in my generation at least. 

I thank you for those of you who are faithful — and you are the great majority — for those of you who are trying to follow after the foot-steps of the Master, for those of you who are doing your utmost to live the GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Gospel of Christ, for those of you who can say, as did Paul of old to Timothy, — and I want to read it : 

For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith : 

Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day; and not to me only, but unto al] them also that love his appearing. 

Again, my brethren and sisters, in this hour, filled with love and with respect for this government of ours, which if men do not change their greediness and their avarice and their covetousness, stands in gravest danger, — again I plead with you, be money honest with our government. 

May God give us his Spirit at all times and in all circumstances, and enable us to live as he would have usl live, always true and faithful to his principles, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, this great gathering is an amazing sight. The Tabernacle is filled to its utmost capacity. Last evening it was reported there were five thousand of the Priesthood assembled here. Later word came that the number was seven thousand. I presume there are some people who would interpret this to mean that Mormonism is failing. I have been thrilled with the spirit of this conference; the testimonies and exhortations that have been given were powerful, and the singing has been most excellent. 

I desire to speak a word of appreciation for the Singing Mothers who have done so well during the conference, under the direction of Mrs. Charlotte Sackett, a capable leader. As to the Tabernacle Choir, I need only to say its work is "par excellence." 

INTELLIGENCE NECESSARY TO ACCEPTABLE WORSHIP 

Brethren and sisters, the moments are precious, and in order to conserve the time, I jotted down a few thoughts that have been running through my mind during the conference. This is the fifth session of the conference. We are assembled here to worship the Lord, but we cannot worship him intelligently and acceptably without some knowledge of just What kind of being he is. 

Paul, the apostle, said: "This is life eternal that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." There are some people in the world around us who contend that God is a being without body, parts or passions, and is incomprehensible. Truly such a God is incomprehensible. 

ATTRIBUTES ASCRIBED TO GOD 

The) God of the Bible, that being whom the Latter-day Saints wor101 , it is evident, has a body, parts and passions, for in the beginning he said : 

"Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." And the record goes on to say that God did make man in his own image and after his likeness. It is disclosed in Holy Writ that Moses saw God and talked with him face to face. It is also recorded that Christ Jesus was in the express image of God his Father. 

The attributes of God which in combination go to make his character are glorious to contemplate. The Lord is a God of mercy, a God of truth, a God of justice and a God of love. In respect to these great attributes God is unchangeable. In Malachi the following scripture is found : 

For I am the Lord, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. 

In one of the Psalms we read "The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy." These references clearly indicate that God has passions. 

And on the other hand, my brethren and sisters, the Lord refers to himself as a God of vengeance, and I am going to read to you now a few words from the book of Doctrine and Covenants. Let me emphasize the importance of this record. It is a great book. It contains revelations of God in latter times, given to Joseph Smith the Prophet, and others. I refer to Section 133, and the words there recorded are extremely important and impressive : 

And it shall be said : 'Who is this that cometh down from God in heaven with dyed garments; yea, from the regions which are not known, clothed in his glorious apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength? 

And he shall say : I am he who spake in righteousness, mighty to save. 

And the Lord shall be red in his apparel, and his garments like him that treadeth in the wine-vat. 

And so great shall be the glory of his presence that the sun shall hide his face in shame, and the moon shall withhold its light, and the stars shall be hurled from their places. 

And his voice shall be heard : I have trodden the wine-press alone, and have brought judgment upon all people; and none were with me; 

And I have trampled them in my fury, and I did tread upon them in mine anger, and their blood have I sprinkled upon my garments, and stained all my raiment; for this was the day of vengeance which was in my heart. 

And again, in the same great section : 

And also that which was written by the prophet Malachi: For, behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. 

WICKED WILL HAVE OPPORTUNITY 

The great mercy of the Lord, however, is shown by the fact that he will withhold his final judgment from overtaking the wicked till after the Gospel has been preached to them, the message reaching every nation, kindred, tongue and people. The responsibility of putting over the GosGENERAL CONFERENCE  message rests with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, through its important missionary system. 

The contrast between the destruction of the wicked and the salvation of the righteous is set forth in impressive language in Section 133 also. Now, listen, my brethren and sisters, to these wonderful words of the Lord : 

And now the year of my redeemed is come; and they shall mention the loving kindness of their Lord, and all that he has bestowed upon them according to his goodness, and according to his loving kindness, forever and ever. 

In all their afflictions he was afflicted. And the angel of his presence saved them; and in his love, and in his pity, he redeemed them, and bore them, and carried them all the days of old. 

Yea, and Enoch also, and they who were with him; the prophets who were before him; and Noah also, and they who were before him; and Moses also, and, they who were before him; 

And from Moses to Elijah, and from Elijah to John, who were with Christ in his resurrection, and the holy apostles, with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, shall be in the presence of the Lamb. 

And the graves of the saints shall be opened; and they shall come forth and stand on the right hand of the Lamb, when he shall stand upon Mount Zion, and upon the holy city, the New Jerusalem; and they shall sing the song of the Lamb, day and night forever and ever. 

And for this cause, that men might be made partakers of the glories which were to be revealed, the Lord sent forth the fulness of his gospel, his everlasting covenant, reasoning in plainness and simplicity. 

And then this further: 

For since the beginning of the world have not men heard nor perceived by the ear, neither hath any eye seen, O God, besides thee, how great things thou hast prepared for him that waiteth for thee. 

THE TWO ROADS 

It will be seen, from the foregoing impressive and stirring words of the revelation given to the Latter-day Saints, that in the great scheme of life there are two roads to travel, and it is the privilege of every human soul to determine, under the God-given right of his free agency, which road he will elect to follow. If he chooses the road of wickedness it will lead him down to certain destruction. If he chooses the road of righteousness it will lead him up to everlasting life in a kingdom of glory. 

Brethren and sisters, Latter-day Saints, you have elected to follow the road of righteousness. So continue, but remember this : "The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, but to him that endureth to the end." 

CHANGES IN PRESIDING COUNCILS 

Within three and one-half years, as was mentioned in one of yesterday's meetings, some nine of the General Authorities of the Church have gone hence. Death came and took them. There were two members of the First Presidency, President Anthony W. Ivins and President Charles W. Nibley. There were two members of the Council of the Twelve, Brother Orson F. Whitney and Brother James E. Talmage. 103 

There was the Patriarch, Brother Hyrum G. Smith; and four members of the First Council of Seventy, Brother Rey L. Pratt, Brother Joseph W. McMurrin, Brother B. H. Roberts, and last week, Brother Charles H. Hart. These were great and good men. They were valiant for the testimony of Jesus. They did a good work and kept the faith, and thus it was that they followed the road to righteousness. They will come forth in the morning of the first resurrection and enter into immortality and eternal life. 

Now the gap that has been made by death in the ranks of these leading quorums has been closed. We will greatly miss Presidents Ivins and Nibley and these brethren of the First Council who were strong in testimony and wise in exhortation. Others have come to take their place, and it must be a satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints, to the Church generally, that there is now no rent, no gap in these higher councils of the Church. 

Brother David O. McKay has gone from the Council of the Twelve and is now sustained as Second Counselor in the quorum of the First Presidency. He is a man that we have truly loved. He has had our utmost confidence. As a member of the Council of the Twelve he accomplished a great and a good work that will follow him throughout life and throughout all eternity. 

BEARS TESTIMONY 

In conclusion permit me, my brethren and sisters, to bear my testimony. I love the Lord God because I can comprehend him, because I know that he has a body, parts and passions, and is in the form of man. I love him because of the glorious attributes of his character, and, thus loving him, I feel that I can approach him, can worship him acceptably and intelligently. I love Jesus Christ because he is the Son of the living God and is in the likeness of his Father. I can comprehend that. I love him particularly for the great atonement that he wrought out through the shedding of his precious blood. He is your Savior and he is my Savior. I love Joseph Smith because he was and is a true prophet of God, who stands at the head of this great last dispensation. I know that this is the work of God and that it will never be overthrown. 

I pray God the Eternal Father to bless the Latter-day Saints, to bless the Presidency of the Church and the Twelve and the First Council of Seventy, to bless all the leaders of the Church down through the various ranks of the Priesthood. This I do in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

A TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT IVINS 

The Apostle Paul revealed the secret of the grandeur of his life when he said : "Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me." President Anthony W. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Ivins with equal truth could bear the same testimony. We who have listened to the counsel and the words of wisdom that flowed from that great man's heart have felt that we were in the presence of the spirit of Christ. 

His life was gentle, and the elements So mixed in him, that nature might stand up And say to all the world, "This was a man!" 

All that has been said of the late President Charles H. Hart and Judge Franklin S. Richards I indorse with all my heart. 

INSPIRED APPOINTMENTS 

President David O. McKay has been elevated to the high position of second counselor in the First Presidency. His remarkable training in the Church indicates "there's a divinity that shapes our ends." One of the best things that can be said about him is that his religion made him. David O. McKay is a chivalrous Christian gentleman. 

When I think of the selection of President Alonzo A. Hinckley to the office of an Apostle, the words of the Lord come to me : "Behold an Israelite indeed in whom is no guile." I have labored with this fine man in the mission field. I know his worth. His aim in life, wherever he is, is to work for the glory of God. And let me say in public what is in my heart, that President Grant was certainly inspired in appointing these men, and also in appointing that good and able man, President LeGrand Richards, to succeed me as President of the Southern States Mission. 

THE VALUE OF THE SCRIPTURES 

The Lord said : "Search the scriptures, for they are they which testify of me." In some of the current literature there is manifested a spirit to make light of, belittle and even ridicule the holy scriptures. The Bible is undervalued. Slurs are cast upon the inspiration of the word of God. But it is heartening to know that the eclipse of faith is not total. The people generally are not underestimating or undervaluing the scriptures — those true riches given to mankind. God has not left himself without witness. 

The British Museum recently purchased for over half a million dollars a fourth century manuscript of the Bible, one of the only two of that era known to exist. This is the greatest price ever paid for a book. It is one of the most notable events of history. The purchase of this precious biblical treasure shows a rare sense of value that the English people place on the Bible. It is a never-dying book. It is read by more people every year. Books may come and books may go, but the Bible goes on forever. 

ORIGIN OF ANESTHETICS 

Dr. Crawford W. Long, of Georgia, was the first man in history, as far as known, to make use of the anesthetic in ether. He was one of Georgia's most distinguished citizens and one of the world's greatest 105 . The idea of producing insensibility to pain by surgical anesthesia by the inhalation of ether was first put into practice by this physician March 30, 1842. 

In Statuary Hall, beneath the great dome of the Capitol in Washington, stands the statue of Dr. Long. On the base of it a quotation from the reverent physician reads as follows : "I regard my profession as a ministry from God." 

In Genesis 2 :21 we read that "The Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam and he slept : and he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh instead thereof." A skeptic compared this verse and the succeeding one to a fairy tale, but Dr. Crawford W. Long declared that it was while reading this very passage in Genesis that the idea of the anesthetic ether occurred to him. Could such a boon to humanity come from a fairy tale ? 

THE SAVIORS SPOKEN WORD 

Dr. John Watson in "The Life of the Master" says : "Were a parchment discovered in an Egyptian mound, six inches square, containing fifty words which were certainly spoken by Jesus, this utterance would count more than all the books which have been published since the first century." In fulfilment of the prophecy of Isaiah and also other prophets, the ancient record of nations long since dead, who dwelt on this the American continent, was taken from the hill Cumorah by angelic direction Sept. 22, 1827. The contents of this, record were translated by the prophet Joseph Smith by the power of God and the aid of the Urim and Thummim, and the Book of Mormon is the fruit of this translation. The history of the men and women on this continent ages ago was shrouded in seemingly impenetrable darkness, but God said: "Let there be light," and there was light. 

The Book of Mormon contains more than fifty words which were certainly spoken by the resurrected Lord, for after his ascension into heaven he appeared to his people on this continent and gave them the true points of his doctrine. He established his Church on American soil and placed within the Church organization prophets, apostles, pastors, teachers, etc. He brought peace to the laboring conscience, eyesight to the blind, and granted the prisoners of sin sweet relief through repentance. The Redeemer healed the sick. He restored unto the people the joy of his salvation and blessed them with the precious gift of the Holy Ghost. 

The Latter-day Saints most surely believe, and know for a certainty that the Book of Mormon contains words certainly spoken by the Son of God. 

If any man will do the will of the Father he shall know that the Book of Mormon is true. Moroni gives this promise to all men : "And if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you by the power of the Holy Ghost. And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

DIVINITY OF CHRIST APPARENT 

When men speak disparagingly of the divinity of Christ there is a great deal of affectation in what they say, because they cannot help but see the nobility, godliness and sacredness of the Savior's life. Sooner or later these scoffers will come to themselves. Without Jesus Christ there would be no hospitals, paintings, sculpture, or any of the arts or real science. For all those who have contributed to the culture, happiness and instruction of mankind have received their inspiration from the Redeemer. And when modernists have sought to bury the divine Christ beneath a mountain of modernistic chaff, behold, the cry is heard throughout the land "Christ is risen." 

Only a few months ago many of the leading journals in the world paid a fabulous price for the right to publish "The Life Of Our Lord," by the celebrated Charles Dickens. God has not and never will leave himself without witness. Dust storms of criticism may arise and meteors may fall about us, but the grand constellations in God's heavens, displaying his power, still burn there, a perpetual witness to every soul beneath the spangled heavens that Jesus is divine. In the lives of men whom we love for their uprightness, the ideals of the Savior are finding expression. More men and women, and they would be the best of Adam's race, would die for the Son of God, who gave all for us, than for any other cause under the spacious firmament. 

RAYS OF LIGHT HARNESSED 

In Job 38 :32, 33, we read : "Canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?" Arcturus is a far-off star, of the first magnitude, one of the brightest in the entire heavens. It supplied the current to start the illumination of the grounds of the Century of Progress Exposition. Well, over a year ago science accepted this God-given challenge, — and throughout the scriptures God is challenging science to come up higher and devise ways and means for the amelioration of the state of mankind. Science, true science, is nobly responding to this challenge. 

More than forty years ago, according to astronomers, Arcturus threw off a beam of light which has been on its way ever since, arriving in time to start the World's Fair in Chicago. Think of that light beam which has been traveling through millions of miles of space for the last forty years. Scientists, so we are told, constructed "delicate electrical mechanisms and installed them in astronomical observatories which transformed the beam of light into current to be transmitted over special wires to Chicago to throw the master switch and illuminate the grounds of the Century of Progress Exposition." Thus scientists harnessed and used this ray of light, one of the sons of Arcturus, to put the grounds of the World's Fair in a blaze of glory. The works of God are wonderful. 

RAYS OF LIVING LIGHT 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that rays of living light have come down out of heaven — rays of pre-existence, which throw a 107  of light upon the origin of mankind; rays of a glorious resurrection, and the eternity of the marriage covenant, which destroy the sting of death and the victory of the grave. Moreover, there have come the rays of faith in the true and living God and his Son; repentance, which means a change of heart; baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, which baptism foreshadows the glorious truth that we shall rise from the dead "in the likeness of his resurrection", the gift of the Holy Ghost which angels enjoy, which enables us to say "so nigh is grandeur to our dust, so near to God is man." Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

The Almighty created an instrument in the world to receive these rays of living light, and Joseph Smith was the foreordained instrument placed on the earth by divine wisdom to receive this glorious light. Through the Priesthood, by the preaching of the plan of salvation, these beams of light have been transmitted to the uttermost parts of the earth and the hearts of men and women are ablaze with the light of the everlasting Gospel. 

The mission of the Church is to prepare the world for the second coming of the Son of God. With countless millions who, with streaming eyes, are praying for his glorious advent, I pray: "Surely I come quickly. Even so, come, Lord Jesus." Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Great is Jehovah," solo by Sister Margaret Hewlett. 

Elder Don B. Colton, President of the Eastern States Mission, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 

THIRD DAY 


