Morning
06 10 1934

The Conference reconvened Saturday morning, October 6, at 10 o'clock a. m. 

The congregation joined in singing the hymn, "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning." 

Elder Heber Q. Hale, President of the Boise Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

A sacred solo, "The Holy City," was sung by Sister Mildred Bradford. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, who were unanimously sustained as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator, and President of The 

Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Reed Smoot Melvin J. Ballard 

George Albert Smith John A. Widtsoe 

George F. Richards Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L. Richards J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Alonzo A. Hinckley 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and The Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVENTY 

Jonathan G. Kimball Antoine R. Ivins 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Rufus K. Hardy PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following Assistants: Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Stephen L. Richards 

David O. McKay Richard R. Lyman 

Willard Young John A. Widtsoe 

Rudger Clawson Adam S. Bennion 

Joseph F. Merrill Charles A. Callis 

Franklin S. Harris Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

John A. Widtsoe 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John W. Hart 

Orval W. Adams 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

David A. Smith, President Anthony C. Lund, Conductor 

B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

CLERK OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Julia A. Child, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, First Assistant Superintendent George D. Pyper, Second Assistant Superintendent < with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, First Assistant Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, Second Assitant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, First Assistant Superintendent Edith Hunter Lambert, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Afbstles 

I desire that I may have the blessing- of the Lord, that the few moments I occupy will be profitable to us all. We have had a delightful time thus far. I have enjoyed the privilege of greeting so many of my brethren and sisters that I do not frequently see. Today I have come here with a prayer in my heart that we may continue to enjoy the favor of the Lord, bestowed upon us so richly in the past. 

A MARVELOUS CHANGE 

Sixty-nine years ago today a general conference of the Church was held in this building. The first to be enjoyed here. What a marvelous change has been wrought during the period of time that has elapsed since then! How the Lord has preserved this people! We have become somewhat popular with many of our Father's children in the world now, but in those days there were few, not members of this Church, who dared to even suggest that they were friendly to the Church. But the Lord promised those who came out from Nauvoo that if they would migrate into the tops of these mountains and live according to his teachings, they would be a happy people. That is the promise of our Heavenly Father to all who seek him and keep his commandments. 

RECIPE FOR TRUE HAPPINESS 

During these troublous times when so many are in distress, seeking happiness and not finding it, I think the finest recipe that I could give, to obtain happiness, would be: Keep the commandments of the Lord. That is easy to remember, and if we will do that we may be sure of success. 

All down through the ages the Lord has inspired his choice servants and they have taught the people the Gospel, they have pointed outj the way of true happiness. And yet, by his cunning craftiness Satan has persuaded the majority of mankind from walking in that pathway that will insure happiness, and he is still busy. That is one thing you may be sure of, that the adversary of righteousness never sleeps. 

Yesterday reference was made to the fact that there are some of our brethren and sisters who may be influenced if they are not careful, into following unwise leadership in their efforts to obtain food, raiment, shelter, etc. Remember one of the oldest of the Lord's commandments, "Thou shalt not covet." 

OLD AGE PENSIONS 

A man this morning stopped me as I came down the street, and requested me to sign a petition. I asked "What is it?" He said : "You believe in old-age pensions, don't you?" And I replied: "Well, my brother, I have always believed in caring for old age, and I have been making contributions for old age ever since I was a wage-earner, in some form or another; but," I asked, "does your petition suggest $200 a month for all those past sixty years of age?" He said : "Yes." I said, "Well, that appears to me to be excessive. I cannot see any justification for that." 

"Now," I said, "do not misunderstand me. I am not complaining at anything that may be done for sixty-year-old people who, by reason of indigent circumstances and distresses, are not able to take care of themselves. I am not opposed to something being done to provide the means whereby they may live and be comfortable, but," I said, "this proposition of yours appears unreasonable to me." I hope I didn't wound his feelings. I had no desire to do so. I have always desired to be kind, especially to those in distress. We are likely, if we are not careful, to run off on a tangent, following some new idea, and if we will just pause long enough to consider and investigate, we will discover that it is not workable. 

THE LORD'S WAY 

The Lord, in his mercy, has told us much that we should do. He has instructed us to be industrious. During this conference reference has been made to the fact that we should go to bed early and arise early, after being refreshed. That is the Lord's advice to us. Among the things that come to my mind just now, that our Heavenly Father has suggested to us, is that we honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy; that we observe the Word of Wisdom; that we keep ourselves clean and pure and unspotted from the sins of the world; that we love one another; that we go about doing good. In fact, there are so many things that I will not take time to men them to you this morning, but you know what I mean, — the Lord's way, not man's way. 

That is why this Church was organized, in order that we might be directed by the influences of our Heavenly Father. That is the purpose of it, to prepare us for eternal life in the celestial kingdom. When I think of the great and good men and women who have lived in this Church from the beginning, who have gone through all kinds of hardships, and have remained faithful to their trust and gone home, I think what a marvelous example has been set us! 

We saw portrayed, last night, in the beautiful pageant presented here, some of the experiences of Wilford Woodruff, who lived to be 92 years of age, retaining his faculties; and almost the last thing that he did was to express his desire to those around him that they should honor God and keep his commandments. 

OUR LEADERS TODAY 

We are here this morning in a worshipping capacity, to wait upon the Lord. We are assembled under the presidency of the man who has been called to direct the policy of this Church, associated with his counselors and the other brethren. These are our leaders today. My heart is full of gratitude that I am permitted to be here. I regret that Brother Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve, cannot be with us, but he is in the line of his duty, performing a splendid service as president of the European Mission. I am grateful for the privilege that is mine to mingle my voice and associate with my brethren and my sisters in this, one of the great semi-annual conferences of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

SHOULD BE INDUSTRIOUS 

We live in perilous times. We need the inspiration of our Heavenly Father. We can't expect it unless we keep his commandments. He said long, long ago there were idlers in Zion, and he complained at them, and he said, "He that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." I am assuming that he did not mean those who cannot find employment, and who are legitimately trying to take care of themselves. I am assuming that he referred to the habit some people get into of leaning upon their neighbor. Maybe that is the wrong interpretation, but that is the way I view it. I feel that there has been no justification given to any man in this world to feel that he can depend on somebody else to provide him a livelihood. I did not feel when I was a child that somebody would be compelled to provide me a means of living. The Lord gave me intel" ligence. He directed that I should work, and I began to work when I was twelve years of age, and I found joy in it, and have earned my living and helped others during more than fifty years. 

I thank God for work, for the joy that comes from doing things in the world. I am not indicating any particular kind of employment except that it be honorable. But the Lord has indicated that we should be industrious. In ancient times he said that we should earn our living by the sweat of our face. There are means available today whereby, if we were keeping all of the commandments of our Heavenly Father, there would be employment for every one of us that would occupy most of our time. 

THE FAULTS OF OTHERS 

' This morning, not in criticism, not in a spirit of fault-finding I plead with you my brethren and my sisters, let us be generous with one another. Let us be as patient with one another as we would like others to be with us. Let us see the virtues of our neighbors and our friends and speak of those virtues, not find fault and criticize. If we will do that we will radiate sunshine, and those who know us best will love us. 

I read some time ago, in one of the old records of the Church, that from this very stand a sermon was preached in which one of the brethren called attention to the fact that in a group of ten men and women, assembled together and examined each apart from the others, saying, "I would like you to tell me what you think of these, your associates," the first one explained that they were good people but each had an outstanding fault, and he said each one of them found fault with every other one of that group, but they forgot to criticize themselves. Out of the ten that had been assembled and given an opportunity to talk, nine people could find fault with all of the others, but the nine people did not find in themselves any fault at all. Now, let us think of that. That was right from this very stand years ago. 

Aren't we rather prone to see the limitations and the weaknesses of our neighbors? Yet that is contrary to the teachings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. There is a class of people who find fault and criticize always in a destructive way. There is a difference in criticism. If we can criticize constructively under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, we may change beneficially and properly some of the things that are being done. But if we have the spirit of fault finding, of pointing out the weaknesses and failings of others in a destructive manner, that never comes as the result of the companionship of the Spirit of our Heavenly Father and is always harmful. 

FOLLOWING THE NARROW WAY 

If in our own homes we have family prayers and teach our children to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord, we are in the narrow way. If we teach our children to thank the Lord for the food that we have, and feel to appreciate our blessings, we are in the narrow way. If we, when we are called upon to do ward teaching, go into the homes of the Latter-day Saints as servants of the Lord, and call the family together and teach them the Gospel of Jesus Christ, point them to the pathway that leads to eternal happiness, we are in the line of our duty and pleasing the Lord. 

So I might go on and enumerate many things, little things that we see around us every day, but they are important. We should attend to our secret prayers. We should live so near to our Heavenly Father that when we bow before him we may know that the thing we are asking will be pleasing unto him, and if it isn't granted in the way that we ask it we may know that the blessing will come to us that we are entitled to and that will really be a blessing. 

IN THE HOMES OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

I have shaken hands during this conference with a number of my brethren and my sisters. How happy I am to have this opportunity! I have been in your homes during the last few years, at intervals. I have had joy when I have stepped into the homes of the Latter-day Saints, and when I went in I found the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord there. I found politeness and kindness among the children of the household. I saw cleanliness and good order in the house. I felt an influence of appreciation and gratitude for the blessings of our Heavenly Father. That made me happy. I have had joy and I am grateful for it, and this morning I thank you who have been so kind to me for your good care of me and my brethren. 

IN THIS BUILDING 

I have mentioned the fact that here, sixty-nine years ago, this building was opened, and from that time until now many marvelous instructions have been given to the Latter-day Saints. I have been in this house when the Spirit of God has been poured out upon us and there were few eyes not moistened by tears. Our souls were subdued. We felt to repent of our sins. When we possess the Spirit of the Lord we always have the spirit of repentance. Whenever our hearts are hard and we can't repent, we may know that we have not a proper spirit. So today I am thinking of the teachings that have echoed in this grand old building that is worldfamous now because of what has been accomplished here. 

The Tabernacle Choir has called the attention, I might say, of the entire world, by now, to the fact that there exists an excellent musical organization in the great "Mormon" Tabernacle, accompanied by this wonderful organ. They are preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and we are beneficiaries of that blessing. 

THREE MIGHTY MEN 

We have referred during this conference to three mighty men recently called home who have discussed the principles of the Gospel from this very pulpit and exhorted us to obey our Father in heaven, in preparation for life in his celestial kingdom. I am thinking of the praiseworthy things that have been said about our brethren who have just left us. We remember them and their virtues just as we remember the last conference, and we remember the last conference as the best conference that we ever had because we are close to it. How fine it would be if we could remember all the truths that we have heard in the other conferences, not only remember them now, but if we could treasure them during life — retaining the teachings of the Lord which came to us through his servants. 

LEADERS WHO HAVE GONE HOME 

Here have stood some of the greatest men that have ever lived upon the earth, marvelous men, who have finished their work and gone home. I feel impressed to mention the names of some of those who from this pulpit have instructed the Latter-day Saints in the years gone by. Brigham Young, a mighty pioneer and leader of the Church; John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith. Think of these men who have passed on, these men that we love and venerate. Heber C. Kimball, George A. Smith, George Q. Cannon, John R. Winder, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, Daniel H. Wells, John Henry Smith, Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt, Ezra T. Benson, Charles C. Rich, Erastus Snow. These men were not ordinary men. They were super-men that God called to lead the people to the valleys of these mountains and instruct them in those pioneer days. Franklin D. Richards, Brigham Young, Jr., Francis M. Lyman, George Teasdale, Marriner W. Merrill, Abram H. Cannon, Abram O. Woodruff, Charles W. Nibley, John Smith, Hyrum G. Smith, Joseph Young, Levi Hancock, Zebedee Coltrin, Albert C. Rockwood, Horace S. Eldredge, Jacob Gates, John Van Cott, William W. Taylor, Seymour B. Young, C. D. Fjeldsted, John Morgan, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Edward Stevenson, Joseph W. McMurrin, Rey L. Pratt, Edward Hunter, William B. Preston, Orson F. Whitney, James E. Talmage and many others. 

I will not take time to refer to more. The list is long but as I think of the men in the years that have passed, who have devoted themselves to the Church until the Lord summoned them home, I marvel at the strength of our leadership. I have missed the names of some of the leaders who have stood here, but these are those that have come into my mind. 

OPPORTUNITY FOR PREPARATION 

This is the Lord's work. This is not the work of man. If we desire to be identified with the kingdom of our Lord, the celestial kingdom, this is our opportunity to prepare, — with love unfeigned, with industry, with thrift, with perseverance, with a desire to do all that is within our power to bless others, to give — not to be always feeling we must receive, but desire to give, for I say to you: "It is more blessed to give than to receive." The Gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of giving, not only of our substance but of ourselves, and I thank my Heavenly Father that I belong to such an organization that has been so instructed. 

SUSTAINING OUR LEADERS 

I pray that the Spirit of God may be in your hearts and in your homes. Let us hold up the hands of these men who preside over us. Vacancies have occurred. They have been filled by servants of the Lord, men that he has chosen, and the vacancies that will be filled now and henceforth will be filled by men that the Lord has selected to be our leaders and our advisers and our counselors. I hope that we will be found in the line of our duty, praying for and sustaining our present leaders, blessing them by our kindness and our love, and presenting them before our Heavenly Father in our daily prayers, asking him that he will give them the richness of his love and blessing. 

I am thankful again, from the bottom of my heart, for my membership in this Church. I know that this is God's work. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God. I know that the men that have succeeded him as presidents of this Church have been leaders by divine appointment. I bear you my witness of it and express to you again my gratitude to have been associated with this work of our Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord, Amen. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles and President of the California Mission 

My brethren and sisters, my soul is subdued. I had never dreamed of such a thing, never heard an intimation of such a thing as my being called into the Council of the Twelve. I stand before you as one who needs your supporting power for a few minutes. 

I have thought in the last few minutes of my father, who is dead and gone. I have grown up in the Church, known all the Authorities since Brigham Young and loved them, sustained them, honored them, have been impressed by them, inspired by them. But my father, to him is the glory of having taught his family by a noble example, by devotion to the truth, by a humble reverence for the Authorities of the Church and loyalty to them all. To my father I give credit, leading his family, as man should lead, by the eloquent life that he led. His words were few but his example was true. No soul, in the presence of my father, was ever permitted to lift his voice and speak words against the Authorities of this Church, without my father offering an objection. I think of him in his teachings, in his prayers. My father prayed; he didn't say his prayers. We knew what was in his heart. We knew that for which he struggled, and we followed him. 

May I pay a tribute to my mother, who, in the days when my father was called away from home, never permitted us to forget our prayers, never failed to kneel in the group. Now I can understand, in these more mature years of my life, her spirit when she tiptoed upstairs, when all was quiet below and we were tucked away in our beds, and she would sit on the edge of the bed and make inquiries, intimate, close inquiries : "Have you said your prayers ?" "Yes." "Did you remember your father who is away ?" Sometimes we had to admit thinking father was so big and great and strong he could meet any situation, had to admit perhaps we had not felt the necessity of praying for him. "Did you pray for those who have not comfortable beds as you have ? Did you pray for those who have not food to eat nor raiment to wear?" So today I pay tribute to that angel mother who left an impression so deep that it has never gone out of the hearts of her children. Blessed be her name! 

Now permit me to pay tribute to the good people with whom I labor. I have sat in meditation this morning, as I came away from the bed of an Elder who had returned from his mission and been back to his home. His friend called up and said : "Could you come down and" bless Elder ?" I said : "I will come right down before meeting." As I sat there and looked at him and thought of him as one who had served as a district president, now needing help, I asked the Lord to give him the faith that I knew he had exercised when he was in the mission field, when he could call upon the Lord to heal the sick through the laying on of hands. I asked the Lord to remember him. I say I came away meditating. I thought: How blessed is my life, associated with these young men, pure and undeflled, who go forth in the strength of their young manhood, under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, divinely commissioned to speak in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, fearful of no man, conscious of their responsibility and conscious of their authority, teaching that which they do know to be true. I say I meditated and thought : What a blessed man am I to be associated with such as these. I thought of the Saints down in the mission. How I love them! I thought of the sixty men who preside over the branches and direct the destinies of those thirteen thousand Latter-day Saints. Oh, what men they are! I said in my soul : "What hath God wrought!" He raised up these righteous people, who, without thought of cost of effort or time, offer a consecrated service that commands the attention of the world. 

Our greatest sermon in every case, I think, is our manner of life. Do we testify with our lives that we have found the truth, that we love the truth, that we live the truth, and that the truth and the living of the truth brings into our lives, soul satisfactions that cannot be found elsewhere or in any other way? 

I bear my testimony. I also testify of the Saints in the California Mission, of their unity, of their love, of their good works. 

Now, all I can say, the Lord being my helper is I will just do my best. I think I could quote, with propriety, the prayer of David: "Let the words of my mouth, let the meditation of my heart be acceptable unto Thee, O Lord, my strength, my Redeemer." Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There are twenty mission presidents here, including those actively engaged and those who have been released. I regret that it will be impossible to get through our conference in the specified time if we give all of these brethren an opportunity to speak to us. We shall call on those who have been recently appointed, and ask each mission president to not occupy more than ten minutes. 

ELDER JAMES M. KIRKHAM 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I pray that the Lord will bless me while I stand here before you. I want to report to you the condition of the East Central States Mission. We are happy in our work and the Lord is blessing us. We need more help in the mission field, and I believe that will be true in nearly all of the missions. I know it is in our mission field. 

I would like to encourage you, my brethren and sisters, to send your sons and daughters into the mission field. I think I can speak truthfully and with knowledge, having sent seven of my own children into the mission field, when I say to you that the Lord will bless you if you will do it. I know that' he has blessed me. I know that he has provided the way, and from that point of view I can speak to you sincerely and say to you, if you will exercise your faith in our Heavenly Father he will provide the way for them to go. 

It is but a short time after these young men and women come into our field — even at the door, when we greet them at the mission home, — when we feel that we are acquainted with them. It is but a day or two until we fairly love them and make them as part of our own family. It is wonderful to labor with these young people. Their example, their lives, their every word is watched by the people with whom they labor. I believe, my brethren and sisters, if we would preach a sermon that would be powerful and of great worth we must live the Gospel of Jesus Christ, because our lives and our actions are watched. I know this from the experience I have gained in the short time that I have been away, from people who report to us who have visited here in Utah. 

The Saints in the East Central States Mission are very much scattered. There are but few places where there are any number of our people who meet together. For this reason we have a great problem in teaching them spirituality and keeping them active in church work. We have been teaching them to pray; the two brethren who have preceded me have spoken on this subject, and I want to emphasize the power of prayer. I believe that we do not pray sincerely enough sometimes. We pray, I know, but "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, uttered or unexpressed." I want you, my brethren and sisters, to pray for me, to pray for the missionaries who are away, because we need your faith and your sustaining power. The prayer of the righteous man availeth much. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to carry on, to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the world, to warn the people of the coming day when our Savior will be here, because I honestly believe that that time is not far distant. The prophecies that have been made concerning the coming of this event are being fulfilled. 

My brethren and sisters, may the Lord bless you, and help us all to so live and conduct our lives that we will be worthy of the blessings that we so much desire from him from time to time, is my prayer and blessing, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

At the request of President Heber J. Grant the congregation arose and sang the hymn "Guide us, O thou Great Jehovah." 

ELDER WILFORD W. RICHARDS 

President of the North Central States Mission 

My brethren and sisters, on this, my first appearance in this capacity, I feel indeed my humility. In the presence of that list, that great galaxy of leaders of this Church just referred to by Brother Smith, who have stood in this pulpit, and who have for these sixty-nine years administered the truths of the Gospel here, I indeed feel as though I stand upon sacred ground. I have the same feeling of humility with respect to the new responsibilities that have come to me recently in connection with the North Central States Mission, and I pray most humbly that my Father in heaven will be kind to me, and magnify those meager powers with which I have been blessed to his service and to his good. 

The missionaries and the Saints of the North Central States Mission are thoughtful of the Authorities of this Church and of you, my brethren and sisters, who constitute the Church at large. They send their love, their expressions of loyalty and their good will. They desire to be known as energetic workers in the field of service, and interested in the activities and growth of this great cause. 

Just a few days ago Sister Richards and I sat at a banquet table in the Minneapolis branch. A survey disclosed the fact that we were the only ones in that group who had been born and reared in the Church. The remainder were those who had heard the Gospel truths in this or other lands and had responded to the call. As we discussed with them their growth in the Church and their interest in it, their countenances beamed with joy as they enumerated the great good that had come into their lives as a result of their response to the truth. 

I have always been interested, my brethren and sisters, in seeing the fruits in the lives of the individuals of the earth who would accept the truths of the Gospel and attempt to apply them. I see here, in this experience and others of which this is only typical, that  perpetual miracle by which our Father in heaven takes the souls of his sons or daughters and remakes them for his service. Many of them have given up habits that are unclean, given up practices that were injurious, and given their lives and souls to the growth, development, and power of the service of God. I have always been interested in the spiritual responses that come to those who have attempted to apply themselves to the truth, but this has impressed me more in the mission field of recent date, I think, than ever before. So I desire that we, as members of this great kingdom of our Father in heaven, may be ever worthy of that touch of his which will inspire in us a desire to grow in the direction of service. 

Today I appreciate the opportunity of gathering with you. I appreciate the confidence of my brethren. I appreciate my association with the missionaries and the Saints of the world. I rejoice in the vital fires which the Gospel is able to kindle in the lives of those who are willing to serve and to put themselves in harmony therewith. 

May God bless us that we may exemplify in our lives that thing which the Savior meant when he said : "By their fruits ye shall know them," to the end that the fruits of our lives may be always the fruits of righteousness, fruits of service, fruits of glory unto his name everlasting. 

I bear you my testimony to the divinity of this great work and the power of it in our lives, if we will but apply it. May God bless us that we may serve him earnestly and humbly, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

I appreciate beyond my power to express the great privilege that has come to me in again acting as a missionary in the nations of the world. I am grateful that I find myself in full fellowship, sustaining and upholding the Authorities of this church, for I believe that they are inspired by the light and power of God, our Eternal Father, to lead and direct his people in the paths of righteousness, and their appreciation for this great and mighty work is inspiring and uplifting. 

I should like to say just a word in reference to my predecessor, President Sloan. He has done an excellent work in the Northwestern States Mission. He has endeared himself to the hearts of many people. They appreciate his labors. It is my pleasure to report that one of the outstanding features since we have been called into the ministry is the tour around the mission that we made in August with Apostle Reed Smoot and his wife. Everywhere we went we were greeted with crowded houses. Our chapels were filled with not only our own people, but with many friends and investigators. In many places we were favored with the presence of lawyers, judges, business and professional men; indeed men of affairs in these respective places came out to hear Apostle Smoot. The good that he accomplished in the Northwest I am sure cannot be estimated. The reactions since his visit have been fine and splendid. We appreciate very much the wonderful amount of work that he did. 

We have found since going into that fine and delightful country a warmth among the people. They are responsive. They like to visit with you. Their prejudices, if they ever had any, have vanished. As a result, we are invited into the homes of many people, unfolding to them the Gospel message as revealed ,in these the last days. As a result, many are coming into the Church, many are investigating, many friends are being made, and we are very happy in the prospects ahead. 

We have a small but very intelligent group of missionaries. I bring from them their love and appreciation to their fathers and mothers who are keeping them in the mission field. They are well physically, mentally and spiritually, and are doing their very best to promote, teach and preach the principles of the Gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. It is fine to be associated with them, to feel of their spirit, to witness their determination in .their labors, and to see the development that is taking place from time to time in their lives. They are laboring in a delightful and beautiful country. 

There is nothing in life, my dear brethren and sisters, that gives us so much pleasure as bearing witness to this great and mighty work, not only at home, but in the nations of the earth. I have thought that to have a testimony concerning the divinity of this work is the greatest thing that can come to any Latter-day Saint. Our testimonies increase and grow because of our service, because of our faith and the quality of prayer that we offer up to God, our Eternal Father, day by day. We are dealing with divine truth, and the exercise of it brings freedom to our souls, also brings us in touch with our Father in heaven. 

Bancroft tells us : 

No truth can perish : No truth can pass away : The flame is undying though generations disappear. Whenever moral truth has struck into being, humanity claims and guards its greatest bequest. Each generation gathers together imperishable children of the past and increases them by new sons of light alike radiant with immortality. 

Truth is one. It never contradicts itself. One truth cannot contradict another truth. Hence truth is the bond of union. But error not only contradicts truth but may contradict itself; so that there may be many errors and each at variance with the rest. Truth is therefore of necessity an element of harmony; error as necessarily an element of discord. 

The world can advance only through the culture and intellectual powers of the people. To accomplish this end by means of the people themselves is the highest purpose of government. If it be the duty of the individual to strive after a perfection like the perfection of God, how much more ought a nation to be the image of duty. 

If I interpret the Gospel of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ, , we can advance only in our spiritual selves by adhering to those everlasting principles of truth that come to us through the Gospel of our Savior. He established the code for human behavior which when built upon leads us into an everlasting understanding of the saving graces of his divine Gospel. 

I desire, my dear brethren and sisters, to leave with you my humble testimony concerning the divinity of this great and mighty work. I know that God lives, I know that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was an instrumentality through which God operated in bringing to pass the restoration of the Gospel with all of its saving graces and powers. May he bless us with the spirit of appreciation for the great opportunities that are ours, and may we always deem it a high privilege to proclaim these truths whenever opportunity affords. May we uphold and sustain those who have been called to lead and direct us in this day and time. God bless them. May they have the light of wisdom and the power of his Holy Spirit to ever guide and direct his people, is my humble prayer and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER LEGRAND RICHARDS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

I deem it a great honor, my brethren and sisters, to be privileged to preside in the Southern States Mission of this Church. One of the greatest opportunities, I think, that could come to any man or woman is the association of the fine young men and women who are sent out from your homes to represent this Church in teaching the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I know it is pleasing to the Church and pleasing to the parents to know that these boys and girls are not only teaching the Gospel by precept, but by example. They are worthy to go and cry repentance to the world, because they are sweet and clean, noble young people. I rejoice every day in the privilege of their association, and feel that I am becoming a better man because of it. 

Roger W. Babson says that statistics show that the greatest undeveloped resources in America are not our mines or our forests or our streams, but rather the human souls of our men and women. I am sure there is no place where the development of human souls is more rapid than in the mission field. I am grateful for the wonderful contribution made by the auxiliary organizations of this Church in preparing our youth for the responsibilities of the mission field, so that when they arrive they grow rapidly. 

I was impressed with the statement made by Dr. Widtsoe yesterday, wherein he referred to the fundamentals of this Church that have stood the test for a hundred years and over, and have not been changed. When our boys arrive in the mission field, and go out to compare our teachings with the teachings of other people, they find an unsettled condition. Men's minds are unsettled with respect to the philosophies of life and with respect to religious teachings. Our missionaries soon detect it. We have many men in the Southern States who are ministers of the Gospel, who are interested in the teachings of our missionaries. We had the privilege, a few weeks ago, of baptizing one of them with his wife and eldest son, and he was delighted with the wonderful truths he found at the hands of our missionaries. 

We baptized a young woman a few weeks ago whose father is an ordained minister of the Gospel, and we baptized her. with the consent of her father. The missionaries are now visiting him regularly in his home and teaching him the truth, and he marvels at the wonderful interpretation they give of the scriptures. 

In a group of missionaries that arrived a few weeks ago one young man seemed to be a little perturbed. I took him apart from the other missionaries and asked him what he thought of the Gospel; if there was anything about it he did not understand, and he expressed his doubt on a few points of doctrine. After attempting to clarify his mind I gave him a fine companion and sent him into the mission field. In about two weeks I received a marvelous letter from him. He said : "President Richards, I have been here long enough to find out the Gospel is true." 

I want to bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that these boys and girls are teaching the Gospel by example. An article appeared in the July issue of the American Magazine, called "Kingdom in the Desert." Many of you may have read it. There are some very erroneous statements made in that article, but notwithstanding this fact, the writer did acknowledge that in his investigation here in Salt Lake City he had found that there was one standard of morality, both among the business men and men of the shops. One of our very dear friends in Atlanta, Georgia, wrote an answer to that article. I would like to read two paragraphs of her letter. She said : 

I am a Presbyterian in good and regular standing, strong in the faith, but it has been my privilege to know well, over a period of twelve years, the many young missionaries of the Mormon faith who have passed through the Southern States Mission home at Atlanta. 

If there are any young people today who know where they are going, it is the Mormon young people. Brought up to seek education, to love music and the fine arts, to do without stimulants of any kind, and to lead clean lives, they have the foundation for useful and happy homes, and are certainly not proceeding under the momentum supplied by Brigham Young. 

I feel sure this woman was sincere in her statements, because she told Sister Richards she wanted her girls to marry Mormon boys. Sister Richards said: "Well, the Mormon boys' mothers may want them to marry Mormon girls." 

She said, "Of course I would expect my girls to become Mormons. 

We had the privilege of meeting some fine business people in Birmingham, Alabama, recently, and holding a meeting with them, lnese people stood high in the business world, and also in their  church. After our meeting one of the men beckoned to Sister Richards. He wanted to talk with her alone. He had with him that night in the meeting a beautiful young daughter and a son, both college students, and he asked Sister Richards this question : "What about the youth of your Church?" He said: "Have you any married children?" Sister Richards informed him that she had three married daughters. He said: "Did they marry Mormon missionaries?" and she acknowledged that they did. He wanted to know if she could trust her daughters with these boys. Sister Richards said : "Why, those boys were as sweet and clean when they took my girls, as my girls were." He said : "I can not understand it." And by the way, he stood high in his own church. "I do not know a young man to whom I would trust my daughter." Sister Richards pointed to a young man standing in the corner, a young man twenty-one years of age, president of that district, his mission about completed, and she said : "There is a young man as sweet and clean as any girl that ever lived." He surveyed him from head to foot and said : "I believe it." 

I want to bear testimony in closing, my brethren and sisters, that these boys and girls are making an impression upon the world. I stood in one of the great railroad stations of the South a few months ago, and read some statistics which I think are more alarming than all the statistics of finance that we are so greatly concerned about in this nation today, a statement made by the Bureau of Vital Statistics of the United States of America, to the effect that each year 770,000 boys reach their majority in the United States, and of that number 480,000, or over half of them, are either suffering from venereal diseases, or will do, during the course of their lifetime, — and that in this great Christian nation. 

No wonder our friend from Birmingham did not know where to find a young man to whom he could trust his daughter. Then I realized something of the magnitude of the task before us, as stated by Mr. Babson, to whom I have referred, in developing the souls of America's men and women. I thank God for the Mormon boys and girls who have kept themselves sweet and clean, and I say : Who in all the world has a better right to cry,, as John the Revelator said they should do in the latter days : "Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that yt receive not of her plagues." Our boys and girls have the right to thus cry to this Babylon of today. 

God bless you my brethren and sisters, and your missionary boys and girls, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER FRANK I. KOOYMAN 

Former President of the Netherlands Mission 

It certainly is an inspiration, my brethren and sisters, to be here with you in conference, and to enjoy the wonderful spirit that is present. I was thrilled this morning when I heard President Grant announce that Brother Alonzo A. Hinckley, who many years ago labored in Holland where I have been presiding for the past four -and a half years, had been chosen as one of the Twelve. It was Alonzo A. Hinckley who took me into the water and baptized me. I have always looked upon him as a real servant of God. When I was in his presence I could understand why it was that people testified about the Prophet Joseph and President Brigham Young and others, that no matter how much these men were slandered, if they could only come into their presence, could feel what kind of men they were, all ill feelings would leave them. I have the very tenderest spot in my heart for Brother Alonzo A. Hinckley, and I thank my Father in heaven for the joy that his service brought to me. I know his appointment is by inspiration. 

I have very much enjoyed my labors in Holland. It has been a pleasure to try to follow the instructions that were given to us by President John A. Widtsoe, who was in charge of the European Mission while I was there. What a joy it was to teach, especially our young people, through the labors of our auxiliary organizations. The people at large there did not seem to be very much impressed with our teachings, not very much interested, so we started to labor with our young people, to get them into uniform action with all the groups at home. 

What an inspiration it was to receive our young men, our young Elders, and train them to work with our local people there, to see them develop and take hold of the work, and to hear them sing the songs of Zion with the same spirit that we sing them here. 

And by the way, what would our M. I. A. leaders say should they be over there and attend a meeting of our young people, an inspiring meeting, when the one in charge of the congregation might lean over and ask : "What would you suggest we sing ?" 

They might say : "Let's sing 'Carry On.' " 

"Well, we haven't got it in our language." 

" 'True to the Faith,' then." 

"We haven't got it." 

" Tut your Shoulder to the Wheel.' " 

"Oh, no, we haven't got that translated yet, either." 

That was the condition. Then, if the Lord had blessed you, that you had, perhaps, a little ability to translate, you would try to put these songs into the other language. "Firm as the mountains around us" — what does the Hollander know about mountains? Not a thing. "And we hear the desert , singing" — they have never seen a desert. So, of course, we have our difficulties, but still, with the help of the Lord, we have been able to translate these songs, and now the Saints are singing them. 

Our young people are entering their tenth year of Mutual work, and they feel that same spirit, that same thrill that we feel when we sing "Carry On," when we sing, "True to the Faith," and "Put your Shoulder to the Wheel." 

I thank my Father in heaven for my contact with this great latterday work, for my contact with men like Alonzo A. Hinckley and all of our leaders— President Heber J. Grant was presiding over the European 

Mission when I was on my first mission. Oh, I thank my Father in heaven that I stood next to that man as an interpreter and felt the power of God, for I was unable to talk English at that time. I was just studying the language and in the beginning I could not remember half of what President Grant said. Then some time later, when that beautiful inspiration, that power of God, descended upon both of us, there was the word of God,' an interpretation that couldn't be better. Thanks to our Father in heaven! 

I thank the Lord for the opportunity I have had of laboring in the mission field, for the opportunity I have now of laboring among the people at home, of bearing testimony that God has spoken, that his servants are again upon the earth, that we have his Priesthood, that we have a living Church. 

May the Lord help us to realize our opportunities, to live such lives that his power and influence may be felt through us, I humbly pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I have been edified and made happy in the testimonies of my brethren, as they have been presented at the sessions of this conference. I indorse all that has been said. I have been in somewhat of a conflict in my own mind, feeling that I would be called on, to know just what I should say, because so many things have been presented and could be enlarged upon. 

THE REVEALED WORD OF THE LORD 

I shall read a passage from the Pearl of Great Price, where the Lord says : 

And whoso treasureth up my word shall not be deceived. 

I have been pleading for years with the members of the Church, as I have traveled up and down through the stakes of Zion, to get them to read the scriptures. I am of the opinion that there are a great many members of this Church who would be offended if any one should say that they were not in good standing, and yet they are not familiar with the revealed word of the Lord. 

I know of no time in the history of this Church, of no time in the history of the world, when it has been more important or necessary for the people to know the will of God, and to make themselves acquainted with that which he has revealed. 

TO ESTABLISH TRUTH OF SCRIPTURES 

In the revelations given to this Church through the Prophet Joseph Smith we are informed that the Book of Mormon came forth for the purpose of establishing the truth of the Jewish scriptures, in the hearts of the people. In a revelation that was given at the time the Church was organized the Lord said, speaking of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the mission of the Prophet in translating it : 

God administered unto him by an holy angel, whose countenance was as lightning, and whose garments were pure and white above all other whiteness; 

And gave him power from on high, by the means which were before prepared, to translate the Book of Mormon; 

Which contains a record of a fallen people, and the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to the Jew also; 

Which was given by inspiration, and is confirmed to others by the ministering of angels, and is declared unto the world by them — 

Proving to the world that the holy scriptures are true, and that God does inspire men and call them to his holy work in this age and generation, as well as in generations of old. 

LACK OF FAITH IN CHRIST^ MISSION 

It is a sad thing, but true, that the world today, the so-called Christian world, does not stand fundamentally upon the mission of Jesus Christ and the revealed word of God. I grant you there are, scattered among those who profess the Christian faith, many who do have faith and do acknowledge Christ as the Son of God, but the tendency of the times is against it. The teachings of our day are against it. The theories of men are against it. I think I know what I am speaking about, because I have studied them. 

IN CONFLICT WITH GOD's WORD 

Any theory that presents as a fact a statement that man has evolved from other forms, and has not always been a sentient being, capable of thought, of reasoning, is in conflict with the word of the Lord, as has been pointed out already by Elder Taylor in his remarks here yesterday. Any doctrine that presents a view contrary to that which has been given by revelation, that Adam was placed in the Garden of Eden, that by violation of the law he brought death into the world, and through that death sin and all the vicissitudes of mortality have come, — such a doctrine is in conflict with the revealed word of God. 

Any doctrine that declares that man has always been a fallen creature, or in other words, subject to the mortal conditions as we find them today, strikes at the vitals of the Christian faith. Any doctrine that will say there was no Garden of Eden, no need of Adam, no fall, no transgression by our first parents, also teaches that there is no redemption from the fall and that the need of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer is unnecessary. If there had been no fall there would have been no redemption; there would have been no need of Jesus Christ coming, as he declared he did come, and as it has been declared by the prophets, to repair a broken law and to restore again that which was lost and to redeem men from the fallen condition. I think what I say is logical, reasonable, and above all, it is scriptural. 

BEARS TESTIMONY OF CHRIST AND HIS MISSION 

I believe in Jesus Christ as the Son of God and the only begotten Son of the Father in the flesh; that he came into the world as the Redeemer, as the Savior; and through his death, through his ministry, the shedding of his blood, he has brought to pass redemption from death to all men, to all creatures — not alone to man, but to every living thing, and even to this earth itself, upon which we stand, for we are informed through the revelations that it too shall receive the resurrection and come forth to be crowned as a celestial body, and to be the abode of celestial - beings eternally. 

I believe in Jesus Christ as the Savior of all men who are willing to repent and receive the Gospel, and not the Savior to any others, in the sense that he will give unto them an exaltation and bring them back again into the presence of God the Father. Yet he is the Savior of all men and will bless every creature, every soul, as far as he is able to bless, according to their works. 

JOSEPH SMITH AND HIS WORK 

I know that Joseph Smith was called of God; that he, as the instrument in the hands of the Lord, introduced again to the world the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and by the power of God established anew the Church of Jesus Christ in all the world, now called "of Latter-day Saints," to distinguish it from the church of former-day Saints. This is my testimony. There isn't time, of course, to enlarge upon these things, but I know this is true. I know this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and these men who are called to stand at the head do have the inspiration and the guidance of the Holy Spirit which is upon them. 

THAT WE MAY WALK IN THE TRUTH 

And I do know that it is a requirement that is made of us, as members of this Church, to make ourselves familiar with that which the Lord has revealed, that we may not be led astray, for the Lord has said there are many spirits abroad in the land; some of them are the spirits of men, some are the spirits of devils; but he has given unto us his Spirit, if we will receive it, and that Spirit leads and directs in all truth. How are we going to walk in the truth if we do not know it ? 

I bear this testimony. May the Lord bless us, guide and protect us, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER OLIVER H. BUDGE 

Former President of the G erman- Austrian Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters and good friends of the Church, I am indeed pleased, after an absence of more than four years, to have the privilege of attending this one hundred and fifth semi-annual conference of the Church of our Lord, and to again be able to associate myself with the leading brethren of the Church, as well as with all those in conference assembled. 

In reporting the German- Austrian Mission may I say that the work of the Lord in that part of his vineyard is progressing, and that the Saints are rejoicing in the blessings of the Gospel. I bring greetings to you from all of the missionaries and from approximately eight thousand members. The German Saints express the hope that the Latter-day Saints here in Zion are appreciating their membership in the Church, and that they are true and faithful to the covenants they have made with God. 

Upon my arrival in the German- Austrian Mission in October, 1930, I discovered that the financial condition of the mission was anything but desirable, but with the help of the Lord, the missionaries, the brethren of the Priesthood, and the Saints generally, we were in a position, by July, 1932, to pay all of our indebtedness in the mission, in the various districts, in the branches and in the organizations of the branches; and from that day to this we have been able to meet our obligations promptly. 

The auxiliary organizations in the mission are fully organized, with a board for each. Each organization has sufficient means to pay for its traveling expenses, its circulars, stationery and the like. Since July, 1932, no auxiliary organization has had as much as one mark from the general fund of the mission. The mission is now in a very healthy condition, financially and spiritually. 

When I arrived in the mission all of the districts were presided over by missionaries from home. Today all of the districts are presided over by local brethren of the Priesthood. Thirty per cent of the branches were then in the hands of local brethren. Today ninety-seven per cent of the branches are presided over by them. In other words, out of seventy-seven branches all are presided over by local brethren except three. 

I am thoroughly converted to the idea of turning the responsibilities of the mission over to local brethren and sisters. They are just as capable, just as intelligent, and just as able to conduct the affairs as we, if they are properly taught. As with the Priesthood, so with the Saints. I think that our work should be taken up principally with the Priesthood; teaching them proper principles, and why this, that and the other is done, and how to do it. They will take care of the rest. 

Upon my arrival there were a hundred and sixty-two missionaries in the German-Austrian Mission, and let me say to you this afternoon that, with a very few exceptions, I think the Church has never produced better young men than we have had and still have in that mission. They are clean and sweet in their habits. They are obedient and humble. If we have made any progress worth the mentioning, I desire that the credit be equally divided with these missionaries. 

We had the misfortune, during my time, to lose two missionaries in the field, Elder Arthur Wright and Elder Dale Read, of Ogden. Both of these men came into the mission field with the proper spirit and with a determination to serve God, and God only. It was not possible, however, for them to devote very much of their time to the work. God'willed it otherwise. Elder Melvin A. Ashton, another good missionary, died in this city soon after his return home. Brother Melvin Ashton was also  of God's choice spirits. He was the secretary of the mission. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that when we witnessed the suffering of these men, and finally their death, our heart-strings were pulled, because we loved them almost as we love our own sons. 

Sister Budge was of great assistance in the mission, and accomplished much with the Relief Society, the young women, and the Primary organization. There had been little or nothing done in Primary work up to the time of our arrival. Sister Budge, with her assistants, succeeded in enrolling at one time fifteen hundred children in the Primary work. Fifty to sixty per cent of these children's parents are non-members of the Church. The Primaries were regular and neighborhood Primaries. I would that Sister Budge could explain to you just how the work was conducted and just how much in this regard was accomplished. 

I am grateful to the leading brethren of the Church for the opportunity I have had of filling a mission in that part of the Lord's vineyard. I desire to say that the Church owes me nothing. I shall never live long enough to repay the Church for what it has done for me. I desire to continue to be humble and obedient. The Authorities of the Church have never had occasion to ask me if I were willing to do this or that or the other; all they had to do was to tell me to do it. 

I know that the Gospel is true. I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the Holy Ghost will lead and direct us in all righteousness, if we put ourselves in a position to be led by him. May we all so live that we shall be able to say, although the world is full of devils who seek to overthrow us, we fear not, for in the end we shall win. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Do what is right," after which the benediction was pronounced by Elder Henry D. Moyle, President of the Cottonwood Stake. 


