Morning
07 10 1939


Saturday, October 7, 1939. Conference reconvened at ten o'clock. 

The music for this session was furnished by the Branch Agricultural College Chorus, of Cedar City, Utah, William H. Manning, Director. 

The Congregation and Chorus sang the hymn, "Do What is Right." 

Elder Albert H. Belliston, President of the Juab Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Branch Agricultural College Chorus sang "Come Ye Blessed," (Scott-Deis). 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters, I do not know when I ever enjoyed the first day of Conference as I did yesterday. Every word that was spoken was, in my opinion, inspired by our Heavenly Father, and I have heard a number of people who have come into my office since yesterday's meetings express the opinion that I have just expressed to you now. These Conferences are only known as such by the people who know the history of our Church. There is no other organization that I know of that has gatherings of such a percentage of the people as does the Mormon Church in these General Conferences. 

THE WORLD WAR AND ITS DEBT 

I hope that the wars that are now taking the lives of so many people will cease and not grow in any way, shape, or form to widen the scope of those involved in them. I have prayed to my Heavenly Father that nothing would happen that America should become involved and take a part in this wicked war. We were involved, at least we accepted such involvement, during the great World War. It left an indebtedness that has been a burden on the taxpayers of America,, and I am fearful now, that the increase in indebtedness that has been made since our indebtedness was reduced from $26,000,000,000 to $16,000.000,000 will far exceed the original amount I have just named. In fact, we are past it now and I see no immediate change for the better. I know some people will say. well, what is $40,000,000,000 to this great country? I think perhaps I could explain it so that you might have at least some idea of what really means. Supposing there were some unknown power who decided that the minute the Savior was born he would deposit $40.00 in some known receptacle, and if he had continued making similar deposits every minute since the Savior was born down to the year 1933, he would have had just $40,000,000,000. So you can see what it means. I am very thankful indeed that our people, our 

46 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 7 Second Day 

Church are avoiding obligations that they cannot meet. I thank the Lord that the Church stands today with no obligation whatever and that it is perfectly able to take care of all demands made upon it. I have thought sometimes that it is about the only institution that stands in that position. 

PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG'S STATEMENT ABOUT RELIGION 

Our religion embraces ever}' truth pertaining to mortal life — there is nothing outside of the pale of it. It matters not what the subject be, if it tends to improve the mind, exalt the feelings, and enlarge the capacity. The truth that is in all arts and sciences forms a part of our religion. Faith is no more a part of it than any other true principle of philosophy. Were I to give you a lecture today upon farming, would I be speaking upon a matter that transcends the bounds of our religion? Agriculture is a part of it as well as any other truth. Were I to lecture on business principles of any kind, our religion embraces them, and what it does not circumscribe, it would be well for us to dispense with once and forever. 

That is a statement that was made by President Brigham Young. I read it from the book, "The Man and His Work," page 211, and I thought when I first read it, how well it would apply not only to our own people, but to the people of the world. I wanted to say that much upon that subject. 

A WRITER'S OPINION OF PRESENT CONDITIONS 

Edward Nelson Dingley, in his book, "Unto The Hills," makes this statement : 

Never before since human thought appeared, have the problems for individual, for society and for the Nation seemed more tremendous than now. It is common-place to say that there is seething unrest, doubt of the sanctions of religion, a suspicion that something is going to happen to destroy our so-called civilization and our government. Swiftly moving events appear to challenge existing institutions — social, economic and religious. There is mingled dread and hope. Are the institutions, religious as well as political, sufficiently strong to stand the test of the coming years? Or is there to be a crash, a groping in the dark and a new world? 

CONDITIONS FOLLOWING WAR 

That is well said, and the wars that are taking place now take place because of the greed of some men for power. Thousands and thousands of unknown men will be slaughtered, leaving homes without a head, children unprovided for, and no foreign country will ever be able to care for the dependents. They never have in the past wars. America has tried it to a limited extent, aye, more than any other nation could think of, but the world is in an unsettled condition. I pray to my Heavenly Father that conditions may right themselves and this wicked war shall come to an end quickly. 

BLESSINGS OF GOD HAVE BEEN WITH THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

I feel that the blessings of our Heavenly Father have been richly and abundantly given to his people. I know I utter your feelings when I say what I have in my heart to say. May the Lord bless the Presidency of this Church; give them wisdom and judgment to meet every requirement and fulfil the same acceptably to him. And I know that the Mormon people everywhere feel in their very souls that the Presidency of this Church are giving the best advice and instruction that mortal man can give. May the Church as a whole realize the position that they now hold, where no evil power is driving and mobbing them, as was the case in the beginning. I think the devil thought then that if he could destroy the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Church would fail; that if he destroyed the homes and brought about the driving of the people into an unknown part of this country, they would soon fade away and people would abandon the Church. How mistaken he was. God has blessed his people. He has qualified and particularly blessed every president of this Church — peculiarly qualified him, I might say — for the period in which he has served. 

They are loyal to the country; loyal to the Church, and no matter what happens, they are loyal to our Heavenly Father. Peace and God's blessings be with you, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CARL F. EYRING 

Former President of the New England Mission 

My beloved brethren and sisters : First, I wish to take the opportunity of expressing to my brethren my appreciation for the opportunities that came to me while presiding over the New England Mission for two years. That call to service has turned out ,to be one of the finest experiences in my life — and I consider that I have had many and varied experiences in this great Church. 

Sister Eyring and I wish to express special appreciation for the service rendered the Mission, first by Elder Widtsoe and Sister Widtsoe. then by President and Sister Clawson, and finally by Elder Ballard and Sister Ballard. We shall always cherish as one of our finest remembrances those last two weeks which we had the privilege of spending with Brother Ballard. He brought to our Mission a great message. Our missionaries will not forget the powerful addresses which he gave us, especially at the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph. The memory of him is still with us; his power in the Church we still. feel. We praise God that his great Church can produce men such as Elder Ballard. 

As I have traveled over New England, I have come to realize why it was possible for the leaders of the Church and their followers to establish communities in this western land. One has but to realize that the soil is very shallow in New England, that there are many forests to be cleared, and that for two hundred years the New Englanders were pioneering their "hard" country, to realize that their sons and daughters. 

48 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 7 Second Day 

out of this background, would be able to pioneer in this western "waste" country and do a fine job of it. In the great Connecticut River Valley, four of the presidents of our Church were born. One hundred years ago the people of New England were either leaving their farms for the West or going to mill towns. Many that set their faces toward the West joined the Church and came to the valleys of the mountains. And here in the West we have created another New England — at least we were cherishing here much that was created and built in New England. 

I am grateful that I have the privilege now of returning home to my position at the Brigham Young University. From boyhood I have grown up in the school system of the Church. I should like to bear testimony that that system has done much for the youth and the leaders of this Church. I am grateful that I am considered worthy to be a part of the Brigham Young University. I hope and pray that the Lord will give me the needed inspiration so that I may teach my students that the Gospel has truly been restored; that there is no ideology on the earth that can save men except the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I truly believe in the first principles of the Gospel. One must have more than just abstract faith. One must have faith in something. Many people have faith in the principle that might makes right. But we claim to have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We claim that through continuous repentance our poor ways of living may be turned into an improved newness of life. Through redemption the Lord and Master made it possible for all of us to reach heaven. This is not our special message to the world — our message, as Elder Ballard so forcibly instructed us, is the declaration of the requirements needed to reach the celestial kingdom of our Father. We, who have started on the journey by accepting these requirements, must not say to ourselves as the people did in the days of Jesus, "Are we not the children of Abraham ?" We must realize that it takes more than the "original" faith in Jesus and the "original" repentance and the "original" baptism and the "original" laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. To live up to our possibilities, we must have an enduring faith in Jesus and his way of life; an abiding faith that he brought to the world the ideology that will bring peace; a steadfast confidence that we can create a newness of life after his pattern through daily repentance; a dynamic courage and faith which, when we have gone into the waters of baptism and have thus shown to our f ellowmen that we propose to become ideal members of this Church, will compel us to live, day after day, so that we might expect the companionship of the Holy Ghost — the privilege of those who are. truly candidates for the celestial kingdom of our Father. 

Bless this people, our Father, and guide the young people so that they may be true to the faith is my prayer. Amen. 

ELDER W. FRANCIS BAILEY 

Former President of the Hawaiian Mission 

My brethren and sisters : The few minutes that I occupy this morning I trust that I shall be directed by the Spirit of the Lord in bringing to this splendid congregation a report on the mission activities in the Hawaiian Islands. 

It is indeed a privilege to bring to you the greetings of the Saints and of the missionaries laboring in the Hawaiian Islands, and to be here to hear the testimonies of the leaders of the Church who to me are indeed real servants inspired of the Lord and who radiate through all the spirit of kindness and great wisdom. 

It has been a great blessing and a joy to the people of the Hawaiian Islands to have frequent visits from the Authorities and leaders of the Church, and the Saints, and all who have been there have been greatly blessed because of their visits and the many wonderful messages which they have left in that land. 

To gaze into the countenances of this large congregation of Saints who are blessed with responsive hearts to things godly, lends inspiration and testifies to me that the works, the designs, and the purposes of God cannot be frustrated. Just so long as he has such a large army of righteous members of the Church upon whom he can rely to carry the responsibilities of this work, his words will all be fulfilled as he has predicted. 

Opportunities to serve in the Church and live the Gospel are always before us. Unexpected responsibilities frequently come and so it is imperative that we ever keep bright the armor of righteousness, and that we gain an understanding of truth and of faith in the mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and Joseph Smith, the Prophet. 

Several years as a missionary among the descendants of Lehi, who were hidden away in the islands of the sea, have brought to me an understanding that through faith and contact with truth the shades of darkness could be banished and the light of God can be let in, and as this light comes in the promises of God are fulfilled and the windows of heaven are opened and rich blessings are poured down upon the heads of those who serve the Lord. 

During the intervening seventeen years between my first mission and my recent labors in the islands, great growth has been noted in the Church work. A temple, though not operating daily, is playing an important part in bringing blessings into the lives of the people. Through the able assistance of missionaries the president of the temple is daily bringing the message of life and salvation to many tourists and strangers who visit the beautiful temple and the grounds and then remain to hear the message which brings promise of life and salvation to all. 

The Oahu Stake, daily growing in efficiency, is also fulfilling its purpose and bringing rich experiences into the lives of its members. \Vith one-half of the population of the islands residing on the island 

50 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Day 

of Oahu, the missionary work is being continued there, and in cooperation with the stake missionary force we are working together under the direction of the Hawaiian Mission. 

The two missions, the Japanese and the Hawaiian, as is the case at present, and a stake, all laboring together in one area may be a somewhat unusual situation, but these three organizations are working harmoniously together and are doing very effective work. 

Several large Sunday Schools and Primaries organized among the Japanese people evidence the splendid work which is being done under the direction of the mission president and the missionaries. 

In the Hawaiian Mission there are eight district and forty-six organized branches. These are all efficiently operated by local Saints, and all the auxiliaries are functioning where sufficient membership will permit. The Saints are well spiritually, and their daily lives are testifying to the efficacy of Mormonism. The leavening influence of their righteous living is being recognized and manifested in the very kindly and material interest shown by the men of prominence in the Islands. Assistance in obtaining chapel sites, in the erection of buildings, and in other ways is most generously given. These men are aware that to the man or woman who lives and believes Mormon teachings there comes greater understanding of and ability to meet life's problems. Many are reading the books of the Church and have, upon frequent occasions, expressed appreciation for the good work being done by the members of the Church. 

A number of missionaries have returned to the Islands and other members of the Church have gone to make their homes there, and these are contributing much to the Church organizations in this land and because of their faithful service wholesome reactions are coming among non-members of the Church. 

I wish to express appreciation and compliment the parents and families of missionaries who have labored and are laboring in the Hawaiian Islands. Hawaii has been greatly blessed by their presence and work. They have honored their parents and have brought great blessings unto themselves. 

My testimony has been greatly strengthened by my sojourn among this wonderful people, by seeing their faith, and I realized as I went throughout the various islands that there still resides in that land the spirit of that great missionary, George Q. Cannon, and of those who followed after him, and the spirit of those men who performed such magnificent work is directing and guiding the labors in that land. 

My testimony is that God lives, that Jesus Christ his Son made possible eternal exaltation, and that through Joseph Smith truth was again restored to the earth, and the path of man was lighted in his search for joy and happiness. I praise the Lord with a thankful heart for the many blessings he has given unto my family and me and for the privilege which came to us of going into the mission field. I hope and trust that I shall be worthy of the responsibilties which may come. I have a testimony of the divinity of the Gospel, and I fully realize that the 

Lord is merciful and gracious unto those who fear him, and delights to honor those who worship him in truth and righteousness unto the end. May we prove faithful unto the end, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. 

The College Chorus sang "My Dream is of an Island Place," (Noble Cain). 

ELDER GUSTIVE O. LARSON 

Former President of the Swedish Mission 

It is good to be home again in Zion and participate in another General Conference. It is good also to meet again all those fine missionaries with whom it was our privilege to labor in Sweden. I should like to say that never before have Sister Larson and I had the privilege of laboring with such a choice group of young men and women as we had there under our direction. Never shall I expect to find better loyalty and devotion to the work than was generally exhibited by these young people. Also, I would like to say that our appreciation for the leadership of our Church has never reached such heights as in our association with those leaders with whom we had the opportunity of associating while in Europe. May I add also that I am happy to be assigned now to have supervision of the Institute of Religion in Cedar City where I shall have opportunity for association with many of these young people who are singing in the choir today, representing Cedar City and the Branch Agricultural College. I was more or less associated with the Branch College for ten years prior to our assignment to Sweden, and I know of the desire on the part of the faculty there to educate not only the hand and the head, but also the heart of these young people. They are keenly alive to the need today for spiritual development. 

Under normal conditions it is a privilege to live in Sweden. The wonderful landscape of that country is only exceeded by the wholesome generosity of those progressive people. It is true that they cannot use the expression "The biggest in the world," as often as they goodnaturedly accuse us of doing, but their inventiveness has contributed much to the world's progress. Many things which America produces today in boasted quantities had their origin over there. 

But there is no greatness in things; true greatness .centers in personalities and in the proper use of things. In the application of the inventions of the past century to human good, and in organization for social welfare, we in America can yet learn many things from our Scandinavian friends. In their care of the poor and aged, in strict censorship of the movies, in the interest of their youth, in their silent traffic, and their cooperatives, and particularly today in socialized medicine they can offer us much food for thought and study. 

The war has, of course, suddenly interrupted and overshadowed the things that engaged our serious attention in Sweden a few weeks ago. But with the hope that missionary work will be resumed there upon the conclusion of the war — God grant that that may be soon — I 

52 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 7 Second Dai] 

should like to make a few observations relative to the work in which we have been engaged. 

We have made some progress in Sweden during the time we have been there. Especially in the breaking down of prejudice against our people and in the making of friends among all classes, high and low, we have been particularly fortunate. Never before has the Swedish press responded to Mormonism so liberally and so favorably. The American Harmony Singers, known throughout Sweden as a Mormon Missionary Chorus, have appeared almost each month on the national radio broadcast with their own programs since last winter and always they have left the radio offices with an invitation to come again. The American Harmony Singers have given concerts and song services to which thousands have been attracted who have heard the message of the Gospel. Everywhere the missionaries have reported that because of the friendship-creating activities of this chorus, and such activities as basketball, doors are being opened to them that were never open before. I mention basketball because I understand there are those who do not fully appreciate the use of sports, and their propriety, in missionary service, but I am sure that if you could be close to the problem as we were, on the front lines, and could feel the friendship that was created, you would feel differently about it. Just one instance: two missionaries were sent into a city in northern Sweden from which the Mormons were driven twenty-five years ago. They went there at the request of the police who wanted them to train a basketball team. These young men not only trained the police basketball team, but four or five other teams in that city. Whenever they played their tournaments the name of "Mormon" blazed out favorably in the headlines. Last Spring I received a letter from the chairman of a large recreational center in Sweden, who lives in that city, thanking me for having stationed missionaries there, and asking us to continue them there, not only because they were training basketball teams, but because they were having such a wholesome influence on the Swedish youth. That is what I mean when I shall refer later to "activity" in missionary service. 

In spite of all these instances of progress that we can name from various missions, the return on our expenditures, and our efforts in Europe have not been altogether satisfactory. If we measure results in terms of effect upon the missionary himself, we have cause to congratulate ourselves for it is a wonderful experience for them, and no mission president receives greater joy than he does through seeing these young men and young women grow under responsibility. But if we measure in terms of effective preaching of the Gospel as reflected in increased membership, tben there is much room for improvement. 

One avenue through which I feel that we can improve a good deal is to more nearly adapt our missionary methods to modern conditions. For instance, the Sweden of today is not the Sweden of seventy-five years ago when all Europeans were looking wistfully toward America as the land of promise. In those days our missionary methods applied admirably to conditions. The call to Zion opened up the flood-gates of emigration to Zion in Utah. Today, with the gates of emigration closed, we must adjust our methods to helping them live the principles of the Gospel there. True, our task is still to call men out of "Babylon" to "Zion," but instead of a change of residence today it means a change of life in their own communities. In other words, we should try to help them, in a sense, to build Zion in their own land, and this, it would seem to me, calls for, if not less preaching, at least more "activity." 

As we have continued preaching the restored Gospel in Sweden, we have constantly pointed to its expression in the building of Zion in the tops of the mountains. We have never failed to remind our listeners that their own countrymen have helped in this important work, but while we have been pointing to the Church in Utah as a practical application of the Gospel, the Swede has been asking us, "yes, but what about its practical application here in Sweden?" On every side they see other churches contributing to the special good through community projects, but we, aside from our preaching and our limited group activities, have been too exclusive. There is need for some element, in addition to our preaching, that will vitalize our message, just as the call to Zion vitalized the message of the missionaries some seventy-five or fifty years ago. If we could participate, for instance, in the youth movement of Sweden, by establishing Scout camps under M. I. A. direction and under the leadership of some of our splendid Scout missionaries; or if we could establish children's summer camps under direction of the Primary, we would then be making a place for us in the community life of Sweden. The M. I. A. has already demonstrated its pulling power on youth over there by means of its sports activities, its folk dancing, and its music, and it can continue, and do an even better job, if it only has the proper facilities for carrying on its program. 

The war has made us doubly appreciative of the security of our American homes, and we should demonstrate our appreciation through closer obedience to the laws of God than ever before. In Europe today, just as in the last war, all fighting nations are claiming that God is on their side and undoubtedly many are sincere in both camps. But there is a question of much deeper significance than that. During the dark days of the Civil War when everything looked hopeless for the Union, a friend came to President Lincoln and asked, "Mr. Lincoln, do you believe that God is really on our side in this war ?" The President replied, "I am not concerned whether God is on our side or not. What I am concerned about is, are we on the side of God?" 

Our Heavenly Father does not take sides arbitrarily in our human conflicts. It is up to us in our blundering strife to decide whether we make him our ally or not. And the test of allegiance is simple enough. There is no road to God which does not lead through the heart of man. Our Heavenly Father does not need our personal aid. We cannot feed and clothe him; we cannot minister to his wants or give him encouragement. But millions of his sons and daughters here on earth need just these things, and he has said to us, "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye do it unto me." The test of whether 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Day 

we are on the side of God or not is whether we are ministering to relief from human suffering and adding to human happiness. If we are contributing in the least to human misery and want we are fighting against God. This is true of individuals just as it is of nations — and it seems to me it is proper that we should analyze ourselves now more than ever before to determine the direction of our allegiance. 

Men take the pure ideals of their souls 

And lock them fast away, And never dream that things so beautiful 

Are fit for every day! So counterfeits pass current in their lives. 

And stones they use for bread. And starvingly and fearfully they walk 

Through life among the dead, Though never yet was pure ideal 

Too fair for them to make their Real. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is a reality. It has been restored to us in our day through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is our privilege and our responsibility to carry its message as widely as possible. It is in the discharge of this responsibility, if at all, that we can consider ourselves a chosen people. Let us try to make the ideals of the restored Gospel a little more nearly the realities of our everyday experience, and let us not lose faith in the mercy and the justice of an overruling power. 

A few years ago the giant zeppelin, "Akron," was moored in San Diego. It was about to leave for San Francisco when a serious accident occurred. The men who were holding the ropes were awaiting the signal to let go when a sudden gust of wind tore the Akron from its moorings and swung them from their feet. As the zeppelin shot upward, most of them dropped without accident, but some of them were not able to let go and were carried into the air. One young man by the name of Bud Cowart held on to the rope. He saw two of his companions drop to their death but he hung on. As the ship soared above the city into the clouds, all hope of rescue from earth disappeared. If help was to come to him now, it must come from above. Bud Cowart did not know what they were doing on the Akron but he believed that they were aware of his presence and that they were deeply concerned about him, and in that faith he hung on. The zeppelin swung above the clouds, and for a seemingly endless hour he hung at the end of his rope, and then he felt a new movement; something was drawing the rope upward. Gradually he neared that huge ship, until at last it blotted out the sun. Then he felt strong arms take hold of him and pull him in. They had been mindful of him on the Akron and his faith was vindicated in a saving power from above. 

My brothers and sisters, in these trying times when life's ship seems to be rocking dangerously, and threatens to break from its mooring, may we continue to hold on with faith in a God of mercy and justice. But we cannot just wait for him to rescue us. We must do something toward working out our own salvation. May we so organize our lives  our efforts that we make a glorious partnership with him, and in double strength go forward in our attack upon not only our problems but his, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I wonder if your hearts have been as much touched with this fine message of my missionary companion from Sweden, President Gustive O. Larson, as my heart has been touched. His clear, fine voice has expressed the power and glory and beauty of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as it is being preached in the European Mission. 

My patriotism has been stirred today, as it was stirred yesterday. I have in my veins the blood of America for ten generations. That patriotic Gospel message delivered by President Grant for the First Presidency, and those patriotic appeals of President Clark, followed by the ringing voices of the Singing Mothers, with a granddaughter of President Brigham Young singing in her clear voice the lead of that thrilling appeal, "God Bless America" — these combined to create in this historic, sacred building a situation most dramatic. 

A TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I desire to add a word or two to what President Clark said about my beloved friend and intimate associate, Elder Melvin J. Ballard. He and I have sat side by side for more than twenty years in practically all of the meetings of the General Authorities of the Church, and in the many meetings of the General Superintendency and the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association of the Church. I have listened to the melody of his remarkable voice as by my side he has sung so sweetly and effectively these songs of Zion. I have missed him greatly. I have longed for him tenderly as you, his many friends, have done also in this Conference. And I want to say, as did President Clark yesterday, God bless and sanctify to our good the great messages of that mighty man which he preached and sang so effectively into our hearts and into our souls and into our lives during these many years. 

STUDYING AND UNDERSTANDING THE SCRIPTURES * 

I desire on this occasion to say a few words in the form of an appeal, the purpose of which is to awaken in the hearts of Latter-day Saints an increased interest in reading, studying, learning and understanding the scriptures. I regard it as important for all of us to read the scriptures more frequently, to understand the scriptures more thoroughly, and to live more accurately in accordance with the high ideals laid down therein. 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR RELIGIOUS TRAINING 

For the purpose of teaching the Gospel more effectively and more 

56 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 7 Second Day 

thoroughly than it seems possible to teach it in the ordinary religious services and in the sessions of the Sunday Schools, the young people's organizations and other institutions usually conducted in connection with the regular church work and activity, the Prophet Joseph Smith founded the School of the Prophets; President Brigham Young endowed and established the Brigham Young College at Logan and the Brigham Young University at Provo; President Anthon H. Lund was instrumental in organizing Religion Classes throughout the Church, and during the administrations of President Joseph F. Smith and of President Heber J. Grant 12 institutes of college grade and 101 seminaries of high school grade have been established. In these institutes and seminaries 150 educators well trained in the teaching of the Gospel are employed to give week-day religious education to our young people who are doing high school and college work. 

All of this has been done to give the people of the Church unusual opportunities to study the great fundamentals of religion, to become acquainted with the doctrines of the holy scriptures, and to have awakened in them a desire and an ambition to live in accordance with the very highest religious ideals and standards. These and many other efforts put forth by the Church and its leaders indicate the intensity of the interest that has existed in the Church and in the minds of its leaders in the study, understanding and practice of the teachings of the scriptures. 

THE BIBLE AS A TEACHER 

In the deed of trust given by President Brigham Young for the Brigham Young University are these words : "The Old and New Testaments * * * shall be read and their doctrines shall be inculcated." In an address delivered in Salt Lake City May 29, 1870, he states : 

The doctrines contained in the Bible will lift to a superior condition all who observe them; they will impart to them knowledge, wisdom and charity, will fill them with compassion and will cause them to feel after the wants of those who are in distress or in painful or degraded circumstances. They who observe the precepts contained in the scriptures will be just and true, virtuous and peaceable at home and abroad. Follow out the doctrines of the Bible and men will make splendid husbands, women will make excellent wives, children will be obedient, families will be happy, nations will be wealthy and all will be lifted up above the things of this life. 

In the Juvenile Instructor for April, 1912, President Joseph F. Smith wrote : 

That which characterizes above all else the inspiration and divinity of the scriptures is the spirit in which they are written and the spiritual wealth they convey to those who faithfully and conscientiously read them. Our attitude, therefore, toward the scriptures should be in harmony with the purposes for which they were written. They were intended to enlarge man's spiritual endowments and to reveal and intensify the bond of relationship between him and his God. To be appreciated, the Bible and all other books of holy writ must be studied by those who are spiritually inclined, those who are in quest of spiritual truths. 

STATEMENTS OF SCHOLARS 

Many years ago that great Biblical scholar, Professor Richard G. Moulton, who edited and who prepared the introductions and the notes for The Modern Reader's Bible, said of the scriptures : 

'We have done almost everything that is possible with these writings. We have overlaid them, clause by clause, with exhaustive commentaries; we have translated them, revised the translation, and quarreled over the revision; we have discussed authenticity and inspiration, we have mechanically divided the whole into chapters and verses, and sought texts to memorize and quote. There is yet one thing left to do with the Bible; simply to read it. 

That great American statesman and life-long student of the Bible, William Jennings Bryan, said: 

My father, as devout a man as ever lived, early impressed upon my youthful mind the value of the teachings of Solomon. He would call me in from work a little before noon and read and comment on a chapter in Proverbs. I am afraid I did not always appreciate the priceless wisdom of the book from which he read. But when he died, just after I reached my twentieth year, I recalled his interest in the words of Solomon and I read Proverbs through once each month for a year. I so fully share the high estimate that he placed upon Proverbs that I have lost no opportunity to commend them to young men. 

It has been said that it is not what we eat but what we digest that gives us physical strength. And so we might say, it is not what we read but what we remember and what we apply in our daily lives that gives us mental power and spiritual development. This important element of study and application is impressively stated by that great poet and philosopher, John Ruskin, who said : 

Everything that I have written, every greatness that has been in any thought of mine, whatever I have done in my life, has been simply due to the fact that when I was a child my mother daily read with me a part of the Bible and daily made me learn a part of it by heart. 

METHODS OF STUDYING THE SCRIPTURES 

I wonder how long it has been since you or I read the Book of Proverbs. And when we did read those wise sayings of Solomon, did we do so merely as readers or did we do so as students with pen or pencil in hand and notebook close by ? 

My appeal, therefore, is not merely for a greater reading of the sacred writings but for a more careful study and application of their teachings and for learning parts of them by heart. A real student, one who is reading with genuine earnestness for the purpose of actually acquiring knowledge, usually has at hand two books, one from which to read and the other in which to write. He does his reading with pen or pencil and a notebook close by, and in the book he makes a record of those items which he regards as most important, those he desires to remember and to apply. The physical act of making the note helps to impress the thought upon the mind of the reader. Writing makes think58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Dag 

ing clearer. Many broadly educated men and women owe much to the habit of "reading and studying with a pencil." 

Another fundamental I would like to impress upon your minds anew today is that we learn to do by doing, we learn to talk by talking, we learn to write by writing, we learn to apply by applying, we achieve real growth and development by earnest and effective application. 

A STUDY OF THE SCRIPTURES URGED 

I urge that we ourselves learn and that we teach our children to learn thoroughly important quotations from the scriptures ,as well as the important stories, morals and doctrines therein presented. And since the Gospel is to be preached to all the people in all the world, and further, since this preaching is the most important work to be done by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, it is of great importance that we, the members of the Church, prepare ourselves as best we can to assist with this great work; and in order to do this effectively we must become familiar with the language of holy writ, we must understand it accurately, enjoy its beauty and also become so imbued with its divine inspiration that we shall not only be willing but we shall be glad to do our very best to live in accordance with the teachings and ideals therein contained. 

Educators, including our beloved Karl G. Maeser, have recommended that an hour be spent at the dinner table when parents and children might discuss together the sacred scriptures. At such a time an important and profitable exercise would be the memorizing of important quotations. By thus discussing the scriptures and by learning and repeating quotations, the young folks of the family would be laying a wellnigh perfect foundation for doing missionary work later. 

BENEFIT OF MEMORIZING THE SCRIPTURES 

What an excellent and valuable accomplishment it would be if all the adult members of the Church would, during the next six months, learn a few important quotations from the scriptures and teach their children to learn with accuracy the same quotations. May I, on this occasion, suggest as examples two of my own favorite quotations and add a little comment concerning each of them. These are: John 3rd chapter, 16th verse, and Matthew 22nd chapter, 37th to 40th verses. 

It seems to me that all who desire in their hearts and have the ambition in their souls to struggle to follow the unselfish example and teachings of Jesus ought to know thoroughly, ought to be able to quote accurately and to remember always John 3:16: 

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 

And now that other quotation, Matthew 22:37-40, which is the M. I. A. theme for the whole Church for the season 1939-40; 

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

This is the first and great commandment. 

And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. 

Since nearly two thousand years have passed since Jesus came to bring peace on earth, uttered these inspired words and gave the world these teachings, and further since at this very moment all the nations of the world are preparing for war or for defense at a previously unheard of cost and rate, and further since a number of the great nations of the world are actually at war and are carrying on a conflict in accordance with the methods of the savage and the barbarian, rather than to be settling their differences and their grievances by those methods of arbitration and mutual understanding, which civilized people these days are trying to learn and to apply, — I say because of all these conditions, there is, I think, no topic more deserving of special attention, consideration and understanding, during these terrible days of strife and warfare, than a study of the scriptures and in particular that portion of holy writ which has to do with the life and labors and teachings and example of Him who is called the Prince of Peace, of Him who is our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. 

LOVE NECESSARY TO WORLD PEACE 

And now let me conclude with emphasis on the importance of understanding and applying these words : 

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

This is the first and great commandment. 

And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 

With love of this kind in all human hearts such destructive forces as hate and prejudice, poverty and beggary, crime and war, would be everywhere greatly diminished if not completely eliminated from the world. Love for our Heavenly Father and for one another, as stated in the words of the Master himself, is the greatest and most fundamental element of religion. 

May the day be hastened when all will aim to read, understand and live in conformity with the mighty and important elements of religion as these are presented in the sacred scriptures, so that love and peace, charity and good will, may be found everywhere in the world, I humbly pray. 

ELDER MARVIN O. ASHTON 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

It goes without saying that I am always concerned about the supply of virtues that I may have wrapped up in myself, but I assure you that I have one virtue at this particular moment. I am sure I am filled to the saturation point with humility. I trust that for the few minutes I stand Saturday. October 7 Second Day 

before you whatever timidity I have may leave so that I can, with some regard to my responsibility, say those things that I should like to. I trust that I may not only have an ambition to tickle your ears, but say exactly what I think. 

A TRIBUTE TO PEOPLE IN FAR-AWAY STAKES 

First I want to express my appreciation for the integrity of the people that I am continually contacting, by virtue of my position in the Presiding Bishopric, in visiting the different stakes. About two weeks ago it was my pleasure to visit southern Utah and down as far as Nevada, and I am filled with appreciation of meeting men and women of the caliber that are in this Church. One night I know one bishop came as far as 165 miles to attend that meeting. Multiplying that by two makes 330 miles that he traveled. Whether he took back with him what he ought to have taken, what he would like to have taken, I do not know. Perhaps that was partly my responsibility. But I do feel to honor men filled with such integrity. 

I want to say this : In visiting that part of the Church I am very much impressed with the character of those people. We sometimes wonder why Brigham Young sent some of those people down there on their pilgrimages to go through what they did, but surely he was right. I sometimes think there is a civilization down there that has been brought out of the rocks and the caves, so to speak, that some time will surprise this world. A civilization cultured and safeguarded by the sacrifices those people have made. Some time it will awaken all of us. 

I caught this in going through a book the other night, and I have been impressed with it : 

Character is that which you have left after they have taken away from you all they possibly can. 

You can substitute the word "faith" if you wish. I am impressed with the character of these people and what they have gone through. They are dynamiting, and have been dynamiting for years, the rocks to bring the water where they determined it should come. They were willing to make these sacrifices. I honor those people and, so to speak, I take my hat off to their integrity. I believe sincerely that in contacting these men — and I am not forgetting the women, by any means — it makes me bigger and broader, and it helps me to fill the position that I have been called to in a more substantial way. 

PRESENT PROBLEMS TO BE FACED 

Someone has said that whenever the past looks glorious, look out. I am wondering sometimes if it is not just as well to be frank with one another and face things exactly as they are. Things are not all rosy in this Church. There are conditions that should concern us. In my judgment there never were so many great problems before us. I am  unmindful, by any means, of what we are accomplishing. This beautiful music back of us is an index of what our young people are doing. I honor the bishops and the presidents of stakes who are really progressive and doing the things that are expected of them. I am not unmindful of these things. I glory in our seminaries and what they are doing. In my judgment there is no one element in the Church that is shaping character more than our seminaries, and I honor those men at the head of them, and in particular the way they are hand-picking the teachers whose responsibility is to contact our young people. 

SELF-EXAMINATION URGED 

I am mindful, however, of some other things in our Church. I worry sometimes about people getting sour. People do get sour. With some people, if their nest is well feathered, the Gospel is true. If their nest is not feathered, the Gospel is not true. Do you ever look into yourself and say: Why is the Gospel true? Is it because you have faith, or is it because everything is all right with you? We are not so kind as we ought to be, I appreciate that; but sometimes we let circumstances sour us. We know that old story of Job where the Lord said to Satan something like this: "You see that man?" "Yes, I do see him, but you take away his blessings and then see how he reacts." Now, it is not necessary to go into the details, but Job took it, and the more trouble he got, the more of a character he proved to be. Is not that a lesson to us? If we are out of employment, if things do not go the way they ought to, does it make us sour? We ought to be on our guard. 

We have men who delight in being knockers. One man said that knocking in a person is exactly the same as knocking in an automobile. It is always a sign that there is not very much power there. I think that is pretty well said. A man we sometimes read about, who was quoted today, who made a reputation for splitting logs, compared some people we are talking about to a little boat that used to go up and down the Mississippi River. It had a big boiler, and it had almost as big a whistle, and every time it whistled it took all of the energy out of the boiler, and the boat had to stop every time it whistled. Now, there are people just that way. When you contact them they are sour, but when they open the throttle to make a nois'e, you can bet your life everything stops. 

FOLLOWING A LEADER 

Some people pick out a certain individual and say, "What an ideal man!" And they will wrap themselves and they will wrap their destiny around him. I do not care whether he is a bishop, or a Sunday School teacher, or who he is, before you wrap yourselves around, or hang your destiny on a man, be sure you know where he is going. If you will pardon me — there was a good woman. She knew she was going to die, and she had written on her tombstone, so her husband would be sure to 

62 . GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Day 

indelibly get it: "Follow me." He wrote below it: "To follow thee I'm not content, until I know which way you went." My boy, who was on a mission, wrote this little circumstance home to us, and I give it to you for what it is worth. It is a very insignificant story, but it has some value to it. They were going on a trip from London to Liverpool. It being holiday time, they decided to spend a couple of days on such a journey. A fog came up and it was just as thick as a fog can be in old England — and you people who have been there know what I am talking about. Well, they borrowed a little Ford or some kind of a machine to go, but after they had started, this fog came up and they were in peril; they were up against it. The only way they could make any progress was to wait until a car came along that had a fairly good tail-light, then follow the red light accordingly. Well, they did not make much progress. They stopped and listened and did the best they could. Finally a big truck came along, with a great big tail-light, and it made the boys so happy. It stopped and went on, stopped and went on, but they thought, of course, the man was getting his bearings, and they knew that as long as they followed that tail-light they were making fine progress. They followed it and rejoiced because soon they would be in Liverpool. They followed that tail-light for about two hours, stopping and going on. Finally the fellow who drove the truck stopped, came back to the boys, and said : "Boys, I am awfully sorry, but this is as far as I go. I have been all through the village and I have delivered all the milk." 

Now, "To follow thee I'm not content, until I know which way you went." 

RESPONSIBILITY OF LEADERSHIP 

I am concerned over the things before us. I have mentioned this before and I want to be pardoned. I think Brother Clark, in his talk on the Christ in the series of lectures he is giving, made the observation that even Christ repeated for the sake of emphasis. There are some things, I think, we can repeat and keep repeating. I am speaking about the conditions in some of our wards. I am not forgetting, by any means, our dilapidated buildings. I am not forgetting our meeting houses. We have a responsibility there we just cannot neglect. 

We have a problem with our young people. They are going a little faster than we think they ought to go, but part of the responsibility is ours, because some of us who have responsibilities are on dead center, if you will pardon that expression. We are not satisfied with the way they are going, but just what are we doing about it ? In some localities there is so much static that nothing is done about it. We have a responsibility. In our meeting with the Relief Society the day before yesterday this thought was brought out: Sometimes we think more of the glory that comes to us because of the badge of responsibility we wear than we think of what we ought to be doing about it. 

Now, I am satisfied sometimes we glory to ourselves too much what  past is, and sit down idly and twiddle our thumbs and think, "All is well in Zion." All is not well in Zion unless we use initiative and wake up and do the things we ought to do. "The glory of God is intelligence," and sometimes we do not use as much intelligence as we ought to use. I appreciate that when we are put under six feet of ground, there will be a lot of things in the world that are yet to be done. I am not unmindful of that, by any means. But I do think that we have responsibilities that we ought to appreciate. There are probably only 750,000 of us in the Church, but if we were just united, the way we ought to be, we could surprise the whole world. I am not forgetting a couple of hundred boys who came from Sparta. When they were told that the enemy was so thick that their arrows darkened the sun, one lad spoke up and said : "So much the better. We will fight in the shade." 

Now, we have something ahead of us. Let us have the courage, and I believe we have the courage that we ought to, and we will get somewhere. 

THE DRINK EVIL POINTS A DOWNWARD COURSE 

The drink proposition is about as serious as it can get, and we all know it. We ought to do something to meet it fairly and squarely, in a way that will help the young people to seek the proper avenues, rather than to go where they are going. I am firmly of this opinion, that in the face of all of our civilization, and the steps we are making, we are like the cow that gives a pail of fine milk and then kicks it over. Now, we are just doing that, whether we own up to it or not. 

A dear Scotch friend of mind told me this story before he died, and I will never forget it. He said a fellow had a beautiful heifer. He loved it. She was a thoroughbred. He put her into a pasture so she would have the best grass up to her knees. In the face of everything, that cow got thinner and thinner. He walked around the pasture. What was the trouble? He could not find it. As she got still thinner he made up his mind he was going to search every nook and corner, and he went into the field, and examined every bush. Finally up in one corner where he noticed the cow frequently stood, there was an old weed. It kept pulling her down. Drink is doing exactly the same to our civilization, whether we own up to it or not, and in a constructive way we have got to meet it. 

May the Lord bless us. Amen. 

"Inflammatus," (Rossini) was sung by the Branch Agricultural College Chorus, Annette Betensen soloist. 

Elder Colen H. Sweeten, President of the Curlew Stake, offered the closing prayer. 


