Afternoon
06 10 1939

Conference convened promptly at 2 o'oclock Friday afternoon, October 6. 

President Grant announced that the Singing Mothers would furnish the music for this meeting. The opening number was a hymn by the Choir and congregation, "How firm A Foundation." 

Elder William L. Adamson, President of the Blaine Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

An anthem, "The Lord's Prayer," was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters : This is a very wonderful sight, to see so many Latter-day Saints assembled in this great tabernacle. 

I have been thrilled thus far with the proceedings of the Conference. 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

We had a most excellent session this forenoon, and the words that were spoken by President Clark it is to be hoped will reach far distant and fall upon the ears of law-makers, and of kings and potentates of the earth, and especially upon those who are engaged in war. 

I was thrilled with the remarks of the other brethren who spoke and with the singing of the choir. It was quite exceptional. 

And now, brethren and sisters, why are you assembled here ? You have come from afar and from nearby, and there are others listening in. I take it that you have come to wait upon the Lord and listen to what he has to say to you through his anointed servants. It is a rare opportunity for the word of the Lord to reach our hearts as we are assembled in this sacred place. 

STUDY OF DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS URGED 

I have here in my hand a most wonderful book, its value cannot be estimated in dollars and cents. It is one of the sacred books of the world; there are none greater perhaps. It is the Doctrine and Covenants, one of the standard works of the Church. This book, my brethren and sisters, is a book containing the revelations of God given unto this people through Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Some two hundred revelations collected and bound together, and they are sent forth as the Doctrine and Covenants of the Church. They constitute the pure word of God to us. We can depend upon the teachings of this book, and you should know that a deep and thorough study of the book before me is more than equivalent to a university education. You may wonder why I say this, but as a matter of fact the university education does not and could not give us the actual saving principles of eternal life. That information comes direct from our heavenly Father. 

The book of Doctrine and Covenants covers every phase of the Gospel of salvation, and speaks of the restoration of the Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthoods representing the authority of God given to man upon the earth. It describes the three glories — the celestial, the terrestrial, and the telestial — in far greater fulness than does the vision given to Paul the Apostle. It speaks in great plainness of the eternity of the marriage covenant that can be had only in the temple of God. It describes the glorious vision of the Savior in the Kirtland temple, his acceptance of the temple; the visitation of Moses and his commitment of the keys of gathering, and the visitation by Elias, and his commitment of authority; the visitation of Elijah in direct fulfilment of Malachi's prediction, pointing to the work for the dead, which is one of the important things that are very dear to us and cannot or must not be overlooked or forgotten, because we without our dead cannot be made perfect, and they without us cannot be made perfect. 

In the curriculum of the university of education what teaching will you find, though it may be important, that is equal to what is set forth in this precious book? 

IMPORTANCE OF REVELATION 

I would like to show by reading two lines here how very particular the Lord is. When he speaks there should be all attention, and when he commands, obedience should follow without hesitation, without murmur or fault-finding. Somebody might ask, which is the most important revelation in this wonderful book? I will answer you that I do not know, I have not the wisdom nor the understanding to determine that question. All of the revelations of God are important. He speaks to a point that is definite. Whenever he appears there is a reason, as there was when he appeared with his Beloved Son to Joseph the boy. There was a reason for his being there; it was not just an excursion from heaven down to the earth, but something important was about to happen. The Father spoke to the boy and said, "This is my Beloved Son, hear him!" So it appears there was something important to be said on that occasion. The Son spoke to the boy and said, "What do you want?" Not quite so roughly as that of course, but "What would you like?" And the boy replied in a simple way — it was the language of a boy — I want to know which one of these Christian sects is right. There are quite a number of them here and they have created very considerable disturbance. They contradict one another; they say Christ is here, and Christ is there, I want to know which one is right and which one I am to join? 

That was an important question for a boy fourteen years of age to put up to Deity. But he was in earnest about it, he wanted to know, and the Son said: You are not to join any of them, for none of them is right, and their worship is not acceptable to me, or words to that effect. 

The boy evidently was astonished. He did not know what to make of that statement. He thought one of the various churches must be right and the others of course wrong. But none of them was right, and he was told not to join them. He was given to understand that he had a work to do. 

Somebody might say, "Well, Brother Clawson, that was a wonderful vision, but why did the Lord wait; why didn't he just lay hands on the boy and bless him and bestow upon him divine authority to solve his problem?" Well, that was not the method the Lord used at that time, or perhaps any other time. The boy was not prepared to receive any authority. He was hardly prepared to endure the vision of the Father and the Son. I suppose he had to be transfigured in order to enjoy their presence. The boy must have some training, some schooling before he could do the work required of him, just as we need training and schooling for our work. We need to study and delve into principles of the Gospel "and become acquainted with them. So this boy was ministered to by angels from heaven. He wanted to know about the principle of baptism. The Father and the Son sent John down to tell him and Oliver Cowdery and to give them what authority was needed at that time. The young boy would rapidly be growing older. Peter, James, and John, who held 

30 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 6 First Dag 

the Melchizedek Priesthood in the days of the Apostles, came later, and laid their hands upon the heads of Joseph and Oliver and committed to them the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood. 

I am telling you now something you already know, of course, but I presume there are many people here and in the Church who have not looked much into the Doctrine and Covenants. I do not think any of us spends any too much time in doing so. It is a big question. This great Gospel takes some thought and a good deal of prayer to comprehend it, and authority to exercise the Priesthood. There will be a gathering of the Priesthood in this building Saturday night and a great company of men of the Church and young boys will fill this house; it will be a wonderful sight. If that body of men who shall come together were all equally faithful in keeping the commandments of God one hundred per cent, they could make this great building, tremble on its foundr- on by the exercise of their faith. 

daniel's prophecy 

I am talking to you now briefly, brethren and sisters, about the kingdom that Daniel saw when he looked down through the ages, down and down, until he came to that time when the world was broken up into small kingdoms. "There will be kings in that latter day." We are right in the midst of it, and then Daniel said by the spirit of prophecy : "In the days of these kings the God of heaven shall set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever." 

Now we are identified with that kingdom, that something that must endure forever, and as long as we hold on to the kingdom and are faithful we will live forever in that kingdom. 

A MARVELOUS WORK 

Now I want to show you how very particular the Lord is. I am going to read from section 6 of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, being a revelation that was given to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery for their benefit, but it applies perhaps equally to all of the members of the Church. A general obligation goes with this section : 

A great and marvelous work is about to come forth unto the children of men. 

I think you will get the idea from what I have said that it is a tremendously important work. The Lord calls it a marvelous work, and he uses that expression in other sections. And then he goes on to say : 

Behold, I am God; give heed unto my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my words. 

You see the Lord must not be trifled with, and when he gives a commandment and we do not receive it and do not carry it out, what  of us? That man who takes such a course will become blind in his mind. While he thinks he is right and probably boasts of his standing in the Church he is nevertheless in the dark because he has ignored or broken the commandment of God. 

RICHES OF ETERNAL LIFE 

I am passing over a number of paragraphs here until I come to the seventh paragraph in this revelation : 

Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. 

I remember reading about the funeral of a brother in moderate financial circumstances. President Young was one of the speakers, and he pointed to the casket in which the remains were resting under the pulpit and said: "There lies a rich man." And yet he had been poor all his lifetime in the flesh. His talents, his ability were not of a financial character. There is really a sermon in that which might be developed if I had time. 

Then I pass on to the 13th verse. It is all good, brethren and sisters, but there are limitations: 

If thou wilt do good, yea, and hold out faithful to the end, thou shalt be saved in the kingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation. 

So if we seek for wisdom and we use it, that is what we will get, the gift of salvation. 

This is a very fine subject. It is a good thing to take a few moments in the Conference here to point out some of these things that may possibly be discussed by other speakers. 

I know that this is the kingdom of God, as referred to by Daniel. I verily believe that the temple on this block is the temple that Isaiah saw in vision : "The mountain of the Lord's house," and this is the people of God and I love them and am happy to be identified with them. 

I pray God to bless you, and bless the Presidency, the Twelve, and other Authorities, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My brethren and sisters : I deem it a great responsibility to stand here before you this afternoon and occupy your time, and I trust that for the few moments I am here you will lend me your faith and prayers, that the testimony I may render to you may be directed by the Spirit of God, for my only purpose is to give you a true testimony of my feelings regarding the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

GRATITUDE FOR MEMBERSHIP IN THE CHURCH 

"We believe in God the Eternal Father and in his Son Jesus Christ." 

32 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

I believe I have repeated that before you at other times in this pulpit. Just recently I was in attendance at a Stake conference and as various men were called to the stand, the directing Apostle who was present said : "Tell the people why you are glad that you belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." You can imagine the various reasons that were given. 

This afternoon I am going to tell you that I am glad that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints because we believe in God and in his Son Jesus Christ. We believe them to be real personages; we believe that they are embodied spirits. It has recently been my privilege to study the commentaries in a certain Bible that is exant in the world and which serves a very large community of Christian people. Some of these comments appear to me exceedingly strange, and one of them was this. Some of you have heard me tell this experience, but perhaps it will stand repetition : "God said, Let there be light, and there was light." The commentary says : "Since God is a spirit he has no parts, neither hands, nor arms, nor feet, nor legs, nor tongue. Since the tongue is necessary to speech he could not speak. So that passage means that in some unusual way God caused that there should be light." 

PURPOSE IN JOSEPH SMITH'S FIRST VISION 

I believe, and I think you all believe the testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that God and Jesus Christ, in vision, appeared to him, that both of them talked to him, and that he saw them in their spiritual bodies. I believe that the great purpose of that vision was to combat the error that had grown up in the world regarding the personality of God. Regardless of the fact that Jesus Christ had testified that he was in the image of his Father, and that those who saw him saw the Father, because of that extreme likeness, the world generally had forgotten that idea of God. In this vision to Joseph Smith and his testimony to the world regarding it there was brought to us anew the testimony of the personality of God, and I like to believe in a God who I think has an interest in me and you, his children. I like to think that he is something like me perhaps, only far superior. I like the idea of the Church that if you and I shall avail ourselves to the maximum of our possibilities, some time in eternity we may have the power of God, that there is no limit, if you will, to the progress that the spirit of man can attain to. 

PRINCIPLES AND ORDINANCES OF THE GOSPEL BRING JOY 

That is one reason that I am glad that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, because our belief satisfies that idea of mine. I am glad I am a member of the Church because we teach faith, repentance, and baptism. If I were sure that my faith is of such a nature that though I should live to be an aged man, older than my father, I should never falter nor question the fundamental doctrines of  Church, but that I should so conduct myself that when I lay down my burdens, my brethren will think of me as one of absolute faith, I would be happy. My constant prayer to God is that I may have that faith, that it may carry me through and over all of the obstacles that may arise. 

I do believe in God, I believe in my brethren, I even believe to a very great extent in myself, and I trust that that is not egotistical, because I have been called to a responsible position, and I am trying to discharge that responsibility under the direction of the Spirit of God, and I believe that I have a claim upon God so long as my life is reasonably pure and acceptable to him, for those blessings. 

I am glad that repentance is one of the doctrines of this Church, for none of us is perfect. No one recognizes his fallibilities perhaps more than you and I. No one recognizes the need of repentance more than we. But I am glad that God has promised us that if we will repent of the things that we know are wrong he will bless us, that he will give us greater light, and that with that greater light we can better serve him and serve our fellows. Repentance causes us, when it is real and true, to abandon the improper ways of life and to accept those that are proven to be true. There are many things that the experiences of the past few generations have demonstrated to us as being true matters of life, and we should accept them and we should try to live them. 

I am glad we believe in baptism, and baptism in the form in which it was taught and practiced by Christ our Lord — baptism that was acceptable among the Nephite people upon the American continent under the express inspiration and direction of Christ himself — baptism by immersion if you will. 

THE PURPOSES OF BAPTISM 

I am glad that the purpose of baptism is for the remission of sins, and that when one goes down into the water and is submerged and comes up under the blessing of the man who performs that ordinance his sins are washed away, provided his repentance is true, and he starts forth in a newness of life. That we believe is one of the very major purposes of baptism. 

Baptism has another purpose as well, for it is an initiatory ordinance in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Without baptism we do not become members of the Church. I would not say that without baptism we are not entitled to the blessings of the Lord, but we do not become members in his Church without it. Since baptism indicates a repentance for sin and a washing away of those sins we are then ready for any and all of the blessings which come as promised to us, depending only upon the manner of our living. We are eligible to exaltation in the kingdom of God our Heavenly Father. Some of us feel that that is the major purpose of baptism. We are told in the scriptures that baptism is for the remission of our sins. I believe that both of them are major purposes of baptism, but it is extremely difficult to say which is more 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

important, because without repentance and without the washing away of our sins we could hardly obtain membership in the Church, and without that we could hardly claim the privileges of exaltation. Repentance and purity of life are essential to this objective. 

That then is another reason why I am glad I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, because I believe that the baptism to which I submitted was a true baptism of Christ our Lord and that it was performed by men who are properly authorized to do it. 

I am glad that through the laying on of hands of those in authority one may be given the Holy Ghost, and I trust that I have been the recipient of it and that many if not all of the official acts that I have performed have been done under its dictates; that is my hope at least. And furthermore, so long as I retain the Priesthood and honor and respect it, my actions will be directed by that Spirit. 

GRATEFUL FOR THE PRIESTHOOD 

I am glad I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, because I believe God sent his representatives from heaven to restore the Priesthood, which I claim to bear, to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that it has come down to me in an unbroken line of descent. The greatest privilege I feel I can have is to hold that Priesthood and to be worthy under the authorization that I have. I trust that God will give me his Spirit, that I shall always be glad for a membership in his Church, that I shall never be ashamed to tell the world that I am a member . of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that when occasion offers I may tell it verbally, but I would that in every day and every hour of my life my conduct should proclaim it to the world; and I pray that God will bless us all that we may be happy and contented in our association with one another as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. God bless you all. Amen. 

The Singing Mothers sang "Thanksgiving Song for Mothers" (Frank W. Asper), also solo by Bessie Morley. 

ELDER BRYANT S. HINCKLEY 

Former President of the Northern States Mission 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that it will never become commonplace to worship beneath this dome. This building speaks of the best, it reflects the wisdom, the originality and the genius of the men who established this commonwealth. 

It is a very impressive thing to look into the faces of the men and women who are the leaders of the Church after a hundred years of its establishment. 

We have all been impressed and inspired with this Conference. The official declaration of the Church with reference to war, those who wage unrighteous war, will have a place among the historic documents of the Church. 

It well becomes us to ponder carefully the words of the President of the Church. He is the mouthpiece of the Almighty to this people, he is entitled to the inspiration of his high calling, and those who listen in obedience to his word will be blessed. 

The American people need their thinking clarified in these troubled days. It is most gratifying to all of us and to all who have had the opportunity of listening this morning to the noble and courageous words of one of the Presidency of the Church, a really great utterance in times like these. 

So far as peace is concerned and our attitude toward war, our path is made plain. In former days prophets were also statesmen, and that is the case now. God be praised for men who have the vision and the courage and the capacity to help us in these times; we need it. 

All Latter-day Saints and all thoughtful Americans feel that our last defense as a great democracy is righteous behavior, that the peace and perpetuity of this government depend upon the lives of its citizens, and no other people have a cleaner and deeper appreciation of the privileges and blessings of the great government that shelters us than have we. 

This report is my last official act as the former president of the Northern States Mission. The three and a half years that we presided over that mission were and always will remain memorable years. We formed a great attachment for the Saints in the Mission, numbering nearly five thousand, including the stake. The contact with those who are not members of the Church was very pleasant. 

But the most enduring and impressive experience that goes with missionary work is contact with your boys and girls who are the missionaries of the Church. This was a delightful, personal, intimate contact, the kind that builds friendships that last forever. This comradeship is inspiring and enduring. There is no experience sweeter than the experience which comes with one's contact with young men when their hearts are touched with the fire of the Holy Ghost when their visions are expanded, and their souls are warmed with gratitude to their parents and with a love for humanity. After all, this is one of the proof s of the divinity of Mormonism. The ingenuity of man never devises a plan quite comparable to the missionary system of the Mormon Church for building character in man. The Almighty in his mercy has reserved some of his very choicest blessings for the poor. The widow who toils and makes sacrifice to maintain her son on a mission is compensated many times. No matter how bitter or hard the sacrifice is, if the son makes good, all this sacrifice is sweetened and sanctified. 

The Stake President who offered the opening prayer told me this morning that not so long since he had his returned missionaries together and the mothers of the returned missionaries. He had the boys speak and then the mothers, and I am prepared to say that what the mothers said had a penetrating effect that no ordinary eloquence could have. I hope the time will never come when the worthy sons of the poor will 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

be denied the blessed experience of a mission, for after all the sons of widows are among the best of missionaries. 

A missionary experience creates a militant attitude for the truth, the spirit of a crusader grows in one's heart. I am sure you will not interpret what I am about to say as a self-righteous utterance. For three and a half years in common with other missionaries I have pleaded to the best of my ability your cause and the cause of righteousness in the world, and now I want to come home and plead with you, for you have a great reputation to live up to, to live your religion. You have demonstrated your devotion in the most practical way. You have been loyal to the Church and its leaders, and valiant in the testimony of Jesus, and it is only a commonplace to say to you that demonstration is the story that tells. No argument is so eloquent, no appeal so powerful as a demonstration of what Mormonism will do. My brethren and sisters, if we are converted, if our religion carries over and manifests itself in our lives we preach a sermon that cannot be answered. 

We have the truth, and we say it in humility, but in confidence, and I want to say whenever I have the opportunity, that if we have faith enough — the plain, simple faith, the faith of our fathers — to live the simple principles of our religion, we are destined in the very course of events to rise to a proud place in the world. No opposition can stay our progress if we only have the faith to live our religion. There is no substitute for the intrinsic, simple matter of fact faith of the men who laid the foundations of this Church. 

You are asking me how you can demonstrate, what you can do? May I suggest one thing. My brethren and sisters, if every father here and every mother here will religiously observe family prayers, and ask all their children to participate, it will build faith in the hearts of your children, you will have a better influence in your home, you will do better. The Lord will be inquired after. Try this for six months, and I promise you that the spiritual morale of the Church will be stepped up. No man need be rich to pray, no matter how humble the home is the voice of prayer can be heard there. I well remember when my father came home from a General Conference many many years ago, and said : "The President of the Church has asked all the people to put their houses in order." He called us together and said to mother, "I want you to see that these children pray when I am not here." She did it. Nothing was more helpful. 

I would like to endorse the discourse preached here this morning with such fervent eloquence by the Presiding Bishop of this Churcb. 

It cheers and gladdens one's heart to be with you. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

From the last Conference that I attended, to this Conference, seems but just a moment or two, because most of the time since our last Conference I have been away from home, and in my journey again to the South Seas I learned one or two things that brought to me joy and happiness and a great comfort. 

A FOURTH OF JULY INCIDENT 

I would like to tell you about one incident. I think you deserve to hear it. Wallowing through the trough of the sea, and then again on the top of the mountains of water, on an old freight boat that is manned by a very splendid captain, one who, I had been told when I left Tahiti, wouldn't speak a pleasant word to us for he was a very austere man, this very pleasant incident occurred. It so happened that we were near the equator and it was the Fourth of July, so on this day each of us, of course, had his own thoughts concerning home and his own beloved land of freedom. Going down to dinner in the dining room, we found stretched across a great mirror placed over a false fireplace, a beautiful American flag. Each of us saluted it, for it was the first we had seen for months, and this austere captain, who by now had become my friend and companion, said: 

"Before you sit down, all of you ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a word or two to you. This is your day. This is your birthday, and so I desire to extend to you my congratulations." 

Now, this was a British captain. 

"I don't know," said he, "what to do, and I am rather put about and embarrassed. The only thing I know to do is to toast someone. Everything we do in national celebration, we toast the King, so I would like to say to you that I desire greatly, irrespective of your politics, to propose a toast to the President of your great land. I would like to toast President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, not because of him, but because of the great country he represents." 

So we all, officers of this vessel and passengers, drank to this toast. Mr. Del Lord, who has charge of the filming of all of the pictures that are released from the Columbia Studios in Hollywood, was aboard with his wife and son, and he said : "Go on, Hardy; answer him." It was a beautiful gesture that Captain Norton had extended to America. I tried earnestly to appropriately thank him. 

Arriving home, I took occasion to write my gratitude to Senator King — and by the way, to Brother King — in Washington, to thank him for the many courteous, kindly things which he had done for me. He had gone to the French Ambassador in Washington and asked him for a letter for me to take down to Tahiti, that I might meet the Governor of those Islands, and that Ambassador said: "No. I will cable Paris and have Paris cable Tahiti," and that was done. So I thanked Senator King for this kind office, and the many other things which he had done First Day  me, and told him of the event which happened on this boat on July 4th. 

Back to me came a letter, and in that letter were these words : "Your communication intrigues me, and I have taken it to many of the senators. They are all pleased, and all fired with a desire not to be outdone by any other nation. I have taken it to Cordell Hull, and he is delighted. We have told the officials of the Merchant Marine of America that when occasion presents itself they shall extend like courtesies, not only to Great Britain, but to every other nation, where they know a day is set apart in which that nation may celebrate." 

So really and truly, "Hands across the sea," and the clasp that is spoken of, has come just a little closer, and I am thankful indeed that this has come about through one of our own people, the Honorable Senator William H. King. 

Now, being conscious of the great purpose which you have demonstrated in coming to this historic building to again worship God, as did your forefathers, — and they now are gone — I feel that this position is unquestionably one of solemnity and one of great responsibility. Generation after generation has passed on since 1847, when our people first gathered in these valleys, and yet" in ever-increasing numbers there has come up, each semi-annual Conference, a greater and a bigger horde of people, to worship God as they desire and are taught by the revealed word of God. 

This that I quote is from St. John : 

That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the Word of life; 

(For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and shew unto you that eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us.) 

We make the same startling declaration. We don't mince words, but we declare that God lives, that he has spoken, that again his Gospel is restored, and the father, who carried the message yesterday, has handed the burden to his son, and he goes on in his way in delivering this great message of truth and salvation. 

There is one thing, however, that I have observed. I believe that if we would adhere a little closer to the declarations of this restored Gospel, and the words of God which have come to us, not forgetting the first principles of this Gospel, we would go very much faster and farther. I am thinking of those glorious old missionaries of this Church, Parley P. Pratt, Orson Pratt, President Wilford Woodruff, Heber C. Kimball. Those men walked forward in humility, with nothing in their hands to convince and convert the peoole but a copy of that book SUCCESS OF EARLY MISSIONARIES  miraculously came into the hands of Joseph Smith by an immortal being, and declared its truths fearlessly and boldly, and lo, when their listeners heard the message and read this book, they became, many of them, as ardent in their desire to spread the Gospel as were the ones who brought the message to them. 

SUCCESSFUL STAKE MISSIONARY WORK 

Now, the Presidency of this Church and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, have in years past, recent years, handed to the First Council of the Seventy a great responsibility, the supervision of the missionary work of the stakes. That work is established in every stake of Zion, and the results which have come from that inspired beginning have been marvelous indeed. Do you know that there were baptized, during the first eight months of this year, 1568 souls into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who were not in the fold before; and that in one stake and one ward — and that stake not more than a hundred and fifty miles from here — there came in a monthly missionary report to our Council that forty baptisms had occurred? We could hardly believe it, so we wrote back for confirmation. Back to us came the letter: "Yes, forty have been baptized, largely due to the wonderful work of our women missionaries here in this stake, and the help of some splendid bishops." 

I want to say that we are grateful, more than I am able to tell you, for the work that the bishops have been doing for us. 

Let me read to you what the Apostle Peter said, because I believe we can apply it to ourselves : 

But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. 

I think we are doing that as best we can, but I believe we can do better if we try just a little harder. 

WORDS OF ADVICE FROM THE LORD 

Let me read you just one or two verses from the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88, and I am finished : 

Appoint among yourselves a teacher, and let not all be spokesmen at once; but let one speak at a time and let all listen unto his sayings, that when all have spoken that all may be edified of all, and that every man may have an equal privilege. 

See that ye love one another; cease to be covetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires. 

Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be wear,y; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated. 

And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace. 

God bless this work and you, my brethren and sisters, I pray, in Jesus' name, Amen, 

40 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 6 First Day 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

Former President of the Central States Mission 

I very humbly pray that the Lord will bless me in the few words I may say to you this afternoon by way of reporting my missionary labors in the Central States Mission. I have been away since the 8th day of March, 1928, eleven and a half years. During that time I labored first in the Western States Mission, and later in the Central States Mission. I was released and returned home on the 2nd day of July, this year. It has been a glorious experience, and I have had the pleasure and the joy of sharing affectionate regards with a good many people. 

I was checking through my books and records, and I find that I have received and introduced into the missionary field 703 Elders and lady missionaries in that length of time. When I think that perhaps I have had some influence upon their lives for good, I find myself humbly and gratefully happy because of it. 

Prior to my mission, laboring as a bishop. I had a great deal of pleasure in laboring with the young men of the Aaronic Priesthood. In that time I have no record of how many, but I am sure between 100 and 150 Priests were ordained Elders and sent into the field, who had been influenced, I am sure, for good in the Priests' Quorum in the ward where I presided. This is not said boastfully. It is said because I appreciate, from the very depths of my heart, that I have had the opportunity of doing some good. 

I can tell you that the Central States Mission is in excellent condition, and that the administration of the affairs of that mission, now in the hands of President John F. Bowman, is being ably conducted. Brother Bowman is taking up his labors with vigor and earnestness, and I hear nothing but good reports of his labors. The people are pleased with him. They are learning to love him, and are inspired by his utterances. Brother Bowman has the gift of speech, and he is able to stir his congregations and his people, who love to hear him speak. He also has the gift of friendship. He makes friends quickly, and I am sure that they will be permanent and lasting and will bring him much joy. 

Frequently visitors coming into the mission field used to tell us that they noticed a spirit in our meetings that did not seem to be prevalent in the wards or stakes of Zion, and we rather got the impression that we were more spiritual than you are, and we felt, perhaps, that was very well. But I want to testify to you that since I have returned I find the same humble, sweet, fervent spirit in the stake where I labor, and among the people with whom I come in contact. 

It has been a great pleasure to me to notice the great improvement and the advancement that the Church has made. I think perhaps you don't quite understand how fast we are growing, when you see it day by day. You go away a while and come back. It is like the wandering son who returns to the family and doesn't know his own brothers and sisters, they have grown up so. I find our stakes thriving with activity— at least the stake in which I live. I find the boys of the Lesser Priesthood , striving to become standard quorums. I find a fervent spirit among the brethren. 

I have had some experience out in one of the stakes, with the Welfare organization, and I find the same spirit there. I have had the pleasure of sitting down with a few bishops and going over some of their budgets and problems, and I find them mighty anxious to discharge their duties. Altogether it has been a joy to come home, and to begin to be actively associated with the work of the ministry here. 

I remember a good many years ago, when I used to go East every year for the Deseret News, one man said to me one time : "Chicago is a very wicked city, isn't it?" I said : "I don't know. I never saw anything wicked in Chicago." "Well," he said, "it is." I said, "I don't know a thing about it. I have never seen anything but good, every time I ever went there." It made me think of a story they tell in the South. An Arkansas man and his family concluded to change their place of residence, so they put all their belongings in a wagon and drove along the road. On the evening of a certain day they came to a village. Sitting on a front porch was a citizen of the village. The driver stopped and said : "Hello." The man on the porch said : "Hello." "What place is this?" said the driver. The man gave him the name. "What kind of people live here?" "Oh," he said, "what kind of people live where you come from?" "Oh," he answered, "a lot of liars and beggars and thieves." "Well," he said, "they live here too, just like the people you used to be with." 

So the driver went on a little farther, and in the next town, in response to the question: "What kind of people live where you come from ?" he said : "A lot of good people." "Well," said the man, "there are a lot of good people here too. Come on in and be one with us." 

I think, brethren and sisters, we find what we look for, largely. I want to testify to you that the Church at home, as far as I can see, is behaving itself mighty well. It is a great pleasure to be associated in the local ministry. 

I am grateful to my heavenly Father that I have been counted worthy, by him and through his servants, to perform these missions. Now I am grateful that I am permitted to return home again and be active in the affairs at home, for I have discovered that it is not pleasant to be inactive. 

May God bless you. May the Church continue to grow and thrive, as it is its destiny to do, I humbly ask, in Jesus' name, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH ANDERSON 

Clerk of the Conference 

I am sure, my brethren and sisters, that you are not more surprised than am I. However, I recognize it as an honor and a privilege to address one of the sessions of this great Conference. I recall that when I was a child, and a very small child, my mother used to bring me to this 

42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

great Tabernacle, where she would listen, and I with her, to the remarks of the brethren who spoke from this stand. 

I have had the privilege of attending, during the past eighteen years, all of the sessions of the thirty-six Conferences that we have had during that time. This, however, is the first time I have had the privilege of occupying the position of a speaker. 

I am certainly grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I am thankful that I have in my heart an assurance that God has spoken from the heavens in this day and age in which we live; that God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ appeared to the boy, Joseph Smith, in the woods near Palmyra, in answer to humble prayer. I think it only right and proper that in the opening of this great dispensation of the Gospel, God should manifest himself once more to man. 

I am grateful for the privilege I enjoy of associating with the present leaders of this Church, and the privilege I have had of associating with those who have presided in the councils of the General Authorities during the past eighteen years. I can truly testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that they are men of God, men whose sole desire and ambition is for the welfare and growth of this Church. I have had the privilege of being intimate with them. I believe that I know their hearts, and I can assure you that they are God's noblemen, and worthy of your trust and confidence. 

I am grateful that we live in this wonderful land of America, the land of Zion, "a land choice above all other lands." I sincerely hope and pray that we shall always keep in mind that this is the land of Zion, and that so long as we worship the God of this land, who is Jesus Christ, it will be a land of Zion unto us. 

There is a feeling throughout the United States, and I think throughout the world, that we should return to religion, that we should return to God. I recall that when I was in Europe two years ago, with President Grant, we were reliably informed while visiting in one of the great cities in Germany that only one per cent of the people in that city attended church, on general occasions, and ten per cent on special occasions, and it was said that that was the condition generally in that country. We heard, from people who visited the great cathedrals and churches in England, that a similar condition existed there. I am sure that the same might be said truthfully of conditions here in the United States; but I am grateful to say that in our own community, in the stakes of Zion, the people manifest a greater interest in religion than is commonly the case throughout the world. Certainly that should be the case, for we do know that we have the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the power of God unto salvation; and no people has ever been permanently successful, nor has any man ever been permanently successful, who has neglected the spiritual influences of life. 

It is not enough that we live the Word of Wisdom; it is not enough that we pay our tithing, or that we observe the Sabbath Day to keep it holy, important as these things are; every act of our lives should be  keeping with the commandments of our heavenly Father. We should love the Lord our God with all our heart, and with all our soul, and with all our mind, and we should love our neighbor as ourselves. That is the great law, and only by keeping that law, and by keeping all of the commandments of the Lord, can we expect to find that exaltation in the kingdom of our Father which we are striving to obtain. 

May the Lord bless us, that we may keep his commandments; bless us that this may be a land of Zion unto us, that we may indeed be the pure in heart, I humbly pray. May he bless us that we may honor and respect these brethren who have been called to preside over us, and recognize them in the positions that they hold, as representatives of the living God, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

This is about the first time since I became the President of the Church that we have run out of preachers. As there are a few minutes left, I shall occupy them myself. 

GRATITUDE FOR OUTPOURING OF SPIRIT AT CONFERENCE MEETINGS 

I desire to express my gratitude with all my heart for the very remarkable and splendid meetings we have had thus far in this Conference. This is a remarkable and wonderful gathering this afternoon on a week day, and the gathering this morning was a most marvelous one. We have been fed the bread of life. We have had spiritual food. We have felt in our hearts, I am sure, gratitude to God for the rich outpouring of his Holy Spirit thus far in our Conference. In the kind providences of the Lord it does seem to me that from year to year since I have had the privilege of being the President of the Church, our Conferences have been occasions where there has been a remarkable, and wonderful, and rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord, and for this I have been grateful beyond my power of expression. 

PRAISE FOR AUTHORITIES OF CHURCH PAST AND PRESENT 

I feel my own weakness when I undertake to make any comparison between myself and the men with whom I was associated as a child; with Brigham Young, until he passed away just before I was twenty-one years old; and with the other Presidents who preceded me after I became an Apostle. 

The testimony borne here by Brother Joseph Anderson I can bear; that I know that for more than fifty long years now, from actual association as a member of the Council of the Twelve and the President of the Church, that the Apostles and the men who have stood at the head of this Church, with very few exceptions, have desired beyond everything else upon the face of the earth to know what the Lord would like them to do, and they were anxious to do it to the full extent of their ability. 

LATTER-DAY SAINTS BECOMING KNOWN 

The railing out against the Church, the viciousness and the lying 

44 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6  First Day 

about our people as a whole have almost entirely died out because people have come to know the desires of our hearts, that we have no enmity against even those who malign us. The Lord has helped us upon many occasions to make friends with some who were at one time our enemies. They have learned that every true Latter-day Saint is a servant of the Lord desiring to know what the Lord would like him to do, and although their own personal ambitions might be vastly different from those of ourselves, yet men are learning that a real, genuine Latter-day Saint is a man worthy to be trusted in all particulars because he desires to know the mind and will of God. While they may feel that we are mistaken as a people, they realize our honesty and integrity. 

I have always been grateful that in the early days, when Daniel Turtle presided over the Episcopal Church here, when he went East he would say, "While I disagree with the Mormons, they are honest; they are full of integrity; their devotion to the faith is fine; and I respect them." He was almost alone, however, in this attitude. 

a minister's perfidy 

I remember that a minister of one of the churches said that he attended a picnic out in Tooele County given by the Sunday School and that all of the teachers, every one of them was drunk and nearly all of the children. It so happened at that particular time, with the exception of a little mining town called Stockton, there was not a saloon in Tooele County, and there was not, as you all know, any picnic of Latterday Saint teachers and Sunday School children where anyone was drunk. Such a statement was a lie pure and simple. 

The gentleman afterwards delivered a very remarkable and wonderful sermon in the Salt Lake Theatre of which he was so proud that he furnished a copy of it to the Salt Lake Herald and another copy to the Tribune. It so happened that the editor of the Herald had to stay at the office that night because the assistant editor, who had to put the headings on the telegrams as they came in, was sick and had to go home, and the editor had to do the proof reading. Lo and behold, when he came to this sermon, he recognized it as a pagiarism, and said: "Send it to the composition room, knock it down and set it up in half columns." The next day it appeared in half columns as an "original sermon" by our dear friend, and next to it in parallel column the same identical sermon as preached by one of the great ministers of America who had been dead for about twenty years. Of course his associates tried him and then found other fields for his labors. 

I am indeed thankful for our meeting here today and all that has happened. 

An anthem, "The Almighty (Great Jehovah)" — (by Schubert), soprano solo by Margaret Stewart Hewlett, was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock Saturday morning, October 7. 


