Morning
08 10 1939

Conference reconvened Sunday morning, October 8, at 10 o'clock. 

Every seat and available space in the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries was occupied long before the time to commence this session of the Conference. In addition, the large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle was crowded with people, and hundreds of others congregated on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened by means of amplifying equipment that had been installed, to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

President Heber J. Grant presided and announced that the Tabernacle Choir would furnish the music for this session. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation." 

Elder William F. Webster, President of the Wayne Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

UNCERTAINTY AFFECTS MANKIND 

The world seems just now to be uncommonly burdened, and life full of cares. Many of the inhabitants of the earth are groaning under sore afflictions. Everywhere is foreboding, a presage of evils yet to come. Anxiety haunts men with its tortures. Confidence in the ordinary stabilities of life is all but shattered. Fear, bred of uncertainty, robs living of its joy. 

And the tragedy of it all is that the ills, actual and feared, which most sorely afflict mankind and spread the pall of gloom so heavy over the land, are altogether of man's own making. 

It is not dread of the angry elements, nor of ferocious beasts, nor of devouring insects, nor of diseases or famine, or scourge or pestilence that fills men's souls, but dread of the bestial cruelties of their own fellow men. 

MAN FINDS WAYS TO CONQUER ILLS 

Always uncertainties have attended upon life, but these we have normally been able, more or less, to catalogue, have learned to expect, and have accommodated ourselves to, or have found ways to conquer. We have, for example, always known that death would come, and have not known the time nor manner of its coming. Here we have been always face to face with both the inevitable and the uncertain, but we have not wasted much time fretting about that. In spite of 

92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 8 Third Day 

its imminence and inevitability we have been able to go on ordering our lives and shaping our courses much as if for us individually life would go on without interruption. 

The issue of our enterprises, too, has ever been in doubt, but that has never deterred us from embarking upon them. The farmer knows that frost or drouth or pests may ruin his crop, but still he sows in the expectation that he will reap, and with renewed faith sows again after each occasional ruinous devastation. 

The tradesman, the manufacturer, the merchant, likewise, knows that flood or fire may raze his plants and destroy his goods. He nevertheless builds and stores and fabricates. Earthquakes may rock cities and level the handiwork of man to the ground but upon the ruins he will build again. 

None of these things destroys faith in life nor puts out the flame of hope that burns "eternal in the human breast." We gird ourselves manfully for the conflicts with nature, and press on buoyantly and hopefully in our struggle for dominion over it. We derive keen joy out of devising means to circumvent the obstacles which it opposes to our endeavors. Much of the real zest for life comes out of the struggle for supremacy over the destructive powers of the elements and over the depredations of insect and of beast. It is as if in the contest we are playing the role for which man was cast as a denizen of earth. We fit into it and derive happiness out of playing well our parts. 

men's acts cause suffering 

But faced with the barbarous atrocities of our own fellow men we stand shaken and dismayed. Their capability for devising and remorselessly executing exquisite torment and suffering have gone far to destroy faith in the goodness of the world and the capacity of man to emerge out of barbarism or rise to the ideal plane which has been the dream of the philosopher, the vision of the poet and the promise of the prophets. 

In contemplation of the sorry spectacle, almost we succumb to the sentiments of this doleful dirge of Byron's : 

How beautiful is this visible world! 

How glorious in its action and itself! 

But we, who name ourselves its sovereigns, we 

Half dust, half deity, alike unfit 

To sink or soar, with our mixed essence make 

A conflict of its elements and breathe 

The breath of degradation and of pride 

Contending with low wants and lofty wills 

Till our mortality predominates 

And men are — what they name not to themselves, 

And trust not to each other. 

REMEDY GIVEN IN TEACHINGS OF CHRIST 

And for these devastating ills there is one only remedy — the taming of the savagery of men. For that the prescription was given to the  nearly 2000 years ago and illustrated in a life then lived. It embraces every essential of human conduct — every requisite to a contented spirit, and is summarized in these words : 

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

This is the first and great commandment. 

And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang, all the law and the prophets. 

As signified by the last sentence of this declaration, the specification for happy, joyous living is complete. Nothing needs to be added. In it are comprehended every mandate of the law and all the teachings of the prophets — everything essential to man's complete emancipation. Implicit in the specification is the requirement for humility, charity, helpfulness, sacrifice and self-denial, as opposed to arrogance, lust for dominion, selfishness, cruelty, aggrandizement and hate. 

The Master taught love, but today men preach hate — hate of governments — outside their own, and sometimes even of them — hate of races, hate of peoples, hate of classes, hate of neighbor, hate of competitors, hate of rivals, hate of the good fortune of others, hate of everyone of opposing views. The fruits of that hate are strife and destruction and individual unhappiness. It is hard to think of any other thing that today causes so much misery in the world. Because of it governments are assaulted and nations destroyed; men coerced and force made triumphant; enterprise throttled and men condemned to needless idleness while hunger stalks in lands of plenty. 

Banish hate out of human hearts and this earth would be an idyllic abiding place. It requires a robust faith still to persist in ^carrying the message of hope and love in the face of the little petty meannesses of human nature, the artful cunning, the base intrigue, the brazen duplicity which with such monotonous regularity frustrate efforts for curing our man-made woes. 

JESUS POINTED THE TRUE WAY 

It cost Jesus his life, but he still directed that the teaching go on. Much of his life was spent training and preparing disciples to spread the word after he himself should be gone. It remains today the only hope of the world. Nor need we despair, for in all lands there still are vast numbers whose consciences revolt against cruelty and degradation, and rise to meet the ennobling appeal of the spirit of the Master. So long as that remains true there is ground for faith in the ultimate consummation of his promise. He pointed the only way by which his purpose may be realized. It is the peaceful method of teaching and persuasion. 

He taught reformation of life through transformation of the spirit. He sent his disciples out to teach, not to compel. He himself used no compulsions. Compulsion teaches nothing to the spirit. It destroys the soul. It produces no enduring benefits. He relied upon the stirrings 

94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Day 

of the soul as the means through which men's spirits would be made better and the world happier. Said he : 

For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, * * * murders, 

Thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness. 

POWER OF PUBLIC OPINION 

No law ever made could change the secret promptings of the heart nor alter human desire. Neither can these be destroyed by the power of might. Only a rebirth can do that. Literally and truly man must be born of the spirit before he can so much as see either the kingdom of heaven or true safety and happiness in this life. The* impositions of force now strident in the world, whether of classes or of nations, or whether by armed might or official intimidation, or attempted control of the spirits of men by the edicts of law, can bring neither happiness nor lasting peace. 

Current history is eloquent of the power of propagated ideas. When Italian youth stand before maps exhibiting the ancient dominion of Rome, extending from Scotland to Ethiopia and from Spain to the Euphrates, it is easy to put into their heads the notion that extent of power is glory and that what was may be again, so a nation can be put on the march. The whole course of life, of individuals and of nations, is shaped by the nature of the ideas that gain currency among them. In a very literal sense thought rules the world. Public opinion is nothing more nor less than the thought that has become common to the mass of the people. No other human force is comparable in power. Before it all opposition goes down. Supported by it, might claims the right of conquest, and nations mourn; the destruction of life, and of the homesthat shelter it, is made the path of glory, and the charlatan rules. Opposed by it laws fall into desuetude, armies disband and the cry of the demagogue is stilled. 

The fashioning and shaping of thought, the dissemination of ideas, the molding of public opinion, is the greatest and most important business in the world. Good or evil consequence depends upon the issue whether exalted or debased thoughts gain acceptance. Only as compatible ideas prevail can the world be fashioned to the heart's desire. It was upon this principle that Jesus relied for the establishment of his kingdom. He provided the best materials for wholesome thinking and righteous living that have ever been offered to man; the plane to which public opinion must rise if serene happiness is ever to be the earthly lot of mortals. 

They are difficult, because they are ideal. They depend upon control of selfish, unholy desire for fulfillment on the long range view — Evil, on the other hand, always makes its appeal to the immediate want. It offers the easy and alluring way. It is the basis of the harrangue of the soap box orator, the epithet hurler, and the name caller. Said a writer almost a century ago: The crowd always sides with mediocre men who speak in redundant phrases with vibrant voices, with trivial, yet powerful language. 

KEEPING GOD'S COMMANDS WILL BRING PEACE 

Our course — the course of all men who love their country or their God — is clear. It is to be as diligent in spreading the principles of right living, and in unmasking deception and demagoguery, as are the propagandists in the spread of their poisonous nostrums, and to be equally adept with these latter in getting their message accepted, and the public will established. 

When God had finished giving the law to Israel, he said to them through Moses : 

For this commandment which I command thee this day, it is not hidden from thee, neither is it far off. 

It is not in heaven, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go up for us to heaven, and bring it unto us, that we may hear it, and do it? 

Neither is it beyond the sea, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go over the sea for us, and bring it unto us, that we may hear it, and do it ? 

But the word is very nigh unto thee, in thy mouth, and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it. 

See, I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil : * * * therefore choose life, that both thou and thy seed may live. 

It is for us; it is for all the churches; it is for all good men everywhere to join in the crusade of teaching and persuading and regenerating the hearts of men, for the message is neither hidden, nor in heaven, nor beyond the sea that we need to fetch it. It is nigh at hand. It is in the commandments of God; in them is life for man and his seed forever. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST 

During the period from 10:30 to 11 o'clock, as a part of the proceedings of this session of the Conference, a program of choral and organ music was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, and broadcast by radio, through the courtesy and facilities of Columbia Broadcasting Company's network, throughout the United States and Canada, and by means of short wave to points in Europe. This broadcast originated over Station KSL, Salt Lake City, and the following program was given: 

"Now Thank We All Our God" (Cruger-Mueller) Choir 

"Allegro Maestoso" (Handel) ..' Organ 

"An Angel from on High" (Tullidge) Choir 

"If Thou But Suffer God to Guide Thee" (Bach) Organ 

"Holiness Becometh the House of the Lord" (Stephens). .Choir 

"O Lord of Hosts" (Careless) Organ 

"How Blest Are They" (Tschaikowsky) Choir 

The Choir was conducted by J. Spencer Cornwall. Organ ac and Organ solo presentations were played by Alexander Schreiner. 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Das 

CHURCH OF THE AIR BROADCAST 

Immediately following the Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast there was presented, as part of the proceedings of the Conference, Columbia Broadcasting Company's Church of the Air service as follows : 

The Tabernacle Choir and the congregation sang the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel." 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

FOUNDATIONS OF PEACE 

A recent notable book presents the life philosophies of twenty-one living persons of international renown. Each contributor interprets the meaning of life differently. The essays resemble the frayed, flying ends of a rope; each a strand of truth, but of little strength and no organization. The resulting picture is one of utter confusion; a reflection of the world's present chaos in matters pertaining to human conduct and consequent happiness. 

One of the writers accepts God; the others ignore or deny the existence of an intelligent power higher than man. Several imply that, as a means of winning human happiness, Christianity has failed. Such airy opinions, commonly current, explain our distracted world. 

THE GOSPEL WHEN LIVED BLESSES MANKIND 

Christianity has not failed. Human history, from the days of Adam, reveals that, if but one Gospel principle is used, under any name, mankind is blessed and prospered. Man's peace and prosperity have risen or fallen with the degree of his obedience to Gospel truths. 

The failure of the Christian world to reach its heart's desire lies with the Christians, not with Christianity. As an ornament, Christianity has no special claim for consideration; it blossoms into human value only when used. Man has failed to accept the life-giving truths of the Gospel. That has been his failure. Thereby hangs the whole tale of human misery. It would be a beneficent experience to have Christendom practice the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

MEN'S CHOICE BRINGS GOOD OR EVIL 

In the moral world the ever constant battle is between good and evil. Man is a free agent. Whenever he has chosen good, he has approached joy; when he has followed evil, the ills of the world have overtaken him. The present chaos on earth, of warfare and its attendant horrors, are of man's own making. He has chosen to allow evil to rule him; and he must pay the price of his folly. 

STUDY OF HUMAN LIFE NEGLECTED ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

 for the truths of the universe, which has made our civilization, he has confined himself almost wholly, to the material world. Men are victoriously certain of physical laws — there they face the light; but confronting spiritual laws, they stand in cowed uncertainty — facing the darkness. 

Therefore, men have fumbled in the dark, failing to find the road they would travel. In fear they have been set for constant battle. "A tooth for a tooth, an eye for an eye" has become their slogan, however carefully veneered with honeyed words — and war and contention, famine and pestilence, blood and horror, have filled the earth. 

Examples of our one sided knowledge are many. The giant star Betelgeuse, millions of light years away in space, has been weighed and measured; but the intelligent domination of the universe remains a subject of controversy. The law of gravity, by which all things are held together, and reduced to orderly motion, is a school boy's commonplace; but that man is on earth under an intelligent plan is held to be unproved. The assembling of electrons into atoms, and atoms into molecules, to form the world known to our senses, is as a clearly painted picture; but the origin and destiny of man are to most men among the mysteries of life. The purpose of adaptation in the coloring of a butterfly's wing is understood; but human life is often held to be purposeless. An ant-hill or a beehive shows laws of relationship for common good; but human conduct is measured only by personal expediency, ever changing, never fixed or certain. Science gives no hint as to whether dynamite shall be used to destroy a defenseless city or steel be made into swords or plows. 

It is no wonder that as a result, the ethics of our day is the ethics of self-preservation — hard, self-willed, material — the ethics of every war; and that the history of civilized times is strung upon a crimson trail of blood. 

SPIRITUAL KNOWLEDGE OBTAINED BY PROPER SEEKING 

There can be no hope of permanent peace or true prosperity on earth until men turn their thought and power to the elucidation of the spiritual problems and issues of life. Intelligent man has the power to discover spiritual as well as physical laws. "Knock and it shall be opened, seek and ye shall find." If as much time and energy were spent to search out the true basis of human conduct as are given to any one subject in our schools, or in our social and political activities, the foundations of faith would be well laid. Then, the existence of God, for example, would be known with the same assurance that the sun shines. 

An equally basic cause of the world's confusion is the lack of agreement concerning the spiritual truths possessed by humanity. In the world of physical phenomena men generally see alike; but in the study of the spiritual domain personal opinions and philosophical abstractions are allowed entrance. There is constant quibbling about definitions. God, the first of man's spiritual concerns, is to one group, though of infinite majesty, a personal Being of the order of man; to 

98 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Dag 

another a personal Being of an order wholly different from man; to another an impersonal, beneficent power filling the universe; and to another only one of the many forces of nature. Contention and warfare arise over varying definitions or descriptions of beliefs. Unity of belief must precede full peace on earth. This can be done, if men will shed their preconceived opinions, and make truth the sole objective of their search. The simple tests of truth are as applicable in the spiritual as in the physical world. 

To convert the world's battlefields into cornfields; strife into peace; and fear into faith and trust, men must earnestly seek out and come to agreement concerning three fundamentals : the true God; man's relationship to God and his f ellowmen; and the purpose of human existence. Only as certainty about these is achieved can humanity hope for release from the reign of terror upon the earth. 

THE KNOWLEDGE OF GOD NECESSARY TO MAN'S WELL-BEING 

First, men must find God, if peace shall rule. To millions of people he is but a name, of no real consequence. The leaders of one great nation have seriously proposed the return to heathen man-made gods. The true God may be found. It is not difficult. Hosts of earnest men and women have found him, and know that the universe is directed by a dominant, yet comprehensible, intelligent, creative, loving Being, who, as a personal Being, can and does speak to His children on earth. 

Whoever finds this God wins certainty; and conquers fear, the ancient enemy of man, the distilled essence of uncertainty. A sense of power and justice comes to him who learns that there is no chance in the universe, but that the laws of nature are the laws of God, and that humanity lives under a system operated by an intelligent mind. To find God is humanity's first need. How many of you, in this vast congregation, seen and unseen, have learned to know him ? 

ALL MEN ARE BROTHERS 

Second, many sorrows of man are due to a false conception of man's relationship to the Lord and his fellowman. There can be little respect for human welfare or life, if man is but a higher animal, an accidental intruder on earth, or a creature of God, made at his pleasure, as children make mud pies. Man is a very son of God, begotten of God; he was with the Father in the beginning. Since he is of a divine pedigree, with a spark of divinity within him, he rises immeasurably in the world of things. 

Then, the brotherhood of man, spoken of so lightly, often with a sneer, acquires a profound meaning. All men are children of God; brothers in fact; of the same divine pedigree; with the same high destiny; under the same loving guidance of the Father of the spirits of men. Then, every man must assume some of God's own responsibility in caring for the children of men. A person cannot let his very brothers go hungry, unclothed, shelterless or bowed down in sorrow. He cannot be cruel to , and be true to his royal descent. Had this true relationship among men been fixed in human minds, fewer bombs would have fallen on Europe. Again, do we of this vast audience, seen and unseen, look upon our fellows as our very brothers, and strive to give them brotherly help? 

A PURPOSE IN LIFE NECESSARY FOR HAPPINESS 

Third, the true purpose of life must be understood. When the idea of chance in the universe is driven out, purpose in all things steps in. The life of man on earth is purposeful. Mortal life is part of a divine program for the eternal progress of man. The earth is designed for man's progress; and man's efforts should be in harmony with this purpose. There would be no warfare, if that purpose were understood, and held inviolate among mankind. May I ask each of you : Is your life ordered for progress? 

These are truths the world needs to know and accept : The existence of God; the real brotherhood of man; and, an intelligent purpose in life. Upon these foundations, peace, plenty and prosperity, and all the gifts of our bounteous earth would be available to all men. No longer then would man drift upon the ocean of uncertainty. The course of his life's voyage would be laid out before him. His life's journey, guided by knowing and doing, faith and works, would lead him to the house of happiness. 

Another question presents itself : How do these high truths, found and accepted, express themselves in human lives? How may those who shall bring peace upon earth, be recognized? What quality sums up Christian living? 

There is a sure, unfailing mark of the true followers of Jesus, the Christ. This mark is the power to forget oneself in the needs of others — we call it unselfishness, the highest achievement of man. It is the only means by which swords shall be beaten into plowshares and the earth become as Paradise. 

WHAT ABOUT OURSELVES? 

Should we not in this trying day search our own hearts ? We need go no farther. 

Are we ready to give of our surplus, to give of ourselves, to those in need? Is it a joy to us to give to the Lord that which he requests of us? 

Is there unselfishness in our homes? Does kindness rule there? Does an unselfish love direct our family life? Then we have made the beginning of the world's conquest of peace. 

What about our neighbor ? Are we solicitous of his welfare ? Do we look charitably upon his weaknesses? Do we recognize his virtues without jealousy? Do we try to love him? 

In our business affairs do we refuse to take even lawful advantage of our f ellowman ? Will we divide possible profits with him ? 

100 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Day 

You shepherds, officials of the Church, are you true fathers to the flock, giving love and more love to your brethren in your charge? These are the simple unfailing tests. 

If this congregation, as followers of the Prince of Peace, would order their lives for unselfishness, a notable beginning would be made toward world peace. Others seeing the beneficent results would follow our example, and the siprit of goodwill would spread among men. Shall we not resolutely try to do so? 

UNSELFISHNESS WOULD HEAL THE WORLD'S ILLS 

Soul-lifting is the sequence of events when unselfishness rises in the human heart; when the real brotherhood of men is accepted, when there is a surrender to the divine program! Charity and mercy soon flow from the unselfish man. He looks with forgiving compassion upon the weaknesses of others. He seeks to succor all who are in need. Such service begets love, the impelling principle of divine action. Peace is the child of love — the peace of soul that frees man to progress towards the likeness of God. Thus is the happy ascending sequence : Unselfishness, charity, love, peace. All creation is pleading, praying and weeping that unselfishness may be established among men. 

SELFISHNESS THE CAUSE OF EVIL IN THE WORLD 

In contrast, how repulsive is selfishness! In its godless world of uncertain chance, men are brothers only by courtesy; rather, they are enemies from birth. "Each for himself" is the slogan. The evil in man blossoms into cruelty — at home, in business, even in his imagined loves. The first-born of selfishness is greed, dripping at the mouth, a never-satisfied appetite for material possessions, however acquired. "More and more," is greed's cry. The world's political history is mainly the story of man's appeased greed. When defeated, as needs it must be in a greedy world, greed is transmuted into hate of all who stand in its way or do better in a grasping world, a sour hate of life itself. Then, as night follows day, comes war, hate's own misshaped child, unending warfare, hidden in human hearts, or spouting famine and pestilence over sodden fields of battle, until the hearts of men are stilled with dread, despair, defeat and all the other devils that lead to death. 

Such is the ungodly downward sequence, the world's enemy, since Cain took the life of Abel: selfishness, greed, hate and war — -pouring sorrow over the earth. 

It is folly to build great armaments of steel, for defense or offense, and fail to build the mightier weapons that issue from obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Gospel of Peace. Warships, airships or diplomacy may end a war, but warfare among nations or business leaders, or neighbors, or in families, will not cease until men obey his word, and seek unselfishly and in might to love one another. 101 

PEACE AN INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY 

Let it not be forgotten that the winning of peace for the world is a personal responsibility. I must order my life for peace, as you must order yours. The units of a nation are the individual citizens; in the end, as they are the nation will become. For each one of us is the message : I am the maker of peace. 

Some will say that man is incapable of discovery of spiritual truth and of sufficient unselfish action to bring peace upon earth. That is but sounding brass, the challenge of unbelief. 

There is in every man a deep store of power which, when drawn upon, makes men mighty for high endeavor, gives more than ordinary human strength. Out of the unseen world, that fount is replenished; it never runs dry. It is the world's pity that so few use it, for it gives not only power to obey and to do, but courage, hope, understanding, faith, love and all other virtues and gifts of heaven. Man, of divine pedigree, can perform divinely acceptable works, when in prayer to God he draws upon the well of inner power with which every man is endowed. Peace will come to earth, as the children of earth use this divinely given power within them according to the requirements of the Gospel of Jesus Christ which offers the only practical approach to peace and happiness on earth. These are all old truths, but it is well to talk about them in a day when they seem to have been forgotten. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, possessed of divine knowledge and authority, follows humbly in the footsteps of its Master, the Man of Galilee, and pleads with its members and all men to turn to truth and righteousness, so that peace may descend upon the earth. 

A choral group composed of members of the Tabernacle Choir sang the hymn, "Come Thou Glorious Day of Promise." 

The music for this broadcast was under the direction of J. Spencer Cornwall. Alexander Schreiner was at the organ. 

(End of the Church of the Air broadcast) 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "For the Strength of the Hills we Bless Thee." 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

JESUS' PRAYER FOR UNITY 

Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me that they may be one as we are. 

Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word; 

That they all may be one : as thou, Father, art in me and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe in us. (John 17:11-21.) 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 8 Third Dag 

As nearly all of you readily recognize, I have quoted from one of the most sublime prayers ever offered among men. It is an Intercessory Prayer. The occasion makes the things prayed for most significant. In it Jesus makes unity preeminent among his followers. 

Unity and its synonyms, harmony, goodwill, peace, concord, mutual understanding, express a condition for which the human heart constantly yearns. Its opposites are discord, contention, strife, confusion. 

UNITY IN THE HOME 

I can imagine few if any things more objectionable in the home than the absence of unity and harmony. On the other hand, I know that a home in which unity, mutual helpfulness, and love abide is just a bit of heaven on earth. I surmise that nearly all of you can testify to the sweetness of life in homes in which these virtues predominate. Most gratefully and humbly, I cherish the remembrance that never once as a lad in the home of my youth did I ever see one instance of discord between father and mother, and that goodwill and mutual understanding have been the uniting bond that has held together a fortunate group of brothers and sisters. Unity, harmony, goodwill are virtues to be fostered and cherished in every home. 

UNITY IN CHURCH ORGANIZATIONS 

In branches and wards, there is no virtue more conducive to progress and spirituality than the presence of this principle. When jealousy, backbiting, evil-speaking supplant confidence, self-subjection, unity, and harmony the progress of the organization is stifled. 

UNPATRIOTIC ACTIVITIES A MENACE TO FREE GOVERNMENT 

However, what really prompted me to emphasize this principle is the presence in our own United States of influences the avowed object of which is to sow discord and contention among men with the view of undermining, weakening, if not entirely destroying our constitutional form of government. If I speak plainly, and in condemnation lay bare reprehensible practices and aims of certain organizations, please do not think that I harbor ill-will or enmity in my heart towards other United States citizens whose views on political policies do not coincide with mine. But when acts and schemes are manifestly contrary to the revealed word of the Lord, we feel justified in warning people against them. We may be charitable and forbearing to the sinner, but must condemn the sin. 

Timely references and appropriate warnings have been given during this Conference on the danger and evils of war. There is another danger even more menacing than the threat of invasion of a foreign foe. It is the unpatriotic activities and underhanded scheming of disloyal groups, and organizations within our own borders. This country is so situated geographically that there need be little fear of invasion by an outside enemy. Furthermore, the government knowing who and where the enemy is can make ample preparation to meet his attacks. But the secret, 103  scheming of an enemy within our own ranks, hypocritically professing loyalty to the government, and at the same time plotting against it, is more difficult to deal with. 

Disintegration is often more dangerous and more fatal than outward opposition. For example, an individual can usually protect himself from thunder showers, and even from tempests, from freezing weather or intense heat, from drought, or floods, or other extremes in nature; but he is often helpless when poisonous germs enter his body or a malignant growth begins to sap the strength of some vital organ. 

The Church is little if at all injured by persecution and calumnies from ignorant, misinformed or malicious enemies; a greater hindrance to its progress comes from fault-finders, shirkers, commandment-breakers, and apostate cliques within its own ecclesiastical and quorum groups. 

So it is in government. It is the enemy from within that is most menacing, especially when it threatens to disintegrate our established form of government. 

Washington's greatest trial 

Perhaps the most gloomy, discouraging period of the American Revolution was when General Washington's army was in Winter Quarters at Valley Forge. He had fewer than 10,000 men. Soldiers were thinly clad, some half naked, others with no clothing but tattered blankets wrapped around them. "So many were sick as the result of privation," writes one commentator, "so many were without coats, blankets, hats, or shoes that one wonders how the army held together at all." Critical and desperate as were these conditions, a greater trial and sorrow, I surmise, came to Washington when some of his friends such as John Adams and Richard Henry Lee turned against him; when General Gates insulted him by sending reports direct to Congress instead of to Washington, his superior officer. As carrion hawks hover around dying creatures, so in Washington's dire calamity came men to seek to crush him — men who formed what has been called the "Conway Cabal," a contemptible attempt to dishonor Washington and to supplant him by a self-asserting, arrogant schemer. This internal discord, and such disloyalty from one-time friends were more crushing than were the attacks of the opposing army. 

ANTI-AMERICANISM SOWING DISCORD 

Today there are in this country enemies in the form of "isms." I call them Anti-Americanisms. Only a few of the leaders fight openly — most of the army carry on as termites, secretly sowing discord and undermining stable government. Of the truth of this statement recent investigations made by a committee of the United States Senate bear ample evidence. Of the menace of one of these, Dr. William F. Russell, Dean of Teachers' College, Columbia University, in an address "How to Tell a Communist, and How to Beat Him," is one of the many authorities whom we might quote as to the pernicious activity of these groups. 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 A STATEMENT AS TO COMMUNISM 

He says : 

Communist leaders have steadily insisted that Communism cannot live in just one country. Just as we fought to make "the world safe for democracy," so they are fighting to make the world safe for Communism. They are fighting this fight today. Every country must become Communistic, according to their idea. So they have sent out missionaries. They have supplied them well with funds. They have won converts. These converts have been organized into little groups called "cells,' 1 ' each acting as a unit under the orders of a superior. It is almost a military organization. They attack where there is unemployment. They stir up discontent among those oppressed. * * * They work their way into the unions, where they form compact blocks. They publish and distribute little papers and pamphlets. At the New York Times they pass out one called "Better Times." At the Presbyterian Hospital it is called "The Medical Worker." At the College of the City of New York, it is called "Professor, Worker, Student." At Teachers College it is called "The Educational Vanguard." These are scurrilous sheets. In one issue I noted twenty-nine errors of fact. After a recent address of mine they passed out a dodger attacking me, with a deliberate error of fact in each paragraph. These pamphlets cost money — more than $100 an issue. The idea is to try to entice into their web those generous and public-spirited teachers, preachers, social workers and reformers who know distress and want to do something about it. These Communists, know what they are doing. They follow their orders. Particularly they would like to dominate our newspapers, our colleges and our schools. The campaign is much alike all over the world. I have seen the same articles, almost the same pamphlets, in France and England as in the United States. 

You see, when it comes to fighting Communists I am a battle-scarred veteran. But after twenty years I cannot tell one by looking at him. However, only the leaders proclaim their membership. The clever are silent, hidden, anonymous, boring from within. You can only tell a Communist by his ideas. 

Their method of working their way to the seizure of power he describes as follows : 

Talk about peace, talk about social equality, especially among those most oppressed. Talk about organization of labor, and penetrate into every labor union. Talk on soap boxes. Publish pamphlets and papers. Orate and harangue. Play on envy. Arouse jealousy. Separate class from class. Try to break down the democratic processes from within. Accustom the people to picketing, strikes, mass meetings. Constantly attack the leaders in every way possible, so that the people will lose confidence. Then in time of national peril, during a war, on the occasion of a great disaster, or on a general strike, walk into the capital and seize the power. A well-organized minority can work wonders. 

WARNING TO LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

I have been informed from several sources that some of these spurious political growths are sprouting here in our own midst, that members of these groups have even received instructions regarding what to do in case this country should become involved in war. The nature of these instructions savors very much of the diabolical gun-powder plot in the time of James the First of England. 

Latter-day Saints should have nothing to do with secret combinations 105  groups antagonistic to the Constitutional law of the land, which the Lord "suffered to be established," and which "should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; 

That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. 

Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. 

And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood. (Doc. and Cov. 101-77, 80.) 

Of course there are errors in government which some would correct, certainly there are manifest injustices and inequalities, and there will always be such in any government in the management of which enter the frailties of human nature. If you want changes go to the polls on election day, express yourself as an American citizen, and thank the Lord for the privilege that is yours to have a say as to who shall serve you in public office. 

IMPORTANCE OF UPHOLDING THE CONSTITUTION 

Next to being one in worshiping God there is nothing in this world upon which this Church should be more united than in upholding and defending the Constitution of the United States. 

May the appeal of our Lord in his Intercessory Prayer for Unity be realized in our homes, our wards and stakes, and in our support of the basic principles of our Democracy. 

In the words of John Oxenham: 

God grant us wisdom in these coming days, 

And eyes unsealed, that we clear visions see Of that new world that He would have us build, 

To life's ennoblement and His high ministry. 

God give us sense, — God-sense of Life's new needs, And souls aflame with new-born chivalries — 

To cope with those black growths that foul the ways, — To cleanse our poisoned founts with God-born energies. 

To pledge our souls with nobler, loftier life, 

To win the world to His fair sanctities, To bind the nations in a Pact of Peace, 

And free the Soul of Life for finer loyalties. 

Not since Christ died upon His lonely cross Has Time such prospect held of Life's new birth; Not since the world of chaos first was born Has man so clearly visaged hope of a new earth. 

Not of our own might can we hope to rise 

Above the ruts and soilures of the past, But, with His help who did the first earth build, 

With hearts courageous we may fairer build this last. 

God guide this Church, and particularly the Priesthood, in building according to God's plan, and in establishing his kingdom on earth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Day 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am sorry to tell you that Brother George Albert Smith is suffering from quite a severe attack of lumbago, which is the reason that he has not been at this Conference. He sends his greetings. I had a little visit with him this morning, he is improving, but I did not feel that it would be wise for him to come to the meeting this afternoon. 

We of course regret the absence of Brother Joseph Fielding Smith. He is in Europe and has done a fine work there. We are grateful that he was in Europe when the war broke out. 

Elder Levi Edgar Young of the General Authorities is absent from us presiding over the New England Mission. 

Elder John H. Taylor was assigned to be in New York to assist Brother Frank Evans in taking care of our missionaries who are returning from Europe and to assign to their new fields of labor those who have not completed their missions. We regret his absence. 

Yesterday I forgot to express our deep appreciation for the beautiful singing of the chorus of the Branch Agricultural College at Cedar City. We thoroughly appreciated their singing and are grateful to them for making such a long trip to come here and help make this Conference of interest. 

We are always grateful to our Singing Mothers for the fine contribution which they give to us. 

The Choir and congregation sang "Doxology." Elder A. Carlos Schow, President of the Lehi Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


