12
Morning
05 10 1092
President Joseph F. Smith. 

Appreciation of faithful labors — A spirit of restlessness not desirable. 

It may be appropriate at this moment for me to say a few words relative to the Alberta Stake of Zion. Most of the Latter-day Saints are aware of the fact that President Charles O. Card was the pioneer of that country, and for long years has been acting as the president of the Alberta Stake of Zion. We desire to say to his numerous friends and acquaintances that no man  has been called to such a position has been more valiant and faithful in the performance of his duty, according to his knowledge and ability, than President Charles O. Card. He has been indeed a pioneer, a faithful, energetic man, and has been instrumental in laying, to a great extent, the foundations of the prosperity of the Alberta Stake. But on our late visit we found that his health was so greatly impaired that it became necessary to honorably relieve him from the great responsibilities of presiding over that Stake; and I think you will all bear me witness, if Brother Allen will continue to maintain the spirit that he possesses today, we will not have made any mistake in selecting Brother Card's successor. 

I would also say that we do not desire the people to get in their minds a spirit of restlessness or a desire to migrate from one place to another. We would like our brethren and sisters to remain where they are, as long as they can consistently, and only those go to the newer Stakes who have a necessity to go. We desire to maintain our foothold and to continue to establish ourselves in the central Stakes of Zion. We realize the necessity for this, and we hope that the brethren and sisters of all the Stakes will continue to abide where they are and contend for the success of the people in the locality where they live. There are a few places where our people have settled which need no words of commendation to induce settlers to go there, because they plead their own cause; but we desire to keep the foothold we have. We do not intend to retrograde, or to yield up. We believe that there has been no mistake made in the past in forming settlements in the south and in the various places where our people are located. We believe that the hand of the Lord is in it all, and that those who directed the locating and settlement of those places were inspired by that wisdom which comes from above. 

ELDER WILLIAM H. SMART (President of Wasatch Stake). 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very  upon the Lord to direct me in the utterances that I shall make. It has been very interesting to hear the reports from the various missionary fields of the world. It is gratifying to see the work of the Lord progressing in the earth and it makes my heart rejoice to receive testimonies of the same. 

A year ago last February I was called to go into the Wasatch Stake of Zion — seventy miles from this city by rail — to succeed President Abram Hatch as the president of that Stake; so that I am, comparatively speaking, an infant in this grave responsibility, and I can speak mostly of our good intentions rather than the labors that have been performed. We are 5,500 feet above sea level, away up in the tops of the mountains in a very beautiful valley surrounded by the everlasting hills. In reading of the physical structure of Switzerland I often think that our little valley may be compared in its beauty to some of the beautiful valleys of Switzerland. No doubt, this is why we have in our valley so many good, sturdy inhabitants from Switzerland. Our little valley shows the hand of hardihood, industry and privation; for the winter months have been long and the summer months short. There are those in that valley who have gone through all the privations of early life in these mountains. Many of them knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and passed through the trying scenes of the early history of our Church, and crossed the plains when it was but a trackless desert. We have nine Patriarchs to bless the people, and most of these Patriarchs had the privilege of knowing the Prophet Joseph Smith, and their old frames vibrate under the powerful testimonies which they bear that he was a prophet of the living God. We have many aged sisters who knew the Prophet, and who went through the early trials among our people. We feel blessed to have so many aged brethren and sisters still living among us with burning testimonies of the divinity of Joseph Smith's mission. 

I desire to say that we are endeavoring to keep up with the spirit of the 

times. We encourage our people to remain at home and build upon the worthy foundation laid by the men and women who were the pioneers of that little commonwealth. We have hundreds of acres in the valley still covered with sagebrush — virgin soil which has not yet known the plow — and our hearts are going out in loving sympathy to these untilled acres. Our hearts are also going out to our young men who are going to Park City, delving in the mines for gold and silver, and being led astray by the vices of the world, when there are still hundreds of acres yet uncultivated at home. Our minds are being led to some extent on the question of irrigation and along those temporal lines that will assist in sanctifying the land and bringing It to a higher state of cultivation. In spiritual matters we are endeavoring to do our duty. Our Heavenly Father has blessed me with two good counselors in the persons of Joseph R. Murdock and James C. Jensen — men who feel to give their lives to the service of God. They have stated that if need be all their time and means are at the disposal of God our Eternal Father for the upbuilding of His Church upon the earth. We have a High Council who are men of God. They are united with us in furthering the interests of our people. We have a corps of Bishops who are leading the people as best they can according to the ability which God has given them. We are endeavoring to be abreast of the spirit of the times with regard to the quorums of the Priesthood; but I regret to say that in our Stake we have experienced the difficulties which Bishop Preston spoke of in the Priesthood meeting last evening — that is, our work in the Teachers* department is not as we would like to have it. In the auxiliary departments of the Church we are trying to keep up with the rest of the Church. Speaking of religion class work, the presidency and High Council, and for the most part our Bishops, are interested In this work. We see that It will be a mighty factor, under the blessing of God, in distilling the principles of the Gospel upon the minds of the youth of Zion. We realize that we feed our children's bodies three times a day.but too many of us have been contented to  them only one or two spiritual 

meals a week. Therefore, many of the youth of Zion are growing up physically strong, but spiritually weak. We recognize this condition in the Wasatch Stake. In visiting some of our religion classes, tears have rolled down my cheeks to see little tots stand before the class and lead their classmates in a practical prayer. It has made me think of that prayer of the Savior where He said, "I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes." I have thought of it, too, when our little children taught the law of tithing in these classes, have brought their nickels and laid them, like the disciples of old, at the feet of their teachers. 

May God grant that the spirit of progression may be in the hearts of the people in every part of the vineyard of the Lord, and that we, His servants, may be equal to the great duties that He has placed upon us. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
