17
Overflow
05 10 1092
Elder Moses W. Taylor. 

(President of Summit Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I desire an inteiest in your faith and prayers, that I may be inspired to say those things that will be for the best good of all of us. 

A little over a year ago the Prophet, Seer and Revslator of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints sent T o my office in Salt Lake City, for ma. lie said to me, "We want you to leave your home in this city and go out and live in the Summit Stake of Zion. A few day.; afterwards three of the Apostles and I boarded the train, and we landed in Coalville, Summit county. When we got there we went to a Priesthood meeting, at which there was a fair representation of the Priesthood of the Stake. At this meeting these three Apostles disorganized the whole Stake, leaving out of office all the Bishops, with their counselors, the High Councilors, the presidency of the Stake, and all the other officers of the Stake. Although I was a stranger in a strange land, apparently, after the Priesthood meeting, the same evening, before these three brethren boarded the train for home, they said to me, "Now, Moses, fix it up. You have got to stay here and fix it up." 

I did not feel that I was altogether alone; I went to the Lord and told Him that He and I were the only officers in the Stake now. I thought it was a good thing to go in partners with the Lord; He has been good partner to me — the best I have ever had. He has blessed me in my labors; for out there in the tops of the mountains, on the little streams in Summit county, I found some of the best people I ever met in my life. We have been trying to raise some apples out there in that cold country, and at our Priesthood meeting, held a week ago, we made such a fine showing that  that tasted them said they were better than any they had ever eaten. I said the apples were like the land, and water and the air.that everything w r as good there, even the people. With the aid of Apostle Smoot and the inspiration of the Lord, we went through the Stake and selected a Bishopric for each of the eighteen wards; we also selected a High Council. Our main desire in choosing these brethren was that they should be men who set a good example. When I went out to select counselors for myself my first thought and my prayer to my heavenly Father was that I might be led to men that set an example worthy of emulation. I was led to the homes of two brethren who, with their families, w T ere observing the Word of Wisdom and paying their tithing. This requirement was made of all the brethren; so, when we got through we had men who weie observing these principles and who knew that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Of course, we had to take some men who w^ere using tobacco and tell them to stop it; and I bear testimony to the people assembled here in conference that out of the hundreds of officers chosen to preside in any capacity in that Stake, of whom the requirement was made, it has not been impossible for any one of them to keep the Word of Wisdom. Those who have been in the habit of breaking the Word of Wisdom, all the way from six to ninety-two years of age, have been able to quit that course. They have said to me that the Lord had taken away from them the desire for such things. I wanted to bear my testimony to you with regard to this thing, because wherever we go among the Latter-day Saints we find people who say they cannot quit tobacco, or "I cannot quit tea and coffee, as I would have a headache all day long if I did," and all such excuses. Hundreds of the people of the Summit Stake could bear the same testimony — that they have been able to leave off the use of these unwholesome things and observe the Word of Wisdom. The reason they have been able to do this, brethren and sisters, is because they have taken the Lord In as a partner with them. They have all said that.  the help of the Lord, they would do this thing. 

Now, I believe that the people out there area good people to make sacrifices; I can testify to this. Some people get the notion that the ward they live in is the only ward in the Church. We have been endeavoring to get the people to discard this selfish idea and to be more liberal and broadminded. 

We went after some of the Stakes adjoining us last summer, and, with them, got together on the water question. We decided to aid and assist one another in our distress. During the dryest part of the season the people of the lower counties sent word to the Saints of Summit Stake asking if they would not turn down the water. They said they realized that it was the driest part of the season and that the people of Summit Stake needed the water for their own lands, but that they felt to appeal to them for aid. In response to this appeal every ditch in the county was closed for eight days, and immediately afterwards the Saints of Morgan county did the same thing; so the people below were blessed. Later in the season some of the Bishops, and other prominent men of our Stake, came to me and said, "Brother Taylor, though the water was taken from our lands, still our crops are abundant. The Lord has blessed us for our sacrifice." Brethren and sisters, I tell you that where a spirit like that is exhibited the Lord cannot withhold His blessings. 

While on this subject I should say that grain, cows, horses, sheep, money, and all those things, are not always blessed. There are two kinds of money, one kind carries with it the blessings of the Lord, the other carries with it the blight of the prince of darkness. A man came to me recently and said that he had sons who, in their youth, worked faithfully with him; the Lord blessed him with means, and these sons grew up* and became good and honorable men in the community. "Now," said he, "I have other sons growing up; they are different from the first; they are ungovernable, and I can do nothing with them." I could have told him the  of the difference between these sons: When his older sons were growing up he was paying his tithes and offerings, attending his meetings and performing his other duties, and these sons grew up under a good influence; his money and increase had the blessings of God UDon it. But conditions changed. He got into trouble with his Bishop and the president of his Stake, and finally left the Church. His other sons came along, but they grew up under a different influence. They were proud of their gain, and were using this money, which looked the same as the other, but which had the blight upon it and was a curse to them; while, on the other hand, it had been a blessing to their father and their other brothers. May the Lord add His blessings to all, which I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen.
