18
Overflow
05 10 1092
Elder 'George C. Parkinson, 

(President of Oneida Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I have listened with much pleasure to the re  marks of the brethren during this con. I rejoice in the testimony of my brethren, and that I have the priviT ege of associating with the Latter-day Saints at these meetings. 

The Oneida Stake is located in the northern part of Cache Valley, in the State of Idaho. It was organized over eighteen years ago, with eleven wards and about 3,000 souls. Since that time many changes have taken place. The people increased in number as the pos Abilities of the country became better known. We had a large tract of :and, and as the country was built up other wards were organized and several new Stakes were made. As the Stake exists today we have seventeen wards a id a population of about 6,000 Latter oay Saints. The presidency of the Stake are united and are laboring in hf rmony with each other. The members of the High Council of the Stake are good men. They all keep the Word of Wisdom, I think, and are devoting their time and attention to the ministry. They meet once a month, as a High Council, and attend to any business that may come before them. Most of them visit the various wards of the Stake on Sundays, and also on othe'* days, keeping up the organizations anJ encouraging the Saints in the work of T he Lord. I believe the wards are all thoroughly organized, and that the Bishops and their Counselors are all ifood, exemplary men, actively engaged in the midst of the people. We try 'o impress upon them the necessity of looking after those bearing the Lesser Priesthood, that they might be trained and prepared for higher and greater responsibilities as they grow in years and faithfulness. I believe the quorums of lhe Priesthood are pretty well taken care of. Of course, we also have some who are negligent and careless, as m^y be found in other Stakes and organizat.ons of the Church. Our Seventies are nearly all active men, engaged in the ministry. We ca!l them into service as home mission aries, to labor with the Elders and High Priests, in connection with the members of the High Council of the Stake, and they are seeking to edify the Saints and to encourage them in their duties. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the testimony which the Lord has given to me. I know that God lives and that Jesus Christ is His Son and the Redeemer of mankind. I know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, and that he was raised up of God to establish the Gospel of Jesus Christ upon the earth for the last time. He delivered the message, and it has gone forth to the nations of the earth, and it shall be proclaimed to all nations, kindreds, tongues and peoples upon the face of the earth. I know that Brigham Young was a Prophet of God, and that he was raised up to lead the people of God from the land of their persecutions and drivings to this promised place in the tops of the mountains, according to the will of God, made known through His Prophet Joseph Smith. I also have a testimony that John Taylor was a Prophet of the Lord, loved of God, and that he labored devotedly in the ministry for the establishment of the work of the Lord. I can bear the same testimony as to President Wilford Woodruff and President Lorenzo Snow, who were good and noble men, and Prophets of God. I know that, today, we have to preside over the Church as Prophet, Seer and Revelator, a noble son of God, one recognized of the Lord as His servant to preside over His Church in all the world; that these brethren who are associated with the Presidency of the Church, the Apostles, whose labors call them to the several Stakes of Zion and the different parts of the earth, are the servants of the Lord. I know that they enjoy the revelations of the Holy Spirit, and that they are special witnesses, traveling among the people and bearing a faithful testimony to the divinity of the work of the Lord as restored and established in our day. 

My desire is to go onward and upward, and to do what little 1 may be able to do, under the blessings of the Almighty. I desire not to grow weary or to become discouraged, but I feel like lifting up my voice in defense of the truth and the establishment of righteousness in the midst of the people. 

I am associated with a good people, who are devoted to the work of the 

Lord. We have an excellent school in our midst, at which within a month from now, perhaps, we will have about fifty young men engaged in the missionary class, preparing to go into the world and proclaim the Gospel. We have organized our auxiliary associations, and they are presided over by men and women who are devoted to the work in which they are engaged. 

In listening to the testimonies of Apostles Smoot and Woodruff this morning my heart warmed within my bosom, and I thank God for such men. I thank Him that His inspiration has been poured out, and is now being poured out, upon these young men, who have been called to this active position in the ministry. They are men of God, and I know it. I have associated with them to quite an extent during the past few years, and I know that they are true, genuine, and faithful, and that they live in the love and confidence of God, and that His blessings are following their ministrations in the midst of the people. May God bless them, and all who are engaged in His glorious cause, that it may spread abroad through the earth; that the honest in heart may be gathered out and assembled in the tops of the mountains and in other places appointed of the Lord for the gathering of His people, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
