25
Morning
06 10 1092
Elder Jesse W. Crosby, 

(Of the Presidency of Big Horn Stake.) 

In standing before you this morning and representing the Big Horn Stake of Zion — a new stake that has been organized in "Wyoming — and in listening to the reports of the different missions and stakes, I feel that we still belong to Zion. The people of our stake have come from various parts; some from almost every county in Utah, some from Idaho, some from Canada, some from Mexico. They have formed themselves into a body of people there that are  and recognized as Latter-day Saints. To us who have gone there it has been a land of promise, and our gathering is a fulfillment of prophecy; for it was prophesied many years ago that the Saints would locate in the Big Horn basin and become a flourishing people. President Young prophesied in regard to this, as did Jesse "W. Fox, the well known surveyor, who went into that locality and discovered its resources. We believe that the Lord has held in reserve portions of that country for His people. 

I do not think it necessary to say much about our country; in the due time of the Lord it will speak for itself. When compared with many places that the Saints have located in, it is certainly a goodly land. The Lord has heard and answered the prayers of His people there, and the success that has attended our labors has been marvelous to us, as well as to those who have watched our operations. Quite a number of eastern people have tried to colonize in that land, but have r>een unsuccessful in taking out the water. They have had fto concede that the Latterday Saints are natural colonizers, because of the union that exists among them. In a little over two years we have opened a number of canals, our biggest canal being thirty-three miles long, and costing nearly $100,000.00. The water was taken out this year, going the full length of the ditcn, and on the 23rd of June we commenced irrigating, and have produced some crops. This will show what can be done on that soil. 

We have friends in that land. The governor of the state has been watching very carefully what the Latter-daySaints were capable of doing. He says he has watched us with more than personal interest, so that he might see what could be done to make some of that desert land fruitful. Since we commenced operations, companies from the east and the west have started to taking out canals. The officials of the state of Wyoming are treating us with all the courtesy that we could ask. We have come to regard Governor Richards as being unto us like Joseph was in Egypt, and we feel very grateful to him. 

Many of those who have gone into the Big Horn country are poor people. They had more labor than they could utilize where they were living, the water resources being limited, and they either had to work for someone else or go without employment. They are now working for themselves, opening up farms and making homes. About two years ago we discovered that we were going to be short of provisions, many people having come in without sufficient to hold out until they could raise something. The situation seemed somewhat serious; but the Lord openea the way, in answer to fasting and prayer. The Burlington railroad officials offered us contracts on their road, which we accepted; and after fulfilling the contracts we received our money, and utilized it to the very best advantage. 

The people, I believe, are trying hard to make it a land of Zion, by keeping the commandments of the Lord thereon. We have a God-fearing people there, who are trying with all their hearts to serve God, and to make the land a place that the Lord will delight to bless because of the faithfulness of those who dwell there. 

May God bless Israel, and all who write and speak in favor of Zion, is the prayer of your humble servant, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
