Morning
04 10 1092


OPENING ADDRESS. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Greeting— Causes for thanksgiving— God's blessings increase through faithfulness — More Temples to be built — Great responsibility resting upon the Saints. 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I greet you heartily this morning in your attendance at this the 73rd Semi-annual Conference of the Church. I am pleased to see such a good representation here this morning. Especially am I pleased tn see so many of the presiding authorities of the Church — the Apostles and the presidents of stakes, and also many of the presidents of the various missions of the Church. It is indeed gratifying to see these our brethren assembled here, on whom rests so greit a responsibility, they having been entrusted with the proclamation of the Gospel to the nations of the earth and with the care of the flock of Christ in the various Stakes of Zion. 

During this conference we desire, as far as the time will permit, to give an opportunity to as many as possible of the Elders who are presiding abroad, and of the presidents of the stakes o* Zicn, to express themselves; and in order that we may reach as many as possible, we desire that the brethren who speak shall have that portion of the Sp'rit of God that will enable them to speak clearly, pointedly and briefly up on those subjects that may come to their minds. 

We have here the Apostles, the Presidents of the Seventies, and the Presiding Bishopric, who are practically tra veling' Elders in the Church, visiting the stakes of Zion and the various mission fields, from time to time, and they are especially posted in relation to the condition of the work of the Lord in the various fields that they have visited and will be able to speak to us in relation to those subjects and matte :-s that will be most interesting and necessary for the general enlightenment of those who have come to the conference, and to the edification of the whole people. 

We desire to say to the people th-it we feel very grateful to the Lord for His continued mercy unto us, and, noLw ithstanding the drouth of the past season, which has been almost unpre  cedented in many parts of the country, we feel that the Saints have been greativ blessed, and that there will be r.o necessity for any great lack or want among the people in consequence of the drouth, but we feel that all will be blessed with sufficient for their needs. In many parts of the country we have been exceedingly blessed. There has been an abundance of water, and in some sections our people have been visited by unprecedented rains, resulting in great floods, which have done nr. ore or less damage to the people; bvt this, of course, is not to a very great extent. 

We feel in our hearts that Zion is prospering, and that all is well with the people of God at large; still, we realize that there is great room for us to improve, and that the opportunities for advancement are very extensive. We hope that all the Latter-day Saints will continue their diligence and faithfulness before the Lord in the work in which they are engaged, that Zion may continue to flourish in the tops of the mountains, and that the purposes of 

God Almighty concerning His peop^ and His work in the latter days may be consummated and fully realized. We fe<*l that the Lord will bless His people, and the earth, for their sake, in the future more abundantly than in the past. In proportion as we renew and redouble our diligence and faithfulness betore the Lord in keeping His commandments and walking in all righttcusness and acceptableness before Him, so will His blessings x>e increased upon the people, and upon all their substance, and upon the earth which they inhabit. 

We congratulate you, brethren arid sifters, on your appearance here this morning, and we pray God to pour out upon you and upon all of us His Ho'y Spirit during this Conference, that we may have a time of rejoicing, and that we may be able to act intelligently and wisely on all matters of business that may be presented before us; that we may have the spirit of union, love and devotion to the cause of Zion abiding in our hearts; that we may have no feelings of dissension, but that we may be one, that we may be indeed the people of God. 

It is not my purpose to prolong my remarks this morning, but I desired to express my gratitude to my Father in heaven for all His mercies and blessings unto us. 

We will say to the people that we have no reason to complain of the diligence of the Saints, so far as we are able to judge, in keeping the law of tithing. We believe that the Latterday Saints are observing that law as faithfully as they have ever done, and we beseech of you that you will continue to do this until our hands shall be freed from all obligations, and until we shall have means in the storehouse of the Lord with which to accomplish greater works, which may be necessary to be done. We feel there is much that can be done and much that ought to be done in the interests of Zion and for the benefit of the people of God. 

We feel that an effort should be made to preserve the Temples of God, those houses that have been erected for the purpose of administering the ordinances of the Gospel therein for the  and the dead. We desire that these building's shall be preserved and kept in repair and in a wholesome condition, so that the Spirit of the Lord may dwell in them, and that those who minister therein, may feel the presence and influence of His Spirit. We also feel that when the time shall come and our hands shall be free from the obligations that now rest upon us, other pl'tces should be prepared for the convergence of the Latter-day Saints in more distant stakes, in order that those who are living at great distances from the center may have the privilege of receiving the ordinances of the Gosp«l without being put to the great expense and loss of time that is necessary now in journeying from 500 to 1,000 miles in order to reach the houses of God. We hope to see the day when we shall have temples built in the various parts of the land where they are needed for the convenience of the people: for we realize that one of the greatest responsibilities that rest upon the people of God today is that their hearts shall be turnel unto their fathers, and that they shall do the work that is necessary to be done for them in order that they may be joined together fitly in the bond of the New and Everlasting covenant from generation to generation. For the Lcrd has said, through the Prophet Joseph, that this is one of the greatest responsibilities devolving upon us in this latter day. 

God help us to do this work and help up. to be faithful, one and all, that we may have means with which to accomplish it, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON, (President of the California Mission.) 

My very beloved brothers and sisters, when I heard the voice of the Prophet of God say that all is well in Zion, the words of one of the Prophets of old came to my mind: 

"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringreth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth!" 

In the California Mission we are not always blessed by the presence of those who bring good tidings of good; we often hear the people of Zion villified and spoken of evilly. It fills my heart with joy to know that those whose interests are our interests, and who have done so much for our common weal in fostering our industries, can say that all is well, and they have no complaints in regard to the law of tithing and other matters relating to the Saints of God. 

In our mission we have the same spirit that characterizes the saints of God in all the world. The hearts of the Saints there turn to you in these valleys, and deep in their souls they have a desire to come to the Temple of the Lord and receive their blessings, and some few have been so privileged. They feel a pride in all your successes. When they hear of any great thing you do or any good thing that is said of you, they rejoice, and feel that they are entitled to do so, because they are of you, though not with you. When the Tabernacle choir visited us it feasted our souls. We sensed again that the prophecy was being fulfilled wherein it was said that in Zion there should be the voice of thanksgiving and melody. When we lifted up our voices together this morning and sang in unison, it brought to my mind this saying of old: 

"Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion." 

The Saints of the California Mission have been valiant and earnest in the payment of their tithes. They feel that they are adding to the glory of Zion and to the wealth of their own souls by the practice of self-abnegation and self-sacrifice. Though we number but about six hundred souls, and quite a percentage of them, I am sorry to say, are not the most faithful, yet to date we have paid something over $3,000 in tithes, besides liberal offerings. The Elders are valiant, earnest, and God-fearing; many of them are boys, several being under twenty years of age. Among them are some most promising speakers, humble, childlike. feeling their dependence upon the Lord, and knowing that it is not sufficient to be able to quote scripture to substantiate our belief, but that they must live in accordance with the Spirit of the Lord to gain favor with the honorable of the world. I often tell them that it it not enough to be able to quote scripture; for many of the people of our cosmopolitan state know but little of the scriptures, and many of those who have a knowledge of them do not believe them, and they ask for more material results. "Show me," they say, "wherein the Gospel which you teach has benefited and helped you to do better. What has it done for your commonwealth? Show me the logic or the philosophy of the Gospel which you preach." How soul-satisfying it is to be enabled to say that it has made a peace-loving people, a patriotic people, a people that live in their own homes to a very great extent, a people that have not mortgaged themselves, a people that are tolerant, a people that have been gathered out from almost all lands and climes, with one purpose, one ambition, and have dropped their national antipathies and animosities, and in their children have become one. When I heard of the reply that Ambassador White had made to Count Tolstoi, that when the youth of Zion grew up and began to assert their individuality, then the fabric which had been woven and the building which had been constructed by Mormonism would fall to pieces, I thought how little he knows of us. I can remember when our fathers, who had been gathered from many lands, had differences with each other. Having been brought up under different environments and training, they had different methods of gaining a livelihood and varied ideas as to what should be accomplished, and sometimes they clashed one with another. But now we find that their sons have dropped the differences of nationality, and enjoying the same testimony that their fathers have borne in relation to the truth of the Gospel they are one in intent and purpose, and I trust are more fixed, if possible, upon the one object of upbuilding the kingdom of God than were their fathers and mo. This to me is a testimony of the Gospel of Christ. 

Our Elders meet with the same experience that they do in other lands. During the last five months we have met with a great deal of opposition, especially on the streets. Some few men have apparently dedicated themselves to the purpose of driving us out of the state, exposing our fraud, as they term it, and the life of hypocrisy which they accuse us of leading. They have met us on every street corner and in every way imaginable. When they have learned that we had some friends, they have sent people to them to embitter their minds against us; and in one city they have gone so far as to print a little tract about us, signed by the ladies of three leading religious organizations. This tract has been distributed broadcast. They did not pass by the house of the Elders even, but left us a copj r . We feel that this is in part due to the visit of the choir and to the attention it attracted toward us in that state, and to our renewed efforts to be heard and seen. I have found it necessary to call upon the mayor and the chief of police of some of the cities, and express to them the wish that they would see that we, as American citizens, should not be villified beyond endurance; and I am glad to state that they have accorded me a most kindly hearing and given me the protection asked for, so much so that some of the most pernicious speakers have been told that they could no longer speak upon the streets. By the way, one of them has since been welcomed into the pulpit of one of the leading churches and Is now preaching there. 

We have not had many baptisms so far this year. It has not been a season of harvesting. But our hearts have been filled with joy because of the thousands of strangers who have heard our testimonies. In that land of golden sunshine there are thousands of people from the east, who come there for the sake of - the climate. Many of them come to hear us, perhaps in many instances where they would have nothing to do with us at their homes, because of the same spirit that Nicodemus manifested when he came to the Savior by . We have visited the homes of 3,000 strangers, and re-visited over 4,000, as well as holding the Saints together. We have distributed something like 38,000 tracts, besides loaning a number of books. "We do not have the success in selling our literature that some of the brethren report in other parts of the United States. The people do not seem to care to buy from us, or else we are not very good canvassers along that line. But we have given away a goodly number, and are trying to place the Book of Mormon, in particular, in a way that the people will take hold of it, because of the price that the book is now held at and the gracious donations given to us by the Presidency of the Church. 

I do not feel that it would be proper, my brethren and sisters, for me to take more of your time; for you have come to hear the words of the prophets of the living God; but my testimony is that God lives, that His work is advancing, that we are beginning to be known as His people, and that the people of the world sense the fact that there is something in the very genius of the Gospel we teach which has more to do with this life than any of their plans or schemes. They see, too, that it is beneficial, and they would rather have something that is practical, and that does not deal alone with the dead past. Many friends have been raised up unto us who have said that they knew we had more to offer than any other religious denomination, but that they cared nothing for any church. We have been fortunate in becoming acquainted with some of the leading citizens in the state, and among the medical fraternity we have friends who have cared for the Elders and do care for them without price, and who have told me to send the Elders to them if they ever needed any consultation. I think sometimes, because of the reputed good climate of California, that several Elders have been sent to me that were not the soundest in health. This season 1 have had six or eight who have had to be cared for nearly the whole season. 

May God bless and prosper you in your labors, increase your love for the Gospel, help you to subjugate your pas, wean yourselves of improper desires, correct your judgment, peace attend you in your homes and joy await you at your gates, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER EPHRAIM H. NYE. 

(President of the Southern States mission.). 

My Brethren and sisters, it is a joy, greater and grander than I have words to express, to have the privilege of coming up to Zion occasionally. President Robinson, who has addressed you, succeeded me in the care of the California mission. I took great pleasure in laboring in that mission, and in turning it over to him when I was released. It fell to my lot to be sent to the Eastern states, and after laboring there for a season, to be sent into the Southern states, where I was met by President Ben E. Rich, and given a royal welcome into that region, and relieved him of a part of his responsibilities. 

I am not prepared to say very much about the Southern States mission, as I have hardly got seated in the saddle yet, and have not had a fair opportunity to know much about it. I have traveled through the mission, and have visited the Elders in their conferences and labored somewhat with them; but it is only about three months since I went in there. I find a great difference between laboring among the people of California and the people of the "Sunny South;" but I labor there with the greatest possible pleasure and with a desire to bring souls to a knowledge of the truth and into the fold of Christ, and help to lift some of them, at least, upon a higher plane, that they may come up to the standard required of Latter-day Saints. I take joy in ministering among that people, and I hope to see the results of my labors as the years roll on. 

What is now known as the Southern States mission embraces the states of Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, North Carolina and South Carolina; and we have about 100 Elders in the field. We would like to have twice that number; we could use them very well. We hope we may be permitted to have many more than we now have. The Elders are a brave and noble set. You fathers who have sons there, be proud of them. You wives who have husbands there, be proud of them. They are serving' God to the very utmost of their ability, and they are passing through scenes and trials that you have no idea of. Let your prayers ascend unto the Almighty in their behalf; for they are faithful and valiant in the discharge of their duties. I do not expect to do any better there than my predecessor. Brother Rich » has performed a noble work. If that can be said of me when I am released from that mission, as it can justly be said of him today, I shall be satisfied. 

I feel like taking the admonition of the President and not occupy too much time. I rejoice in the knowledge of t v e truth, and in the opportunity of coming up here and worshiping once or twice a year, beholding the faces and hearing the voices of the Prophet and his associates, that I may learn more perfectly the ways of God and be better fitted and prepared to perform the labors and duties that rest upon me, and go back to my labors strengthened, filled with integrity and faith to go forth and prosecute the ministry devolving upon me. That the blessings of the Almighty may rest abundantly upon the Latter-day Saints, that you may grow and increase in the knowledge of the truth, and rise higher and higher in the standard of perfection until you shall reach that position that the Almighty requires the Latter-day Saints to come up to, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

(President of the Middle States Mission.) 

My brothers and sisters, it has been promised by the Lord that in the last days He would establish a kingdom upon the earth, and the promise was also given that it would never more be thrown down or given to another people, but that it would be like unto a little stone cut out of the mountains  hands, which should roll forth and eventually fill the whole earth with righteousness. It was promised by our Master while He was dwelling in mortality that one of the signs of His second coming would be the preaching of that Gospel planted upon the earth by Him, built upon the foundation of apostles and prophets and revelation from God, preached without purse or scrip, the fundamental principles of which would be faith in Him, repentance of sin, baptism for the remission of sin, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. 

We are living in an age, whether the world believe it or not, when these promises are being fulfilled; when the God of heaven has established a kingdom upon the earth, and notwithstanding the fact that the powers of the earth have been arrayed against it from its organization up to the present time, it has been rolling forth, it has been growing and multiplying in strength and influence. Its destiny is to fill this earth with the righteousness of our God, and it is being preached in fulfillment of the Master's word, as a witness unto all the nations of the earth, before the end of Wckedness shall come. 

We have been blessed to live in this dispensation, and to be made acquainted with the principles of the Gospel; and God has given to us through the whisperings of His Spirit a testimony of the truthfulness of the same. It has been my privilege to be in the world for some little time, directing the missionary work in some of the states and aiding to warn the people of the world to flee from the wrath to come. We do not anticipate converting the world. Our mission is to gather in the honest in heart from among the nations of the earth, to warn all mankind, and to preach the Gospel as a witness, in fulfillment of the Master's word. 

In the missionary field we meet many things that you dr not meet at home. Many things happen that you pay no attention to, and yet they are magnified by the people of the world; and \.n?ess the Almighty continued to magnify us and our ability before the  of the world and softened the hearts of the people towards us, and led us to the doors of those who are searching after the truth, we wou.d have a very hard time indeed. The missionaries are entitled to the faith and prayers of all Saints. The sun should never go down without the Latter-day Saints being- able to say, This day I have prayed for those who are laboring- in the nations of the earth to spread the principles of ', eternal truth. Everything that happens is construed by the world in such a way as to bring the work of God into ill repute before the people. Inasmuch as I am laboring in the world where we have to meet these things, I may be justified in alluding to the fact that this awful crime which was committed recently in New York City (you all know what I refer to) has been magnified in all the great newspapers of the country in an effort to bring the horrible deed home to the "Mormon" Church. In flaming headlines they state that the doctrines of the "Mormon" Church are responsible for that crime and the condition of that unfortunate creature who now rests in a prison cell! I have wondered many times if the non-Mormons v/ho live here, who are reaching out after the patronage of the Latter-day Saints, and who know us as we are, would not have the manhood, the independence, the Americanism burning in their veins to raise their voice in a protest against the awful things charged against these good men who stand at the head of this religious organization. The Latter-day Saints do not have to rely upon any man for a testimony of the truth of the Gospel. They have received it, according to promise, from heaven. The whispering of the still small voice of God has told them that Joseph Smith was a Prophet; that his successors in office at the head of the Church have been and are Prophets, Seers and Revelators; that these brethren here are Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ,' and that the Gospel is true. They have been taught to let their light so shine that it will not be hid. But those who are not of our faith, and who have lived for years in our midst, know the many  that have been circulated about us. They know that meji who have resided here, and who have been treated in a kindly way, ha*ve gone east and filled the minds of the people with the most damnable lies about us. And I have waited for many years to see if there would not be a spirit of fairness bubble up in the hearts of the non"Mormons" of Utah, and a protest sent out by them against the many lies circulated concerning this people. 

They say that the "Mormons" believe in blood atonement. "We do believe in blood atonement; and so does all the Christian world believe in blood atonement. We believe in the atoning blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, that it will cleanse mankind from all sin, upon condition of obedience to the laws of the Gospel. There is not a Christian nation on earth who does not believe or pretend to believe in blood atonement just as the Latter-day Saints believe in it. Oh, but the "Mormons" believe in another kind of blood atonement! it is said. Well, we do, in the same way that this nation believes in it, and in no other way — in the way that God revealed it to the ancients, that if man spilt man's blood, by man should his blood be spilt. There is not a state in this glorious Union of ours that does not believe in that kind of blood atonement. So far as putting a murderer to death is concerned, we believe that if the right punishment were inflicted upon the individual it would not be by strangling him to death or by placing him in an electric chair, but it would be an execution whereby his blood would be shed. Thank God, In this state there were enough in the Constitutional Convention who believed in that principle to wisely place in that constitution a clause which provided that in dealing out the death penalty the murderer should have a choice between bein& shot and being hung; and if there were a particle of belief in the law of God in the heart of the convicted murderer the law would give him the chance to choose a death whereby his blood could be spilt by man legally, seeing that he had spilt the blood of his fellow man. But this being the Gospel of the Lord Jesus, we believe in the doctrines laid down by Him, and therefore we believe in rendering- unto Csesar that which belongs to CEesar, and unto God that which belongs to Him. 

Last Tuesday evening's Deseret News contained an article that had been published in 1889. It was signed by the First Presidency of the Church, by the Twelve Apostles, and also by Daniel H. Wells and John W. Young, who were then acting as counselors to the Apostles. You will pardon me if I read that article. It is a declaration made by the leaders of the Church upon the subject I am speaking of. 

"That this Church views the shedding of human blood with the utmost abhorrence. That we regard the killing of a human being, except in conformity with the civil law, as a capital crime which should be punished by shedding the blood of the criminal after a public trial before a legally constituted court of the land. 

"Notwithstanding all the stories told about the killing of apostates, no case of this kind has ever occurred, and of course has never been established against the. Church we represent. Hundreds cf seceders from the Church have continuously resided and now live in this territory, many of whom have amassed considerable wealth, though bitterly opposed to the Mormon faith and people. Even those who made it their business to fabricate the vilest falsehoods, and to render them plausible by culling isolated passages from old sermons without the explanatory context, and have suffered no opportunity to escape them of villifying and blackening the characters of the peop.e, have remained among those whom they have thus persistently calumniated until the present day, without receiving- the slightest personal injury. 

"We denounce as entirely untrue the allegation which has been made, that our Church favors or believes in the killing of persons who leave the Chuich or apostatize from its doctrines. We would view a punishment of this character for such an act with the utmost horror; it is abhorrent to us and is in direct opposition to the fundamental principles of our creed. 

"The revelations of God to this Church make death the penalty of cay., tal crime, and require that offenders against life and property shall be delivered up and tried by the laws of the land. 

"We declare that no Bishop's or other court in this Church claims or exercies civil or judicial functions, or the right to supersede, annul or modify a judgment of any civil court. Such courts,  established to regulate Christian conduct, are purely ecclesiastical, and their punitive powers go no further than the suspension or excommunication of members from Church fellowship." 

This same thing has been proclaimed many times by the authorities of the Church since its organization; but notwithstanding this, an opportunity is never let pass by the people of the world, and especially the leaders of Christian churches, to try and bring this old charge up and frighten the people from hearing the Elders when they go forth to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Not over two weeks ago I was asked by a man who was supposed to be intelligent, a minister of one of the churches, "Is it not true, if anyone joins your Church and then leaves it, that the orders of the leaders of the Church are that you must kill that man and shed his blood?" I asked him where he got that idea; and he replied, "from publications and writings of ministers and others who have been in your midst." Oh! you men who do not believe in the "Mormon" Church, and who have lived here for years unmolested, it is your duty to fling these lies back into the teeth of the world. It is your duty to say to the people of the world that men who have gone from here and lied are not worthy of consideration. One minister in the east, who used to live in Brigham City, is telling stories about how not over six years ago women would walk from Salt Lake City on the railroad track to Brigham City, seeking protection from him to keep their husbands from shedding their blood, under the doctrine of blood atonement. Well, my non-"Mormon" friends of Salt Lake City, that is placing your protective powers at a minimum, is it not? Shame on you, to make a woman walk from Salt Lake City to Brigham City— that stronghold of anti-"Mormonism" (?) — to ask "for protection! Yet that man pretends to be a minister of the Gospel. Perhaps in his lifetime he has opened the Bible; but he has forgotten that he read there the words of God which say, "Thou shalt not lie." "Thou shalt not bear false witness against  neighbor." "Why. right in Salt Lake City, a few years ago, one of these ministers murdered two girls, cut their bodies up and burned them in the church furnace. He took their effects, and they were found in a pawnshop in Butte. Have the "Mormon' 'people ever charged that that was due to the teachings of the doctrine of that church? Have we ever borne false witness against them in this respect? Has the world ever laid that horrible crime to the church with which that minister was connected? How different it would have been if that had been one of these "Mormon" presidents of stakes, or a "Mormon" Bishop! What headlines would have been printed in the papers, giving an account of the affair; and how it would have been published to the world that the doctrines of the "Mormon" Church were responsible for the murder of these two girls! But it was one of these good Christian churches here; and if that man had followed the doctrines of the church he pretended to preside over he never would have committed that murder. The "Mormon" people know that, and are willing to bear witness to it. "Why do not some members of these other churches say that if this young man in New York had been following the doctrines of the "Mormon" Church, he probably would have been in New York standing upon the street corners bearing testimony that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, instead of being locked up in a prison cell. A few yearg ago, in San Francisco, you remember, two girls were murdered in a church there, theii nude bodies being found in the tower of the church; and for quite a whiie the minister of that church was accused in the public press of being implicated in the awful crime. But there was no attempt made in the press throughout the United States to show that the teachings of that church were responsible. They declared that it was the depraved condition of the criminal, and that all churches had good and "bad. How different it would have been if that had hapened in this Tabernacle, and the bodies of t*wo murdered girls had been found secreted  this organ! The world would have known it in twenjty-four hours, and it would have been charged to the doctrines of the "Mormon" Church. The Cincinnati Enquirer of Sept. 7— about ten days before this awful thing happened in New York— gave an account of a minister belonging to the Baptist church. He had cut the throat of his wife, and was found with a razor in one hand and the Bible in the othei hand. He was reading extracts from the Bible on blood atonement, and he was crying out that without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness; and he endeavored to justify his terrible crime by what he found in the Bible. The paper went on to say that he was very high in Baptist church councils, and that he had occupied some of the most prominent pulpits of the Baptist church in the state. But did they charge the deed up to the Baptist church? No! How different it would have been if a "Mormon" Apostle had done such a thing! They would not have said the poor man had gone crazy; but they would have said that he was following the instructions, given him by the authorities of the "Mormon" Church. 

I tell you they circulate some most infamous lies about this people, and if they do not repent they will be damned, and they will stay in that condition until the Lord in His mercy permits some "Mormon" Elder to go and help them out of it. I pray that their eyes may be opened, and that they may repent; and if they do not repent, I pray God in His mercy to take them away from the earth, to where they cannot do any more lying. 

My brethren and sisters, you can see that I am a little warm; but if you will go out in the missionary field and meet these things as I have met them,and as every Elder meets them, you will at least be indignant when you know how the leaders of church organizations and the newspapers throughout the length and breadth of this land are lying about your faith. I have been born and raised in this Church. I received a testimony of the Gospel from God, not from my father But my father and my mother taught me from infancy that in the sight of God murder is the most awful crime man can commit, and next to that is adultery. The way was pointed out by them whereby I could receive a testimony of the Gospel for myself, and I have listened to the whisperings of the still small voice, which has given me a testimony, so that I do know, as I know that the sun shines, that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I do know that his successors were prophets of God, and I do know that President Joseph F. Smith is the Prophet, Seer and Revelator of God upon the earth today, and that these men here are Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. I never received this testimony from my parents; I received it from God; and I know that when I stand before the judgment seat of the Almighty and the books are opened, this testimony will be recorded there for or against me. So that I bear my testimony intelligently, knowing that I have to meet it, and in the name of Jesus Christ I say I know that this is the Gospel of our Lord and Savior that has been restored to the earth in the age in which we live, and that it is now being preached as a witness unto all the nations of the earth, that the end may come. In the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER J. A. McRAE, 

(President of the Colorado Mission). 

My brethren and sisters, I can say that I rejoice this morning in having the opportunity of meeting with you in conference. I look forward with fond anticipation to the time when I can meet here and hear the words of the servants of the Lord. While I am un. der the sound of their voices and hear the inspired words that come from them, I feel that I will never do anything wrong as long as I live. I have heard Elders in the mission field, while they have been assembled in conference, say, "I feel now that I could go out and spend my whole life in preaching the Gospel." But sometimes, after leaving these places of worship, we forget what we have heard, and we drift back again. Hence it is necessary for  to be constantly reminded of our duty. Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, while on earth, realized the necessity of preaching the Gospel unto His people; for He said unto His Apostles, "Feed my sheep." He realized that the Saints should be preached to, and tauglit, and reminded of their duties day by day. It is essential that we. pray constantly, that we be not led into temptation, nor do that which will grieve the Spirit of the Lord. 

I feel well in the Gospel. I know it i» the power of God unto salvation. I love to hear the servants of the Lord address us from time to time. I love to hear the voices of those who love the Gospel. I have been deiighted this morning in hearing the voices of my brethren who have spoken the principles of the Gospel. I have been made glad to hear our Prophet say that Zion is prospering and growing in the land. I can realize this myself. I can also realize the influence which tht good people of Zion have among the people of the world. As has been said many times, I know that God and one righteous man is a majority; and I know that if we will live according to the light which we receive from tim<» to time through the servants of the» Lord, the Elders who are in the mission field preaching the Gospel will have an easier time. 

The mission over which I have the privilege of presiding is an extensive one, reaching from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, from the Missouri river on the east to California on the west, and including fivt» states and two territories. We haves laboring in that mission about 46 Elders. From the first of January last the Elders have visited about 60,000 houses. In making these visits I suppose it would be a fair estimate to say that they have preached the Gospel to 150,000. They have distributed about 40,000 tracts bearing upon the principles of the Gospel and telling the people how they travel and how they preach the Gospel without purse and scrip. They have been sent out to bear testimony to the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith the Pruphet. During that time there have been distrib several hundred hooks. Many thousands of people have heard the proclamation of the Gospel, on the street corner and in the various halls in which we have held services; and though the baptisms have been very few indeed compared to the great number who have been visited, I feel that much good has been done. The Spirit of the Lord has been with the Elders, and I feel that the leaven is beginning to work among the people. 

A few weeks ago a lady physician came to our office, and she said, "Mr. McRae, I want to talk to you for a short time on your method of controlling your young people. I realize that you have more control over your rising generation than any people upon the face of the earth. Our young people are slipping away from us gradually, and falling into vice, and we cannot control them. How do you manage?" I told her how we managed, and detailed to her the work done in the Mutual Improvement associations, the Primary associations, the Sunday schools and other institutions I told her about our Church schools, about our ward teachers visiting the people, and about the special missionaries that are called in the various wards and stakes to visit the young people and exhort them to diligence. She said, "Will you be kind enough to have an interview with one of our ministers and tell him how he can work along these lines.' " I remarked to her that I would willingly do so, but that I was afraid he could not live to it or teach it to his congregation. Why? she asked. My answer was, "He requires a salary to preach the Gospel. Whenever he arises to preach to his congregation and says that which they do not like, they say that he will have to stop preaching that way or they will stop his salary." "Now," said I, "when I preach to the people, I do not care whose toes I tread on; I do not carts who I strike; I teach the truth, and no matter where it hits they cannot come to me and say, 'We'll stop your salary because I haven't any to stop. That is the difference between your minister and me." That is one great difference between the ministers of  world, who are professing to preach the Gospel unto the people, and the Elders of the Lord Jesus Christ. I would sooner be a humble Elder preaching the Gospel unto the people, bearing testimony that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, than to be the greatest "divine" upon the face of the earth. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us during this conference, and that He will inspire those who speak unto us, that we may be fed with the bread of life, that when we go from here wt ►will form a resolution in our minds that we and our families will serve God and keep His commandments. May the Lord bless us to this end, is my prayer. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Apostates sacrifice the most- -Professed ministers of Jesus guilty of misrepresentation — God will exeoute justice; the Saints' mission Is peace. 

I have greatly rejoiced this morning, brethren and sisters, in the testimony of those who have spoken and in hearing a report of the condition of somo of The missionary fields. It seems from the reports of the brethren that not a great number have given heed to the preaching of the Gospel of Jesus Christ by His servants who are endeavoring to save them; yet we are told that hundreds of thousands have been preached tu, and thus warned of the coming judgments of God. For my own part, I would rather retain faithful and firm ten members of the Church who are already converted than convert one hundred out in the world. 

Brethren and sisters, I hope that in your hearts is burning that same testimony which has been borne by our brethren here today, and that it is su firmly established there that it will bfe impossible for you to ever fall from the Church. To apostatize from the Church would be your own loss. As has been said, no physical injury or harm of any other kind would come to you from the Church itself; but in leaving the faith which you have espoused you would only cut yourselves off from the fellowship of good man and women, and, what is more, from the fellowship of God our Eternal Father. We often hear it said that sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven, and that we should make sacrifices for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. AH this may be true, but from my view-point the man who cuts himsel* off from the Church and denies himself full fellowship therein is the one who makes the greater sacrifice; for by so doing he sacrifices the fellowship of the Spirit of the Lord and welcomes darkness rather than light; in fact, there is no good thing that he does not saclifice. 

With my brethren who have spoken, I have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know it is true, i Know that every principle that has ever bten taught by the servants of the Lord, from the Prophet Joseph Smith till now, is true; and everyone of them tends to the development of mankind, to lift them up and make them better. There is no principle that is degrading in the least. We cannot compromise with the world; we cannot meet them h'tlf way; but we are in duty bound to go all the way for the purpose of warning them and preaching the Gospel as we have received it. And unless those who hear the Gospel accept every ptinciple of it they cannot become members of the Church of Christ. There is no half way business with the Latter-day Saints. You have either to accept every principle that has been taught by God Almighty or you cannot h^ baptized in the Church of Jesus Christ. We have no right to do otherwise. Jesus Christ taught the people in His day that all those who came to H?m must be born again; and He sent His Apostles forth to preach the Gospel to every creature, and he that believed and was baptized, He said should be saved, but he that believed not shouM be damned. That is the only thing we can do. 

Now, we have charity for the world, but I glory in the testimony of Brother Ben E. Rich. I have a sort of indignant strain in my own blood when I hear these falsehoods spoken against us by men professing to be ministers of Jesus Christ. An appeal was made to  Gentiles who live in our midst, but I do not expect to see any number of thorn, however long they have lived in our midst, ever stand up and be men enough to deny to the world the lies that are told about us. I do expect, though, that if they go away from Salt Lake City for a period they will enter into the spirit of their brothers and lie with them. That is the only thing I expect from them, especially from those who wear the long coats and are professed ministers of the Gospel. We might name many of them to you, but you know them as well as I do. 

The Latter-day Saints, from the beginning until now, have suffered from the misrepresentations of this class of men, and I expect that we will suffer until Christ comes to reign from just such men. The hand of Satan is raised against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and he finds these professed ministers of the Gospel ready tools through which to work; and just so long as these conditions exist do I expect that these men will be employed in his service. Were not the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother murdered in cold blood by a mob led on by men who claimed to be ministers of the Gospel of Jesus Christ? Did not they, in their piety, as the Jews of old, cry out, Away with this fellow? They said, is he not a blasphemer? Is he net teaching false doctrine? Is he not leading away our sons and daughters-: from the doctrines and traditions of their fathers? Why, if we let this man go on he will turn the whole world upside down. Therefore, away with him, murder him; anything to get him out of the way! And did they not do it? Did they not partake of the same spirit that those who crucified the Son of God had? And did they not prosecute their devilish work even to a culmination? Certainly they did. I feel warm, too, at these things; for my uncle and rny own grandfather were the men who were thus slain, and in my veins flows the same blood that was shed then on the soil of Illinois, and that still cries to God for vengeance. But while mv prayers shall ever ascend to God for vengeance upon those who have slain the prophets, anciently and today, yet  those men brought before me and their guilt established beyond the possibility of a doubt, I would say, Let them go and let God execute His own justice; and I would pray, O God, bo merciful to them in the justice which Thou dost execute, because they knew not what they did. If they did know, then oh, how worthy are they of the most dire punishment that God can give to the murderer! 

My voice shall ever be raised in de  fense of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and of the Latter-day Saints; and it shall e^er be raised against those who denounce us and lie about us. May God bless you, brethren and sisters. May ycu get a testimony of the Gospel for yourselves, so that, whatever people imy say or do, we will be able to endure all things, even to the very end, and then be saved in the kingdom of God. Then we will turn our attention, as we are now doing, to the salvation of those who have spoken against VL3. Our mission is a mission of peace, of salvation and of goodwill to every man "who will repent of his sins and turn unto God. To every one who will cease to do evil, who will cease to backbite, to lie and to bear false witness, will we give the hand of fellowship, and welcome him, if he repent truly, into the Church of Christ. But, so far as I am concerned, I hope I will be able to establish myself so firmly in the Church that though the whole world rise against us, and though it cost my life with the lives of my brethren, I will remain faithful and firm to the testimony which God has given me. May the spirit of testimony rest upon us ail, any may we indeed live near unto God our Eternal Father, and keep His commandments, in spite of all that may be s.i id or done, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn which begins: 

Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah. 

Benediction by Elder Thomas E. Bassett, president of Fremont Stake. 


