Morning
05 10 1092




ELDER REED SMOOT. 

Striking evidence of friendship — Payment of fast offerings for the poor— Necessity for avoidance of debt. 

My dear brothers and sisters, it is indeed an inspiring sight this Sabbath morning to see this building so well filled with people who have come to hear the word of the Lord. I am thankful for the privilege of speaking this morning and bearing my humble testimony to the work of the Lord Jesus Christ that has been established in these last days. I am thankful that I am in harmony with the Presidency of this Church, and with the members of the quorum of< the Twelve. I hope I am in harmony with every Latter-day Saint. 

If I had been called upon to speak yesterday, I felt in my soul that I would liked to have spoken upon the subject that is causing so much comment in the newspapers of the United States— the subject of blood atonement; but as Brother Ben E. Rich spoke upon it and explained to a certain extent the posi of our Church in reference to it, I will be content in saying that I endorse every word uttered by him on that point, and I ask every Latter-day Saint to read his remarks. I was proud of all the men who spoke here yesterday, and who bore their testimonies to the work of God. I noticed that the most of them were young men, born in the church of Jesus Christ, and of parents who had suffered the hardships of the early days, and I was delighted with all of them for the testimonies which they bore that Jesus was the Christ and that this was the Church of Christ. When Brother Rich stood here and testified that he had not received his testimony from his father, but from God, I was happy in the knowledge that there were thousands of young men born in this Church who could bear the same testimony; and I know that the world loves a man who is true to his convictions and fearless in defending the right, wherever he may be. 

About three weeks ago I received a letter from one of the largest wholesale houses of Cincinnati, In wnich they stated to me that they had met Brother Ben E. Rich (for they called him "brother") and had offered him a place in their establishment for his headquarters, and that they would do all they could to help him along. I wrote an acknowledgment to that letter and told them I wanted them to take good care of him, for he was one of the noble sons of God, and whatever they did for him would indeed be appreciated by me. I know that I have hundreds of staunch friends outside our Church, and I believe there are hundreds and thousands of staunch friends to the Latter-day Saints. Whenever a man goes into the world and is not afraid to bear testimony and speak in defense of the principles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I tell you that honest men respect such a one for so doing'. 

I desire to call the attention of the people to a question that has come to my notice in traveling- through the different Stakes of Zion, and that is in regard to fast offerings. I am pleased to state here that there are a number of the Stakes of Zion that have no poor within their borders, so I have been informed in meeting with them; but they have thought that, because they had no poor, it was unnecessary for them to collect fast offerings. To all such Stakes I want to say that it is a requirement of the Church that the Saints observe the fast day each month and that the food saved by abstaining from meals that day should be given to the poor of God's Church. If this were universally followed, there would be no one lacking food in all Zion. The requirement made by the Church in relation to fast day offerings should be adhered to by every member of this Church. It may be asked, What shall be done with the offerings in Stakes where there are no poor? I have told the Presidents of Stakes and Bishops of wards that in the Salt Lake Stake and other large Stakes there are hundreds of poor that need to be fed and clothed, and could be with ease if all the Saints paid their fast offerings as they should. If the Bishops will only notify the President of the Church that they have an accumulation of fast offerings he can tell them where to send it, and it will be put to good use. The poor people who congregate in the large cities can be helped by it. 

While I am on this subject, I desire to call the attention of the Bishops of the Church to some things I have noticed in regard to the distribution of the fast offerings, which, in my opinion, should be corrected. In one ward not long ago I was looking upon a list of the names of those who were helped  the fast day offerings. Standing at the head of the list was a man who had never in his life paid a dollar in any form to the Church of Jesus Christ, and he was a man who had been placed by the people in positions that brought him a deal of means every year. He lived for years in that Stake of Zion drawing a princely salary, but forgot to pay his tithes and offerings; and now that adversity has overtaken him he is ready to come and ask that the fast offerings be given tohim, and seems to feel that he has a greater claim upon them than some faithful Latter-day Saints who perhaps are suffering more than he, but who may not call upon the Bishop so persistently as he does. I believe with all my heart in looking after the poor, no matter what their condition may be; but I ask you Bishops and the people to first remember those that remember God in the days of their prosperity. I trust that every one who asks aid from the fast offerings will be worthy of it and will have a rightful claim upon the offerings of the people. 

In many parts of the Church, especially in the outlying districts, the fast offerings are mostly paid in flour and produce of various kinds, and where such is the case, I would ask the Bishops to have the Deacons call upon the people every month for these offerings, and let them take what they gather to a place where it will be kept and cared for. In this way let the people be reminded every month of the requirement that is made of them. I understand that in Salt Lake City and one or two other large towns where they handle nothing but cash, the offerings are paid at the fast meeting. Where it can be done in this way, it is all well and good; but in the great majority of the wards of the Church we feel that the Bishops should see that the Deacons collect the fast offerings. 

I also desire to call another thing" to the attention of this vast audience, and I would that my voice could reach every home in Utah and wherever the people of God live. I refer how to the practice of running in debt. I ask the people of the Church of Christ to get out of debt, if they are in debt; and if they are out of debt, to stay out.Everybody has employment now, money is plentiful, the banks being- full of it, and it is easy to borrow; but I ask my brethren and sisters to remember one fact, which is considered as much a truth in business as any truth of the Gospel is religiously, and that is this: Failures are not made in times of depression. In hard times men's creditors try to make them pay up and crowd them pretty closely, and while a failure may occur in hard times the cause of it began in prosperous times, when credit was easy. I a sk those who are in debt, to get out of debt while these prosperous times are upon us. Speculation is rife in the land; men are reaching out all over, and, I am afraid, reaching farther than they can gather; and the people here as well as in other parts of the country need to be warned against this tendency. I ask the Saints, as the President of the Church asked the Priesthood last night, to get out of debt, and keep out of debt. I want to say to the wives of the Church: Whenever your husband asks you to place a mortgage upon your home— the shelter of yourself and children— if it be not to save his honor, do not sign the mortgage. If he insists upon it, plead with him for your home and the home of your children. Fathers, I say to you, wherever you have a piece of land in Zion, I trust that you will not sell it. Do not sell your inheritance. Do not sell the farm that you have worked on. If you are getting old, divide it up with the boys and keep them at home. I wish that every farm in this land was farmed as it should be, and every corner attended to. I have often said that if the sugar factory in Utah county had done nothing else than to learn our farmers how to farm, it had proved a blessing to the people of Utah. I say so now. I ask the farmers to see that every foot of their land is cultivated, instead of some of it going to weeds, and then you will not have to have your boys hunting new places and getting from under your influence. 

I ask God's blessing upon this great multitude, and upon His Church and people, wherever they may be upon the face of the earth. My prayer is that  blessing shall be upon them, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. (President of the Juarez Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, during the few moments that I shall occupy in telling you something of the condition of the Latter-day Saints who are located in the republic of Mexico, I sincerely desire that I may be assisted by your faith. It is quite unexpectedly that I am called to occupy this position, and therefore I must depend upon your assistance and the aid of ou r Father in heaven. 

The Latter-day Saints in Mexico are doing the things which the Latter-dav Saints are doing in Canada, in Montana, in Oregon, in Idaho, in Wyoming, in Utah, and in all other places where Lhey are established. The Gospel is the c ame wherever we are. Our effort is, bv example as well as by precept, to teach the Mexican people the ways of the Lord and convert them to the truth Of the fact that God's kingdom has oeen established in the dispensation In which we live. There are in Mexico about 12,000,000 of people, 9,000,000 of whom are Indians whose blood has not been intermingled with the blood of uther people. For nearly 400 years these Indians have been a subjugated race. Since the conquest of Mexico, when with the sword in one hand and the Bible in the other the doctrines of the Catholic church were established among the Aztec people, that great church has been dominant there, and probably 95 per cent of the inhabitants v£ Mexico are converts to its teachings. We have not sought insistently to introduce the principles of the Gospel among the Mexican people; but b" degrees, through the example which we set, through our works of industry, and through the blessing of the Lord upon our efforts, we find it necessary to send out missionaries and organize branches cf the Church among them. 

A year ago last June, under the direction of Apostle John Henry Smith, a mission was re-established in th<i ( ity of Mexico, since which time about 200 people have been added to the 

Church— that is, probably 150 convert? have been made and about 50 had a 1 . leady been baptized— so that we have a very prosperous and promising- branch of the Church there, with headquarters in the City of Mexico. 

Our relationship with the federal government is of the most agreeable cind friendly character. President Diaz, whose strong character has made it possible for him to accomplish the remarkable reconstruction of the Mexican government which has been the result of his administration, owes much of his character, it is admitted by all to the strong blood of his mother, who was an Indian. 

We regard with a great deal of satisfaction the devotion that is shown by these simple people to the principles cf the Gospel after they receive them They are very poor, very humble; the> have been so long in abject servitude to the small aristocratic minority which Las controlled and does still control the politics and finances of Mexico, that the spirit of independence has to a great degree been crushed out of them, but they are religious. That those who are converted have received a testimony of the Gospel and the Spirit of the Lord is evidenced by their works, by their repentance, by their devotion to the Elders who are laboring among them, and by the disposition which they show to push out into unexplored* fields and introduce the Gospel among their fellows. 

The Lord told us in the early history of the Church that before the great dav of the Lord should come, Jacob shou'd flourish in the wilderness and the Lamanites should blossom as the rose. Tf you will carefully study the revelations of the Lord to the Church, you v. ill find that our destiny and the destiny of the American Indians, who are the descendants of Lehi and heirs to the promises which God has made to the house of Israel, are very closed associated together. You will find that before the redemption of Zion the work of the Lord must be introduced among the Lamanites. Christ said to His dis cirles, when He ministered among them upon this continent, that He would firive them a sign by which they might  that the work of the Father was nbout to begin for the redemption of all Israel and the fulfillment of every word which had been spoken by tha mouths of the holy prophets, and this was the sign which He gave: "When these things which I declare unto you and which I shall declare unto you hereafter of myself, and by the pow«r of the Holy Ghost, which shall b> given unto you of the Father, shall be made known unto the Gentiles, that they may know concerning this peop^ who are a remnant of the house of Jacob, and concerning this my people who shall be scattered by them; . . . and when these things come to pass, that thy seed shall begin to know these tnings, it shall be a sign unto them, that they may know that the work of ti e Father hath already commenced unto the fulfilling of the covenant v/nich we had made unto the people who are of the house of Israel." S«, my brethren and sisters, as we see the result of our labors in Mexico and the very promising outlook there is for the introduction of the Gospel there, we see these words of the Lord fulfilled, and it encourages us in the hope that w? are nearer — as we know we are — to the consummation of God's purpose-3 in the dispensation in which we live. 

Our life in Mexico has taught us patience. They are a slow-going people, and it has taught us to develop 'to a neater degree perhaps than among any oLher people the spirit of charity and longsuffering kindness, knowing as we do that their condition is the result of transgression on the part of their forefathers. We have learned that our friendly relations with them and with +hat government are largely due to the fact that we have sought to bring blessing where we have gone, that we have taught kindness and consideration, charity and love to the people, and have endeavored to exemplify that in our lives. It is not necessary to teach resentment and retaliation; there is enough of that in the nature of man. The spirit of the Gospel of Christ teaches people to overcome those propensities, and to bow in humble subnvssion to the will of God. This is His work, and He will take care of it. That which we need to do is to be humble, faithful and considerate of the conditions of our fellows with whom we come in contact, teaching them repent ance from sin, teaching them love, charity, and absolute dependence upon God to work out this great problem. He will do it, my brethren and sisters. In this age of reason, of logic and of argument the truth must eventually prevail, and the principles of the Gospel, being founded upon evelasting truth, will triumph. We need have no fear but that the Lord will take care of His people. 

I bring you greetings from the people in Mexico, and assure you that our hearts, like yours, are absorbed in the work of the Lord; that our sole desire is for the upbuilding of His kingdom, the welfare of the Latter-day Saints, and the conversion of the world. This is cur mission, and with us more especially the conversion of the remnants of the house of Israel surrounding us. We owe a great deal to the Lamanites. Whoever stopped to reflect that the man who was sent from God to teach the Prophet Joseph the principles of the Gospel, and who showed him where the plates were concealed containing the record which, translated, was given to the world as the Book of Mormon, was one of the ancestors of the aborigines of this continent? The Book of Mormon came from them, and it conta ns the fullness of the Gospel of Christ as no other book does. Therefore we feel that there is some obligation upon us to remember this downtrodden, oppressed people, and with the help of God to bring about their redemption, through obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. Give us your faith and prayers in this work; we need them. We are isolated entirely from our brethren and sisters; we are surrounded by a strange people, with a strange language, with customs and manners entirely foreign and distinct from ours; but, thanks be to the Lord, we have been preserved and prospered, and the people are contented and happy, satisfied with their lot, and entirely devoted to the work which has been assigned to them. 

May God bless you, my brethren and , and help us all to perform oir duties, that we may ultimately see the triumph of truth. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL E. WOOLLEY. 

(President of Sandwich Islands Mission.) 

It gives me joy this morning to meet with so many Latter-day Saints. I have been absent from the bosom of the Church for over seven years, presiding over the Sandwich Islands Mission. I have had great joy in my labors with that people, and also with the Elders and sisters who have labored with me in trying to convert them. We have heard from Brother Ivins regarding the Lamanites. The people of the Sandwich Islands are of the same blood. They are of the seed of Israel and great promises have been made concerning them, if they will be faithful in the latter days. We have had success in our labors. There have been upwards of 2,000 converted and baptized into the Church during the last seven years. From last April conference to the end of August there were 300 new members added to the Church, 110 of which were baptized in the old district, where the Church was first established by President George Q. Cannon, and t where President Smith labored in his youth. In the place where the Gospel was first established there are only three remaining outside the Church today. This has been a hard district for years, but the Lord has opened up the way, and the honest that have dwelt there so long have been converted, some of whom are over 80 years of age. The other part of the mission is also prosperous, and I feel that we are doing a great labor among that people. We have not enough Elders, however, to do the work that we would like to do. There are only 15 Elders remaining in the mission, and four sisters from Zion. But we are aided greatly by local Elders, who are very efficient in preaching the Gospel to their friends and kindred. We also have in that mission a sugar plantation, which makes the mission self-sustaining. That, too, is prospering, and we are  it up and making it a desirable home for the people who require labor. 

I rejoice this morning to meet with the Saints and to mingle my voice with my brethren in speaking to the people and in bearing testimony to the truth of this great work that we are engaged in . I know that the Lord lives, and that He has been with the Elder9 In our mission. I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet, and that the Gospel is true. I know, as we all ought to know, that we are engaged in the work of the Lord; and if we will be faithful in keeping His laws and commandments we will receive exaltation in the presence of our Father in heaven. 

At the request of President Smith, Elder Woolley spoke a short time in the Hawaiian tongue, remarking before doing so that he had spoken exclusively in that language for the last seven years, and for five and a half years, previous to that, during which time he had labored at the Josepa colony, he had been under the necessity of using that language almost entirely. 

ELDER HEBER S. ALLEN. (President of Alberta Stake.) 

I am very grateful for the privilege of being with you, my brethren and sisters. About 100 people came from Canada to the conference — perhaps the largest number that has ever been present at such a gathering of the Church. While I stand before you a few moments I desire an interest in your faith and prayers, and am desirous of being directed by the Spirit of the Lord in what I say. 

I am very young in the position to which I have been called, the reorganization of the Stake having taken place less than a month ago. The people in Canada feel well in the Gospel, and a good spirit prevails throughout all the settlements of the Saints. Our people in Canada have much to be grateful for. They have been wonderfully prospered in that land. The Lord has blessed them abundantly; and while they have many things to contend with that  have not in Utah, at the same time they have been prospered and the blessings of the Lord have attended them in all that they have set their hands to do. It is now about fifteen years since our people went into that country; I have been there fourteen years; and while the people of that land looked upon us with suspicion when we first went there they have grown to love and honor us now, and to seek the Latter-day Saints as settlers for their vast tracts of land. One of the first business enterprises that our people started, about 13 years ago, had some difficulty in getting a charter to do business, for it was feared that if we got a foothold in the country we would drive all other people out, and it took us about six months to get a little business incorporated with a capital of ten thousand dollars. It is very different today, however. The people are desirous that we should settle among them, and the Lord has raised up many men, among them some leaders of the government, who have fought our battles in the legislative halls of that country. 

A short time ago I had occasion to visit some of the officials of the Northwest government, and they expressed themselves very freely in relation to the labors of our people. They said they had not seen so much progress in any other part of the Northwest as they had in our part of the country. They came through some of our new settlements, and the progress and prosperity seen on every hand was truly marvelous to them. In one of the settlements just established, where fifteen months ago not a furrow had been plowed, this year they will raise about 150,000 bushels of as fine grain as you ever saw. This was a marvel to some of the officials of the government. The Bishop of that Ward wrote me some time ago and wanted to know what he should do with the tithing grain, as he had only capacity for 3,000 bushels and he expected to receive from 12,000 to 15,000 bushels. I met quite a number of officials there and they expressed themselves as highly pleased with the manner in which our people have taken hold of the country- I saw one gentleman who had labored throughout different parts of the Northwest Territory, on government works, and he told his friends that he had been better treated among the Latter-day Saints than in any other part of the Northwest, and that he saw more evidence of thrift and prosperity there than in any other place. We are very glad that we occupy this position before the people of the country. 

The Saints feel well spiritually. They are trying to live their religion to the best of their ability, under the circumstances in which they are placed; and while some of our settlements that are located near the mountains have suffered with frosts this year, upon the whole we have had an abundant harvest—plenty for our home needs and a great deal to export. I believe that we have the honor of being the best tithepaying people in the Church. I understand that Alberta Stake stands at the head. We are mostly young people out there. There are very few old pe pie among us. I think it would be difficult to find 15 persons over 60 years of age. I believe the Lord is modifying the climate for our good. We do not have the rigorous winters that we used to have. Our young people are well looked after in that Stake. There is very little sin of the graver kind amongst them, and we are trying to the very best of our ability to live up to our religion. As an evidence of the spirit which exists in our Stake, I might cite the fact that twenty or thirty people who have been in the Church all their lives, but have lived on the outskirts, in mining camps, have come down this conference for the purpose of go ng through the Temple and being sealed together as husbands and wives and children. 

I believe we have a very great future before us in Alberta. The government officials have done all in their power to make it pleasant for us, and they have made all the concessions that they possibly could under the laws of the land. We enjoy just as much fre dom as the people of any country do, and  Lord is blessing us. We hope in the not distant future to have a temple in that land, and I was very glad to hear our President say yesterday that it was the intention to build temples in the outlying Stakes of Zion. I presume that our people have spent many thousands of dollars ta come down here and go through the temples of the Lord. When our young people get married we like to see them start out right, but it is a very expensive trip to come down here to go through the house of the Lord; and it would not take manyyears, if we could use the money that is spent for this purpose, to build a temple of our own. I believe that Canada is a good place for people who have not got good homes, and for young people who have plenty of sticktoitiveness and are filled with faith, courage and energy; but I never have advocated the breaking up of homes by Utah people who are well established in order to come to Canada. I have been there quite a few years myself and am pretty well acquainted with all the people in the Stake, and I can say that many young people who came with nothing and stayed with the country are wellto do today and trying to live their religion. 

May the Lord bless us all in this great work of His, and may He especially bless those who are called to preside in the various offices throughout the Church with wisdom to direct the affairs thereof, that the purposes of the Lord may be accomplished in the earth, is my prayer in the r.ame of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Appreciation of faithful labors — A spirit of restlessness not desirable. 

It may be appropriate at this moment for me to say a few words relative to the Alberta Stake of Zion. Most of the Latter-day Saints are aware of the fact that President Charles O. Card was the pioneer of that country, and for long years has been acting as the president of the Alberta Stake of Zion. We desire to say to his numerous friends and acquaintances that no man  has been called to such a position has been more valiant and faithful in the performance of his duty, according to his knowledge and ability, than President Charles O. Card. He has been indeed a pioneer, a faithful, energetic man, and has been instrumental in laying, to a great extent, the foundations of the prosperity of the Alberta Stake. But on our late visit we found that his health was so greatly impaired that it became necessary to honorably relieve him from the great responsibilities of presiding over that Stake; and I think you will all bear me witness, if Brother Allen will continue to maintain the spirit that he possesses today, we will not have made any mistake in selecting Brother Card's successor. 

I would also say that we do not desire the people to get in their minds a spirit of restlessness or a desire to migrate from one place to another. We would like our brethren and sisters to remain where they are, as long as they can consistently, and only those go to the newer Stakes who have a necessity to go. We desire to maintain our foothold and to continue to establish ourselves in the central Stakes of Zion. We realize the necessity for this, and we hope that the brethren and sisters of all the Stakes will continue to abide where they are and contend for the success of the people in the locality where they live. There are a few places where our people have settled which need no words of commendation to induce settlers to go there, because they plead their own cause; but we desire to keep the foothold we have. We do not intend to retrograde, or to yield up. We believe that there has been no mistake made in the past in forming settlements in the south and in the various places where our people are located. We believe that the hand of the Lord is in it all, and that those who directed the locating and settlement of those places were inspired by that wisdom which comes from above. 

ELDER WILLIAM H. SMART (President of Wasatch Stake). 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very  upon the Lord to direct me in the utterances that I shall make. It has been very interesting to hear the reports from the various missionary fields of the world. It is gratifying to see the work of the Lord progressing in the earth and it makes my heart rejoice to receive testimonies of the same. 

A year ago last February I was called to go into the Wasatch Stake of Zion — seventy miles from this city by rail — to succeed President Abram Hatch as the president of that Stake; so that I am, comparatively speaking, an infant in this grave responsibility, and I can speak mostly of our good intentions rather than the labors that have been performed. We are 5,500 feet above sea level, away up in the tops of the mountains in a very beautiful valley surrounded by the everlasting hills. In reading of the physical structure of Switzerland I often think that our little valley may be compared in its beauty to some of the beautiful valleys of Switzerland. No doubt, this is why we have in our valley so many good, sturdy inhabitants from Switzerland. Our little valley shows the hand of hardihood, industry and privation; for the winter months have been long and the summer months short. There are those in that valley who have gone through all the privations of early life in these mountains. Many of them knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and passed through the trying scenes of the early history of our Church, and crossed the plains when it was but a trackless desert. We have nine Patriarchs to bless the people, and most of these Patriarchs had the privilege of knowing the Prophet Joseph Smith, and their old frames vibrate under the powerful testimonies which they bear that he was a prophet of the living God. We have many aged sisters who knew the Prophet, and who went through the early trials among our people. We feel blessed to have so many aged brethren and sisters still living among us with burning testimonies of the divinity of Joseph Smith's mission. 

I desire to say that we are endeavoring to keep up with the spirit of the 

times. We encourage our people to remain at home and build upon the worthy foundation laid by the men and women who were the pioneers of that little commonwealth. We have hundreds of acres in the valley still covered with sagebrush — virgin soil which has not yet known the plow — and our hearts are going out in loving sympathy to these untilled acres. Our hearts are also going out to our young men who are going to Park City, delving in the mines for gold and silver, and being led astray by the vices of the world, when there are still hundreds of acres yet uncultivated at home. Our minds are being led to some extent on the question of irrigation and along those temporal lines that will assist in sanctifying the land and bringing It to a higher state of cultivation. In spiritual matters we are endeavoring to do our duty. Our Heavenly Father has blessed me with two good counselors in the persons of Joseph R. Murdock and James C. Jensen — men who feel to give their lives to the service of God. They have stated that if need be all their time and means are at the disposal of God our Eternal Father for the upbuilding of His Church upon the earth. We have a High Council who are men of God. They are united with us in furthering the interests of our people. We have a corps of Bishops who are leading the people as best they can according to the ability which God has given them. We are endeavoring to be abreast of the spirit of the times with regard to the quorums of the Priesthood; but I regret to say that in our Stake we have experienced the difficulties which Bishop Preston spoke of in the Priesthood meeting last evening — that is, our work in the Teachers* department is not as we would like to have it. In the auxiliary departments of the Church we are trying to keep up with the rest of the Church. Speaking of religion class work, the presidency and High Council, and for the most part our Bishops, are interested In this work. We see that It will be a mighty factor, under the blessing of God, in distilling the principles of the Gospel upon the minds of the youth of Zion. We realize that we feed our children's bodies three times a day.but too many of us have been contented to  them only one or two spiritual 

meals a week. Therefore, many of the youth of Zion are growing up physically strong, but spiritually weak. We recognize this condition in the Wasatch Stake. In visiting some of our religion classes, tears have rolled down my cheeks to see little tots stand before the class and lead their classmates in a practical prayer. It has made me think of that prayer of the Savior where He said, "I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes." I have thought of it, too, when our little children taught the law of tithing in these classes, have brought their nickels and laid them, like the disciples of old, at the feet of their teachers. 

May God grant that the spirit of progression may be in the hearts of the people in every part of the vineyard of the Lord, and that we, His servants, may be equal to the great duties that He has placed upon us. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF. 

Establishment and maintenance of settlements — Hand of God manifest In them— Discrimination against the Saints. 

My dear brethren and sisters, I have been very much delighted with what we have heard during this conference, and while I stand before you to bear my testimony to the divinity of this work and to say a few words I desire your faith and sympathy and the divine aid of my Father in heaven. I rejoiced very much in the words of President Joseph F. Smith this mprning, and I would like to call your attention to the fact that the Prophet Joseph Smith, many years before the bulk of the people ever thought of coming to these Rocky mountains, predicted that the Saints would suffer much persecution, but that many of them would live to come to these valleys of the Rocky mountains and assist in establishing cities there. 

I have in the past spoken considerably regarding our new settlements, and I want to say a few words this morning in regard to our old settlements. I  that the brawn and sinew of the older settlements have been drawn upon largely in order to establish new settlements in various parts of the country, and as a result there is a spirit of lethargy and not of progress resting upon the people of some of these old settlements. The young and energetic have gone to Canada or other northern locations, and have left only the aged and infirm and the non-progressive, and where this is the case the settlements are in a state of decline. If I were the president of a stake in which these conditions exist, and colonization agents came into the stake and attempted to draw away Bishops and progressive men, I would demand that they show their credentials from the Presidency of the Church, or I would not let them take my useful men. 

I feel that in the establishment of these settlements we have been doing the will of God and I want to call your attention to the fact that some of the best blood of this Church has been called, not to occupy the most desirable sections of country, but to go and assist in the establishment of lands to the south which might be regarded a9 altogether undesirable. Hundreds of thousands of dollars have been spent and lives have been worn out in es tablishing these settlements, and I hope that they will never be abandoned because there is better country somewhere else. I want to tell you, in the name of the Lord, that the time will come when the wisdom of God in establishing these settlements under the direction of the leaders of the Church, both past and present, will be manifest, and that He hasi had a purpose in doing it.. We did not come to these Rocky mountains because it was a good, desirabla country. We are here today because President Brigham Young, when the pioneers landed in this valley, said this was the place where God designed His people should halt. Those who wer& looking for good countries wanted him to go on to California, or to Oregon; but he said; No, here is the place— very undesirable in the eyes of men, therefore it will not excite the cupidity or the selfishness of our enemies, and here  can rest. As a result of the inspiration which rested upon the Prophet Joseph Smith in his successors, the Saints have been established in these nooks of the mountains. Had they gone to more favored places.it would not have been long before they would have been only a drop in the bucket; but by being placed in these crevices of the rocks they have been able to maintain their ground, and God has blessed the land for the sake of His people. As I have often said, the Lord has caused some of His choicest sons and daughters to go into the stakes of Arizona and Mexico, where they do not raise 10,000 bushels of grain, but where they have gone because He has called them through His servants to locate there, and where they have determined to stay though it should cost them their lives. That is the kind of people that dwell in those places that are considered undesirable. They may not be desirable places, but they have to be built up and maintained; and we do not want to draw from them their best blood and leave them in a languishing condition. We want them to continue to progress, to husband the water, take care of the lands which God has given them, and build new houses. We go into some settlements and find that there has not been a new house built in the last five ok ten years, and all the young and progressive element have left to the detriment of those who remained. 

I am in favor of maintaining these settlements. I am also in favor of maintaining our foothold right here at headquarters, where we are new almost uprooted, because the country has apparently become too good for us. It is worth too much money, and consequently we have sold out to those not of our faith. Therefore, we have but little voice in the government of our city and in other affairs here. While the Latter-day Saints have built the railroads, and while they furnish, I am told, about 80 per cent of the local traffic of these roads, there is scarcely one Latter-day Saint in a hundred in the employ of these large railroad companies. These matters are controlled almost exclusively by the labor unions. The contracts for our buildings, when they are let, are controlled by companies who employ union men; and a9 a result our people, who are counseled all the time to keep out of these things, have to take what few crumbs drop from those who are eating the slice. I do not think this is a good thing. "We do not show that interest in each other in these temporal affairs that we ought to do. We have not as much interest in obtaining employment for one another in this city, take us as a whole people, as the labor unions have for their members. And I am in favor of either joining the unions or else being a union among ourselves as we ought to be. I feel that the Latter-day Saints are in a position to demand some consideration in regard to these things, and that we ought not to be forced to sell our homes right here at headquarters because the land has become too valuable for us. I love the little piece of land I occupy, which was a part of my father's homestead, and 1 have covenanted with the Lord ana with myself that I will never part with that, unless I have to do it to maintain my honor, or the honor of my people, or to buy bread for my family. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. I rejoice in the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I know that this is God's work, and I know that we, have a living Church, not a dead form, for which I thank God. May the blessings of the Lord be upon our brethren and sisters who have worn out their lives in fulfilling the missions whereunto they have been called to build up the great southern country and to live in the less desirable places. They are among the best people we have in the Church, and God has blessed them ana will bless them. I love them, as I love the people of every other part of Zion. As President Smith has said, there are sections of our country which will recommend themselves and speak fox themselves; but I do not think that people ought to be drawn away from our old settlements, to the detriment of those places, in order to build up some other country. I am interested in Canada, in Oregon, in Big Horn, and in every one of these settlements that  been founded, as my labors in the Apostleship have been exclusively in the stakes of Zion, I think over these things, and I am concerned regarding the welfare of our settlements and theii maintenance. President Smith and I went to St. Johns, with authority to release the people there, if they wanted to go, and we could not do it. The young and the old stood up and expressed their feelings; they cried, and we cried, and we were determined that ♦we would not raise our hands to aban don a settlement which had been es» tablished under the direction of one of the prophets of God. Now, my brethren and sisters, let us think of these things. Let us be contented. Let u» be progressive in our own settlements, and let us strive to love all mankind. I thank God for the honorable men of the earth, and for the Latter-day Saints who are accomplishing good in this world. I recognize in every man one of God's sons, and in every woman ont> of His daughters; and they are all my friends, so far as they befriend Zion or speak a good word for her. May God bless us and fill us continually with the testimony of Jesus, who died for the redemption of all mankind. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER L. A. KELSCH. 

My brethren and sisters, while standing before you for a short time I desire to be inspired of the Lord to say only those things that shall be for our good. I have greatly rejoiced in the testimonies which have been borne during this conference. My heart has been made glad. I rejoice in bearing testimony unto you, and unto all who shall read concerning this conference, that I know that the work in which we are engaged is of God, and that He has revealed His mind and will unto His servants the prophets in these latter days. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, raised up in this dispensation, and that he has given the mind and will of the Lord unto the inhabitants of the earth; that the authority which he received from holy messengers whom God sent to confer it upon him, has been conferred upon brethren who  in this congregation, and that these men of God hold the right and the authority to act in the name of Jesus Christ in all the world; that this Gospel which has been restored in these latter days is going to revolutionize the whole world, and bring together the children of men into one faith, by which every man and woman will Know that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and that he died as a martyr. This work will continue to grow and increase among the nations vof the earth. The Lord is at the head, and He will direct its course. Whether those of us who have been called to labor for Him are faithful or not, He will have men, and plenty of them, to accomplish His mighty purposes. I desire to be one of those who shall be faithful unto the end; for I realize that It Is not the receiving of great testimonies and promises that will save us, but those who receive these great blessings are expected to use their power and strength for the accomplishment of His purposes and to endure faithfully to the end. 

I have had the great pleasure and privilege to be called as one o* the servants of God to carry the Gospel to the nations of the earth, and in my weak way I have tried to fulfill the responsibilities which have been placed upon me. The last mission to which I have been called was, as has been stated by President Smith, a mission to Japan. I was called to assist Apostle Heber J. Grant and Brothers Horace S. Ensign and Alma O. Taylor. As you are aware, a little over one year ago we left here for that land; and it seemed to us when we arrived that we were indeed strangers in a strange land, for everything was strange unto us. The people, their customs, their habits, their food — all were strange. We could not speak to the people, only through interpreters, except to those who were able to understand the English language. We have in our weak way tried to do the best we could. We have succeeded in making two converts, and we had the privilege of baptizing them. We might have baptized many, if we had desired to do so; but we realized  they did not know sufficient of this work to justify us in baptizing them into the fold of Christ. I believe that there are many honest souls in that land. There is a great people living upon the different islands of Japan, The Japanese are very kind, very sociable, and extremely polite. I never saw so much politeness and kindness in my life as I have witnessed among that people, not only with themselves, but also to foreigners. My heart went out to that people in love, and I had a great desire to preach the Gospel unto them in their own tongue; but for some cause it has not been my fortune to do this. I have been asked many times if I am going back to Japan. I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that I have been released from that mission. I was not able to preach the Gospel in their language, but I have preached it to thousands of foreigners there, and to the Japanese who were able to understand me. I visited a great many of them and preached the Gospel to them. After I found out that my time would be short in that land, I made it my special business to labor among the missionaries of other churches, preaching the Gospel to them, trying to make friends with them and getting them to stop speaking evil of us. I believe I succeeded to some extent, at least, a number of them became friendly, and some invited me to visit them again, which I did. I met men there who had visited this city, and notwithstanding they did not agree *vith our faith they admitted that we had a beautiful city, and they also admitted that we could be saved as well as them, if we would be faithful to that which we believed. 

The brethren and sisters who are there now were feeling well when I left. They are desirous of performing a good mission, and remaining there until they are honorably released. The language is very difficult to learn, and it will be necessary for the Lord to assist the brethren and sisters in order that they may acquire it. Until that i» accomplished, I do not feel that much will be done among that people; for preaching the Gospel through an interpreter is a mistake, I believe; always has been, and always will be, in my opinion. This has been proven in Japan; but we had to have some one to talk to the people, who crowded themselves upon us and desired to know something about our faith. We found that the interpreter could not translate some words to convey the proper meaning, and scholars there have told us that it is very difficult to translate English into Japanese. There are many words in the English that they cannot find equivalents for, and in order to get them to understand our meaning some words will have to be explained considerably. For this reason I feel that nothing of much moment will be done until our brethren are able to speak unto the people in their own language, thereby getting close to their spirits and warming them up by the testimony of the truth. The people are very anxious to know concerning our doctrine; but whether they will receive it after we are able to explain it unto them I cannot tell. We can only plant; it is God who gives the increase. Even if they should come into the Church by the thousands, they will have to be humble, prayerful and diligent, or they will be overcome, just as we have to be diligent and careful in order to avoid being overcome. For from the beginning of this work Satan has tried to destroy it. You remember when Joseph Smith went into the woods to ask God what church he should join, how the power of darkness seized him. I believe that Satan knew Joseph Smith in the spirit world; knew he was a mighty man, and that he would seek to overthrow his kingdom; and therefore, as soon as he went to pray unto the Lord, he tried to destroy him, and it was only the power of God which saved him at that time. Then from that time on Satan continually sought to kill him, and finally he accomplished it, though not until the Lord permitted it and the time had come when it was necessary, I presume, for him to seal his testimony with his blood; "for where a testament is," says Paul, 

"there must also of necessity be the death of the testator." Many of the Saints have lost their lives for the Gospel's sake, and every one of us will have to be willing to sacrifice all that we have, and our lives if necessary, if we expect to receive the same blessing. Jesus did not seek to-do His own will, but the will of the Father. We shall have to do the same. We must be willing to do the will of God as made manifest through His servants. President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors and the Twelve Apostles are servants of God, and they give unto us the word of God. We must be willing to hearken to that word, just as if Christ were to come himself and deliver it; and until we are willing to be governed in that way we will not make the progress which God designs we should make We must be willing to be governed in righteousness, and I want to tell you that the servants of God do not desire to exercise any influence over the children of men only upon the principles of righteousness and justice. Not one of you can stand up and truthfully say that you have ever been told by any President of the Church, or by any Apostle, to do anything that would not be for your good or for the good of mankind. I know there is safety in being humbled and willing to be guided by the Lord. If we are obedient, then God will bless us. If we are willing to be judged, we will make good judges ourselves; but we never will until we become subject to the power of God ourselves. 

I thank my Heavenly Father for the privilege of going to the nation of Japan. It has been a great blessing and comfort to me. It has been a good school for me. I have been taught things there that I never would have learned in any other place perhaps. That experience will be a benefit to me in the future, and I thank my brethren who were inspired to send me to that land, and I thank the Lord and my brethren that I have been honorably released. I desire to continue to labor for Zion and her interests. I desire to be a servant of God, to keep on bearing testimony, wherever I shall be  to labor, whether it be In a ward capacity or in any other direction. We will all receive that which w e merit. I know this work is true. I bear testimony that this people are true, loyal American citizens. We love the Constitution; we love this nation; we love its flag 1 . We have proved this in the past, and we are able to prove it again, should it be necessary. We love all good, honorable men and women, whether they are Latter-day Saints or not, so much so that we are willing to leave our homes and all that is dear unto us for the purpose of carrying the Gospel to them. We are willing to sacrifice our time and our means in the interest of their salvation. However, we should not regard it as a sacrifice. It is no sacrifice to be baptized, when we are converted. It is no sacrifice to pay our tithes and our offerings, when we are converted. So with all the principles of the Gospel. We love to do these things, because they bring us joy and satisfaction. 

Now, I thank my brethren for giving me this privilege. I rejoice in the testimonies which have been borne. I love my brethren and sisters, and may God bless us and unite our hearts together, that we may become one in Christ Jesus, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I would like to remark that Brother Kelsch was honorably released from his mission in Japan. It has been discovered that it will take very young men, and take them some years, too, possibly, to master the Japanese language. Brother Kelsch has been serving in the missionary field for the last Ave or six years, without any respite at all, and it was thought that he was a man too far advanced in years and had been serving too long in the missionary field to keep him in the Japanese mission until he could learn that language. Therefore, he was honorably released. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! 

Traitors and tyrants now fight him in vain. 

Benediction by Elder C. F. Middleton, counselor in presidency of Weber Stake 
