Afternoon
08 04 1930


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We never seem to have all the time that we would like to have at our conferences. Therefore, we have arranged for two extra sessions tomorrow, and we do most sincerely hope that the people will fill this building at our closing sessions. We have in the past had to draw our inspiration partly from empty benches on the last day of our conference when that has fallen on a week day. We hope that on this centennial occasion this will not be the case. 

We dislike very much to limit the time of our speakers, but we had a message from one of the senior apostles which took me only seven and one-half minutes to read; so we are going to call on some of our brethren to speak to us and ask them to be satisfied with the same length of time that Brother Smoot had. 

Our first speaker will be Elder Samuel O. Bennion, President of the Central States Mission, who has been laboring in that mission for more than twenty years as its president. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be able to greet you upon this occasion, and to bear my testimony to the divinity of this great work. I am sure that we have all been thrilled with the inspiration that has accompanied each speaker. To me it has brought many memories of past experiences in general conference assemblies. 

An opportunity has come to me that few men, I presume, have had — that of laboring as a missionary for more than a quarter of a century. When President McMurrin was speaking yesterday, I thought of the day that he set me apart, in 1904. In those days they wrote the blessings that were pronounced upon the missionaries who GENERAL CONFERENCE  forth. I didn't know many of the brethren who were there on that occasion, but Brother McMurrin was the mouthpiece; and he told me in that blessing that I should stay "to the very uttermost," but that I should be returned home in the end. I didn't think much about it at the time, but began to realize its significance about five years later when I read it again, and I was very much impressed yesterday when he spoke in regard to promises made to himself, as it reminded me of the time that he set me apart. The words of the Lord that come to those who are set apart to go and preach the Gospel are surely to be fulfilled. They will not fail if the men and women to whom they are given will do their part. 

I am glad to have gone into the world. I have found faith in the world. I have found hundreds and thousands of people who have faith in God and all they lack is an opportunity to know how to live to develop that faith. Splendid men and splendid women are awaiting the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I am thankful unto the Lord that he has given us an opportunity to grow in a knowledge of God, and I am thankful for the great men who have been appointed to lead Israel in these latter days. The reason that the Church of Jesus Christ has flourished and grown as it has is because its leaders have lived in harmony with God, and other men and women who have been associated with them lived in harmony with them. These have believed in the leaders and the leaders have believed in God — they have walked in the presence of God. I have learned long ago that the Lord our God, through his Son Jesus Christ, is carefully guarding the interests of this great Church. He established it. He came into the world and introduced his Son to Joseph Smith, directing him to organize the Church. There is no other people bearing the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ to act in the name of God, and I bear this testimony to all men in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

President of the Southern States Mission 

One of the great outstanding characteristics of the Latter-day Saints is their love for God and fellowmen. This sublime love finds its perfection in God our Heavenly Father. 

"For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 

"For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved." (John 3:16-17.) 

The power to suffer and the will to sacrifice is always encased in great love, and surely only God could have suffered as he did in sending his Only Begotten Son into the world to be slain for the sins of the world. 

The Lord Jesus Christ suffered so much, that he, the greatest of 113 , even God, sweat great drops of blood, that men might not suffer if they would repent. If the Savior had not come into the world and endured the suffering of death there would have been no redemption for mankind. 

We see this love for God and fellowmen manifested and expressed in the lives of all the holy prophets of God. Think of Abinadi, the Book of Mormon pronhet, who. knowmg that he was going to certain death, voluntarily delivered himself into the hands of wicked men that he might declare unto them the word of God. The evil priests clamored that he be slain and Abinadi suffered death by fire because he would not deny the commandments of God. His last words were : "O God, receive my soul." He sealed the truth of his words by his death. 

We think of Alma, the high priest, resigning the office of chief judge of the Nephite nation to go and preach repentance to the people. We remember that the three sons of Mosiah refused a kingdom in order that they might preach the word of God to a hardened and ferocious people. And this inspiration, this great love, for where there is great love there is the will to sacrifice and to suffer, was found in the Prophet Joseph Smith, who said : "If my life is of no value to my friends, it is of no value to myself." This same spirit, I testify to you, has been most nobly expressed in the lives of all the successors to the Prophet of God. 

I repeat, my brethren and sisters, where there is great love for the Lord and his children, there is also great love and the will to sacrifice and to suffer. This work has made the Latter-day Saints great because it is a great work. Substituting two words in a famous college song, the sentiment in that song may be applied to this Church. 

,  - ' - -flfc-. 

"Mother of men grown strong in giving, Honor to him thy lights have led. Rich in the toil of thousands living; Proud of the deeds of thousands dead." We who have felt thy power, and known thee : We in whose lives thy lights avail, High in our hearts, enshrine, enthrone thee, Mother of men— the Church." 

Truly the Church is the mother of men. 

That soul-reviving blessing from our beloved President, Sunday morning, thrilled home to our hearts, and we, the people of Israel, love our leader. We proclaim that we ask the blessings of God upon our prophet, and upon all the General Authorities of the Church, for with them, by the help of the Most High, we propose to go on to the glorious consummation of the work of God. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER WILLIAM R. SLOAN 

1 President of the Northwestern States Mission 

Three clays hence will be commemorated in the great Northwest, the centennial of the pioneers to the state of Oregon. On the 10th day of April, 1830, eighty-three men, fur traders, trappers, and assistants, left St. Louis, Missouri, and they traversed the trail now known as the Oregon Trail and arrived in Oregon, and from the 10th until the 29th day of December that wonderful event will be commemorated. The President of the United States, senators and other leading men have given approval of this great commemoration. 

Today we commemorate an event. I should like to read just a word or two from one of the editorials of a newspaper in Portland. 

"The Pacific Northwest has profited by a share of the growth and influence of the Mormon Church. Latter-day Saint missionaries were first sent to Portland in 1896. The Northwestern States Mission was formed the following year. The Church has now a Portland membership of one thousand and a local investment of more than two hundred thousand dollars, including a handsome chapel, dedicated a year ago. Wherever they are, the Mormons today should find full measure of appreciation and congratulation on their century achievements." 

I should like to read another clipping from a recent magazine: 

"Greatest Power in Spiritual Forces. "What line of research will see the greatest development within the next fifty years ? This is the question that Robert Babson asked the late Charles P. Steinmetz while the world's foremost electrical engineer was visiting in the home of the nation's leading business statistician. It was natural to suppose that a scientist who had given nearly half a century to inventive processes would be thinking in terms of the future development of radio, aeronautics, or power transmission. Instead Mr. Steinmetz replied : 'Mr. Babson, [ think the greatest discovery will be made along spiritual lines. Here is a force which history clearly teaches has been the greatest power in the development of men and history. Yet we have merely been playing with it and have never seriously studied it as we have the physical forces. Some day people will learn that material things do not bring happiness and are of little use in making men and women creative and powerful. Then the scientists of the world will turn their laboratories over to the study of God and prayer and the spiritual forces which as yet have hardly been scratched. When this day comes, the world will see more advancement in one generation than it has seen in the past four." 

" 'If radio's slim fingers Can pluck a melody From night and toss it over A continent or sea; If petaled white notes Of a violin 

Are blown across a mountain Or a city's din; If songs like crimson roses Are culled from thin, blue air. Why should mortals wonder If God hears prayer?'" 

In the pageant the other evening were six thousand men and 115 , all standing on their feet, faces toward the beacon light, singing in unison, "Praise God from whom all blessings flow." 

I know this work is of God, and I rejoice in this most glorious privilege that I have enjoyed, being one of those mission presidents on whom God's prophets, in all love and kindness gave such a wonderful blessing. I hope the Lord will bless me. 

I extend greetings to you, my brethren and sisters, from your sons and your daughters in the -Northwestern States Mission. They are noble, sweet, pure, God-fearing boys and girls. The Lord loves and is magnifying them, and they are measuring up admirably to the responsibilities imposed upon them. 

This is my prayer, my testimony of the truth of his work. I bear it humbly, in the name of Jesus Christ, pur Redeemer, Amen. 

ELDER NOAH S. POND 

President of the Northern States Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters, I feel very humble and very happy to have the privilege of reporting the Northern States Mission of the Church. We have something like one hundred missionaries in that field at the present time. Last month fifteen of our most experienced missionaries were released, and only one was sent there. Brethren and sisters, we need your sons and daughters, and some of you, my brethren of the authorities of the wards and stakes. Your services are much appreciated, have been and will be, in the great ministry of the Church. 

Last year we sold eight thousand and one Books of Mormon in our mission. We loaned thirteen thousand four hundred fifty-three copies. In sales and loans a few less than twenty-three thousand five hundred copies of the Book of Mormon were placed in the hands of the inhabitants of our area. With a population of between twenty-five and thirty millions of people, however, in those six states, you can readily understand what a vast field and enormous work there is for a hundred or a hundred and twenty-five missionaries to perform. With a possible exception or two, our missionaries are in the enjoyment of good health; they are happy, industrious, humble, and faithful in their work. The blessings of the Lord attend their labors. 

Recently, last month in fact, we were impressed to send two of our fine young elders into a portion of the state of Iowa that our missionaries had not tracted or labored in for some time in the past. These, two young men, going into the city of Dubuque, where our elders had not been for a number of years, felt rather discouraged at the conclusion of the first week's work. The following Sunday morning they were impressed to visit the Sunday School of the First Congregational church of that city. The superintendent gave them a fine welcome. After the preliminary exercises they were invited to speak to GENERAL CONFERENCE  membership of that Sunday School. They made a fine impression, in a few brief remarks. The minister greeted them, invited them to dine with him, brought them back to his evening service and gave them an opportunity of preaching the Gospel to a hundred and fifty or two hundred members of his church. A very similar circumstance happened almost simultaneously in Evansville, Indiana, where two of our young elders found a Pentecostal minister, who welcomed them to his church and they had the privilege of preaching the Gospel to a hundred and fifty or two hundred members of that faith. 

I have been very much impressed by the manner in which the work is progressing in our organizations. Sister Pond has much pleasure in the Relief Society work of the mission, where she has nineteen societies. The Young Men's, the Young Ladies', the Sunday School, and the Primary organizations are progressing; so also is the Aaronic priesthood. W!e have it under as capable supervision as it is possible to provide, and we are very happy to note that the work is progressing. 

The outstanding feature of our work during the last month was the visit of our dear President Grant, that we were favored with. He came into our mission and remained with us from February 16th to February 25th. During that time we had the privilege of dedicating the new chapel in Columbus. Ohio, and our beautiful chapel in the University branch in the city of Chicago; likewise visiting the chapel that had been completed during the past two years in the city of Detroit, where we have a beautiful building and a fine congregation of our membership, and active work. He also had the privilege of visiting our chapels and our congregations in Dayton and Cincinnati, Ohio, also Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Immediately following this visit a number of baptisms were performed. The saints and the missionaries will never forget the marvelous impression, the testimony, and the Spirit of the Lord that accompanied the visit of President Grant. We have been favored, since our entry into the mission with a visit from Apostle Ballard, likewise a tour of the mission by Apostle Orson F. Whitney. These brethren of the General Authorities of the Church are welcome. The saints, friends, investigators and missionaries will travel hundreds of miles for a single opportunity of meeting and hearing the words of inspiration that fall from the lips of the servants of God. 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, to report the progress of the work in the Northern States Mission, where we are also sending out missionaries. I am also happy because of our baptisms. Five baptisms were performed the first Sunday after President Grant's visit. I have a letter, just received today, from our mission secretary in connection with other matters, in which he said that the services in Chicago last Sunday were outstanding. Both our chapels were filled to capacity, a pageant in one and a specially prepared program in the other. Seven baptisms were performed in the city of Chicago last Sunday afternoon. 

My brethren and sisters, there is joy and pleasure in this great work. May we have more of your sons and daughters, and some of you 117  of bishoprics, high councils and stake presidencies, for you little appreciate the value of your services until you have filled a three, four, five or six months mission in the mission fields of the Church. 

God bless the presiding authorities of this great Church. And God bless our young people in the mission fields, for there also they are preparing for this missionary work. The Northern States Mission has within the last few months or years, sent out eight missionaries into other mission fields. We are happy to note that we have two young sister missionaries in the mission home at this time, preparing for the California and the Northwestern States missions. And our young people are learning and are desirous of becoming familiar with the principles of the Gospel, that from the mission field they also may go forward and preach this great Gospel. 

I testify of the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I cannot recount a more happy moment or period in my life than we have enjoyed in this centennial. When I read the other evening of our friends, the Reorganites, celebrating in Independence, Missouri, six or seven thousand strong, the centennial of their church, I wondered how they would reconcile thirty years which they must falsify in history, or they must abandon the word "Reorganization." How can they be the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and celebrate one hundred years of its existence, when they came into existence thirty years after the original Church was organized. 

May the Lord bless us with faithfulness. I testify to the truthfulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and pray for his blessings upon the First Presidency, the Council of the Apostles, the presidency and priesthood at home, all the membership of the Church throughout the world, and all the good and true and the noble with whom we labor, and to whom we are seeking to bring the Gospel, the plan of life and salvation. I pray for our Father's blessings in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ELIAS S. WOODRUFF 

President of the Western States Mission 

It is a great honor to bring you the greetings of the saints and missionaries who labor in the Western States Mission. Many of them would have liked to be here to enjoy these services, even as you have. But I counseled them to remain at home and hold such services as they were capable of conducting and to invite as many friends as they could possibly get to attend our services in the twenty-seven branches that we have in the mission. Services have been arranged and have been held in all of those branches and also in a number of places where we have only Sunday Schools. As far as it was possible we have celebrated in a fitting manner this wonderful event. 

The conference to me has been a tremendous inspiration. If I were to think of the responsibility that rests upon me as a servant of GENERAL CONFERENCE  Lord, without the thought that God is directing the work, I would be so completely overwhelmed as to be unable to proceed. I know that we are in our Father's work, that his power is behind us; and it gives me, as it gives my brethren, courage to proceed with the work, with confidence that it will triumph and grow and spread over all the earth. 

In the Western States Mission the saints are faithful. They are good tithe-payers, they are attending their meetings in goodly number, they are trying to the extent of their ability to spread the word among their friends. They are trying to set an example to others, to show them that by being members of the Church they have lived better lives than they would have done otherwise; and in that way are preaching the Gospel by example. And in all respects we are endeavoring to serve the Lord. 

It is my hope and prayer that the Lord will bless me that I may be able to take back from this conference a message to the saints and missionaries that will at least supplement the impressions they have already received from the meetings they have held and what radio « reception they may have enjoyed. 

May God bless and inspire his servants who preside over the Church, that they may ever be true to their trust. May you, my brethren and sisters, sustain them and love them and uphold their hands by being faithful to your trust, that the Church may grow and flourish as we know it will. As has been so splendidly expressed here, the thought is there is no danger that the Church will not proceed and grow; the danger is that you or I may fall by the wayside. 

I humbly pray that we may never lose our faith, but that we may be able to keep step with the progress of the great Church which has given us this wonderful inspiration and through which we are so greatly blessed. I pray God to bless you, to bless the saints everywhere, to bless you who are preparing to send missionaries out, that you may be able to send them, and that you may be prospered so that you can care for them. I do want to make a plea, as President Pond has done, that you send your sons into the mission field. I think our mission has never been so low in numbers as at the present time. We released twenty-eight missionaries last month, and received three. We are badly in need of help. Those we have are laboring valiantly and splendidly, and I have pleasure in reporting that all are well. 

God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES H. MOYLE 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

In view of the necessity for brevity, I trust President Grant will, if necessary, assist me in keeping within my allotted time. 

I am pleased to report that the Eastern States Mission is in a healthy, growing condition. The missionaries are enjoying good health, with rare exceptions, and doing splendid work. Although there are few baptisms, I know that there are many friends being made and 119  who are not being baptized. Intelligent, influential men have openly confessed to me that they were converted and believed all that we teach, but that they couldn't break the hearts of their wives and embarrass their relatives socially, and could not make the sacrifice at present and break away from their life-long associations. But they are real friends. One thing is certain, that our young missionaries, though not baptizing many, have a personal development that is invaluable, an accomplishment that will go with and influence for good their lives, and which will be of as much importance to them as if they had spent the same time in a great university. 

I was greatly interested in President Roberts' relation of the prophecy of Joseph Smith, that there would be organized in the city of New York a stake of Zion. One year ago, from this stand, I stated that I had been very greatly impressed with the fact that we needed such an organization in greater New York City and its environs. When I entered the mission in January, a year ago, the branch presidency said that there were three hundred members enrolled in the New York City branch alone. That does not include the Brooklyn branch and some small adjacent branches. We have been making a real effort to find the names and residence of the members of the Church, especially those who have come from these valleys east, and who live in that great and populous center. Now the branch presidency saythat they believe there are fifteen hundred, where we only had three hundred of record. At our conference held in New York City in February a year ago, we had about two hundred and fifty people present, which was considered a large audience. At the conference held a month ago tomorrow, at which President Grant and Apostle Ballard were present, there were seven hundred and fifty present, and the hall, rented especially for the occasion, couldn't hold all that came. They were standing up and the aisles were filled. A similar condition existed in Washington, where we had about four hundred present, and where there was no organized branch of the Church prior to the great war. On the 9th of March we not only held a meeting in our chapel at Brooklyn, at ten o'clock a. m., into which was crowded something over three hundred people, but at two o'clock in Newark, New Jersey, another meeting was held with over two hundred present. That branch was organized only a few years since. Then in the evening, in New York City, we had the large meeting referred to, which was by far the largest gathering of saints ever held in New York City. 

One of the material contributing reasons for the growing interest in the Church there, was the presence there a month or two before of Presidents Ivins and Nibley, who spent a week or ten days studying the needs of our members in Washington and New York City. They were impressed with the necessity for a more appropriate and permanent place in which to assemble. That fact, and the interest which President Grant and his counselors manifested, together with the presence of Apostle Ballard, did arouse a real interest in our conference, which I am sure will be fruitful. 

I have been greatly surprised, and deeply impressed, with the GENERAL CONFERENCE  that the sentiment in the east toward our people is greatly changed. This is true especially among the financial, industrial, and commercial leaders of the country, who have evidently become acquainted with our people and their accomplishments, and the character and merits of our young people, for they have been selecting a surprising number of them, in view of the small number of our people, as executives in such instiutions. And why should they be looking for the kind of young men we are producing in these mountains? Because they have been trained and reared in the homes of Latter-day Saints, where the Word of Wisdom has been observed. They are looking for sober, temperate, industrious, God-fearing men, and there is no place in the world where they can be found more than here. The time has passed, in my opinion, when our Mormon boys should feel that they are discriminated against by the men who stand at the head of these great institutions. I am sure this is true. Men and women developed here under the conditions named, are also successful and active physicians, with a splendid practice; lawyers, occupying places in the leading law offices in New York; professors and teachers in the great universities there, several from the Brigham Young University, others from our state university. In nothing are our mountain boys more conspicuous there than in their success and prominence as engineers, especially electrical engineers. I am more than pleased to say that you can find our boys and girls comfortably and favorably located in practically all the great business institutions such as, banking, merchandising, real estate, and other commendable activities; they are accountants, artists, actors, singers and music teachers. 

There is a great change of sentiment coming over the world, and while we do not baptize many we are making friends and arousing interest in our people and the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Last Sunday there was doubtless read in the Unitarian church in Reading, Pennsylvania,, by one of our humble elders, the address that President Grant read here. It is the second or third opportunity that we have had ill leading cities in the mission, in Unitarian churches, which are especially broad and liberal. We have one preacher on Long Island, who has had a congregation there for years, who is preaching every Sabbath the Gospel as we understand it, and his people generally do not know it; but he knows it, and believes it, and says he is going to be baptized. 

I once more urge upon the fathers, mothers, and bishops throughout the Church the. importance of sending us the names of our people who have left the organized branches of the Church in the west, in order that we may interest them in the work. We believe that there are hundreds of them being lost from lack of contact with the Church. We are finding some constantly who seem to have been practically lost and forgotten, and leaving the Church simply through lack of contact with it. They should formally become members of the branches of the Church there, just the same as when they move from one ward to another here at home, then we could find them and look after them. 

A notable instance. I had to go to Florida recently to find a youngman. I met his parents there. They gave me his address and expressed 121  fear that he was drifting away from the Church. When I returned, I invited him to our home, and to my astonishment he said he had been in the city for over a year and did not know where our place of worship was or our headquarters, or that there was such there. Before he left he promised that he would write his mother and say that he was going to attend church. When I called his attention to what he said as he left us, he replied, "I am not only going to so write her, but I am going to be a regular attendant at church." We had no means of reaching that young man prior to meeting his mother. The church officers, diligent as they are, knew nothing of him. We have many such cases. 

There is another thing which has deeply impressed me. Never before has there been such an interest taken in the Book of Mormon as there is now. Think of what President Pond says is going on in his mission. While he is leading in the sale and distribution of copies of the Book of Mormon, the same condition exists more or less throughout all the missions. President Bennion says that they are sending out annually from the Zion's printing office, and actually selling, something like fifty thousand copies of the Book of Mormon in these United States alone. Fifty thousand sold by this one agency, and in addition to those thus sold, there are many more such books lent and placed with readers. 

The Book of Mormon has been a subject of deep interest to me from my youth. I was intensely interested in the realities of angels appearing to men on earth, and the marvelous things revealed to Joseph Smith in connection with the introduction of the Book of Mormon to the world. I shall never forget my experience early in July, 1885, as I was returning home from the University of Michigan where I graduated in 1885. I went directly to Richmond, Missouri, for the sole purpose of meeting the then remaining living witness to the divinity of the Book of Mormon, David Whitmer. I inquired of the bus driver, the hotel clerk, and others, as far as possible, as to the character and reputation of David Whitmer. All said he was a fine old man, an excellent citizen, and was highly respected in the community. I introduced myself by presenting him with a book that I thought would please him, and said to him that I had just graduated from college. He was then in the eighties, with his hair and beard white, but in fair health. It was about three years before his death. I said to him : "1 was born and reared in the Church and I do pray of you to let me know if there is any possibility of your having been deceived. I am just commencing life as you are preparing to lay it down, and I beg of you to tell me if there is anything connected with the testimony which you have borne to the world that could possibly have been deceptive or misunderstood." I further said, in an earnest youthful appeal, that I did not want to go through life believing a falsehood, that it was in his power to make known the truth to me. He described to me the details of the occasion, of the angel presenting the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated. The scene was in the woods, with nothing between the angel and himself except a log that had; GENERAL CONFERENCE  and was lying between them. He declared that he saw the angel who had with him the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, and that in the presence of the angel he did hear the angel declare that they had been translated correctly. While I am speaking from memory, the foregoing most essential facts to me and which were the sole object of my visit, were so indelibly impressed upon my mind, that they are perfectly clear and unmistakable. I asked him many questions concerning his experiences with the origin of the Book of Mormon, and why he left the Church, all of which he endeavored to answer frankly. We talked for a considerable time. His. mind seemed clear and his mentality above rather than below the average. He said he had never left the Church, that they had maintained a branch of the Church in Richmond, and that he had always been active in it; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the revelations he received up to the year 1835 were from God, but that he accepted none of them subsequent to that time. He appeared to have become embittered against Sidney Rigdon especially, and I fancied turned against the Prophet because of his placing Rigdon ahead of those who had stood by the Prophet in his early work. 

He said with seeming pride and much interest, that he had the first copy of the manuscript from which the Book of Mormon was printed, in his humble home. And it was a humble home. That when the great cyclone struck Missouri, and houses were blown about and destroyed, every room in his house was destroyed except that in which the manuscript was kept. He seemed to feel that it was divinely protected. President Joseph F. Smith advised me that the copy of the manuscript was not the original, but one of the three originals. His sincerity was plainly shown when I asked him if he would sell the manuscript and place a price upon it. He replied that he would not. 

There is much that might be said on the subject of the Book of Mormon. Even Colonel Lindbergh is arousing interest in the subject as probably no one else is today, through the pictures which he has been able to take from the air while flying over Central America, Mexico and the southwestern part of the United States. Front pages of the leading papers in the east are publishing those pictures, with interesting and instructive articles written by archaeologists. They are attempting to unravel the history of those lost cities. But I must close. 

The story of the Book of Mormon which our missionaries are carrying to the people of the world and of which they bear testimony as to its divinity, is accompanied with that clear and unfailing guide like unto that which the Savior presented, when he said, "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." In connection therewith our message, as missionaries, to the world is, for them to read and follow the advice found in the last chapter of the Book of Mormon, in which the Prophet Moroni, referring to the contents of the book, gives the sure and unmistakable test, similar to that which the Savior gave, when he said : 

"And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not 123 ; and if ye shall askj with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. "And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things.'' 

That is the test that we are submitting to the world, and that leaven is affecting- the world; it is influencing the world. What greater and surer test could there be ? 

May the Lord help us to appreciate the blessings that we enjoy in the Gospel of our Redeemer, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MILES L. JONES 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I hope that I shall be able to make my remarks short enough so as to make up for part of the time that President Moyle has occupied, so that the rest may have time for theirs. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the opportunity that I have of meeting with you upon this occasion. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the various sessions of this conference. I have been very much impressed today with the rendition of the music, as given by this wonderful gathering of young men and young ladies, the rising youth of Zion, young men and young women who sometime perhaps may be called into the world to spread the Gospel of light among the nations of the earth. 

Just a short time ago it so happened that I came in contact with a very prominent lady who was connected with one of the otherdenominations, and in the course of our remarks I asked, her how she found the spirituality of the young people in her church, and without hesitancy whatever she said : "There is no spirituality among the youngpeople today, not in the least. They are seeking after the pleasures of life and are not looking after spiritual development." And I thought how much different is that from the Latter-day Saints. Here we see it exemplified today, these young men, young ladies, coming here filled with the spirit of the Gospel, and singing the songs of Zion and bringing forth the Spirit of the Lord in our day. 

I rejoice in the work that is being performed in the Bast Central States Mission. I bring to you fathers and mothers the greetings of your sons and your daughters, yes and to the wives the greetings of your husbands, who are laboring in that mission. All are enjoying good health with but few exceptions, and the work of the Lord is progressing. 

Just a few days ago I happened to pick up a newspaper and in reading through it I found the comment of a very prompinent writer; writing upon religious matters and referring to several denominations he made this remark : 

"It may so be in the course of time that the Mormon people will repudiate the Prophet Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon, and then they will become one with us." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I thought how much different that is from the way we look at things. And then just a few days following that one of our saints happened to be listening over the radio to the world's book man who speaks every afternoon with the exception of Sunday, on some subject regarding which a question has been asked. He called me over the phone and I stepped into the room where my wife and I have a radio, and .there I heard Mr. R. C. Preble, who had been asked this question: "What publication do we have that is the most reliable, or rather that gives us the most reliable information regarding the origin of the American Indian?" And he gave as his answer, without any hesitancy whatever, "The Book of Mormon." Then he proceeded to recite and tell how the Book of Mormon was delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith by an angel from on high, and that the record was taken from the Mormon Hill, as he put it, and that it was translated through the instrumentality of a pair of spectacles which were hidden in the box with the record. And then he went on to tell how it was translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith and others who wrote as he translated it by looking through this pair of spectacles. Then he went on to tell that the Book of Mormon contains the history of a people who left Jerusalem some six hundred years before Christ's advent into the world, and that they landed upon the west coast of South America, where they settled, built wonderful cities, and eventually came on into this land and scattered over the various parts of North America. He then stated that in the extent of time those who were the most industrious in building cities were destroyed by the people called the Lamanites, now known as the American Indians; the records which this destroyed people had kept were the ones that were hidden in the Hill Cumorah and were received by the Prophet Joseph Smith from the hands of an angel. He gave such a fair account of it, and as this was the fourth question that I had heard him speak upon in regard to our people, in answer to questions which had been asked, I thought that I would take occasion to write to him, which I did. I dictated a letter, saying "If at any time you happen to be speaking upon any allied subjects pertaining to our people I will appreciate it very much if you will make the announcement that if there are any libraries in that part of the country that do not have a copy of the Book of Mormon, I shall be pleased to furnish them free of cost." I said further, "If you have not a copy of the book I shall be very pleased to send you one with my compliments, and if at any time when you are speaking on any subject pertaining to our people and you haven't first-hand information I shall be pleased to furnish you it." It was about ten days before the letter reached him. I addressed it to W. H. A. S., the station at Louisville, because he was talking over the national "hookup" and I didn't know just where he was; but it finally found him in the city of Chicago, and he immediately answered my letter and said that he would be very pleased indeed to receive a copy of the Book of Mormon. I sent him one with my compliments, and also enclosed with it several other pamphlets which contain some of the teachings of our people. I received another nice letter from him stating that he had 125  the literature, and that his secretary had already begun reading the Book of Mormon, and he was going to do so as the opportunity presented itself. And he continued : "I want to thank you for the little pamphlets which you enclosed, because of the information that they contain." 

I thought how much different are conditions today from what they have been in times past. Conditions in the world are changing. I find that we have friends on every hand. We have opportunities of visiting, every night that we have open, holding cottege meetings, street meetings and private meetings with the people and conversing with them. 

I pray that God may bless us that we may go on with the work, and that you at home may assist us by sending your sons and daughters, which I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The chorus sang "The glory of the Lord shall be revealed" (Doc. and Cov., Sec. 6:7.) Music composed by George H. Durham. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council of Seventy, and President of the Mexican Mission 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that the Spirit that has actuated those who have spoken during this Centennial Conference may be given to me, that I may be able to say something that will strengthen us in our faith and in our testimonies of the Gospel, that we hold so dear. 

The Psalmist said, "Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it; except the Lord keep the city, the watchmen waketh but in vain. 

"It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows." 

In connection with his words my mind has reverted to the counsel of Gamaliel, that wise Jew, who asked the Jews to desist in their persecution of the apostles, counseling that if their work was not of God it would come to naught, even as had the work of many that he mentioned who had raised up and taught strange doctrines, and who had gained considerable following, but, when they had passed on, their work had ceased with them. I recall also the words of the Savior to his disciples, for he reproved the Jews in his day, citing from Isaiah, saying unto them : 

"Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying, 

"This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoreth me 

with their lips; but their heart is far from me. 

"But in vain they do worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments 

of men. 

"And he called the multitude, and said unto them, Hear, and understand : "Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but that which 

cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man. 

"Then came his disciples, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees 

were offended, after they heard this saying? 

126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"But he answered and said, Every plant, which my Heavenly Father hatn not planted, shall be rooted up." 

I have been reflecting upon these scriptures, my brethren and sisters, in connection with the history of the Church during the past hundred years. It has grown marvelously, notwithstanding the persecutions that have been hurled against it, from even before the Church was organized, for Joseph Smith, when he announced to the world that he had seen a vision, was made the subject of the most bitter persecution, and it never ceased to follow him until he sealed his testimony with his blood. The Church itself, from then for many years, was submitted to persecution. It has been submitted to ridicule. The wise and the learned of the world, from the standpoint of the wisdom and the learning of men, have ridiculed this work, and have really predicted and prophesied its downfall; and they seem to be very much alarmed because their predictions have not come true. But my brethren and sisters, they have not reckoned with the vitality of this work; they have not reckoned with the fact that the Gospel restored and the Church organized means more than the mere setting up of a religious system, officered by mortal man. They have not taken into consideration the fact that the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ means the restoration to earth again of the power of God to speak, and to act in his name, the restoration of the holy priesthood. If you will stop to reflect for a minute, it will occur to you, perhaps, strange, as it has to men that I have spoken to in the world, 'that Joseph Smith, after he received the wonderful vision in which the Father and the Son appeared to him, did not immediately set up a religious system; he waited; and why ? Because he sensed and realized that even with that great vision, which restored to the world that which the world was most in need of at that time, a knowledge of God as he is, still he was not empowered to speak in the name of God, to 'minister in the ordinances of the Gospel, with authority to organize the Church and place in it those officers that 'Christ placed in it, namely apostles, prophets, etc. Joseph Smith did not know when that would come when he received that vision. It was not until in the due time of the Lord when he received the priesthood, first the Aaronic at the hands of John the Baptist, that he performed any ordinances for the salvation of the souls of men; and not until he had received the keys of the kingdom, or the Melchizedek Priesthood, and the holy apostleship, did he presume in any way to organize the Church and to set in operation the Gospel as the power of God unto salvation among the children of men, here upon the earth. 

Now, brethren and sisters, if this work were not of God I believe that we could believe still, today, that it would come to naught. But I know, by the manifestations of the Holy Spirit, and by the experiences that I have had in ministering as a humble missionary in the world, that the priesthood, restored to earth in this dispensation, is a reality. It is the power of God to act in his name, and its works; it operates. 

I have been laboring, too, as a missionary, and I have been laboring 127  Book of Mormon people. There is no book in the world that has so appealed to me, and that so absorbs me, in its contemplation, as the Book of Mormon. And my heart has gone out through these long years, nearly a quarter of a century that I have labored without ceasing, in the interest of the people who are the descendants of the prophets who wrote that book. 

In thinking over the history of the Church I recall that in the year of its organization the matter of preaching the Gospel to the Lamanite people occupied, with great concern, the minds of the leaders of the Church. In September, 1830, a revelation was given in which Oliver Cowdery was given to know that he was to carry the Gospel to the Lamanites. In October of the same year there were included in that mission, by direct revelation, Parley P. Pratt and Ziba Peterson and others to preach the Gospel to the Lamanites. There was a beginning. It has been preached at different times from then down until now, and in the specific work that I am engaged in, namely the Mexican Mission, for fifty-one years has the Gospel been preached in the Spanish language to the Mexican people. In the year 1879 an apostle of the Lord, Moses Thatcher, climbed nearly to the summit of the great volcano Popocatepetl that overlooks all of the country, nearly from sea to sea, in the interior of Mexico, at an elevation of perhaps eighteen thousand feet. There, stretching out his hands, he dedicated the land of Mexico to the preaching of the Gospel and to the redemption of the Lamanites, in that land. 

But no one who has hot followed the history of it closely, knows the hectic time we have had in preaching the- Gospel in Mexico. Discouragements have been piled upon discouragements, until I have wondered sometimes — I have never doubted, but I have wondered just when we would see the fruits of our labors, and just when I might feel secure, and sure that the Gospel was planted in that land to stay there. We have had revolutions nearly all of that time, and since1910 we have had revolutions continuously. Our missionaries have had to leave the republic, on one pretext and on another, and our saints have been left, many times for years at a time, to struggle as best they could, only connected with the body of the Church by correspondence which I have been able to carry on with their leaders down there, with their branch presidents particularly. 

Five years ago, nearly, now, because of controversy between church and state in that land, all of our missionaries were obliged to leave the country and the saints were again left to shift for themselves as best they could. We prayed for the time that we might return, and they prayed for the return of the missionaries. In every letter that has been exchanged they have plead that we might come back to them, and they have asked the Lord that the missionaries might be returned to them. 

I have had some misgivings as to what their condition would be, during all this long time that the missionaries were away from them. The Lord opened the way in February, and alone I went into the interior of Mexico. I traveled in that country for six weeks, in comGENERAL CONFERENCE  with the branch presidents and our local district president that we have named in the interior of the country. I visited in their branches, merely as a member, and, because of the restrictions, not permitted to call the people together as an officer of the Church, nor to speak to them as an officer of the Church; but as a member and in conversation with them I visited them all. And I am happy with what 1 found in that land. We carried the Gospel to them. We not only taught them faith in God, faith in the Gospel as restored, faith in the principles of repentance and baptism and in the Church organization, but, brethren and sisters, we laid our hands on their heads, during the years that are past, and we ordained them to the priesthood. Deacons, teachers, priests, and elders have been ordained in that land. Branches have been organized. A district has been organized, and men from among the local priesthood there have been called to officiate and to conduct the affairs of that mission as best they could. I confess that through the years that have passed I have felt rather as I think Alma must have felt when he embarked on his great missionary journey. He wished that he might be endowed with the voice of an angel, that he might preach to the people with the voice of a trumpet, that all men might hear and be brought to a knowledge of the truth. I have felt many times that I should like to be able to do more than it seemed that I was physically able to do. I have felt that the restrictions that kept me back were galling, and I wished to get into the land, for I feared for the stability of the people of the land that had joined the Church. 

I would like to read to you, however, the word of the Lord that came to us, because it comes to me as a revelation, and it made me more contented to do just as the Lord seems to make it possible for me to do in my ministry. Alma said : 

"O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people! 

"Yea, I would declare unto every soul, as with the voice of thunder, repentance and the plan of redemption, that they should repent and come unto our God, that there might not be more sorrow upon all the face of the earth. 

"But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish; for I ought to be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me. 

"I ought not to harrow up in my desires, the firm decree of a just God, for I know that he granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that he allotteth unto men according to their wills, whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction. 

"Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men; he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his desires, whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of conscience. 

"Now, seeing that I know these things, why should I desire more than to perform the work to which I have been called? 

"Why should I desire that I were an angel, that I could speak unto all the ends of the earth? 

"For behold" — and mark these words — "the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his word, yea, in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true." 129 

I found that in the absence of your sons from the interior of Mexico, the Lord had magnified his servants who hold the holy priesthood in that land, and the work has not merely maintained itself but it has grown. Those people, confronted with the difficulty of not being able to hold their services in rented halls, because the law of the land forbids, had gone to with their might, and although they have built but humble houses, yet without asking a cent from the Church, they have built in the time that I speak of, five magnificent little meetinghouses in which they meet. In one place where our people were forbidden to meet, two years ago, in a little branch where only ten resided, they took off their coats, made the adobes and built the house. I was in their place the other day. Since they built it they have baptized enough people so that we had eighty-five people present in that building. Four weeks ago Sunday, in the town of San Marcos — Brother Ivins will remember that his early missionary experiences took him there a few years ago — they have builded a splendid house that will seat almost four hundred people, and we had at the evening session there nearly two hundred and fifty people gathered together. Our district president and his counselor gave addresses that I should he proud to have all the world hear, in defense of our position and the position of those people in that land. 

My time is very limited, but- 1 wish to recount some of the conditions with which they are confronted. There is a great upheaval in Mexico along all lines. There is an emancipation of the people. They are struggling. They are coming up from the dregs of degradation and slavery, and there is a great nationalistic spirit permeating the whole people. It is finding its way into the realms of the churches. There has been a great schism in the Catholic church. There has arisen a national Mexican Catholic church in opposition to the Roman Catholic church. The Mexicans are asking, all over the country: "Why should we look to Rome for leadership in the Catholic church? Why should we look to England for leadership in the Episcopal church ? Why should we look to the United States for leadership in all of the Protestant denominations?" They have asked our people: "Why should you look to the United States for leadership in the 'Mormon' Church ?" and our people have been invited, all over the country, there, to unite themselves with other factions of other churches to build up a Protestant Mexican church with leadership in their own land. 

Four weeks ago Sunday, there stood before two hundred and fifty of the Mexican people there, most of them members, but many of them not members, a young Aztec. When I first knew him he wore the costume of the country. He wore white factory pants, with sandals on his feet, and a white blouse. He could scarcely speak, intelligibly, the Spanish language. He is well educated now. He joined the Church some twenty-two years ago. He dresses well; he knows the scriptures from cover to cover. He stood before the people and for an hour spoke to them of the principle of authority and brought up this proposition of the people and the suggestion that our people join with them in making a national church. Now he said, "Brethren, we must be conGENERAL. CONFERENCE . The Lord does not know national limits in regard to his Church, and it has been his good pleasure to reveal his will to a prophet, who is as much our prophet as he is the prophet of the people among whom he was raised up, and that prophet is Joseph Smith. We hold the priesthood and we have seen its power, we have seen its manifestations, we have seen our sick healed, we have been blessed by it and held together; and all we have we know we owe to the restoration of that power that came to Joseph Smith. That is the power of God that will guide his Church, and we cannot make it any more Mexican than it is." 

Now, brethren and sisters, I was humbled, I was humiliated, but I was thankful, and I felt like saying : Maybe thousands have not come in, maybe nations have not been born in a day, but I thank God that the roots of the everlasting Gospel have struck deep in the soil of the hearts of the Lamanite people of Mexico. I feel sure that, come what may, there is no power in heaven or in hell that can uproot that power implanted in that land, and it will go on, just as that same power will go on with you. 

I feel just as sure as I feel that I live that this Gospel will thrive. It doesn't worry me what men think about whether we are going to succeed or not. I know that there are people in the Church that shouldn't be in the Church. I have met a lot of people that to me seem to be just like the foam that the waves beat up upon the shore and that then melts away. There is also a stratum that is in some parts and factions of the Church that is like the dregs of poison. But the vast body of the Church is true and is clear and is pure, and this work will go on to ultimate success and will remain. It is, and always will be, the power of God unto salvation. 

' This is my faith, this is my testimony, and I bear it humbly to you today in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR WELLING 

President of the North Central States Mission 

Very humbly, my brethren and sisters, and yet in deep gratitude and pride I bring you greetings from the missionaries and saints of the North Central States Mission. I should like my testimony to be to the youth of Zion, these young people who have been singing for us, many of whom I have the honor to know, and of whose acquaintance and friendship I am very proud; and to the other thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of young people of the surrounding territory here who may be listening in to these services today. I recently calculated that in our mission, which is large geographically but small numerically, there are five million five hundred eighty-seven thousand and some hundreds of population, only twenty-five hundred and eighty-seven of whom are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That will figure out to about seventy-five thousand for each of our seventy-five missionaries. I think nothing more need be said in 131  of the plea that the other brethren have made for more missionaries. That is three-quarters as many as have been added to the Church per man for each of the six original organizers of the Church in the last hundred years. 

The young men and women who serve in the North Central States are full of faith and integrity. They love their work, they love the Lord, and I am certain as I live that the Lord loves them. "Oh ye who embark in the service of God," they would say if they had a chance, to all Israel, "see that ye serve him with all your might, mind and strength, that ye be found blameless before God at the last day." 

In the interest of time I should like the remainder of what I say to take the form of a testimony written for a friend long ago, which I believe will express, as well as anything else, what I would like to say here today. 

A TESTIMONY 

"Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain who build it." (Ps. 127:1.) Obviously, what the Lord builds, they labor in vain who oppose. 

Mormonism is a house builded of the Lord. It is a going concern. It works. Nothing stops it. Its devotees are undaunted by disaster. Those who accept it are made better and happier. Those who oppose it, do so in vain. 

Consider the marvelous revelation of religious truth disclosed in the boy prophet's first great vision — its staggering significance to the world. Surely, except the Lord continue to build on that foundation, they labor in vain who attempt it. But if he does, who shall oppose? 

Later, clouds appear. Twenty thousand empty-handed refugees, their homes in ruins, their prophet slain, unsympathetic neighbors behind, only the comparatively hospitable wilderness before them, they turn their faces the more resolutely toward God and the boundless West. What happened? Did they quit and die as was hoped by some? Did God leave them to build alone ? For answer, in the midst of the desert, a thousand miles from civilization's late frontier, in "The country that God forgot," behold an empire rise. The Lord is with his people, helping to build his house. 

Nor is material prosperity Mormonism's chief evidence of divine approval. Far more important and conclusive are the moral and spiritual values it portrays. In days of shifting moral standards, "Companionate Marriage," and easy divorce, think of the stabilizing effect of the doctrine of marriage for eternity, and of the virtue and chastity with which tens of thousands of Mormon boys as well as girls kneel at marriage altars, in the temples of our God. Surely here is evidence of his building. It works. 

For keeping men always at their best, no merely human agency approaches, in effectiveness, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-daySaints. Those who accept and live its teachings' are better and happier. 

The missionary system of the Church, like the "quality of mercy," continues to "Bless him who gives and him who receives" its message. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

More and more the Book of Mormon is commanding the respect of investigators and vindicating its own divine origin. Opposition to the great truths for which it stands, has been and will continue to be in vain. 

For these and other reasons, I am proud to be a Mormon missionary. 

My grandparents on my mother's side knew and loved the Prophet Joseph. My grandfather, Jonathan H. Holmes, a Mormon Battalion man, was mustered out of the service of his country, on the Pacific coast, in time to join his family and friends late in the summer of their first year in the valley of the Great Salt Lake. My mother was born in the old fort on Pioneer Square, in 1849. 

My father, Job Welling, was a handcart pioneer of 1856. A venerable patriarch of Alpine stake, hearing my father's name, once said to me: "I helped your father bury one of your brothers (by a former marriage) on the plains of Iowa;" adding significantly, "Be as good a man as your father." This challenge: "Be as good a man as your father," I like to pass on to other young men of the Church. Think it over. 

"Mormonism" is true. It is a nick-name for the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the true and living God. So are his successors, including President Heber J. Grant. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints presents the same organization, the same Gospel doctrines, and the same authority to administer in the ordinances thereof, as characterized the primitive Church. 

It is God's house. He is building it. It will stand forever. To all of which I bear humble witness, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Selection by the chorus, "The Lord shall be revealed," from "The Messiah," by Handel. 

Closing prayer by Elder Mark Austin. 


