Morning 
08 04 1930



ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that I need your faith and help this morning, and the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord. I have no set theme to present to you, but if I may be led by the spirit of truth I desire to bear witness of the truth and re-affirm before you my faith. 

REAFFIRMATION OF FAITH 

I believe in God the Father and in his Son Jesus Christ and in the Holy Ghost. I believe, without any reservation, that Jesus Christ is the Son- of God and the Redeemer of the world. I believe that through the shedding of his blood he brought redemption to this earth and to all things upon its face, and, through obedience to the Gospel he has given unto all men the privilege of the remission of their sins; for he has suffered for all, that they might not suffer if they will repent. I believe that through obedience to the Gospel all who believe on his name and endure in faith to the end shall be saved in the celestial kingdom in the presence of the Father and the Son. 

I believe it is the purpose of the Father to bring to pass the redemption of all men from death and from hell, except those who turn away from the light and the truth after having received it, thus becoming sons of perdition. I believe that our Father has prepared a place for every man according to his works and worthiness, but only through obedience to his laws in their fulness will men come back into the presence of the Father and the Son to receive an exaltation as sons and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. 

I believe sincerely and absolutely in the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I have faith, yes, the knowledge, that he was called of God and is a prophet and that he stands at the head of this great Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. I believe he was chosen to this mission before the foundation of the world was laid, and that he filled it acceptably before the Lord, in diligence and faith, in the midst of constant persecution. He was called to give to the world the light and fulness of the Gospel that through it men might be saved and come back into the kingdom of God. 

GRATEFUL FOR VISIONS OF THE PROPHET 

I am very grateful for the first vision, in which the Father and the Son appeared to the youthful prophet and again restored to man the true knowledge of God. I am grateful for the coming of Moroni, revealing the everlasting Gospel, and making known again to the world the fact that God is the same yesterday, today and forever; that the heavens are not sealed and God will and does inspire men in this age and generation as well as he did in times of old. I believe that the people upon the earth today are just as precious in the sight of the Lord as were the people who lived anciently, and just as much entitled to guidance as they who lived in former times, when the Lord revealed himself to them in person and through his prophets. I believe that the reason the Lord has not revealed himself to man in the ages that are past, when the Gospel was not on the earth, is that man rejected him and refused to be guided by his divine truth. 

GRATEFUL FOR RESTORATION OF KEYS OF AUTHORITY 

I am grateful for the coming of Peter, James and John, and, preceding them, John the Baptist, to restore the priesthood of God, that authority might be on the earth through which men receive remission of their sins and may come back into the kingdom through their faithfulness. I am exceedingly thankful for the Church and that again the Lord has established in the earth the same organization which existed primitively and which was taken from the earth because of the wickedness of men, and not, as I have said, because God willed it; not because he has shown favoritism, but because the people themselves refused to hear the prophets and turned from the truth. 

I am very grateful for the coming of Moses, Elias and Elijah, restoring further keys, and in fact for the coming of all the prophets from the days of Adam to the time of Peter, James and John. For by these prophets the keys of all the dispensations past have [been restored in this Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, that the work of the Lord might be made complete according to the promies made by our Lord and by his servants. Paul has said the Lord purposed in himself "that in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth." 

I am very grateful for the temples; for the sealing power which Elijah restored to Joseph Smith, which made it possible for the family to be preserved as a unit forever, husbands and wives having claim upon each other, and children having claim on their parents, through obedience to the ordinances of the temple of the Lord. I am grateful that the knowledge has been revealed and the authority given for the redemption of the dead who have died without a knowledge of the Gospel, but who would have received it had that opportunity come; in fact, for all the ordinances of the house of the Lord by which the fulness of salvation comes. 

THANKFUL FOR NEW WITNESSES 

I am thankful for the great volume of scripture which has been revealed, restoring to the Hebrew scriptures many of the most plain and precious parts that were taken away through the wickedness and unbelief of the world. I am thankful for the witnesses the Lord raised up who have testified in this dispensation that God lives, for they saw him and conversed with him and with his holy angels. Above all, I am most grateful for the testimony of the truth which I have received myself that all these things are true. 

BORN OF GOODLY PARENTS 

I am grateful that I have been born of goodly parents who taught me to walk in the light of the truth. From my earliest recollection, from the time I first could read, I have received more pleasure and greater satisfaction out of the study of the scriptures, and reading of the Lord Jesus Christ, and of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the work that has been accomplished for the salvation of men, than from anything else in all the world. The Lord has given me a testimony of the truth which I pray may abide with me forever. I know that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the living God, and that he holds the keys of this dispensation. More than this — and I hope I may be pardoned for the references I am about to make — I am grateful for my lineage. I am very thankful to my Father in heaven that I am the son of my Father and the son of my grandfather. May I say to you that I am not boasting, but I am speaking, I hope and fully believe, in the spirit of humility in saying this. I cannot express my gratitude fully that my father remained faithful and obedient to the Gospel and the Church all his days, and that he taught his children to love the truth and to be loyal to the message delivered through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to honor the name they bear. Let me say something which I think is not generally known. 

HYRU'M SMITH HELD KEYS JOINTLY WITH THE PROPHET JOSEPH 

My grandfather, the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, was called to hold the keys of this dispensation jointly with the Prophet Joseph, his younger brother. The Lord has said that in the mouths of two witnesses shall all things be established. When the Jews accused our Lord of not fulfilling the law, because he stood alone and had no witness to speak for him and testify to the divine nature of his mission, he answered them: 

"Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man. 

"And yet if I judge, my judgment is true : for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me. 

"It is also written in your law, that the testimony of two men is true. 

"I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me." Joseph Smith could not have stood alone, else his work would have failed, just as the work of the Savior required the confirmation of another witness, and who could testify for Christ other than his Father ? And so the Lord called another man to stand with Joseph Smith and to hold the keys of salvation in this dispensation as a witness with him. The Prophet Joseph was alone in his first vision. He was alone when the Angel Moroni first came to him and revealed the Book of Mormon, but whenever keys were to be bestowed; when the Lord had light and information to reveal in which the power of priesthood was to play a part, Joseph Smith and one other witness received the blessings. 

OLIVER COWDEEY'S APPOINTMENT 

It was Oliver Cowdery who was appointed to stand with Joseph Smith to hold the keys of this dispensation. It was Oliver Cowdery who, with Joseph Smith, received the priesthood of Aaron under the hands of John the Baptist. It was Oliver Cowdery who received the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood with Joseph Smith from Peter, James and John. It was Oliver Cowdery who knelt with the Prophet Joseph in the Kirtland temple in 1836, when Moses and Elias and Elijah came with the keys of their dispensations. I am convinced that if we had the full record, we would discover that Oliver Cowdery was associated with Joseph Smith the Prophet when the keys of all the other dispensations were revealed and restored in this dispensation. In this manner Oliver Cowdery was appointed and ordained to stand with the Prophet Joseph Smith as an associate and witness, holding all the authority and keys of this most glorious of all dispensations — the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. 

KEYS OF POWER AND AUTHORITY TAKEN FROM OLIVER 

Unfortunately — at least unfortunately for Oliver Cowdery, who was called to this wonderful and responsible position, jointly associated with Joseph Smith holding all the authority and presidency in this dispensation — Oliver, in a spirit of rebellion and darkness, turned away. He lost his fellowship in the Church, the power of the priesthood was taken from him, and for a season he stood excommunicated from the Church. Fortunately he eventually overcame this spirit of darkness and humbly came back and received his membership in the Church, but never again was he privileged to receive the keys of power and authority which once were placed upon him. 

ANOTHER WITNESS CHOSEN 

That this testimony of witnesses might be continued and made complete, the Lord chose another to take the place of Oliver Cowdery, and that other witness was the Patriarch Hyrum Smith. By revelation through Joseph Smith, Hyrum was called and ordained to the priesthood and standing once held by Oliver Cowdery. Hyrum Smith received a double portion, not only was he called to become the Patriarch of the Church, which was his birthright, but at the same time the Lord said to him: "And from this time forth I appoint unto him that he may be a prophet, and a seer, and a revelator unto my church, as well as my servant Joseph; 

"That he may act in concert also with my servant Joseph; and that he shall receive counsel from my servant Joseph, who shall show unto him the keys, whereby he may ask and receive, and be crowned with the same blessing, and glory, and honor, and priesthood, and gifts of the priesthood, that once were put upon him that was my servant Oliver Cowdery; 

"That my servant Hyrum may bear record of the things which I shall show unto him, that his name may be had in honorable remembrance from generation to generation, forever and ever." 

In accord with this calling and commandment, the Prophet Joseph Smith conferred upon Hyrum Smith all the keys, authority and gifts of the priesthood which he, the Prophet, held, and which were formerly held by Oliver Cowdery. The Lord also revealed to Hyrum Smith all that was necessary to make him completely and to the full degree, a witness with his brother Joseph, as a prophet, seer, revelator and president of the Church, and to stand through all time and all eternity at the head of this dispensation with his brother Joseph, a witness for Jesus Christ. 

JOINT MARTYRS 

Thus, we see, Hyrum Smith became a president of the Church with Joseph Smith, which place Oliver Cowdery might have held had he not wavered and fallen from his exalted station. I am firmly of the opinion that had Oliver Cowdery remained true to his covenants and obligations as a witness with Joseph Smith, and retained his authority and place, he, and not Hyrum Smith, would have gone with Joseph Smith as a prisoner and to martyrdom at Carthage. 

The sealing of the testimony through the shedding of blood would not have been complete in the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith alone; it required the death of Hyrum Smith who jointly held the keys of this dispensation. It was needful that these martyrs seal their testimony with their blood, that they "might be honored and the wicked might be condemned." 

Joseph's opinion of his brother 

Now if I may take just a moment or two longer — there are many things I would like to say, but time forbids — I would like to read to you the opinion of the Prophet expressed of his brother Hytrum, who was almost six years older. This is what the Prophet says': 

"Brother Hyrum, what a faithful heart you have got! Oh may the Eternal Jehovah crown eternal blessings upon your head, as a reward for the care you have had for my soul! O how many are the sorrows we have shared together; and again we find ourselves shackled with the unrelenting hand of oppression. Hyrum, thy name shall be written in the book of the Law of the Lord, for those who come after thee to look upon, that they may pattern after thy works." 

On another occasion the Prophet said: 

"I could pray in my heart that all my brethren were like unto my beloved brother Hyrum, who possesses the mildness of a lamb, and the integrity of a Job, and in short, the meekness and humility of Christ; and I love him with that love that is stronger than death, for I never had occasion to rebuke him, nor he me, which he declared when he left me today." 

THE CHILDREN OF THE PROPHET 

All my life I have prayed and hoped that the Lord would touch the hearts of the children of the Prophet Joseph Smith and bring them to repentance. I still pray that he may do so. No man would hold out the hand of fellowship more quickly than I would to welcome them into the fold of truth. But I cannot countenance their actions in opposition to this great work which the Lord established through the Prophet Joseph Smith. While I regret the fact that they stand aloof and in opposition to the fulness of the Gospel which that Prophet restored, yet I pray and hope that the time will speedily come when some of them, at least, will see the error of their ways, and come humbly seeking the favor of God, and membership in the Church. They who will not repent, but who persist in the opposition to the truth, may they be confounded; may that which they propose come to nought; may all their works fail and may they soon stand exposed in the full error of their ways before the world. 

May the Lord bless the family of the Prophet Joseph Smith and bring them to repentance. May he bless the descendants of Hyrum Smith that they also may walk in the light of the everlasting Gospel. May they never falter nor turn from the path in which their father walked, and may they honor and uphold his good name. And so I pray for all who receive the Gospel, for we are all brothers and sisters. May 'the Lord guide and bless all who love the truth. May we who have received the Gospel always stand steadfast, turning neither to the right nor to the left in the serving of the Lord, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

The dominant feeling in my heart, my soul, is and has been, throughout this conference, so far as it has advanced, and will be, I trust, to the end and thence onward, one of surpassing gratitude, thanksgiving and praise, combined with a deep consciousness of humility. I think I have never felt more truly humble in my life than during the proceedings of this great conference. I prize my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints beyond all else on earth. It is sufficient to me to be a member of the Church, and in that great estate, I feel reverently humble. With you I have felt the power of the Spirit of God in these gatherings. This centenary is being celebrated by other than those whom we see with our physical eyes. There are more here than you see — messengers, reporters, spirits of high degree, who have been sent to take part with us in the commemoration of this wonderful century now brought to a close. 

"MORMONISM" A NEW . LIGHT 

The world may well ask what has this system called "Mormonism"  to mankind more than the world had before? At this major milepost in the course of the history of the Church it is natural that we indulge in retrospect, and I think a hundred years is a span of sufficient length to give us a fair perspective of that which lies behind us. IWe are able to see and interpret now, more clearly than was possible while the events were in progress, those great developments that followed each other in orderly succession, many of them fraught with suffering and witnessed by blood and tears. 

The world calls this religion "Mormonism;" so let it be; we shall use the term, it's convenient. We are always on our guard against the possible misapprehension attending its use, but we may use it safely. "Mormonism" has taught those who would be taught, those who would hear, all in the world who would listen, new conceptions concerning God. Is that not a gift worth prizing? I feel that through its influences I have come to know God better than would have been possible otherwise, even though I had the learning of the sages, the power of the orator and the voice of an angel. The revelation of this century past has thrown its light, like that of a great torch, into many of the dark passages of olden construction. "Mormonism," as I view it, is at once a system of the strictest fundamentalism coupled with all that is rational and good in the broadest modernism of the day. It has confirmed the declarations of ancient writ that the God we worship is a God of justice, but it has defined unto us in a way that man had never learned to know before, what kind of justice is God's justice. It has banished the stern tyrant upon his throne, sending one to heaven and ten to hell, all for his glory, and has shown that God's justice is just as truly the embodiment of mercy as it is the demand for right and righteousness. 

CONDEMNATION, SALVATION, EXALTATION 

It has taught me that the God I worship is the personification of love, but not that maudlin love that oftimes blinds our eyes to facts and leads us to inconsistent actions. Not one whit of the ancient gospel has been abated, but new meaning has been shown through the words of his prophets in these latter times, down to this very day. The ancient edict stands, as voiced by the Lord Christ to the eleven immediately before the departure of the Savior : "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." That last word is an awful one. If we do not understand its true import, it is terrifying, and that very affirmation, declaration, law, has been restated in this day and age; but thanks be to the Lord of Hosts, he has given us to understand what he means by damnation. It is no less real than it ever was, but men have not always understood it aright. What is it to be damned? Does it mean that all who come under that sentence shall be cast into hell, there to dwell forever and forever? The light of the century, given by the Lord, declares the falsity of that construction. 

GRADATIONS IN THE HEREAFTER 

Salvation is graded ever upward until it culminates in the glorious 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

condition of exaltation. Though the term salvation is used in scripture in a general way, and we must learn to discriminate between salvation and exaltation as we read, so damnation is graded; else what did the Lord mean as recorded in the twelfth chapter of Mark, when he spoke of the leaders of the people who were untrue to their trust, when he spoke of those who used their power and position to oppress and to work evil; when he said of such : "These shall receive greater damnation ?" Well, if there be a greater damnation there are lesser degrees of damnation and the term is used in the sense of deprivation and forfeiture. That man enters into a degree of damnation who has forfeited his opportunities and therefore has rendered himself incapable of the advancement that would otherwise be possible. 

The Lord has told us of places prepared for those entitled to salvation. He has told us that those who will keep all the laws and commandments of God can come where he is and shall be heirs of celestial glory and power. And he has told us of lesser degrees unto which others who have failed to rise to the occasion of laying hold on the blessing of eternal life, in its fulness, shall come; and concerning the last of these kingdoms of glories, known to us as the Telestial, the Lord has said that it excels all that the human mind can conceive in glory, and yet the one in the Telestial Kingdom is condemned so far as his actions have rendered him incapable of attaining to the higher glories and blessings which mean power and advancement. 

LAW, NOT CAPRICE, IN DIVINE ADMINISTRATION 

"Mormonism" has taught me that God holds himself accountable to law even as he expects us to do. He has set us the example in obedience to law. I know that to say this would have been heresy a few decades ago. But we have the divine word for it: "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." (Doc. and Cov. 82:10.) He operates by law and not by arbitrariness or caprice. He is no tyrant to be propitiated and placated by honeyed words. He cannot be moved by wordy oratory. He is not a judge sitting to be influenced by the specious pleas of crafty advocates; and yet there is an eloquence that moves him; there is a plea that influences him. The eloquence of prayer from a broken heart and a contrite spirit prevails with him. 

"Mormonism" has eliminated the thought of irregularity, caprice or favor from the doings and dealings of God with his children. He will take all circumstances into account and will give unto every man that which is his. Well, one may say, if that be the orderly procedure, natural and inevitable, what need of a judge to pronounce sentence? What need of a God? Great need indeed, for he has provided these conditions, these places, these certainties. He has made possible salvation and exaltation. The more we learn of God and his attributes, the wiser are we, not only for time but for eternity. God has revealed himself in this day with a literalness that puts beyond all question the fact of his goodness and Godliness. He has gone so far as to make plain unto us that he is no respecter of persons, and that while he has  covenant people upon the earth, others shall come from the east and from the west and from the north and from the south and shall enter into the kingdom of God if they will only do what he requires of them as conditions necessary for that enfranchisement. The conditions of citizenship in the kingdom of God are fair and just and open unto all men : "We believe that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved by obedience to the. laws and ordinances of the Gospel." And except for those few, to whom reference has been made this morning, who have betrayed their trust and who have forfeited the very ability to repent — and they are few — every soul that has ever been tabernacled in flesh upon the earth shall be redeemed and shall be saved in his degree of worthiness and desert. 

HELL HATH BOTH ENTRANCE AND EXIT 

During this hundred years many other great truths not known before, have been declared to the people, and one of the greatest is that to hell there is an exit as well as an entrance. Hell is no place to which a vindictive judge sends prisoners to suffer and to be punished principally for his glory; but it is a place prepared for the teaching, the disciplining of those who failed to learn here upon the earth what they should have learned. True, we read of everlasting punishment, unending suffering, eternal damnation. That is a direful expression; but in his mercy the Lord has made plain what those words mean. "Eternal punishment," he says, is God's punishment, for he is eternal; and that condition or state or possibility will ever exist for the sinner who deserves and really needs such condemnation; but this does not mean that the individual sufferer or sinner is to be eternally and everlastingly made to endure and suffer. No man will be kept in hell longer than is necessary to bring him to a fitness for something better. When he reaches that stage the prison doors will open and there will be rejoicing among the hosts who welcome him into a better state. The Lord has not abated in the least what he has said in earlier dispensations concerning the operation of his law and his gospel, but he has made clear unto us his goodness and mercy- through it all, for it is his glory and his work to bring about the immortality and eternal life of man. 

THE LORD IS PLEASED WITH HIS CHURCH 

With such profound truths made plain to us in the course of these hundred years what may we not hope for confidently, trustfully, in the future? With all my heart I praise the God of hosts who has brought this Church to its present state. He is well pleased with it, speaking of the Church collectively, but not individually, for there are too many of us who are not living up to the fulness of his requirements; but the Lord is pleased with his Church. He has endowed it with blessings beyond our power to compute or describe and there are yet greater blessings awaiting us, which shall be given to lead us onward and upward if we will, and with us all men who will become of us, all the honest in heart everywhere, unto a fulness of joy and glory; and that means no mere adulation, or demonstration of external splendor, but power and influence for good throughout eternity. 

May we individually be acceptable unto the Lord even as his Church is acceptable, I humbly pray, in the name -of Jesus, the Master, our Redeemer. Amen. 

A soprano solo, "I saw another angel fly" (Rev. 14:6-7), was sung by Evelyn Gray, with trumpet obligato by Stanford Howells. Music composed by George H. Durham. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the California Mission 

I sincerely pray, my brethren and sisters, that during the brief time I occupy in this conference meeting I may be under the direction of the Spirit of the Lord, for that Spirit can take of the things of God and make them clear to the understanding of us, his children. 

I praise the Lord for the precious things that have been presented for our consideration in this great centennial conference that is being held. We should all praise God for the splendid truths that have been brought to our attention. We must all know and feel that our Father in heaven is mindful of his work, his people, and his servants who direct his work. We can feel sure that his work and his will, by the power of the Holy Spirit, are being brought to the attention of those who have entered into covenant with God and have received, in this great dispensation, the glorious Gospel given for the salvation of the children of God. 

I have come in contact, during the past few days, with a goodly number of missionaries, particularly missionaries who are laboring with me in the California Mission, and have heard from them many expressions of gratitude for the blessings that have come to them as representatives of the work of God, in the preaching of the Gospel 'they have been commissioned to teach. Ofttimes I have heard declarations from them indicating that they have received in a fulness the fulfilment of the promises that were conferred upon them when they were set apart and sent out to be ambassadors of the Lord Jesus Christ in the preaching of his restored Gospel. Those promises have been marvelously fulfilled. I feel that I too can testify, as my companions frequently testify, that the promises made to me have had complete fulfilment. 

A few years ago I was sent to labor in the California Mission. President Heber J. Grant pronounced blessings upon my head that seemed to me to be too great for realization. I had labored for many years in other missions, particularly in the European missions, and entertained the thought that is common to missionaries that the field where I had labored was the greatest field in the world. The European Mission, to me in those days of my young manhood, was the mission  missions, and when there were promises made to me on the eve of my going to California — which at that time seemed to me a very insignificant mission when compared with the great fields where I had formerly operated — I could not believe that there could possibly come blessings that would surpass my former experiences. I feel "to humbly acknowledge and testify before this great congregation that the promises, wonderful as they were, have been fulfilled, yea, more than fulfilled. 

It has been my pleasure in the California Mission to be in the companionship of a splendid company of missionaries, young men and young women, who have been anxious to meet the responsibilities resting upon them as representatives of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They have manifested the very greatest consideration and deference for me; they have gladly hearkened to my counsel; they have fully and joyfully held up my hands, and by their attitude have made me feel that I could depend upon their help, and that I had their faith and prayers and confidence. There are in the mission a very large number of local people who are not converts that have been made in the mission, but people who have been in the Church from their birth. We have ten thousand five hundred members enrolled in the California Mission. The majority are men and women who have been born and reared in the Church. They have been anxious to have the same advantages in the way of buildings in which to serve the Lord, that they were accustomed to in other sections of the land where they resided before they took up residence in California. Because of this, there has been a great desire manifest to erect houses of worship throughout the California Mission. It has been my pleasure to see comfortable chapels dot the land from Elko, Nevada, across over the Sierra Nevada Mountains into the Sacramento valley in California; then down through the Sacramento valley, and the San Joaquin valley, to the southern part of the state, at San Diego; and then beyond the California line down through Arizo.na. Until six hundred and fifty thousand dollars worth of chapels have been erected in the California Mission, in which the people now worship the Lord our God. That surely is a blessing that is far beyond anything that was pronounced upon my head. 

Then I have seen five or six thousand people, young and old, yield obedience to the doctrines of the Gospel. They have gone down into the waters of baptism and have entered into covenant with the Lord to serve him and keep his commandments. We read in the revelations of God that if a man gives his lifetime to the preaching of the Gospel and saves but one soul how great will his joy be with that soul in the kingdom of God. I feel again the blessings that have been realized have been greater than the promises that were made, and have found in the California Mission every opportunity for the service of God and every reward that I ever found in the European Mission or elsewhere. I have had, according to the promise sealed upon my head, a marvelous and wonderful experience, and feel in my soul that I know that I have been richly and wonderfully blessed in laboring in the service of God for the spreading of those doctrines that constitute the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That Gospel is today, as it was anciently, GENERAL CONFERENCE  power of God unto salvation. All this and more has come to me in the California Mission. 

After one hundred years of teaching the truth brought back to earth through the ministry of the great prophet of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, we should all be coming to a realization of the wonderful nature of the work made manifest to men in the age in which we now live. It is strange to those who have received the truth, that all good men cannot see the beauty and necessity of the marvelous work that has come to mankind through the prophet of God, Joseph Smith. 

I shall read a few words. I do not know the author, but they are words that have been sent out in the interest of the Mutual Improvement work of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and they fit in, I feel, remarkably well with the service missionaries render in the preaching of the Gospel as it is now being proclaimed. 

"In the first century, due to the teachings of Jesus Christ and his apostles, there was a perfect understanding that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost, were separate, distinct, personages. The Savior was in the express image of his Father, possessing a tangible body of flesh and bones. Jesus taught that his father was greater than he and he was subject to the Father. Paul, in his epistles to the saints, almost invariably bore witness to the distinct and separate personalities of the Father and the Son. In the year 1830 these truths had been lost and the knowledge of God had become a great mystery; the personages of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost in the minds of the people were confused and they declared God to be without bodily form and passions. 

"Through the great prophet, who was the instrument in the hands of God in reestablishing the work of God and receiving the visits of the angel who was sent flying through the midst of heaven having the everlasting Gospel to preach to those who dwell upon the earth, the truth as it was comprehended and taught by the inspired apostles of old, was again made known. 

"The ancient prophets, as well as the Apostles of old, declared that revelation was to be had by the people of God in all ages. Many of the prophets had predicted wonderful revelations and renewal of covenants between the Lord and his people in the latter days. In the year 1830 all this was 'denied, and the world taught that the canon of scriptures was full and closed forever. 

"The prophets of old predicted the coming of messengers from the presence of the Lord in the latter days, to visit men and to bestow upon them keys of authority and to instruct them in the ways of the Lord. In the year 1830 it was generally believed that the. time of the appearing of angels from the presence of the Lord was past, and no longer needed. 

"The Lord established a Church and in the days of the Apostles it was officered by Apostles, Prophets, Evangelists, Elders, Bishops, Priests, etc. Paul declared that these officers were necessary to the Church for its perfection. In the year 1830 all this had been changed and there were no Apostles, and no Prophets — no one to speak by divine authority. 

"Through the ministry of the great prophet of the latter times, we have been made acquainted with the glorious truth that our Father in heaven is the same yesterday, today and forever, that he changes not, and that his revelation, his direction, is had today among the children of men as it was had anciently. 

"In the scriptures man is called upon to repent, and serve the Lord by keeping his commandments. In many churches in 1830 it was taught that through his atonement Jesus Orist had done all for man and man could do nothing for himself towards his salvation. All that was required was that an individual confess Jesus Christ and he would be saved." 101 

We have learned in the age in which we live, by the revelations that have been given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that we cannot take the commission that was given two thousand years ago to the disciples who were sent out to preach the Gospel, and claim that we have authority because of that commission, to teach the precious things of the kingdom of heaven. We preach today not because Jesus the Christ authorized men anciently to preach, but because of revelation and commandment directly to us. He made the declaration : "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit;" and he commanded his disciples to go unto all nations, "Baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost; teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you; and, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. 1 " 

If you will read the sixty-eighth section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants you will find that men operate today because the Lord God himself declared that his servants who had been clothed with authority in our own time were to go into all the world preaching the Gospel to every creature, making the promise anew that those who would believe them and be baptized would be saved, and those who would not believe should be damned. The authority has been conferred upon men in the age in which we live. I praise the name of my Maker, that in his loving kindness and providence, I myself, have been clothed with that precious authority, the authority of priesthood, the right to advocate the glorious doctrines that will bring men and women back into the presence of God, the right to administer those sacred and holy ordinances that have always been essential to salvation; they were essential in the meridian of time; essential in the days of our father Adam and through all dispensations. There has never been any other means by which men and women might be made citizens of the kingdom of God, and never will be worlds without end. That authority has been conferred upon mortal men in this age in which we live. I would that I could burn that thought into the minds of men and women who have not given investigation to this glorious Gospel that by the providence of God has been brought back to mankind again; for in our own time authority has again been given to men and the commandment given by divine revelation in this dispensation that we shall go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature. We invite men and women who are not of our faith to give attention to this proclamation, this representation that the God of heaven has revealed anew the good old Gospel, the only Gospel that has the power of salvation; and he has made the declaration that all people may know, if they will, by obedience, that his word and his truth have again been revealed, by which lost authority could be brought back to men. There was no other way, as some have been able to discern who have not been members of the Church. 

I will read a word or two from a booklet that I picked up long ago in an old cathedral in the old world. The pamphlet is entitled GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Questions and Answers," and I read under the heading, "Why I am a Roman Catholic" : 

"And again, when Luther, Calvin, Henry VIII, and their followers were starting in their mad career, either the true religion was then in the world, or it was not. If it was, they committed grievous crimes in making new religions to oppose it. If it was not, they were powerless to create it. It takes a Christ, not a Luther, to create a Christianity. On either supposition, therefore, Protestantism is not the true religion of Jesus Christ." 

I wish men could comprehend the truth of that declaration. "It takes a Christ, not a Luther to create Christianity." 

So says a Roman Catholic. He seemed to recognize the truth — for it is the truth — that if the Gospel of the Son of God had disappeared from the earth, men could not bring it back. It could only be brought back by that Being who is the author of salvation, and in whom all power and authority center. The Catholic priest spoke better than he knew. We testify that the Lord God Almighty sent, as we have heard, at the opening of this dispensation, over a hundred years ago, his Son, our Redeemer, and holy angels; and those angels conferred upon men once more the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ; and by that authority men now minister in the nations of the world. If men are pricked in their hearts and cry out, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" we make answer, "Repent, and be baptized, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." That is the religion of Jesus Christ, also the religion called Mormonism; it is the power of God unto salvation. God help us to understand it, to believe it, to receive it and live it, I humblv pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

I thank God, my Heavenly Father, for this glorious occasion. My heart has been touched by the inspiration of the great messages which have come to us and by the contemplation of the century of achievement through which the Church has passed. 

I humbly invoke the blessings of the Lord upon the words which I shall utter, that they may be in some measure worthy. 

ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO 

The scene was set one hundred years ago. America was newer then than now. The Alleghanies were in the west. Illinois and Missouri were the extreme frontier. Roads were trails and communication was difficult. Life in the villages and even in the cities was highly provincial, as it ever must be without adequate transportation facilities. Agriculture was the chief occupation of the people. The machine age and industrial era had not yet come. The nation was in the making, very young — still an experiment. A union had been formed but not understood by all the contracting parties. It had not then been subjected to the terrible test of blood and battle through which its real birth came. Pioneering — the subjugation of the soil — was the vocation of the people. Religion and politics were their avocations. Education was very limited. Lands must be reclaimed before schools and colleges can be built. But there were churches and creeds, and high partizanship and intense prejudices. Amusements were not so common as now. People were serious — very serious — and religion occupied much of their time and more of their thought. 

THE ORGANIZATION OF THE CHURCH PROJECTED 

Onto such a scene the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was dramatically projected. It was not viewed with indifference as it might have been in the day of tolerance in which we live. The circumstances leading to it — the heavenly vision of the young prophet, the miraculous discovery and translation of the gold plates, the bestowal of divine authority — were a challenge to the professors of religion which they could not and were not disposed to ignore. The circumstances undermined the fundamentals of their creeds. The vision revised the prevalent conception of the personality of God and the doctrine that revelation had closed; the Book of Mormon upset existing archaeological theories and gave a new interpretation of the Gospel; and if divine authority had been conferred by heavenly messengers, why then men theretofore had not held it. 

INTOLERANCE AND BITTERNESS ENCOUNTERED 

These things the religionists sensed, even if they did not express them. So they were not tolerant, they were not indifferent. They were aroused, they were resentful and with bitterness and persecution thev made the way of the young prophet and the new church hard indeed. We believe that the spirit of opposition was engendered by the adversary of light and truth. Even so it was surely intensified by a consciousness, though only partially understood, of the far-reaching effect of the new establishment on the creeds and institutions of the time. 

A NEW KINGDOM 

And the fears and apprehensions were well founded, although the bitterness and persecution were not. In no land other than America could the young Church have taken root sufficiently to stand. Even in the liberty of our country its early years were in great hazard. A new dispensation of the Gospel was ushered in, new interpretations were given irreconcilable with those being taught, and a new kingdom was set up, a kingdom that was spiritual in nature but one which so permeated every fiber and tissue of living that it came to be construed by many as of temporal jurisdiction. So vital was this new kingdom to its adherents and so completely did it command their affection, their energies and devotion, that those who came in contact with it and were not of it became violently jealous of its influence and its power. They saw the masterful leadership of its authorities; they saw a man loved and GENERAL CONFERENCE  as if he were indeed a prophet, they saw a unity and cohesion among the members incomparable to any they had known; and they saw progress and achievement that strangely galled like wormwood their envious hearts. 

THAT WHICH PROMPTED OPPOSITION 

I have tried diligently and sincerely to discover the factors which prompted the bitter and violent opposition to the Church in its early rise, and I reach the conclusion from the recorded facts which I know that it is ascribable chiefly to simple, unadulterated jealousy of its superb cooperation, unity, and control, and a fear that such worthy qualities would make it unassailable and triumphant. I am sure that this has been so in politics and business. I believe it has been true in the ecclesiastical field. No other reason could well exist. The leaders taught only good principles and the acknowledged virtues. The Priesthood ruled by kindness and persuasion and not by force. The cooperative objectives of the people were worthy. They were loyal citizens of the governments under which they lived, and their lives were unusually pure and upright. I grant that the doctrine of plural marriage contravened established custom, but the enmity came before the announcement of that doctrine and has long since survived the abandonment of its practice. I cannot find any instance where the Church, acting under official guidance, has ever brought to any person, community, state or nation anything but moral and civic righteousness, high idealism, and worthy accomplishment. 

When I speak of those who have violently opposed the establishment and work of the Church I mean to limit the number to those who have had contact with it and opportunity to observe its people and its ways. I do not include many thousands who have traduced us because they have never known us and have unconsciously been the victims of false and malignant reports. 

GROWTH IN SPITE OF OPPOSITION 

In spite of opposition the Church grew. Every year brought an increase; no year a decrease. It met successfully every difficulty. Enemies within and without could not stay it. It survived, not without unspeakable sorrow but without retardation, its severest calamity — the martyrdom of its president, prophet and revelator. It endured mobbings, drivings, devastations, privations and inexpressible cruelties but it never faltered. It went on and on in its destined course until it is what you acclaim it today, your pride and mine, a benefactor to mankind, and I think I may say with assurance a marvel in the eyes of thoughtful observers. 

THE CAUSE QF ITS GROWTH 

Why has it grown? Because it has ever had within it the seeds and essence of life. It is vital to its members and to the world. It so intimately touches every phase of living that it means everything or nothing. It is authoritative. The authority is real, not symbolic, to those who accept it. Its ordinances are efficacious and its faith is a living, moving faith founded on individual conviction and testimony, the witness of the Divine Spirit to the spirit of man. 

Individual testimony brings a sense of personal responsibility. Every man who has received has felt a duty to give,, and that sense has prompted him to, respond to the direction of the priesthood. (We have been criticized because of our proclivities for proselyting. We would be untrue to the genius of our faith if we failed to share the gifts of the Gospel with others. So long as we conceive ourselves to be custodians of the truth we must disseminate it. I would like to pay tribute to those who have carried the message. 

THE OUTSTANDING ACCOMPLISHMENT 

Comparisons are odious. They are often erroneous and lead to difficulty, but if I were asked to name the outstanding, distinctive organized accomplishment of the Church of Christ in the last century 1 would, without much hesitation, set forth its phenomenal missionary labors and system. Nothing more truly characterizes the altruism of the Gospel that it teaches. Nothing more deeply signifies the devotion and. sincerity of its members. 

It would be interesting to know the number of missionaries who have been sent forth and the money value of their maintenance and time since the organization of the Church. These figures are not available in full detail, but from such investigation as I have been able to make I give you the following estimates. There have been approximately sixty thousand missionaries in the Church. The average length of a mission is twenty months, or six hundred days. Thirty-six million days of missionary service have been contributed at an average expense outlay of one dollar per day. This money has been taken out of Latterday Saint communities and spent away from home. If the reasonable value of a missionary's productive time may be set at three dollars per day there may be added to the expense item one hundred eight millions, making the grand total of money cost of the missionary service something like one hundred forty-four millions of dollars, a sum nearly equal to the estimated cost of the Boulder dam, the largest project of its kind the United States government has ever undertaken. 

The enormous cost of the service has been widely distributed — shared by nearly every family in the Church. Many families have sent forth more than one missionary and not infrequently has a home kept one or more missionaries in the field continuously, for ten or a dozen years, and sometimes for a quarter of a century. 

I know of no way of securing comparable data from other religious bodies, but I venture the assertion that no other church at any period in history for a century of time has ever given to missionary service such a proportion of its membership and its available resources. 

TWO GREAT ARMIES. 

For a hundred years there have been two armies constantly on the GENERAL CONFERENCE  — an' army of missionaries outbound from Zion, carrying the banner of Gospel peace and liberty; an inbound army of freed and happy people, faith and hope shining in every face, seeking the shelter, the inspiration and the glorious opportunities of a fair land and a divinely appointed society. Contingents of these armies have passed on almost every highway of the world; in the states; from the Americas, North and South; up and down the devious waters of the Mississippi where missionaries of the early days, like Brigham, and Heber, and Willard, and Parley, and Erastus, went on flatboats to embark on slow sailing vessels on their long tedious voyages to their fields in Britain, Scandinavia and the Continent; across Europe to the lands of the Arab and the Turk and on into far off India; over the broad expanse of the Pacific to and from Hawaii and the distant isles of the South Seas. As the missionaries have passed the immigrants in these great countermarches of the century, whether in their ships at sea or as they paused to clasp hands in their weary trek across the prairie, one can fancy their salutation, not always spoken perhaps, but ever in their hearts. The missionary says "We go to carry the Gospel." "Thank God we have it!" the convert replies and then adds : "We will follow you later." And so, indeed, they have, in one heroic round. Missionary to convert then convert to missionary. Great has been their gift. Generously have they given. 

VITAL GIFTS 

What has been given ? Why, to. every man what he needed. To the poor, they who are so many, the gospel of thrift; to the rich, who are so few, the gospel of giving; to the intemperate, the gospel of selfcontrol; to the indolent the gospel of work; to the downcast the gospel of hope; to the militant the gospel of peace; to the ignorant freedom from superstition; to the cynical and the wavering a vital, satisfying philosophy; to the sinner the gospel of repentance; and to all faith, purity idealism, happiness and exaltation. 

Is it difficult, then, to discover the urge which has made possible this remarkable missionary achievement? I think it is not. Such gifts, such faith, such vital endowments, are highly esteemed by man. They enrich his life, they enlarge his heart and fill him with gratitude. He thanks God and seeks to express his gratitude in terms of devotion and service. He sees no service comparable to that of giving to others the boon that he enjoys, and so he goes forth, not grudgingly, not merely out of a painful sense of duty, but cheerfully, eagerly, to requite the supreme blessing of his life and derive new and surpassing joy in the sharing of his joy. 

INTEREST IN MISSIONARY SERVICE NOT DIMINISHED 

I thank the Lord that the ardor for the service has not dulled with the passing of time. On every hand I see evidences which convince me that the members of the Church love to proclaim the Gospel. If men cannot go themselves they send their sons and daughters. Widows toil and scrimp to keep a missionary. Girls work to provide expense for brothers and young husbands. Quorums, wards and societies contribute, and occasionally a rich man opens up a generous heart and maintains a half dozen in the field. 

Those who go are blessed and the homes and communities which send them also. Crude country boys from the farm and the range have been exposed to the education and culture of extensive travel and metropolitan life in the great cities. Young men from the city have been subjected to the rigors of the most primitive rural life. The knowledge, the tolerance, the adventure, the polish and the experience which world-wide travel brings have been during the whole history of the Church, a product of our missionary system. I feel sure that in no other communities on the earth is the percentage of those who have "seen the world" so large as in the villages, towns and cities of the Latter-day Saints. 

RESULTS MORE VITAL 

Such benefits, however, while important, are but incidental. The more vital results are deeper than enlarged information and polish. The fundamental character of our manhood and womanhood has been improved. Sacrifice has taught self-control; giving has made for generosity as it always does; teaching the virtues has brought them into application, and high spirituality has ingrained testimony and soul development. The general uplift in all standards of living which the Church has brought to its adherents is in no small measure directly attributable to its missionary system. How it has blessed the home! Fathers who have paid and prayed, mothers, wives, sisters and sweethearts who have been anxious and worried and true, little tots whose first lisped prayers have been, "Please God, keep our missionary!" have made the home a sanctuary indeed, the foundation of our religions life. 

BY HUMBLE MEN AND WOMEN 

This remarkable missionary work has been accomplished by humble men and women. Their equipment, in the main, has not been the training of schools. It has been the influence and discipline of good homes, church organization, and individual testimony. The influence of their testimonies and their lives has been more potential than their preaching. The only eloquence they have required to deliver their message is the eloquence of the message itself, portrayed in the devotion and purity of their lives. They have never had to rant and yell, nor chant and sigh, to make a convert. They have carried the natural, simple, joyous message of the Christ in a natural, cheerful way. Was that not the Savior's way? Did he not ever suit the lesson to the people, their language and understanding? Have we any evidence that he employed rituals, ministerial garb, and sonorous phrases to make it impressive ? I think we have not and I advance as a worthy argument for the divine authenticity of the Gospel we bear the manner of its presentation by the missionaries of our Church. 

What these ambassadors of the Lord have done for individuals, GENERAL CONFERENCE , communities and nations would fill books. A half million hearts today swell in gratitude for their blessed service. A man contemplates his home, the loving family which surround him, his prosperous business, the esteem of his fellow men, the fraternity of his brethren in the priesthood, his faith, his contentment, his glorious hopes; and from the depths of his soul he cries : "God bless the missionary who brought me this!" 

AFTER A HUNDRED YEARS 

Well the scene is set again, a hundred years later. The world is older than it was, not so provincial, better educated, more tolerant, perhaps more indifferent to the uses of religion, certainly more free from superstition, and infinitely better equipped to carry on the work of the world. Many things have passed into history and the great beyond. Hardships and cruelties, thank the Lord, have lost their sting and the resentment they once provoked. Men have died, but they have not died in vain. Joseph is not here but his successor is here. The power that sustained him is here. Here and now are the people and the truth, the needs and the opportunities. I am grateful that the message has not changed. It has stood the test of a century. It has not changed because it is true. Truth endures. 

A REDEDI CATION TO A WORTHY CAUSE 

For these things we celebrate. Our hearts cry out praises to God. We are subdued in the presence of marvelous accomplishment — his accomplishment, not ours. But the triumph is not an end, it is a beginning. The only celebration worthy of the cause is a rededication to it. Its progress has been made by service. It never required service so much as now. If the Prophet Joseph were here, and I cannot think he is far away, he would speak as does our President, charging us to prepare to go forth into a new century of enlarged opportunity and carry the glad tidings of great joy to a new generation of God's children. 

So it is the missionary who is to serve the next century as he has the old. God provide him and God keep him, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

If this were a picture show or an entertainment of some kind, the people would willingly stay to the close even if we had to be together two hours; or, if it were amusing, three hours. Therefore I am going to take your time and keep you here a little longer than usual. 

THE MARTYRDOM 

I am going to read something that I believe was written by John Taylor, who received four rifle balls in his body, as I remember, at the martyrdom of the Prophet and the Patriarch. 

"To seal the testimony of this book and the Book of Mormon, we announce the martyrdom of Joseph Smith the Prophet, and Hyrum Smith the Patriarch 109 

They were shot in Carthage jail, on the 27th of June, 1844, about five o'clock p. m., by an armed mob— painted black — of from 150 to 200 persons. Hyrum was shot first and fell calmly, exclaiming: / am a dead man! Joseph leaped from the window, and was shot dead in the attempt, exclaiming: O Lord my God! They were both shot after they were dead, in a brutal manner, and both received four balls. 

"John Taylor and Willard Richards, two of the Twelve, were the only persons in the room at the time; the former was wounded in a savage manner with four balls, but has since recovered; the latter, through the providence of God, escaped, without even a hole in his robe. 

"Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. In the short space of twenty years, he has brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God, and has been the means of publishing it on two continents; has sent the fulness of the everlasting Gospel, which it contained, to the four quarters of the earth; has brought forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit of the children of men; , gathered many thousands of Latter-day Saints, founded a great city, and left a fame and name that cannot be slain. He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his works with his own blood; and so has his brother Hyrum. In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated! 

"When Joseph went to Carthage to deliver himself up to the pretended requirements of the law, two or three days previous to his assassination, he said : 'I am going like a lamb to the slaughter; but I am calm as a summer's morning; I have a conscience void of offense towards God, and towards all men. I shall die innocent, and it shall yet be said of me — he was murdered in cold blood.' The same morning, after Hyrum had made ready to go — shall it be said to the slaughter? yes, for so it was — he read the following paragraph, near the close of the twelfth chapter of Ether in the Book of Mormon, and turned down the leaf upon it: 

" 'And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord that he would give unto the Gentiles grace, that they might have charity. And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me : If they have not charity it mattereth not unto thee, thou hast been faithful; wherefore' thy garments are clean. And because thou hast seen thy weakness, thou shalt be made strong, even unto the sitting down in the place which I have prepared in the mansions of my Father. And now I * * * bid farewell unto the Gentiles; yea, and also unto my brethren, whom I love, until we shall meet before the judgment-seat of Christ, where all men shall know that my garments are not spotted with your blood.' The testators are now dead, and their testament is in force. 

"Hyrum Smith was forty-four years old in February, 1844, and Joseph Smith was thirty-eight in December, 1843; and henceforward their names will be classed among the martyrs of religion; and the reader in every nation will be reminded that the Book of Mormon, and this book of Doctrine and Covenants of the Church, cost the best blood of the nineteenth century to bring them forth for the salvation of a ruined world; and that if the fire can scathe a green tree for the glory of God, how easy it will burn up the dry trees tc purify the vineyard of corruption. They lived for -glory; they died for glory; and glory is their eternal reward. From age to age shall their names go down to posterity as gems for the sanctified. 

"They were innocent of any crime, as they had often been proved before, and were only confined in jail by the conspiracy of traitors and wicked men; and their innocent . blood on the floor of Carthage jail is a broad seal affixled to "Mormonism" that cannot be rejected by any court on earth, and their innocent blood on the escutcheon of the state of Illinois, with the broken faith of the state as pledged by the governor, is a witness to the truth of the everlasting Gospel that all the world cannot impeach; and their innocent blood on the banner of GENERAL CONFERENCE , and on the magna charta of the United States, is an ambassador for the religion of Jesus Christ, that will touch the hearts of honest men among all nations; and their innocent blood, with the innocent blood of all the martyrs under the altar that John saw, will cry unto the Lord of Hosts till he avenges that blood on the earth. Amen." 

John Taylor lived, notwithstanding those frightful wounds, to be the Prophet, Seer and Revelator of God. A son of Hyrum Smith lived to be the Prophet, Seer and Revelator in your day and mine. Today you have listened to the testimony from this stand of a grandson of Hyrum Smith, and you have just listened to the testimony of a grandson of Willard Richards, who was with the Prophet and Patriarch at the time of the martyrdom. 

ENDORSES REMARKS 

I endorse with all my heart the many words of inspiration that we have heard from the opening of this conference until the present time. I join with others in praying Almighty God to bless those who go forth to proclaim the Gospel, who go forth to proclaim the restoration again to the earth of the plan of life and salvation. 

TESTIMONY OF JOSEPH SMITH AND SIDNEY RIGDON 

I rejoice that the wonderful vision recorded in the 76th section of the Doctrine and Covenants was given not only to Joseph Smith, but to Sidney Rigdon : 

"And this is the Gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us — 

"That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness. 

"That 'through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him; 

"Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him." 

T thank the Lord that Joseph Smith was not alone, but that Sidney Rigdon was with him and that they were able to declare to all the world: 

"And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him : That he lives! 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — 

"That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

God lives. Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the true and the living God. The power of the priesthood of God is upon the earth and will remain, and those who think that possibly something may arise that will prevent this Church from progressing know not the truth, or they would declare to all the world that it has been established never again to be taken from the earth. 111 
