Morning 
09 04 1930



ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

An old darkey minister was about to address a congregation. He chose for his text: "Bressed am dey what expeks noffin, for dey shant be disappointed." I apply this to myself, for I certainly did not expect to be called on to address this congregation. President Grant has been so kind to me already, in permitting me to read my Centennial poem at a previous session, that I was not looking for any additional honor and pleasure. I am thankful for it, however, and esteem it a precious privilege to be not only a reader, but also a speaker at this great conference — the greatest one I have ever known. 

AN AGE OF WONDERS 

We are living in an age of wonders. Events and achievements that would have been deemed miraculous a hundred years ago, have become to us almost commonplace. Had we lived two centuries earlier, and expressed a belief that men would fly through the air like birds, or dive in the sea like fish, it would have provoked skepticism, if not prejudice; would possibly have been regarded as bordering on witchcraft or a disposition to encourage it. 

ERRORS OF SUPERSTITION 

Two or three hundred years ago, in certain parts of New England, notably Massachusetts, if a poor woman was accused of witchcrati, she was put on trial in a most peculiar manner. They tied her to a plank and threw her into the water. If she sank she was innocent — which of course was a great comfort to her! If she floated they took her out and burnt her for a witch. 

A LAND OF LIBERTY 

But thank the Lord, we are past those bigoted and cruel times. We live in a day when men have the right to think — to think aloud and utter their thoughts, without being beheaded for it, or burnt at the GENERAL CONFERENCE . God be thanked for this Land of Liberty, for the freedom to worship him as conscience dictates — not the conscience of our neighbors, but of ourselves. I am proud of my country, proud to be an American citizen, and proud to be a Latter-day Saint. 

A STRAW IN THE WIND 

Speaking of wonders, I am reminded of an incident that happened right here, in this Tabernacle, a year or more ago. Elder B. H. Roberts was speaking, standing as I am now, just in front of the microphone, and I was sitting in the next seat below. He was rather husky. He always was a "husky," you know; but this time the huskiness was in his throat. He cleared it once or twice, and then I reached to him a cough lozenge, and President Grant, from the seat above, did the same. Said Brother Roberts in a low tone : "I'm afraid I'll swallow them." And I, in a whisper — a whisper, mind you — replied: "Well, that's what we want you to do." And that whisper went all over the world. At least it went as far as the City Cemetery; for a woman living near there said to me next morning: "I heard it over my radio. I heard what Roberts said, and I heard your whisper." That is only a straw, but it shows the direction of the wind. 

THE MARVELOUS WORK AND WONDER 

I repeat: We are living in an age of wonders. The wonders of science, invention and discovery; the marvels of steam and electricity, the miracles of the telegraph, the telephone, the wireless and the radio — what are they but parts of the "marvelous work and wonder," predicted centuries before the birth of the Savior, and begun in this the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times? And strange to say, the most marvelous part of it all — that pertaining to the restoration of the Everlasting Gospel, with the powers of the Eternal Priesthood and the gifts of the Holy Ghost — is the part that the world overlooks and passes by as a thing of naught. 

THE SIGNS THAT FOLLOW BELIEF 

The Savior said to his ancient Apostles, and he has repeated it to his modern Apostles : "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; he that believeth not shall be damned (or condemned); 

"And these signs shall follow them that believe. In my name they shall cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; if they drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt them. They shall take up serpents; they shall lay hands upon the sick and they shall recover." 

I am a living witness to the fulfilment of this divine promise. These miraculous "signs" follow belief now, the same as in days of old. I have seen devils cast out by the power of the Priesthood. I have seen and heard manifested the gift of tongues and the interpretation of tongues. I have seen the sick healed with a touch, and have been healed myself by the laying on of hands, accompanied by the prayer and power of faith. 135 

A TYPICAL INSTANCE 

I will cite one instance, as typical of many. About twelve years ago I was in the town of Sandy, ten miles south of Salt Lake City, to deliver a lecture. Just before starting for the hall where I was to speak, I received an urgent message from the Bishop of the Ward, asking me to come and bless his daughter, a girl in her sixteenth year, who was lying at the point of death, having been given up by the family doctor, who declared that she could not live till morning. Taking another elder with me, I proceeded to the Bishop's home, gave the girl a blessing, and went on my way. Next morning, a telephone call from Sandy to my home in Salt Lake, informed me that a marvelous change had taken place in the young girl's condition. Before we blessed her, she had had no sleep for days and nights; but no sooner had she received the administration, than she fell into a restful slumber and slept for twelve hours, waking up normal and so remaining. 

When the Doctor came next morning he was amazed. "Something has happened here," he said. Yes, something had happened, indeed. "The prayer of faith" had "saved the sick," according to the promise of the Lord. 

Now, the Doctor had been right, from his viewpoint. Medical science had decreed that girl's death, or had decided that she could not live; and if some power greater than man's had not intervened, she would have died, according to the doctor's prediction. But something more powerful did intervene. A greater Science, than the science of medicine was brought to bear. The Spirit of the Lord said: "She shall live." And she did live. This girl who, twelve years ago, could not live till morning, is alive today, a happy wife and mother. I, myself joined her and her husband in eternal wedlock in the Temple of the Lord. 

I could relate many such incidents, if necessary. They are of frequent occurrence in the experience of the Elders of Israel. 'vThese signs" truly "follow them that believe," and they are only wanting where there is no faith, or not enough to justify them. 

TESTIMONIES OF THE TRUTH 

We call them testimonies — and testimonies they are; for testimony means evidence. Anything that furnishes evidence that this is God's work, is a testimony concerning it. But healings are not the greatest evidence — they are but parts of a supreme testimony, greater than dreams, visions, prophecies, healings, tongues, and all other manifestations combined. The greatest of all testimonies is the illumination of the soul by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost. How well I remember when it came to me. It showed me my place in the divine scheme of things; it showed me where I came from, why I am here, what is expected of me while here, and what awaits me in the Great Hereafter. That is the greatest thing that God ever did for me. This is my testimony, brethren and sisters, and I bear it here and now in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Canadian Mission 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for all of the blessings of this conference and for all the blessings unto me personally and unto the missionaries over whom I have the honor of presiding. 

In this centennial year, the world may well ask, as never before, is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints of divine origin? 

The purpose of all intellectual research should be to discover the truth. Truth is defined by revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith as "knowledge of things as they are, and as they were and as they are to come." And that "the spirit of truth is of God." 

Strictly speaking, truth has no degrees. A thing is either true or not true. To ascertain the truth we use evidence. While the word proof is sometimes loosely used as a synonym for evidence, yet more correctly it indicates the amount and quality of evidence which brings conviction to the mind. When evidence carries assent or conviction to the mind, the matter is said to be proved. However the matter may be in theory, the word proof is constantly used where the state of mind which is brought about by the evidence does not amount to that absolute certainty which is involved in a mathematical demonstration; it does not produce absolute or necessary truth as to which a supposition to the contrary is not and cannot be true. In investigations of every kind it is important that a correct estimate be made of the kind and degree of assurance of which the subject admits. Moral certainty, not mathematical demonstration, is the highest degree of assurance of which some truths admit. Even in the realm of the administration of the criminal law, where proof beyond a reasonable doubt is necessary to convict, mathematical certainty is not required. An abiding conviction to a moral certainty is sufficient. 

In the noted controversy during the middle of the last century, in which Lord Brougham, a distinguished Scotchman, who was once Lord Chancellor of Great Britain, answered another distinguished Scotchman, Mr. David Hume, somewhat a skeptic in his views, who had claimed that proof of a miracle was impossible, Lord Brougham, although he thought his opponent's arguments went to the very denial vi the possibility of the proof of any revelation, and realizing the importance of combating such an idea, yet did not pretend to use more than moral evidence; did not pretend to use mathematical demonstration. 

Lord Brougham said : 

"The degree of excellence and of strength to which testimony may rise seems almost indefinite. There is hardly any cogency which it is not capable by possible supposition of attaining. The endless multiplication of witnesses, the unbounded variety of their habits of thinking, their prejudices, their interests, afford the means of conceiving the force of their testimony augmented ad infinitum, because these circumstances afford the means of diminishing indefinitely the chances of their all being mistaken, all misled, or all combining to deceive us." 137 

Along the same line Lord Brougham in his argument with the skeptic Hume further said : 

"Let any man try to calculate the chances of a thousand persons who come from different quarters, and never saw each other before, and who all vary in their habits, stations, opinions, interests, being mistaken or combining to deceive us, when they give the same account of an event as having happened before their eyes, these chances are many hundreds of thousands to one. And yet we can conceive of them multiplied indefinitely; for one hundred thousand such witnesses may all in like manner bear the same testimony; and they may all tell us their story within twenty-four hours after the transaction and in the next parish." 

In law, evidence is classified as direct and circumstantial, the latter meaning "the evidence afforded not by direct testimony of an eye witness to the fact to be proved, but by the bearing upon that of other and subsidiary facts which are relied upon as inconsistent with any result other than the truth of the principal fact." 

I am not disposed to place in contrast direct and circumstantial evidence since they are not naturally opposed. Both kinds have a legitimate place in the proof of disputed facts. It should be noted that while there is a popular impression that circumstantial evidence is unreliable or unsatisfactory, yet many jurists are strong in its praise and only a few overstate its probative force. Both kinds of testimony support the divine inauguration of Mormonism. 

Lord Chief Baron MacDonald, a jurist of England, said of circumstantial evidence: 

"It is almost impossible for a variety of witnesses speaking to a variety of circumstances, so to concert a story as to impose upon a jury by a fabrication of that sort, so that where it is cogent, strong and powerful, where the witnesses do not contradict themselves, it may be evidence more satisfactory than even direct evidence, and there are more instances than one where that has been the case." 

The same judge said : 

"Where the proof arises from the irresistible force of a number of circumstances, which we cannot conceive to be fraudulently brought together to bear on one point, that is less fallible than under some circumstances direct testimony may be." 

Sir Alfred Wills in the preface to the sixth edition of the book of his father William Wills on Circumstantial Evidence, refers to several cases in which a single penstroke no longer than an eighth of an inch was the critical test upon which important cases turned (such as Cresswell vs. (Jackson and Howe vs. Burckhardt, and other cases). A legal authority says that circumstantial evidence "although not invariably so, is frequently superior in proving power to the average strength of direct evidence, and that under safeguards and qualifications which have been stated, it affords a secure ground for the most important judgments in cases where direct evidence is not to be obtained." 

The principles and the nature of the mental processes involved are the same in forensic inquiry as in the ascertainment of truth in GENERAL CONFERENCE  other department of human activity, and are made Use of consciously or unconsciously by everyone in the daily course of life, religious inquiries included. 

I have thus spoken particularly of the value of circumstantial evidence, not because I would minimize in the least the importance of the direct evidence in support of the divinity of the restored Gospel, but because I appreciate the great importance of circumstantial evidence in the consideration of the multitude of incidents making up the case of the- divinity of the restored Gospel. Many thousands of these items are to be found in the six volumes of Church history mentioned in this conference. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith was and always will be the most important of the direct witnesses to the divine origin of the restoredi Gospel and priesthood. In comparing his experience with the experience of Saul of Tarsus, who saw the light and heard the voice, Joseph Smith said : 

"So it was with me. I had actually seen a light and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in my heart : Why persecute me for telling the truth ? I have actually seen a vision; and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation." 

There are many other witnesses giving direct testimony as to one or another of the important items comprised in the coming forth of Mormonism. For instance, the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon each gave direct testimony to the facts declared by them. The Eight iWjitnesses speak of facts known to them by the physical senses of sight and feeling, and the muscular sense of weight. Joseph's parents and other members of the family gave direct testimony to other items. During the past century there have been hundreds of other witnesses giving direct testimony to facts which fit into and interlock with the case of circumstantial evidence in support of the divine restoration of the Gospel. Some of the most important of these testimonies were given under conditions making them more weighty than if given under the sanction of an oath. Some gave declarations admissible as evidence under rules of common law and the decisions of our state and federal courts, Utah included, as dying declarations made in consciousness of early approaching death, although not made in court nor under the sanction of an oath. 

Shakespeare must have well understood this rule of the English common law, for in the play of King John, his character, Melun, when mortally wounded and in fear of" early dissolution, in announcing the intended treachery of King Lewis and upon finding himself disbelieved, is made to exclaim : 139 

"Have I not hideous death within my view, Retaining but a quantity of life Which bleeds away even as a form of wax Resolveth from his figure 'gainst the fire? What in the world should make me now deceive Since I must lose the use of all deceit? Why should I then be false since it is true That I must die here, and live hence by truth?" 

For more than forty years I have had the opportunity of considering many of the circumstances and incidents making up the great case of so-called Mormonism, in the light of the rules and principles laid down by the great jurists for the discovery of the truth and for the detection of error. Joseph and Hyrum went knowingly like lambs to the slaughter, sealing their testimony with their precious blood. Hundreds of their followers willingly gave their lives in the same cause. 

One non-Mormon writer asks : 

"Is it not beyond all reason that a lad, born of poor parents, devoid of any save the commonest education, too poor to buy books, should have accomplished what he did in less than forty years unless there was some great reason for it?" 

It required more than worldly wisdom to produce such books as the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price, and to formulate a system of Church government which has been praised by non-members as having no superior on earth. 

From my consideration of the testimony and the circumstances that have come to me in support of this great cause which is now before the world of the divinity of the restored Gospel, I can truly say that I have an abiding conviction to a moral certainty of the truth of the claims of Mormonism, of the truth of its divinity. 

We have had many experiences in the Canadian mission indicating the blessings of the Lord, and what a great thing it is to know that God lives, and be able to appeal to him and to know that he answers our prayers. I found on my last trip a newly made convert whose right arm was withered. Her husband had fought in five of the fiercest battles of the great war and had evidently become shell-shocked and had wandered off. She was losing control of her children as well. Her prayer in connection with her baptism was that she might have the use of her right hand, that she might be able to support her children, that her husband might be restored to her and that she might regain control of her children. When I saw her a short time after her baptism she told me that when she went into the waters of baptism she felt that withered hand was being revivified. When she came out of the water she was able to wring out her wet clothes with the hand that had been useless for a long time. There was only the little finger that had not fully straightened but was much improved and she expected to obtain the full use of the same. She had regained control of her children and expected to find her husband. 

I rejoice in the many blessings of the Lord to us, and aside from any test such as might be applied to Mormonism by the jurist, it is my testimony in the light of the spirit of truth, the Spirit of the Lord, that GENERAL CONFERENCE 

God lives, that Jesus is indeed the Christ, and that this is the restored Gospel, and that the power of the living God to Joseph Smith, the prophet, has been conferred upon his successors and now is upon President Grant and his associates. May God help us to realize these truths and to act in accordance with the great case that has been partly presented in this conference and which abides in the hearts of the people, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHAD R. LYMAN 

THE RESULT OF A BOY'S APPEAL. 

Who can imagine an event more romantic than for a boy hardly more than fourteen to go upon his knees and appeal successfully for the Creator of the universe to give him light and guidance? Strange as this may seem to many it was nevertheless the experience that came to Joseph Smith the founder of the Mormon Church. 

Of this experience he made a written record — that it was revealed to him at the age of fourteen that God had a great work for him to do; that his name "should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds and tongues." (Pearl of Great Price, P. 51, Verse 33.) How, may I ask, without some sort of assistance, could a boy of fourteen have such an experience with such marvelous results ? 

Contrast that lone boy one hundred years ago with the multitudes that have here assembled, their hearts filled with thanksgiving and gratitude, celebrating the hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Church. One boy then appealing; hundreds of thousands now listening in. 

"Behold, saith the Lord, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder." (Isaiah 29:14.) 

Where can you find, or has there ever been, a work more marvelous, more wonderful? 

THE VIEWS OF AN ECONOMIST 

My purpose is to draw your atention to the words and views of Dr. Thomas Nixon Carver of Harvard, one of the greatest authorities on economics. In an article for "The Westerner" (April, 1930) he has expressed his views of the work and accomplishments of the Church, whose history began with the prayer of a boy. I urge that copies of this article be placed in the hands of our seminary students and missionaries. The demand for it has been such that "The Westerner" has provided an ample supply of reprints. 

Those who have difficulty in seeing things with the eye of faith will, I think, have their faith stimulated and supported by the scientific and logical presentation which Dr. Carver gives : 

FACTORS IN STATESMANSHIP. "Statesmanship," Dr. Carver says, "is the art of nation-building. One can 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 141 

study it in miniature in the early colonies on the Atlantic coast, and in the Mormon colonies in Utah." 

Imagine a boy of fourteen beginning an institution that commands any attention from one of the greatest political economists in the world, who says further: 

"I have long been interested in the Mormon polity. It throws a great deal of light on the art of nation-building." 

Is that a boy's work — nation-building? 

"It furnishes a laboratory for the study of the science of statesmanship. It is one of the most interesting and instructive experiments in the world." 

Is that a boy's work? The results are such that, as Dr. Carver says, "it is one of the most interesting and instructive experiments in statesmanship in all the world." Could anything but the power of God make such an accomplishment possible? 

Continuing, the economist says: 

"Themistocles, twitted because he could not play a musical instrument, replied that, although he could not fiddle, he could make a small city into a great and glorious one. The Mormon leaders did even better than that. They did not even have a small city to start with. They started with nothing and built a great and glorious commonwealth." 

Is not this marvelous? — even "a marvelous work and a wonder." (Isaiah 29:14.) 

THE MANNER OF ACCOMPLISHMENT 

"Such things," Dr. Carver continues, "can be accomplished in only one way." That is what I say — in only one way — and that way is with divine help, guidance and inspiration. 

"That way," Dr. Carver says, "is the economizing of man-power, since the economy of man-power is the key to the whole science of statesmanship, and of the whole art of nation-building." 

What could be more marvelous, what more wonderful, than for a boy unlearned, a boy with little opportunity to go to school, one whose youth was spent in poverty, to start an institution, which, from the point of view of the "science of statesmanship" and the "art of nationbuilding," commands the attention, the respect, the admiration, of the scholarship of the world? 

"It is only by economizing man-power that great masses of material can be moved, that rivers can be dammed, ditches dug, and land irrigated. It is only by economizing man-power that cities can be built, populations fed, and energy be spared for the arts and graces of life." 

"The Mormons did not even start with a mass of highly educated or skilled man-power." 

BOTH POOR AND UNEDUCATED 

Thanks to the professor for those good words — that the Mormons did not start with a highly educated people. You remember that when John the Baptist sent messengers to Jesus, asking, "Art thou he that 

142, GENERAL CONFERENCE 

should come, or do we look for another?" Jesus answered, go back to John and say, "The poor have the gospel preached to them." (St. Matthew, 11:3, 5.) Hear what the professor says: 

"The Mormons . . . started, as a general rule, with commonplace people. These people came from the backwoods, the prairies, and the mountains. From overseas, they came from peasant farms, from coal mines, and from work shops. While they were sturdy, hard-working people, they were not conspicuously gifted or learned." 

"Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another ?" asked the messengers from John of Jesus. His answer was: "Tell John the poor have the Gospel preached to them." 

"It was necessary for the Mormon Church," continues Dr. Carver, "to train its own people. They not only began with desert land and had to put everything on it, even water; they also had to start with relatively uneducated people. This double task of developing both land and people could never have been performed except by economizing such man-power as there was, and utilizing it to the nth degree." 

For me to say what the results are might not be very remarkable. For other members of the Church to say it, might not be remarkable; but for a great economist, not a member of the Church, to say this, indicates to me that here is the Church and Kingdom of God. 

Dr. Carver's strong words are: "The results were a marvel of statesmanship." 

A CLUE TO THEIR SUCCESS 

"Man-power, he says, "may be economized in three ways, and he analyzes the Mormon Church in these three ways : 

"First, man-power may be economized by cultivating sound, personal habits among the people. They who waste their substance in riotous living," says the professor, "are wasting more than wealth. They are wasting their own vital energy, their own man-power." 

If I could see him, I would take the professor by the hand and thank him heartily for the inspiring words that follow : 

"I have never found more sound and wholesome personal habits than among the Mormons. I never mingled with people who showed fewer signs of dissipation. I have never studied groups of people who seemed better nourished and more healthful. I have never known people who took more pains to educate their children. These traits are a clue to the success of the Mormons as colonizers and nation builders. 

"Man-power is also economized by discovering hidden talent and giving it a 

chance to function The world is always in desperate need of unusual 

talent. Any system of supervision or teaching which can discover latent genius and make it active is a factor in nation building. To discover hidden genius is better than to discover a hidden gold mine. 

THE POWER BEHIND IT ALL. 

"For some reason or other," he says — you know the reason and so do I — "the leaders of Mormonism had an almost uncanny" — (that is as strong a word as any scientific man could use for 'inspiration')— "the leaders of Mormonism had an almost uncanny power of discovering hidden talent. . . . The power to 143  skill, talent, and genius from going to waste, is as near to divine wisdom as anything we are ever likely to know in this world." 

With the vocabulary to which science is limited, how could Dr. Carver more certainly stamp the Church with the mark of divinity? 

"Man-power," he says, "is also economized by cooperation, or by working 

together harmoniously It may have been the sheer necessity of the situation 

which forced the early Mormons to cooperate or starve. It may have been the bond of a common religion, it may have been superior intelligence and insight. Whatever the source, the result was good." 

A scientist cannot use the word "inspiration," nor say that people are guided by Divine Providence. He can use only those terms that refer to human forces or to the forces of nature. 

But we must acknowledge that there is a something which we call faith that comes into human hearts. It is a something like electricity, difficult to define, but, like electricity, tremendously powerful. It is the faith of the people of the Church in the message delivered by the Prophet which gives to this institution its active, thrilling, marvelous vitality. 

Sacred solo by Catherine Steed, "The mighty God hath spoken." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The first organization of our women ifi the United States was the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Today we have nearly one hundred thousand members in that organization. A marvelous work and a wonder has been accomplished by them. 

We have a Mutual Improvement Association for the young ladies, which organization is now more than fifty years old, and has a membership of more than fifty thousand at the present time. 

We have a Primary Association that has been established for more than fifty years and that now has practically a hundred thousand members. 

INSUFFICIENT TIME 

I regret exceedingly that we have never had a conference — and I suppose we never will have — in which we are not limited for time as it draws near to the close. We make our calculations in our Mutual conferences, in our great Sunday School meetings, and the conferences of our other organizations, with the expectation that we can get through on time and be able to hear from all to whom we would like to listen. But almost without exception, towards the close of our meetings we are short of time. 

SISTERS TO SPEAK BRIEFLY 

I had hoped to give to our good sisters, the presidents of the Relief Society, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Organization, at least ten minutes each in which to speak to us at this conference. But we will have to ask them to be content GENERAL CONFERENCE  the same amount of time that we have given to the mission presidents, namely, seven and one-half minutes each. 

We shall call upon Sister Robison of the Relief Society to be the first of these sisters to address us. 

SISTER LOUISE Y. ROBISON 

President of the Relief Societies of the Church 

My brethren and sisters : I pray that my Heavenly Father will give me strength that I can acceptably thank him for the great tribute that was paid to the women of our Church by our beloved prophet, Heber J. Grant. 

At this time the people of the Church have undoubtedly been reading the history of our early pioneers and of the founders of the Church, and I think the women of today cannot but feel impressed with what the women of the early days did. Their equipment was so poor compared with that which we have. Those women did not even have matches, nor coal stoves, nor gas stoves. There were no electric lights, no bath tubs, no sewing machines, nor any rubber goods. It took from one to three months to hear from loved ones left in foreign lands. 

A short time before the Church was organized that terrible battle of New Orleans, with its awful consequences, was fought two weeks after peace had been declared in Europe. Now we have so many conveniences; news from the world reaches us in a very few minutes. Our homes are so wonderfully equipped that it seems to me the world is thinking only of material comforts, and is standing on tiptoe for something new. 

A few months ago I had the privilege, through the courtesy of President and Sister Moyle of the Eastern States Mission, of attending a street meeting on a busy thoroughfare in New York. Our fine elders stood forth, clean and intelligent, and offered to the people the plan of salvation. Very few cared for it. I thought at that time, if an inventor were to offer a new explosive, or something that could take life, there would be hordes and crowds of people around, and it would be broadcast everywhere. But when our elders offer the plan of life eternal it is not even recognized. 

The women of our Church appreciate the opportunity for service the Gospel has brought to us. As mothers in Israel we should be just as valiant in the cause of truth as were our former sisters. We may not have to face mobs, and be driven from our homes, but we should stand just as firmly for the principles of the Gospel as did those blessed sisters. We were told most vividly in our Relief Society conference how Sister Lucy Smith felt when her two beloved sons were brought home to her — martyred. We may not have to experience this kind of tragedy, but there are worse things than this, for the enemies of truth, honor and purity are using every means to destroy our children today. The path is clear for mothers to follow. We must live the Gospel in 145  homes in such a way that our children will have confidence in our teaching. We must feel that no effort is too great to teach our children that there is a Father in heaven, and that he does hear our prayers. Let us make it a real event in our family when a child is blessed or baptized. Make our little boys understand the importance and responsibility of being ordained to the priesthood. We know the truth that has been given to us, and that it is only through our earnest efforts and our prayers that this message can be carried to the world that all may rejoice. 

I thank my Heavenly Father for membership in this Church. I thank him that I have a testimony that he has spoken through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I thank him for the leaders we have; for those fine men holding the priesthood of the living God, who recognize women and who help them to accomplish what our Heavenly Father wishes them to do. 

I pray that we shall carry the spirit of this glorious conference to our homes, and that the whole Church and the whole world will be lifted up and blessed through this rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

SISTER RUTH MAY FOX 

President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association 

My dear brethren and sisters: I surely stand before you at this moment as one of the least in the kingdom of heaven. To think that this day should ever come to me that I should be asked to speak at this great Centennial Conference is marvelous to me. 

The trend of the remarks in this conference seems to be the recalling of things of the past. I wonder if I shall be forgiven if I tell you I was born in one of the factory districts of England, that if my father had not received the Gospel of Jesus Christ I might have been there yet. Perhaps through my days I might have been working in the factory, as many married women did, striving to get food for my children. I might have had a husband who was not converted to prohibition. 

I might tell you that my mother died when I was a tiny baby; that I lived here and there, with any good sister that my father could prevail upon to take care of me; that when we crossed the plains two families co-operated in one wagon, fourteen members in all. But we came with faith. 

As a little girl I came feeling that if I could look on the face of President Brigham Young it was all the blessing I would ask. I might tell you that when I was married I felt if the Lord would give me enough bread and molasses to feed my children 1 should be content. For the benefit of the youth of Israel I will say that if President Young had asked me to abstain from eating any partcular kind of food or drink — I used to say if he had asked me to eat mush and milk all my days— I would have done it. That was because faith had been implanted in my heart by my father. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

And so I am reminded of the words I have heard President Nibley say, "I do not forget the pit from which I was dug." I need not bear testimony in words. My whole life is a testimony to me that this is the work of God, and that God fulfils his promises and loves his children. If they will but walk in his paths they will be blessed forever. 

I desire to thank President Grant and the Authorities of the Church for this great blessing that has come to me. I desire to pledge to them my allegiance and my loyalty, and if it is not too strong to say, even to the death; for the Gospel of Jesus Christ has always been the greatest thing in the world to me. 

Naturally I am interested in the youth of Israel, and, oh, if I had the voice of an angel, as has been quoted here at this conference, if I could only tell every young man and young woman what it means to try to be a Latter-day Saint, I would be so happy in doing it. I do pray that the blessings of the Lord will rest upon the fathers and mothers, the guardians and teachers of the youth throughout the Church. Oh, may they live the Gospel and set such an example before their children that they, the children, will delight to follow them. May God bless the youth of Israel that faith may grow and increase in their hearts, that Zion may rise and shine, as God has promised, and I ask it in the name of his beloved Son, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

SISTER MAY ANDERSON 

President of the Primary Association 

It is with great humility and yet with great pride that I stand before you today to represent the great army of the future, the children of the Latter-day Saints, and to say to President Grant, as his representative, that I appreciate this honor beyond all words in my power to express. 

The future lies before the great army of boys and girls of the Primary Association, numbering as President Grant has said, more than one hundred thousand. 

I was tremendously interested in the remarks of Brother Lyman, and as he talked I wondered if Dr. Carver comprehended the beauty of the work that is being done through the auxiliary organizations of the Church. I wondered if he knew of the thousands of women of the type such as he describes us to be who stand back of the General Authorities of the Church as helpers and aids in promoting in the world the establishment of the Gospel of Christ. 

The General Board of the Primary Association feels it is bound in honor to provide for the boys and girls of the Church the highest possible type of religious and moral education. We are the Religion Class of the Church, the class that is striving to put into the hearts of the boys and girls a feeling of love, a feeling of joy, a knowledge and understanding of their opportunities, that they in this organization may have every possible opportunity to begin in their early years to learn the grace and virtue of service. It is the hope of the General Board 147  the programs of the Primary Association will give every boy and girl an opportunity and a real chance to grow in service to the Church. We are trying to help them by producing such plans as will make the opportunity a real one, and as a General Board we are pledged to the Church in every possible way to provide a program which will promote a magnificent future for the Church of Jesus Christ. I pray that God will bless us in this effort and give us wisdom and understanding, that we may go forward to make the future as glorious as this conference has told us of the past. 

I must bear my testimony in concluding and say to you that I know the Gospel is true. My testimony is my greatest treasure, and that every boy and girl may have the same blessing I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am delighted to say that we have associated with us in our Religion Class work, and as our Church Commissioner of Education, a son of one of the loyal, true, faithful Latter-day Saints who was a member of the Council of the Twelve, Brother Joseph F. Merrill, a worthy son of a worthy father. We shall now hear from him. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Commissioner of Education 

My brethren and sisters : Unlike nearly all who have spoken, this call to address you is wholly unexpected to me. 

May I say that I too rejoice at the opportunity of witnessing what we have beheld since this great conference began. Many thoughts have passed through my mind as they have through yours. I have heard the brethren this morning speak of some of the evidences of this work. Those evidences have of course appealed to you, and there are others perhaps that appeal to you, that have not been mentioned. 

It is written in Joel 2 :28 that the Spirit of God would be poured out upon all flesh. Elder Whitney has said this morning that we live in a marvelous age. Our poetic prophet, Parley P. Pratt, sang in the first h^mn that is published in the hymn book, of the marvelous days that were about to be opened up. 

I wonder if there has been any evidence in what has transpired in the past one hundred years that bears testimony to the fulfilment of the prophecy of Joel that the Spirit of God would be poured out upon all flesh. In that super-excellent address of the First Presidency that was read by President Grant at the opening of this conference, an outline of the marvelous developments of the century was made. These developments have been referred to by other speakers of this conference as witnesses of the fact that the Spirit of God has been poured out upon all flesh, and I doubt that even Parley P. Pratt foresaw the glorious effulgence of this day of which he sung. 

Is this work divine? May I say to you that we believe of all the GENERAL CONFERENCE  that have come to us in the century the greatest is the witness that has come to us of the nature of our Father and God, the personal being that he is. With this work there came into the world at that time a conception of Deity that makes it easy for us to believe and to have faith and for us to serve. Has there been any philosopher, any philanthropist, any sociologist, that has ever proposed anything that has been as marvelous as the effect of the Gospel of Jesus Christ upon the lives of its members? If we are true Latter-day Saints we live on a plane of morality and virtue, of personal purity and of brotherly service to our fellowmen, that no other doctrine has yet lifted mortal up to. Is this an evidence of the divinity that has been in this Church and has been guiding it, and was in the beginning of its establishment? 

May I say that I should like to hold up to you what is another most outstanding physical evidence to the world of the divinity of this work, the Book of Mormon. It stands today, as it has stood for one hundred years, a challenge to the world and to the scholarship of the world and the archaeologists of the world, and it has met that challenge. If this book is true, then God is a personal being, there are angels in heaven that are personal beings, and they have visited the earth; and if this book is not true Mormonism originated in a fraud. And so I say that to him who has not been granted faith to see and faith to believe, here is an outstanding physical evidence that challenges the reason of every sane individual, and we hold it up today as we have held it during the century as an evidence to all such and as testimony to ourselves that this Church is what it claims to be. And this, my brethren and sisters, is a testimony which is greater than any other physical evidence, I think, that we have that this work is of divine origin. Let us prize this incomparable book. But the greatest of all witnesses, as Elder Whitney has said this morning, is the witness of the Holy Spirit. This is an evidence that perhaps we cannot give to others, but we who have received it know it is the greatest, the surest, the most convincing. And my testimony to you at this time is that I do know, because I have received the witness of that Spirit and independent of any and all other evidence I declare to you that this is the Church and kingdom of God. 

May the Lord help us ever, all who have this witness* and others who believe, to show our faith and testimony by the manner of our service, by the character and the kind of lives we live, that we may be as a light upon a hill, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The work of gathering statistics and recording history is of a trying nature. There is not the same inspiration in it that there is in going forth and proclaiming the Gospel. It is a type of work that, I have always been grateful to the Lord, has not fallen to my lot. I have a most wonderful admiration for the historian, the man who delves into things of the past : It is marvelous to me to contemplate the 149  labor that Brother Roberts has performed in compiling the history of the Church, also in writing the new history that has just been completed. I know of no more faithful, energetic, hard-working man to record history and to ascertain facts that we have ever had in the Church than Brother Andrew Jenson, and we shall be pleased to hear from Brother Jenson for ten minutes. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON 

Assistant Church Historian 

My brethren and sisters : I have for many years looked forward to this day with fond anticipations — this Centennial Conference of the Church. I have hoped and prayed that I might live long enough in mortality to be present when the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints should be one hundred years old. I feel now like I could paraphrase the saying of Simeon of old when he had witnessed the child Jesus brought into the temple at Jerusalem. He said, "Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation." 

I have been permitted to live to see this day, and to participate in this glorious Conference at the end of one hundred years of the existence of the Church, of which I became a member when I was eight years old. I may explain that my parents were among the first converts to the restored Gospel in that little country, Denmark, situated in the far-off north, toward the north pole. Being trained by my parents in the principles of the Gospel, I was baptized when I was old enough to be admitted to membership in the Church. 

I came to this land when I was fifteen years of age. From the time I was first able to read I became a student of Church history, and as a boy I read extracts from the history of the Prophet Joseph Smith as they were published semi-monthly in "Skandinaviens Stjerne," the Church organ of the Scandinavian Mission, and have been a student of Church history, from that time until the present. When I arrived in Utah, nineteen years after the original pioneers of Utah — after walking all the way across the plains from the Missouri River — I found that besides killing snakes and building bridges, I, as one of foreign birth, had many things to learn, among which was the acquiring of a knowledge of the English language. And not only did I have to study the language of my adopted country, but also the customs and habits of a new country. The Lord, however, was with me. I took hold of the task and did the best I could under the circumstances. After I had been here for some time I began to move about somewhat freely, with the English language moderately at my command. Then it dawned upon me that as I had been interested in the history of the Prophet Joseph and the history of the Church generally in my boyhood days in my native land, perhaps it would be a blessing for my country people to read the story of the great man and prophet who was the founder of this Church. And it became my privilege to write a brief history of Joseph GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Smith, the Prophet, and to assist in publishing the first book that was ever printed in Utah in the Danish-Norwegian language. That was the history of Joseph Smith, in book form, issued even before a work of that kind was ever published by the Church in the English language. Prior to that time the Prophet's history had appeared in serial form in the columns of the early volumes of the "Deseret News" and the "Millennial Star." 

It has been my privilege to travel extensively in many lands and climes in the interest of Church history. I am exceedingly thankful to President Grant for the few words of commendation he gave me in introducing me to this great congregation. I have sometimes been at a loss to know exactly where I stood in the estimation of the General Authorities of the Church, because I have for many years been engaged in a labor that is perhaps only appreciated by a few and not by the masses of the people. It has been my privilege, my brethren and sisters, to travel something like 495,000 miles in the interest of Church history and as a missionary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the nations of the earth. It has been my privilege to visit all the missions of the Church excepting one, namely the South African Mission. When I traveled around the world for the first time, there was none of our missionaries in South Africa, and consequently I did not go there. 

In my historical studies and researches I soon learned that history is made up mainly from the acts of men and women, and that those who become converts to the true Gospel of Christ and are baptized, are organized, as a rule, into branches of the Church and that these branches are generally grouped into conferences, districts or missions. At home, the members of the Church, as we all understand, are grouped into wards, and the wards in turn are grouped into stakes of Zion. I have become convinced that it would be impossible for anyone to write a true and detailed history of the Church as a whole, without a knowledge also of the history of the various branches, conferences, districts, missions, wards and stakes of Zion; this means a history of the settlements of the saints in their gathering places, as well as histories of the missions and their subdivisions abroad; hence the necessity of extensive travels to read the sources of first-hand information. 

It has been my privilege to be a field man, gathering historical data, most of my life, and in going into all parts of the world, to follow in the tracks of missionaries who were laborers in the vineyard before me, to find out what they had done, gather up historical threads and weave them into history. 

After my long experience, I think that I am at liberty to say, from what I actually know, that there is no community at present in America or in any other part of the world that can consistently boast of so accurate a history of their movements and operations as can the Latter-day Saints. By making this statement, I refer particularly to the history of our settlements and our missions. It has been my lot to visit nearly "every nook and corner" of the Rocky Mountains and all the gathering places of the saints in the Great West, from Canada 151  the north to Mexico in the south, besides visiting the so-called "waste places of Zion" in the East repeatedly. In my extensive travels, I have ever endeavored to gather historical data, and from my field notes I have written and compiled some six hundred manuscript volumes containing Church history in general, and histories of our missions and stakes, with their subdivisions, in detail, and also histories of the different auxiliary organizations of the Church, both at home and abroad. 

I have aged and my hair has turned gray, as you can see, while dedicating my best efforts to this work. Mormonism, however, means everything" to me. I, together with so many others, was brought to this land through the use of certain keys of the holy priesthood which were restored to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Kirtland temple on that memorable third day of April, 1836, when, among others, Moses appeared and committed to the Prophet Joseph Smith the keys for the gathering of Israel. That accounts for the fact that about one-fifth of the entire Church membership are converts or descendants of those who hail from the Scandinavian countries, commencing with the fruits of the labors of Erastus Snow and those who came with him to the north countries in 1850. In listening to these missionaries from Zion, the blood of Israel in our veins asserted itself, for that blood is to a very great extent represented among the inhabitants of those lands; and so, when Erastus Snow and his fellow-missionaries testified of the restored Gospel, a response was awakened in our hearts, telling us that we too were of the house of Israel. We seemed to listen to a familiar voice, which we understood and obeyed, for it was the voice of the true shepherd which the sheep recognized; and therefore we are here today. Israel in other nations has had a similar experience and thus a multitude of nations are represented in our glorious pageant which is now being given in this spacious tabernacle. 

Brethren and sisters, I feel that I would like to devote the balance of my time to completing the work to which I have devoted most of my life, because it is not yet completed; and if President Grant and my superiors in the priesthood will allow me to have "free rein" and back me in my labors, I promise that I shall continue my loyalty to the Church and to the priesthood and put forth the best there is in me as long as I dwell in mortality, to this end. 

There are many things that a real historian can see and understand which perhaps are not generally seen and comprehended by his contemporaries, but which will be better understood and appreciated by future generations — perhaps hundreds of years hence. Some of us, Pioneers in new fields, must necessarily live ahead of our time, in order to accomplish work in the interest of yet unborn millions. 

May God bless us, my brethren and sisters, and help us to be faithful and true to whatever positions in the Church we have been called, or may hereafter be called to occupy, as we sojourn in the midst of the saints of the most high God. May God help us to be satisfied with our lot and positions, if we can be convinced that we are where GENERAL CONFERENCE 

God wants us to be, and where we can be of the best use to our fellowmen, according to the strength and ability with which we have been endowed. We may not always be in the limelight, or be engaged in work that at once is understood and recognized, but if we are doing that which our Heavenly Father has designed us to do while we dwell in mortality, we should be thankful and satisfied. These, at least, are my sentiments, and by them and by my reverence for God and his cause I am encouraged and strengthened in my endeavors to faithfully and diligently discharge the duties pertaining to the work that has fallen to my lot to do in life. 

May God bless each and every one of us, who are members of the Church, to be faithful and true to our God, to our religion, to the priesthood, to our co-religionists and to our fellowmen in general; and may we have the desire and ability to honor any and every position in which we may be placed, and successfully carry the responsibilities entrusted to us, is my sincere prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir rendered the anthem, "Cast thy burden upon the Lord." Elder William T. Jack offered the closing prayer. Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


