Morning 
06 04 1930

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

My heart is full of gratitude beyond my power to express as I look upon this wonderful audience of the priesthood of the living God, together with officers of our organizations, assembled here in conference in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I am about to read to you an address by the First Presidency of the Church, copies of which have been sent to all wards, stakes and missions in all countries where we have organizations of the Church. At this hour all over the world this message will be read to our people. 

THE FIRST PRESIDENCY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS TO OUR BELOVED BRETHREN AND SISTERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD: 

On this, the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Church, we salute you, and pray that the blessing of God our Father, and the grace and love of Jesus Christ, our Lord, may abide with you forever. 

We preface our message to you by reference to the following scripture : 

"Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I am the life and the light of the world. I am the light which shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not." 

As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so was the Son of God lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, through its presidency, reaffirms the truths set forth in the above scripture, and calls upon its members in all parts of the world to rededicate their lives to the service of the Master and the establishment of his kingdom upon earth. 

From the beginning of time, as we count it, to the present, God our Father has, at divers times, both by his own voice and the voice of his inspired prophets, declared that he would send to earth his only begotten Son, that through him, by means of the resurrection, of which our Lord was the first fruits, mankind might be redeemed from the penalty of death, to which all flesh is heir and by obedience to the law of righteous living, which he taught and exemplified in his life, be cleansed from personal sin and made heirs to the Kingdom of Heaven. 

In songs of praise the Psalmist declared his coming. In ecstasy the prophet Isaiah looked forward to the day when he would manifest himself among men, and, by foreknowledge which came from the Father, announced the details of his death and the dire consequences of his crucifixion. 

The Redeemer himself declared, notwithstanding the apparent failure of his mission and ministry as it applied to the generation to which he brought the message of salvation, that at a period of time then in the remote future, a period designated as the latter-days, the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, he would again reveal himself, would re-establish his Church upon earth, and come to reign in triumph and majesty over his people. 

In humility, and with full consciousness of the responsibility involved, we bear witness to the people of the world that with the appearance of the Father and the Son to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the early spring of 1820, the greatest gospel dispensation of all time was ushered in, a dispensation of light, radiating from the presence of God, illuminating the minds of men, increasing intelligence and knowledge, which is the glory of God, and by the application of which the past one hundred years have been made the Miracle Century of the ages. 

The increase of scientific knowledge, invention, industrial development; the harnessing of the forces of the universe and adapting them to the comfort and convenience of man, have reached a degree of perfection not dreamed of by people who lived when the past century was ushered in. 

In 1830 Abraham Lincoln attained his majority. He was still pursuing his studies by the light of a tallow dip, or pine knot, because there was nothing better to be had; and it was under these circumstances that he prepared himself to become the foremost citizen of his country, thirty years later. 

Since that time our system of education has undergone a miraculous change. The log or little brick school-house of a century ago has been supplanted by temples of learning, in which our children enjoy conveniences and comforts that the wealth of kingdoms could not, at that time, have provided. They have maps of the world before them, books treating all known subjects, teachers better informed upon the subjects taught, heat provided; and when they require light they touch a button and the electric current does the rest. 

Agriculture, the foundation upon which the very existence of the. human race is builded, was still in a primitive condition. Men harvested with a, scythe or sickle the grain which grew in their fields, and threshed it with a flail. 

A man now sits upon a machine, and at one operation, reaps, threshes and sacks ten acres of grain, with less fatigue than he formerly harvested one. 

Women carded and spun the wool and wove the cloth with which they and their children were clothed. 

The cards, spinning wheel, and loom have passed. They are now to be seen only as heirlooms or sacredly cherished souvenirs. 

Possibly no other human agency has greater influence upon civilization and the development of the people of the world than that which provides quick ( and easy transportation of people and things from place to place. By it individuals, communities, and nations come to know each other better, exchange of commodities is made possible, and the commerce of the world is maintained. 

For this purpose roads made by men thread the world. We travel over them now on bands of steel, in luxurious motor cars, in floating palaces, or through the air. 

Only yesterday these roads were mere trails, blazed by fearless, intrepid men, through unknown forests, over snow-clad mountains, across trackless deserts or uncharted seas. 

In fulfilment of the words uttered by inspired prophets, thousands of years ago, the wooden boats in which we sailed the seas at the beginning of the past century have been supplanted by floating palaces of steel, in which we ride the waves or navigate the ocean's depths in safety. 

For silver the Lord has given us gold, which has become the basis of exchange throughout the civilized world; while iron takes the place of wood and stone in construction. 

By the application of scientific methods, which have been revealed during the past century, the profession of medicine and surgery has brought to the people of the world relief from the most dreaded diseases, which devastated communities and at times threatened the very existence of mankind. 

Undoubtedly the greatest miracle of the century is the accomplishment by which the human voice, with the personality of the speaker, may be indefinitely preserved and reproduced with every detail of originality. 

Whether uttered in the frozen arctics, or from the jungles of the tropics, without visible means of conduct, the human voice instantly circles the earth, thus overcoming the hitherto insurmountable barrier of both time and space. 

Contemplating these accomplishments of the past century, to which but brief reference has been made, we are led to exclaim : 

Great and marvelous are thy ways, O Lord From eternity to eternity Thou art the same! Thy purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay Thy hand! 

THE CHURCH 

The Annunciation. As the glory of the Lord shone round about shepherds, who kept watch over their flocks by night upon the hills of Judea, and the angel of the Lord announced to them that there had been born that day, in the city of David, a Savior, who was Christ the Lord, the light of the Christian Dispensation burst forth upon the world. 

"And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, 

"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." 

The heavens were illuminated by the glory of the Lord, the heavenly host shouted hosannas as the Babe of Bethlehem, the Son of God, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, he who was to become the Savior of mankind, was born into the world. 

From the time of his birth to the day of his crucifixion, Satan, that old serpent, the devil, the enemy of all that is good, he who by his wiles and deception tempted our first parents and brought death into the world, sought the destruction of our Lord. 

Kings persecuted him, because they knew and feared his power. The learned and wealthy spurned him, because of his humble birth; while the ignorant, not understanding, left him in derision. 

The personal ministry of Jesus was of short duration. But thirtythree years elapsed from the time of his birth to the day of his crucifixion, and but a small portion of this time was devoted to his ministry. From the time of the delivery of his great sermon on the Mount, but three years elapsed until his death. 

During the brief period of his ministry he effected the organization of his Church, selected twelve apostles, upon whom, with Peter at their head, he conferred the keys of the priesthood, and to whom he made plain the organization of his Church and the doctrines of his Gospel, by obedience to which mankind may be redeemed and brought back into the presence of God. This accomplished, he declared his mortal mission completed, and went to his death with the sublime prayer upon his lips that his Father would pardon those who were responsible for his crucifixion. In their ignorance they knew not what they had done. 

THE FIRST CENTURY OF THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH 

During the first century of the Christian Era', Octavius, Caligula, Nero, Vespacian and his son Titus, all of whom were bitter persecutors of the Church, occupied the throne of Rome. 

Pagan Rome had become the mistress of the world. From the time of the crucifixion of Jesus, persecution of the Christians had been merciless and wicked beyond expression. During the reign of Caligula and Nero, who were more brute than human, Christian men were slain without mercy, while their wives and daughters were carried away to Rome, to be sold to the highest bidder, or distributed to a depraved soldiery. 

Men, women, and children were cast into the great amphitheater at Rome, to be torn by wild beasts or fight for their lives, for the entertainment of these inhuman monsters. Christians, their bodies covered  combustibles, were made to stand upon the walls, to be burned, in order that light might be provided for the spectacle below. 

To deprive Christians of life was not sufficient. Every cruel means of torture that the human mind could suggest, which might add to the suffering of the victim, was applied. 

The falling away which had been predicted by the prophets had come. The man of sin, the son of perdition, was revealed, who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. (2nd Thessalonians 2:3-4). 

Thus centuries passed, centuries during which darkness covered the earth and gross darkness the minds of the people, centuries during which Satan, in an orgy of Pagan idolatry, ruled the world. 

A NEW GOSPEL DISPENSATION 

The opening of a new gospel dispensation was not a thing of chance. Jesus Christ, through his messenger, had declared to John while he was upon the isle of Patmos, that an angel would come flying through the midst of the heavens, having the everlasting Gospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth, calling them back to the worship of God who is the Maker of the heavens and the earth, the sea and the fountains of water. The Redeemer himself had declared that before the time of his glorious appearance, to assume his rightful place among his people, the Gospel of his kingdom should be preached in all the world, for a witness unto all nations, before the coming of the end. 

As the time of the restoration of the Gospel was clearly indicated, so was the gathering place of those who would accept the truth definitely declared. The prophet Isaiah had said that it should come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house would be established in the top of the mountains, and be exalted above the hills, and that people from all nations would flow unto it. Many people, he declared, would go and say : "Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob." For what purpose? That they might be taught the way of the Lord, and learn to walk in his paths. 

At the time of the calling of Abraham, the Lord entered into covenants with him and his posterity, in which he promised that Palestine should be theirs for an everlasting heritage. This promise was repeated to Isaac, and confirmed upon the head of Jacob. 

Prior to his death our father Jacob called his twelve sons to him, blessed them, and defined the future of their posterity, adding little to that which had before been promised, until he laid his hands upon the head of Joseph and not only conferred upon him the blessing and heritage of his fathers, but also declared that his heritage prevailed above that of his progenitors, unto the utmost bounds of the Everlasting Hills, to a land choice above all other lands, a land rich in the blessings of the earth, of the heavens above, and the sea beneath. 

Upon Ephraim, the younger of the two sons born to Joseph during his sojourn in Egypt, he sealed the heirship to the blessings and promises conferred upon his father. While Satan held the world in spiritual darkness, by means of priestcraft and idolatry, he shackled the masses with the chains of kingcraft, and thus held the world in both spiritual and civil bondage. 

As the time of the end drew nearer, God's Spirit descended upon men, impelling them to break the shackles of idolatry and priestcraft with which they were bound. 

When John Wycliffe, John Huss, and William Tyndale, (all of whom suffered martyrdom for their faith) Martin Luther and others, gave the Holy Scriptures to the people of the world, and in the strength of Israel's God declared the truth, the beginning of the end had come. 

When the people of Great Britain wrung from King John the Magna Charta, when Oliver Cromwell later cut off the head of King Charles the First, and the Covenanters of Scotland took up arms against the then dominant church, the morning star of hope arose, heralding the sunshine of a brighter day. 

The coming of Columbus to America had been foretold centuries before he sailed from the port of Palos, in Spain. The Spirit of the Lord was upon him, was his guide and protector in his great adventure, and led him to the shores of a new world. 

It was not by chance that the Puritans left their native land and sailed away to the shores of New England, and that others followed later. They were the advance guard of the army of the Lord, predestined to establish the God-given system of government under which we live, and to make of America, which is the land of ^Joseph, the gathering place of Ephraim, an asylum for the oppressed of all nations, and prepare the way for the restoration of the Gospel of Christ and the reestablishment of his Church upon earth. It was under these circumstances and others of which the Lord was the author, that the stage was set for the raising of the curtain upon the opening scene of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. 

As the Christian Dispensation was ushered in, the glory of the Lord shone round about the shepherds who kept watch over their flocks by night upon the hills of Judea, while the voice of the angel of the Lord declared the Babe of Bethlehem to be the Savior of the world. 

So also the glory of the Lord overshadowed Joseph Smith, and God himself, in the glory and majesty of his person, with his Only Begotten Son, Jehovah, revealed himself in vision, and with his own voice designated Joseph Smith to be the instrument through whom the greatest gospel dispensation of the ages was to be ushered in. 

There was nothing of ostentation, pageantry or dramatic display; it was a simple, solemn occasion, superlatively glorious and impressive beyond expression. 

The voice of the Lord, which had been silent for ages, was heard again. Again that divine message, so oft repeated, was delivered: "This is my Beloved Son. Hear him!" The personality of the Father and his Only Begotten Son was again revealed that mankind may know them as they are. 

Of his first vision Joseph Smith says: 

"After I had retired to the place where I had previously designed to go, having looked around me and finding myself alone, I kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so when immediately I was seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me, and had such an astonishing influence over me as to bind my tongue so that I could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around me, and it seemed to me for a time that I was doomed to sudden destruction. 

"But, exerting all my power to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was ready to sink into despair and abandon myself to destruction — not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of some actual being from the unseen world, who had such marvelous power as I had never before felt in any being — just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me. 

"It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held me bound. When the light rested upon me I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other — This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" 

(When the Apostle Paul appeared before King Agrippa and Festus, the Roman Procurator, he declared that Jesus Christ, who had been crucified upon Calvary, was risen from the dead; that he lived and had appeared to him in a cloud of light, calling him to be his messenger to the Gentiles. Festus, in amazement, cried out: "Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad." But Paul replied — "I am not mad, most noble Festus, but speak forth the words of truth and soberness." 

In like manner Joseph Smith, an obscure country boy, fifteen years of age, when he related to certain sectarian ministers of the neighborhood that he had received a heavenly vision, was made the victim of ridicule and bitter persecution. 

Men flew into passion as they declared that it was all from the devil, that there were no such things as visions and revelations in these days; that all such things had ceased with the Apostles, and that there would never be any more of them. 

Satan again manifested his power and determination to frustrate the will of Christ, that he might maintain his dominion over the world and continue to hold captive the souls of men. From that hour he raged in the hearts of the wicked, until he finally encompassed the death of the Prophet; not, however, until he had accomplished the work which the Lord had sent him into the world to do. 

Like Paul, Joseph Smith, during the three years intervening after his vision, steadfastly maintained that in vision he had seen the Father and the Son, and had heard the voice of the Lord. 

On the evening of September 21, 1823, he had retired as usual to his bed room for the night, a night fraught with events of which he had not dreamed, events of supreme importance to him and to the people of the world. He says : 

"While I was thus in the act of calling upon God I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. "He had on a loose robe of most exquisite whiteness, it was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen; nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrists; so, also, were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. I could discover that he had no other clothing on but this robe, as it was open, so that I could see into his bosom. 

"Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his person. When I first looked upon him I was afraid; but the fear soon left me. 

"He called me by name, and said that he was a messenger sent from the presence of God to me, and that his name was Moroni; that God had a work for me to do; and that my name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people." 

This messenger revealed to Joseph Smith that there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the ancient inhabitants of America and the source from whence they came, and that the plates would later be delivered into his hands to be translated and published to the world. 

On the twenty- third day of September, 1827, the plates containing the record of the Book of Mormon were delivered to Joseph Smith who, by the gift and power of God, translated the characters which were engraven upon them. 

The Book of Mormon does not in any degree conflict with or take the place of the Holy Bible, but is the strongest corroborative evidence in existence of the divine origin of that sacred record. It has been before the world for more than a century, during which time no statement contained in it, whether it refers to the civil history or the religion of the people who kept the record, has been proved to be untrue. 

As the translation of the characters engraven upon the plates on which the Nephite record was kept proceeded Joseph Smith discovered that the doctrine of baptism was taught and practised by the Nephite people. Desiring to better understand this principle he did as he had done before, went with Oliver Cowdery, his scribe, into the woods, and engaged in earnest prayer. The following is quoted from his own words : 

"While we were thus employed, praying and calling upon the Lord, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light, and having laid his hands upon us he ordained us, saying : 

" 'Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness.' 

"The messenger who visited us on this occasion and conferred this priesthood upon us, said his name was John, the same that is called John the Baptist in the New Testament, and that he acted under the direction of Peter, James, and John, who held the keys of the priesthood of Melchizedek, which priesthood, he said, would in due time be conferred upon us." 

With this ordination, and the restoration of the Melchizedek 

Priesthood which was later conferred as promised, the fulness of the keys and authority of the Priesthood of Almighty God, which had for centuries been lost to mankind, was restored and has remained with the Church in unbroken succession until the present time. 

With the restoration of the priesthood the way was open for the preaching of the Gospel, the administration of the ordinances pertaining thereto, and the organization of the Church. 

On the sixth day of April, one hundred years ago today, Joseph Smith, with five others who had accepted the message of the restored Gospel, met" at the home of Peter Whitmer, Sr., at Fayette, Seneca County, New York. The sacrament of bread and wine was administered and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints organized. 

In his sermon on the Mount the Master declares that a tree is known by the fruit which it produces. We do not gather grapes from thorns nor figs from thistles. A bitter fountain cannot bring forth good water, nor does a good fountain bring forth bitter water. By this unchangeable law we ask the world to judge the accomplishments of the Church during the past century. 

It was after his resurrection that the Master commissioned his disciples to go into all the world and preach the Gospel to all people, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. 

In like manner have the disciples of Christ in the present dispensation, his Apostles, High Priests, Seventies, (who are his especially chosen ministry) and the Elders of the Church, carried the glad tidings of the restored Gospel to every part of the civilized world during the century past, and wherever the message has been proclaimed there have been honest souls who have accepted it and gathered to Zion, in fulfilment of the words of the ancient prophets. 

The mountain of the Lord's house has been established in the top of the mountains, and people from all nations have flowed unto it. Through the blessings of the Lord upon their labors the desert has been subdued and made to blossom as the rose. Solitary places have been made glad because of them. Cities have been established, springs of water have broken out which have given life to the thirsty land, music, and the voices of children are heard in the streets where desolation and silence had reigned for ages. 

Temples have been erected in which the work of redemption has been done for an innumerable host of the living and the dead. 

Many thousands have been brought from the poverty and distress of the old world to this blessed land of Joseph, to become wealthy and be made happy as they have participated in the blessings which the Lord our God has pronounced upon it. 

Looking backward to the organization of the Church, which occurred under the most humble and, to the world, obscure circumstances, and following its history through persecution, poverty, and distress, can it be denied that a great and marvelous work has been accomplished, that the promises of the Lord have been fulfilled, and his power to accomplish that to which he sets his hand to do, manifested? Let glory and honor be ascribed unto God our Father, through Jesus Christ, his Son, forever, for he is the author of it all. 

WHAT OF THE FUTURE 

The future, as outlined in the predictions of the ancient prophets and confirmed by modern revelation, is pregnant with hope for the Church. 

Jesus Christ our Lord said: 

"Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets : I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil. For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled." 

With the present momentum with which the people of the world are moving forward in the determination of truth in every field of human endeavor, the outlook for the future passes beyond the vision of human comprehension. 

Jesus Christ, referring to the time when he would manifest himself in the latter days, declared that whereas he manifested himself to his own people in the meridian of time and they rejected him, in the latter days he would come first to the Gentiles, and then to the house of Israel. He says: 

"When the time of the Gentiles is come in, a light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fulness of my gospel. But they receive it not; for they perceive not the light, and they turn their hearts from me because of the precepts of men. And in that generation shall the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled." 

"At that time, saith the Lord, I will remember the covenant which I have made with my people who are of the house of Israel, and will send my gospel to them." 

"And it shall come to pass that I will establish my people, O house of Israel, and I will remember the covenant which I have made with my people, and I have covenanted with them that I would gather them together, in mine own due time, that I would give unto them again the land of their fathers for their inheritance, which is the land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever, saith the Father. 

"And behold, this people (the Nephites) will I establish in this land, (America) and it shall be a new Jerusalem. And the powers of heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I will be in the midst of you. And then shall be brought to pass that which is written : 

"Awake, awake again and put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the Holy City. For thenceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean : For thus saith the Lord : Ye have sold yourselves for naught, and ye shall be redeemed without money." 

From the words of the Prophet Daniel we quote the following : 

"In the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed : and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever." 

John, the beloved disciple of our Lord, says: 

"I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away : And I John saw the Holy City, New Jerusalem,  down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. 

"And I heard a great voice out of heaven, saying: Behold the tabernacle of God is with man, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God Himself shall be with them, and be their God. 

"And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain; for the former things are passed away." 

"And the Lord shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more." 

With this glorious vision of the future, to which we look forward, we exhort our brethren and 'sisters to put their houses in order, that they may be prepared for that which is to come. 

Refrain from evil; do that which is good. Visit the sick, comfort those who are in sorrow, clothe the naked, feed the hungry, care for the widow and the fatherless. Observe the laws of health which the Lord has revealed, and keep yourselves unspotted from the sins of the world. Pay your tithes and offerings, and the Lord will open the windows of heaven and pour out blessings until there shall not be room to contain them. Be obedient to the laws of God and the civil laws of the country in which you reside, and uphold and honor those who are chosen to administer them. 

To the people of the world we send our blessing, and bear witness to them that God lives, that Jesus Christ is his Only Begotten Son, the Redeemer of the world. We call upon all men to come unto him, that through his grace they may attain to eternal life and an inheritance with him in the kingdom of his Father. 

Heber J. Grant, Anthony W . linns, Charles W . Nibley, 

The First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

In spite of my efforts at self-control I have been overcome with emotion as I have looked upon the faces of this large congregation of men, with a few women, the like of which, so far as we are aware, has never before been seen in the history of the world. 

CHANGES WROUGHT IN LAST CENTURY 

Looking backward, as we have all undoubtedly done, contemplating the changes which have come to the world since the organization of the Church, one hundred years ago, the absorbing thought which has come to me is one of gratitude because of the fact that it has been my destiny, with you, my brethren and sisters, to have been a participant in its marvelous activities. 

I have gone back over the long and winding road, which the people of the world have traveled since we have record of their existence, with its well marked sign-boards which tell us that if we will follow them they will lead us back to the presence of God from whence we came, but from which we have strayed and gone far afield, until the road has brought us to where we are today. 

god's directing hand 

In it all I appear to see the hand of divinity constantly directing, and hear the voice of our Father who is in heaven calling us back to the straight road, and frequently, unconsciously to them, impressing the minds of men, impelling them resistlessly onward to the accomplishment of a divine purpose, the redemption of the human family, that they may achieve eternal life. 

"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth." Of the method by which this was accomplished we have little knowledge; we do know, however, that the earth was created, because we find ourselves here upon it. 

And, "God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him, male and female created he them." 

And he gave man dominion over the earth, and all that is upon it, and commanded him to subdue the earth, and make it fruitful. He made plain the fact that this could only be accomplished by effort, by the sweat of the brow; that being endowed with reason man was to think, to strive, and thus find out truth and apply it, in order that the earth might be brought under subjection to his will. For the intelligence and will of man is a part of godliness which the Father has bestowed upon all of his children, and will, if properly applied and developed, make man like unto his Creator. 

Of the antediluvian people who occupied the earth upon which we dwell we know but little. Their history, covering a period of 1,500 years, is told in the Bible on a dozen small pages. 

Of the new race of men which descended from Noah, our ancestor, we have more definite information. It is a fact, however, that there is much of obscurity and doubt surrounding their early history. 

It is these latter people that I have followed with greater interest, because it is to them that we more directly trace our ancestry, and it was with them, through Abraham our father, that the Lord entered into a new covenant which is now in course of fulfilment. 

According to the best available information the expansion and development of the sons of Noah and their posterity had its beginning along the upper reaches of the Euphrates and Tigris rivers, and extended south from that point to the plains of Shiner, in Mesopotamia. 

We are told that Ham, the son of Noah, begat Cush who was the father of Nimrod, the founder of Babylon, which became the greatest city of its time, while Asshur, the son of Shem, established his people on the Tigris, and built the city of Nineveh. 

Egypt was occupied by the descendants of Ham, through Pharaoh, the son of Egyptus, who was the daughter of Ham. 

Assyria, the Asshur of the Hebrews, of which Nineveh was the  city; Chaldea, of which Babylon was the capitol; and Egypt, among the earliest nations of which we have record, are all closely associated with the Israelitish people, each having exercised a powerful influence upon their character and history. 

It was from Chaldea that the Lord called Abraham, and entered into covenant with him in which he promised that he would make of him a people, by comparison as numerous as the stars of heaven, or the grains of sand upon the seashore. Abraham was at the time a childless man, one hundred years of age. 

COVENANT WITH ABRAHAM 

To properly comprehend the occurrences of the past century one must be familiar with the covenant entered into by the Lord with Abraham and the history of the Israelitish people from that time until the present. The Lord declared that covenant to be eternal, everlasting, which means that it would not end until the promises made had been realized. In part the covenant declared that through Abraham and his seed all nations of the world should be blessed. 

It is through the descendants of Abraham that the Holy Bible has come down to us, the book which has done more to civilize and stabilize the world than all others which have been published. It has given to us the fundamentals of our system of government and the laws under which its affairs are administered. From the family of Abraham the Lord has raised up his ancient and modern prophets, and most important of all, Jesus Christ, his Only Begotten Son, through whom redemption from death and salvation in the kingdom of our Father is made possible to mankind. What have we that is of indispensable value to humanity which has not come to us through the Israelitish race? 

During the past weeks I have been thinking of these things and associating them with the secular history of the world. By this method alone am I able to reach satisfactory conclusions regarding the contents and meaning of the scripture, and my studies justify the statement which I now make : In Abraham and his seed all nations of the earth have been blessed. 

With the birth of Jacob the Israelitish race had its real beginning. Jacob who was first called Israel; Jacob who was the father of twelve sons, and to whom the promises made to his grandfather, Abraham, were reconfirmed, and greatly enlarged. In order that I may be properly understood, permit me to make this brief observation : 

THE HISTORY OF THE CHOSEN RACE 

It has become common usage to associate the word Israel with the Jewish people only, which is a great error. While it is true that all Jewish people are Israelites, it is equally true that there are Israelitish people that are not Jews. 

Judah, with whom the tribe of Benjamin united, was but one of the twelve tribes at the time when ten of these tribes revolted during the reign of Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, and under Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, established an independent kingdom, with their capital city at Samaria, in northern Palestine. 

I have gone with Jacob and his sons into Egypt, been with them in their prosperity in the land of Goshen, while Egypt was under control of the Hyksos, or Shepherd Kings, their own kinsmen, and in their distress and servitude after the native princes of Egypt came down the Nile, defeated and drove out the Hyksos, and repossessed their native land. 

I have followed them in their exodus from Egypt under the great prophet Moses, and in their forty years sojourn in the wilderness. I have been with them in the conquest of the promised land, in their final ascendancy to a great kingdom under David, and rejoiced with them during the peaceful reign of King Solomon, when Israel realized her golden age. 

In sorrow I have seen the return of this chosen people from the worship of the God of their fathers to the worship of idols, which brought dissolution and final subjugation by surrounding nations. I have seen the Ten Tribes carried away captive by the Assyrians, while Judah suffered the same fate at the hands of the Babylonians, and was later scattered by pagan Rome to the four corners of the earth. 

To one who does not understand it may appear that the promise made by the Lord had failed. Israel had possessed the promised land as he had said that they should, but through transgression had lost their heritage to other nations, notwithstanding the fact that the Lord had declared that heritage to be eternal. 

Has the promise made to Abraham failed? Are the Ten Tribes of Israel lost to the world forever ? Is Judah to be forever a wanderer without a country which he can call his own? Emphatically, no. 

"Hear the word of the Lord, O ye nations, and declare it in the isles afar 

off, and say, He that scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him, as a shepherd does his flock. 

"For thus sayeth the Lord : Behold I will bring them from the north country, and gather them from the coast of the earth, and with them the blind and the lame, the woman with child, and her that travaileth with child together : a great company shall return thither. 

"They shall come with weeping, and with supplications will I lead them. * * For I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my first born." 

Thus has the Lord spoken through his chosen prophets, and his word will not fail. 

Centuries before, while the Israelitish people were still in possession of the promised land, the Lord through his prophets had predicted their downfall, that they would be scattered among all nations, but would ultimately be gathered and restored to their promised heritage. The time for the realization of this latter promise is near at hand. 

Babylon, at the time of the Jewish captivity, was referred to by Daniel the prophet as having dominion over all the earth. Nebuchadnezzar its king was called the King of Kings. The kingdom was thought to be so strong that it would never be overthrown. The Lord, however, had long before decreed its fall, and his prophets had declared  Babylon should become as Sodom and Gomorrah and that it should never be rebuilt or inhabited again. 

The opening scene of the great drama which was to bring to pass the redemption of the house of Israel occurred when the MedoPersian army, under Cyrus, effected the conquest of Babylonia, during the reign of Belshazzar, the son of Nebuchadnezzar, and established the powerful Medo-Persian kingdom in its stead. 

I have been with Alexander of Macedon as he crossed the Hellespont from Greece, and with his comparatively small army fought the battles of Granicus, Issus and Arbela where he utterly destroyed the great Medo-Persian army which Darius had collected, and established himself as master of Asia from the Mediterranean sea to the mouth of the Nile, a country fifty times larger in area and population than his own. 

I have been with the Roman legions as they swept through Asia, destroying the smaller kingdoms which Alexander had set up, and in their campaign in northern Europe, which made them masters of the then known world. 

I have been with Mark Anthony and Octavius at Actium, where they struggled for the mastery of Rome, and have seen that mighty empire crumble and fall. 

These have all been turning points in the affairs of the world, which have entirely changed what might otherwise have been its history. It was not the will of the Lord that despotic rule should be permanently established and maintained upon the earth. This was proven in modern times when Napoleon met his Waterloo, and in our own day when ambition prompted a crowned head in Europe to seek the establishment of world dominion. 

In all of this I have seen the finger of the Lord pointing to a time when: The God of heaven will set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed, or given to other people, but will stand forever; when he will establish peace upon earth and good will among men; when nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. 

A CHOICE LAND 

Oh, my beloved brethren and sisters, I beseech you to study the word of the Lord, as it is contained in holy writ. You will then know that the present is inextricably associated with the remote past to which I have referred as it is to the future which is before us. You will know that you have been given a land which is choice above all others. You will discover that the ancient prophets saw this land of America, and declared its destiny. You will know the conditions upon which our nation is to be perpetuated, or, on the other hand, because of our lack of faith in God, take its place among those mighty nations to which I have referred and pass into oblivion. 

Where much is given much is required. This is the land of Joseph, it is the land of Zion, a land choice above all other lands. The Lord our God has decreed that whatsoever nation shall inhabit it shall be free from bondage, free from all other nations, if they will but serve the God of the land, which is Jesus Christ. These are not my words, but the words of the Lord, our God. They are binding upon us, as they have been binding upon other great nations which have occupied the American continent in times past. They imply more than a tacit or perfunctory profession of faith in Christ our Lord. We are to render service to him. 

TRUE SERVICE 

When asked what the word service implied the Redeemer answered : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. Thou shalt do no murder. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witness. Honor thy father and thy mother, and love thy neighbor as thyself." Simple requirements embodying the fundamentals of perfect Christian life. 

If we love the Lord it will be a pleasure to serve him. We could not, if we love him, be guilty of murder. The fact that murder is of almost daily occurrence is evidence that this great commandment is not properly observed. Next to murder the Lord has declared that the contamination of the fountains of life through the promiscuous intercourse of sexes is an abomination in his sight. 

STANDARDS OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stands irrevocably committed to the observance of sexual purity. It recognizes no double standard of morality. It demands the same standard of virtue from its men that it does from its women members, and recognizes no circumstance or condition which justifies sexual association except in virtuous and legal wedlock. This the Church recognizes to be not only approved of the Lord but in direct compliance with his command. 

KEEPING THE LAWS OF GOD AND OF COUNTRY "Thou shalt not steal." 

Any person who knowingly deprives another of that which rightfully belongs to him, without giving value received for it, is guilty of theft, no matter what the process may be by which the transaction is made. 

"Thou shalt not bear false witness." 

The frequency with which this commandment is disregarded by men and women who appear in our courts under oath to tell the truth, is evidence of needed reform. 

If we would only put into practice these simple requirements, and we could do so if we would, what a glorious place this world of ours would be in which to live. 

You may ask — Why call attention to these conditions while you provide no remedy for them ? The remedy is simple, and can be made effective. 

Paraphrasing the words of Abraham Lincoln : Let every member of the Church, from its president, its priest or pastor, to the humblest member, and every citizen of the United States of America, from the highest elective or appointive officer, to the humblest citizen, here and now highly resolve that the faith in God manifested by our fathers, who bequeathed to us the priceless heritage of liberty which we now enjoy in this chosen land, shall not perish from the earth, but endure forever. This done we are secure, without it we have no guarantee. 

I am not prophesying evil of my country. I love it. I love its people, and believe in them. I do not believe that they will carelessly surrender the God-given principles of liberty and justice bequeathed to them into the hands of aliens who would trample them under foot, and turn back the wheels of human progress to the dark ages, from the ignorance and bigotry of which we have been rescued by the hand of the God of our fathers. 

I know that there are those who will not agree with me in my conclusions. Neither have they believed the words of those who have taught these things in the past. 

MORONI'S WORDS APPLICABLE NOW 

When the Lord commanded Moroni to write the things which are contained in the Book of Mormon, which is the sacred record -of the hand-dealings of the Lord with the Nephite people, Moroni said : 

"Lord, the Gentiles will mock at these things." 

The reply was: 

"Fools mock, but they shall mourn, and my grace is sufficient for the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness." 

I can think of no words of conclusion more appropriate than the words of this chosen prophet of the Lord : 

"And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth — that if the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief. 

"And wo be unto the children of men if this shall be the case. * * * "And I exhort you to remember these things; for the time speedily cometh that ye shall know that I lie not, for ye shall see me at the bar of God, and the Lord will say unto you : Did I not declare my words unto you, which were written by this man, like as one crying from the dead, yea, as one speaking out of the dust? * * * 

"And again I would exhort you that ye would come unto Christ, and lay hold upon every good gift, and touch not the evil gift, nor the unclean thing." 

These last words of Moroni I commend to you for your consideration, my brethren and sisters. 

BLESSINGS UPON ALL WHO SEEK RIGHTEOUSNESS 

May the blessings of the Lord be upon you. May his protecting hand be over you, and the guidance of the Holy Spirit direct you and abide with you and all who seek to establish righteousness and justice upon the earth; that God's ikingdom may be established and his will be done on earth as it is in heaven. This is my humble prayer, any brethren and sisters, in your behalf and in behalf of all the world. Amen. 

The choir rendered the anthem, "Hosanna! Hallelujah!" words and music written by Evan Stephens for this occasion : 

Hosanna, Hallelujah! With heart and voice uniting, Hosanna, hallelujah, In joyous accord, We sing to the Lord, Hosanna, hallelujah, We sing to the Lord. Hosanna, Hallelujah, Amen. 

Sing, O ye ransom'd, 

Ye ransom'd of the Lord, 

Ye who the Gospel received and kept his word, 

Yea, ye pure in heart rejoice, 

Ye who know the Shepherd's voice. 

Sing, O sing ye with joyful heart and voice. 

Sing ye with gladness, 

With gladness and rejoice. 

President Grant announced that he would present to the congregation the General Authorities of the Church, and that they would be voted upon by the various orders of the priesthood separately and also by the entire assembly. 

The President then read the list of General Authorities as follows: Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES FIRST PRESIDENCY COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Reed Smoot George Albert Smith George F. Richards Orson F. Whitney David O. McKay 

James E. Talmage Stephen L. Richards Richard R. Lyman Melvin J. Ballard John A. Widtsoe PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 



PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rey L. Pratt 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

The order of voting was by groups as follows : First — The First Presidency. 

Second — The Council of the Twelve and the Presiding Patriarch. 

Third — The First Council of Seventy. 

Fourth — The Presiding Bishopric. 

Fifth— High Priests. 

Sixth — Seventies. 

Seventh — Elders. 

Eighth — Aaronic Priesthood (Priests, Teachers and Deacons). Ninth — -The entire assembly. 

As each group arose, in response to the request of President Grant, they were asked by him : "Do you sustain the General Authorities of the Church whose names have just been read, in the positions mentioned? If so, raise your right hands." In each instance, following the response, an opportunity was given for any who cared to vote in the negative to do so. 

The voting throughout was unanimous in the affirmative. 

Immediately following the sustaining of the General Authorities, the entire assembly arose to their feet, and under the leadership of President Heber J. Grant, gave the Hosanna Shout, waving their handkerchiefs while doing so. 

The words of the Shout are as follows : 

Hosanna! Hosanna! Hosanna! To God and the Lamb Amen, amen, and amen. Hosanna! Hosanna! Hosanna! To God and the Lamb Amen, amen, and amen. 

Hosanna! Hosanna! Hosanna! To God and the Lamb Amen, amen, and amen. 

The waving of the white handkerchiefs in almost perfect unison and the shouting of praises to God and the Lamb by the thousands of people assembled in the great tabernacle, was perhaps the most thrilling and impressive religious solemnity that those present had ever witnessed. 

The congregation then arose and sang the first and last verses of "America." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have received many telegrams of congratulation on this occasion, but we shall not attempt to read any of them this morning. 

PREDECESSORS GREAT AND GOOD MEN 

It has fallen to my lot, although a very weak, humble instrument in the hands of the Lord, to succeed the wonderful men who have presided over this Church — the Prophet Joseph Smith, than whom no greater man I believe has ever graced the earth; that marvelous pioneer, Brigham Young; that mighty champion of liberty, John Taylor; that exceptional converter of men to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, Wilford Woodruff; Lorenzo Snow, an extraordinary man at eighty-five years of age, who in three years lifted the Church from the slough of despond financially to a place of financial standing; and that man, beloved by all who knew him, one of the outstanding men of all the world, Joseph F. Smith, the greatest preacher of righteousness I have ' ever known. 

BLESSINGS PRONOUNCED UPON GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

It is my right and privilege as the President of this Church to extend a blessing to the people, and with all my heart and soul I bless my counselors for their devotion to me and to the Church. I remember with gratitude my counselors who have passed away. I rejoice in the wonderful labors and the devotion of each and every one of the men who are members of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, also the Presiding Patriarch of the Church. I pray God to bless them for their integrity and their devotion, for their labors at home and abroad among the people. 

I pray God to bless the Seven Presidents of the Seventy, the men who stand at the head of that great body of priesthood, whose duty and obligation it is to carry the Gospel to the ends of the earth. 

I pray the blessings of the Lord upon the Presiding Bishopric of the Church, who preside over all the Lesser Priesthood — the Priests, Teachers and Deacons of the Church. 

BLESSES BRETHREN OF PRIESTHOOD 

I pray. God to bless this wonderful gathering of High Priests, such a gathering as I am sure cannot be found in any other part of the wide world. I pray God to bless the Seventies, and the Elders. I pray that he may bless all the members of the Lesser Priesthood; that he may richly pour out his blessing upon them in their youth, that there may be planted in their hearts a love of God and a desire to serve him as they grow to manhood; that they may feel to walk in the footsteps of their faithful parents. All of us who have been born in the Church, almost without exception, have been born of parents who have given their lives and the best that is in them for the work of God. 

One of the most earnest prayers of my heart all my life has been that I should be able to live to be worthy of such a father and such a mother as were given to me. 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may attend all of the general officers of our Church, all of whom are devoted to this work. 

GRATITUDE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATION 

I pray for the blessings of the Lord upon the officers and the General Board of the Relief Society. My heart goes out in gratitude and thanksgiving to God for the organization, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, of that wonderful society. 

I thank the Lord for my association with Eliza R. Snowf Zina D. Young, Sarah M. Kimball, Aunt Emmeline B. Wells, Bathsheba W. Smith, Clarissa S. Williams and Sister Robison, who have stood as officers of the Relief Society. I am thankful indeed for what they have accomplished, for their wonderful work and example, and I pray God's choicest blessings upon them. 

DEVOTION AND SACRIFICE OF THE MOTHERS 

It is our sisters who carry the burden of the work. We talk about the missionary work of the Elders who go forth to proclaim the Gospel; we talk about the great pioneer work of the early settlers of this country, but I wish to say here that it is the mothers at home who are making the sacrifice for the boys to go into the mission field. It is the mothers who stand the hardships far more than the men. Men are engaged in many activities, and without the devotion and absolute testimony of the living God in the hearts of our mothers this Church would die. May God bless the mothers of men, is my most humble prayer; and I do bless them in the name of God our Heavenly Father and in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. 

INVOKES BLESSINGS UPON AUXILIARY WORKERS 

I pray for the same blessing upon the officers of the General Board of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and upon the Primary Association, the Sunday Schools and the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. I also pray for the blessings of the Lord upon those devoted workers in the Genealogical Society. It is wonderful what is being accomplished in the temples through the energy of these people who are working along that line. 

BLESSINGS INVOKED UPON THE CHOIRS 

I pray for the blessings of the Lord upon our choir and its officers, and upon the music committee. I pray for the blessings of the Lord upon the choirs throughout the Church. There are no other people in the world in proportion to their numbers who have so many who pray to the Lord in beautiful songs. 

PRESIDENTS OF MISSIONS ACCOMPLISHING MARVELOUS WORK 

God bless the Presidents of Missions, one and all. They are marvelous men, those who are active today and those who have served in the past. It is pleasing to contemplate the love and the confidence they have inspired and the inspiration that they have given to those over whom they preside. 

PRESIDENCIES OF STAKES AND BISHOPRICS OF WARDS 

I pray God to bless the wonderful men who have given so much of their time as Presidencies of the Stakes of Zion. Many of the men occupying these positions give nearly as much time to their Church work as they do to their ordinary affairs in life. 

I pray for that same blessing upon the wonderful men who are Bishops and Bishops' Counselors. I ask for the blessing of the Lord upon those who preside over the quorums of priesthood throughout the Church. 

THE MISIONARIES AND THEIR ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

I pray for the blessings of the Lord to be abundantly with those who have been sent forth to proclaim the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, to lift up their voices in testimony that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, the Savior of mankind, and to bear witness that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, inspired of God to restore again to the earth the plan of life and salvation. 

Oh, how my heart goes out to those young men and young women who go forth with this testimony burning in their very hearts for the spread of the truth. And I thank God that they have brought honest souls from all over the wide world, from every denomination under heaven, to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. May God bless them and bless their parents who are making sacrifices to send them forth to proclaim the Gospel. Oh, how I do rejoice that I do not know of one son or one daughter in all Israel who has gone out into the world to proclaim  truth, that has come home to announce the truth is in some other land. Thank God for the truth and the power that goes with these young men and young women as they go forth to proclaim the restoration again to the earth of the plan of life and salvation, the Gospel of Jesus Christ that you and I have received. 

PRAYER FOR AND APPRECIATION OF PATRIARCHS 

God bless the Patriarchs. I thank the Lord for Patriarch Perkins, a noble man in St. George, who gave me a patriarchal blessing as a little child, foretelling my life in one small page of longhand writing, which has been fulfilled to the very letter. I thank God for John Rowberry, who gave me a blessing to the effect that I should be taken from Tooele and be made one of the leading officials of this Church; and who promised Francis M . Lyman that his name should be chronicled among the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ in these last days. God bless our Patriarchs and inspire them in their splendid work. 

A PRAYER FOR THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES 

I echo the prayer that was offered in the opening of this meeting, that God will bless the President of the United States and his cabinet, and all the officers of our great country. How I do rejoice in that 'statement contained in the Book of Mormon to the effect that this is a land choice above all other lands and that no king shall reign here. Let us be true and loyal to this land of liberty. In no land in all the wide world could the Gospel of Jesus Christ have been established except in this beloved America of ours. 

BLESSES GREAT BRITAIN AND OTHER NATIONS 

God bless that liberty-loving country, Great Britain. May he bless Canada, our neighbor on the north, which is like one of our own family. May the blessings of the Lord attend our people on the south, in Mexico, who are struggling for their rights and their liberty. May peace dwell in that land. 

BLESSINGS INVOKED UPON HONEST-HEARTED EVERYWHERE 

I pray that the blessings of Almighty God may be and abide with all the members of this Church, every faithful, diligent Latter-day Saint. May we be able to preach the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ by the honesty, the uprightness and the truthfulness of our lives. If we do this, then we are sure of a final triumph. 

I rejoice in all that we have heard here today. I rejoice and I am sure that the Prophet and the Patriarch of the living God who sealed their testimonies with their blood will rejoice at this wonderful gathering. Oh, how I did pray, how I did supplicate the Lord, that Joseph F. Smith, the son of the martyred Patriarch, might live to occupy today this position that I am occupying. Never until the night before he passed away did I give up the hope that he should have that privilege. But it has fallen to my lot without my seeking to occupy this position. By that spirit of blessing which he possessed, I bless you one and all, and all Israel, and every honest-hearted soul in all the world who is trying to do good, and I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and by the authority of the living God, the priesthood that I hold. Amen. 

The choir rendered the "Hallelujah Chorus" from the oratorio "The Messiah." 

Elder Joseph R. Shepherd, President of the Logan Temple, offered the closing prayer, and the Conference adjourned until 2:00 p. m. 


