Afternoon
06 04 1930


PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

In looking over this vast congregation, composed largely of the priesthood of the Church, — this greatest of all gatherings — my soul is subdued and I feel my own weakness, my own inability. Nevertheless, I am proud indeed to be numbered among you, a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I feel it a distinct honor to be able to assist in some small degree in the furtherance of this great work. 

THE SIXTH DAY OF APRIL 

I would like to call your attention (I think Brother Wood mentioned it in his prayer) to this beautiful Sabbath day, this sixth day of April, nineteen hundred and thirty. Where would you go in all the world to find a more perfect day than this? The Lord, by his overruling providence, has given it to us, and all thanks and honor and praise be given to him. 

A wonderful day, the sixth day of April! Many notable things have occurred on it. The organization of the Church for one great and notable thing. The Prophet Joseph recites in his own story that it was early in the spring of 1820, one hundred and ten years ago, when he went into the woods to pray. I like to think of that also as being on the sixth day of April. We have no definite knowledge of it, but I believe it in my heart and in my soul. And while I have no warrant in revelation for so stating, I believe with all my heart and soul that the sixth day of April was the birthday of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer. Certain it is that the New Testament tells us that the shepherds were tending their flocks on the hills /of Judea when the glory of the Lord fell upon them. More likely was it in the spring of the year than on the twenty-fifth day of December, which is celebrated as the birthday of the Savior; yet we go on celebrating that day, and it is all right to do so, inasmuch as that is the day the world generally accepts. But I repeat it is my individual opinion, firmly fixed in my mind, that the sixth day of April is the birthday of the Savior of the world. I further like to believe that the resurrection of the Redeemer, which marked his triumph over death and the grave, also occurred 'on the sixth day of April, though I have no definite proof. 

Another notable event that occurred on this day is part of the history of this glorious country of ours — the United States of America. The Lord says in the revelations given through the Prophet Joseph Smith that he raised up wise men for the very purpose of framing the Constitution, which guarantees liberty to all. It was born on the sixth day of April. It had previously been adopted by the Constitutional Convention and submitted to the various States for ratification. While it was intended that the returns should all be in by the fourth of March, it was not until the sixth day of April that the electoral votes of the different States were counted by the Senate and House then in session. And on the sixth day of April George Washington was declared to be the President of the United States. So the nation had its real birth at that time. 

Another thing that happened on the sixth day of April: Our nation, in 1917, declared war on Germany, and with all its heart and soul it went into that war. What for? To fight for liberty, to fight against the principle of force, which is Satan's principle, which principle is championed wherever Satan rules. This nation in a short time, with two million men overseas, and with two million more under arms in training, helped to settle the matter; and thus victory was achieved through the action of our government, which government has always stood for liberty and for the blessing of mankind. 

I say again that it is my individual opinion — we have no revelation for it — that the Prophet Joseph Smith received his first manifestation on the sixth day of April. : It was the greatest vision ever given to mortal man; for both the Father and the Son plainly manifested themselves before his eyes and spoke to him. I believe that that was on the sixth day of April, and I believe, although I have no warrant in revelation for it, that the sixth day of April is the birthday of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. 

THE MOST OUTSTANDING ACCOMPLISHMENT 

Now, looking back over the one hundred years that have passed, I have tried in my mind to think what is the most outstanding work that has been accomplished, Of course we as Latter-day Saints know that the spiritual force, the power of the priesthood that is with this work and in this work, is greater than the temporal. But men who have not been touched with the power of the Holy Ghost, cannot see the kingdom of .God. Like Nicodemus they cannot comprehend it. They have not taken advantage of the means of entering it. But temporal things they can see and understand; and to my way of thinking, the great outstanding, beneficent, splendid work that has been accomplished by this Church in the last one hundred years has been the gathering of the poor, not the rich, for we have had scarcely any rich among us. One in a hundred was possibly well-to-do when gathered, but I should say not more than that. The poor have had the Gospel preached to them, and the poor have been gathered to Zion. Gathered to Kirtland, Ohio, in the first place; gathered to Missouri; then driven from Missouri, after which the gathering place was at .Nauvoo, Illinois, from 1839 until 1845 and 1846. The gathering in from the States of this Union and from nearby countries to the places I have mentioned occupied from fourteen to sixteen years. The balance of the one hundred years that have passed and which we are commemorating, have been spent by the saints here in the valleys of the mountains. And this gathering has gone on all through that period, even up to the present time. 

How has this been accomplished? It has been accomplished by the Church, the power of this Church, the influence of this Church, by the people of this Church, the poor helping the poor to get here to this land of Zion, consecrated and dedicated for the gathering place. For did not Isaiah say that in the last days the mountain of the Lord's house should be established in the top of the mountains, and that all nations should flow unto it ? This has been truly a wonderful work. 

THE PERPETUAL EMIGRATION FUND 

In the early days of our settlement here the Perpetual Emigration Fund was established, and many were helped here through that fund. And let me say in passing that the widows and the orphans were not forgotten. President Brigham Young said we would dedicate our lives to see that every poor faithful saint, — widows, orphans and all — was gathered to Zion. That work has gone on until tens of thousands and their succeeding generations, amounting now to hundreds of thousands, have been aided and helped. 

It would interest you if you were to go into the books of the Perpetual Emigration Fund and see some of the names of families who were beneficiaries of that Fund; rather distinguished, now perhaps, but very poor then — so poor that they had to be helped by that Fund, and yet they are now some of the richest among our people. Some of their children unfortunately have forgotten. It is a bad thing to forget. It is a good thing to remember what the Lord has done for us. And the Lord accomplished that work, and this is the Zion of the Lord to which they came. 

TO BUILD UP ZION 

I recall, away back in 1869, when I went on my first mission, we met over in the old Seventies' Hall. President Young instructed us in these words : "Now when you Elders get out in the world and see. conditions there and think of the good things we have here at home, you may get to praising our country too much. Don't do that. This is what I would like you to promise the people who gather to Zion : plenty of hard work and persecution." 

So there was no allurement or inducement to come for better circumstances, but only to build up Zion. And this has been Zion all the while. Isaiah said concerning it : 

"For the Lord shall comfort Zion : he will comfort all her 'waste places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the Lord; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving and the voice of melody." 

The Lord was to do this. To whom? To Zion. Do you know of any other people called Zion upon the face of the earth? Do you know of anything more beautiful than this verse of Isaiah's? I am going to take the liberty of reading it again : 

"For the Lord shall comfort Zion : he will comfort all her waste places." 

HER WASTE PLACES COMFORTED 

Were there waste places here when our pioneers came ? Was there anything here but waste and desert and wilderness? There were no paths. Go around in other countries where there is food for wild game and you will find trails — -for jack-rabbits at least. You will find a trail for the deer, you will find tracks. There was not anything of the kind here. For it was so much of a waste and so much of a wilderness and desert, and so barren, that there was scarcely any game except way back in the mountains. It was in very deed a trackless waste, a wilderness. There were no streets, no paths, no trails, no anything, — just a' desert. Yet the prophet of the Lord a few days after arriving here, putting down his cane right on this block, prophesied, "Here we will build the temple of the Lord." 

"For the Lord shall comfort Zion : he will comfort all her waste places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her deserts like the garden of the Lord; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving and 'the voice of melody." 

Is the voice of melody here today? Is there any place in the world where there are sweeter singers and more of them in proportion to the population than right here? Is there any more of thanksgiving and the voice of melody anywhere else in the world according to numbers, than there is here in this land? This is Zion. The Lord will comfort Zion and all her waste places, and he will make her wilderness like Eden and her desert like the garden of the Lord. 

Another verse by the same Isaiah and with respect to the same Zion : 

"And the ransomed' of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion' with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads; they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away." This is the word of the Lord concerning Zion. This is the Zion of our Lord. 

THE LORD HAS DONE IT 

Time will not permit me to speak further in respect to this one great outstanding, wonderful work that the Lord has accomplished with Zion — the gathering of the saints from all parts of the earth. He has brought it about. He has overruled it. It is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves. Do not forget that. The sacrifices that our parents have made have been most wonderful. The Lord was with them. My heart sorrows when I think of my own parents, the poverty and sacrifice that they had to undergo in so many different ways; and I glory in the fact that they failed not nor faltered, but stood firm through it all. They gave of their lives for my sake, so that the path is easier for me, and I am blessed more in living and trying to live to help on in that great work. All praise be unto the Lord for his goodness and mercy and blessings. 

BLESSINGS THROUGH OBEDIENCE AND SACRIFICE 

I praise the Lord for the association of my brethren, for the privilege of meeting with the saints, for the enjoyment I have in laboring for this great cause. I know it is the work of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that this people will be blessed far more than they ever have been blessed, far more than they could hope to be blessed, if we will only, as our President has said, keep the commandments of the Lord, pay our tithes, and sacrifice something for the kingdom of God. It is sacrifice that brings forth the blessings of heaven, let me tell you, and the man or woman who is not willing to make some sacrifice cannot claim the blessings. 

May the Lord help us build up his kingdom, glorify his holy name, and remember that in this great hundred years past what a wonderful work of gathering to Zion has been accomplished. Such a beneficent, blessed piece of constructive work, the greatest contribution to tens of thousands of the poor that have been so thoroughly blessed by it, must be recognized by all men, and acknowledged as a good work. Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters : This is an historic occasion. In view of the great celebration of the centenary of the Church now in progress, my thoughts of late have turned to the prophecies of old. Many of the predictions of the ancient prophets have been fulfilled to the letter so far as time has gone, others are in process of fulfilment. 

I am reminded of a very remarkable incident that occurred in the very early years of the earth's history. This incident has been briefly referred to by my brethren who have already spoken, but I have been looking at it from a little different angle. NEBUCHADNEZZAR DREAMS A DREAM 

It would seem that Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, dreamed a dream which made a profound impression upon his mind, but strange to say, upon awakening, he was unable to recall the dream, and the interpretation thereof. So he called for the wise men of Babylon, the magicians, the astrologers, the sorcerers and the Chaldeans, and he commanded them to bring back his dream and give the interpretation thereof. If they would do this he promised them gifts and rewards. But if they failed he warned them that they would be cut to pieces and destroyed. 

They said to him, "O king, live forever : tell thy servants the dream, and we will shew thee the interpretation." 

The king said, "The thing is gone from me." 

AN UNUSUAL REQUEST 

Thereupon the wise men were very much agitated, and they said to him: 

"O king, thou hast required of us an unusual thing. There is no man upon the earth who can show the king this matter. It is only the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh, that can bring back your dream." 

For this cause the king was angry and very furious, and sent forth a decree that the wise men of Babylon should be destroyed. 

This was a very critical time for Daniel, the young Hebrew prophet, and his three brethren who were numbered among the wise men of. Babylon. Daniel sought an interview with the king and plead with him for further time, saying that he would get the interpretation of his dream. His request was granted. 

THE KING'S DREAM MADE KNOWN 

Now, mark you, by the prayer of faith the king's dream was made known to Daniel of the Lord, and the interpretation was given. Once more Daniel was conducted before the king and he said to him : 

"We will bring back your dream, O king, and we will give you the interpretation thereof." 

And so he said: 

"Thou, O king, sawest, and behold a great image. This great image, whose brightness was excellent, stood before thee, and the form thereof was terrible. 

"This image's head was of fine gold, his breast and his arms of silver, his belly and his thighs of brass, 

"His legs of iron, his feet part of iron and part of clay." 

And then, the prophet said : 

"Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands, which smote the image upon his feet that were of iron and clay, and brake them to pieces. 

"Then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken to pieces together and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors; and the wind carried them away, that no place was found for them : and the stone that smote the image became a great mountain, and filled the whole earth. "This is the dream; and we will tell the interpretation thereof before the king." 

THE INTERPRETATION 

He said : 

"Thou, O king, art a king of kings : for the God of heaven hath given thee a kingdom, power, and strength, and glory. 

"And wheresoever the children of men dwell, the beasts of the field, and the fowls of the heaven, hath he given into thine hand, and hath made thee ruler over them all. Thou art this head of gold. 

"And after thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee, and another third kingdom of brass, which shall bear rule over all the earth. 

"And the fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron." 

This fourth kingdom was represented by the feet and toes of iron and of clay. 

"Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it brake in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter : and the dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure." 

And he said further: 

"And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed : and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever." 

THE FULFILMENT 

The Christian world of today is witness of the fact that the very things which the great image stood for have occurred so far as time has gone. History certifies to the fact that King Nebuchadnezzar was the head of gold. The Medes arid Persians, an inferior kingdom to Babylon, were the arms and breast of silver. The Macedonian kingdom, under Alexander the Great, was the belly and thighs of brass; and the Roman kingdom under the Caesars was the legs of iron. For mark you, later on the kingdom, or empire of Rome, was divided. The head of the government in one division was at Rome and the head of the government in the other division was at Constantinople. So these two great divisions represented the legs of iron. Finally, the Roman empire was broken up into smaller kingdoms, represented by the feet and toes of iron and clay, and as there were ten toes on the image we might well conclude that the following ten kingdoms stand to represent the toes : Italy, established in 496 A. D.; France, in 753; England, 853; Germany, 806; Holland, 922; Portugal, 1138; Persia, 1139; Austria-Hungary, 1159; Spain, 1171; Greece, 1829 A. D. 

THE STONE CUT OUT OF THE MOUNTAIN 

The stone cut out of the mountain without hands, representing the kingdom of God, was established April 6th, 1830, with six members, and is known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Thus  work of the Lord in our own time, designated by revelation as a marvelous work and a wonder, had a very humble beginning, but it has grown apace. Today the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has a membership of about 700,000. It cost the best blood of the nineteenth century to establish this work on the earth. Its founder, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his brother Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, were martyred for the cause of truth, in Carthage, Illinois, in 1844. The Latter-day Saints have passed through the fire of persecution and have stood the test of one hundred years. Never was the prospect brighter for our people than it is today. We sincerely believe, and, I may say, have every assurance, that this Church will stand forever. It is indeed the Church of the Son of God, the Redeemer of mankind. 

ITS ORGANIZATION 

Within its organization will be found a line of general authorities, consisting of a First Presidency of three, a council of Twelve Apostles, a Presiding Patriarch, a First Council of Seventy and a Presiding Bishopric. There are in the Church also numerous quorums of High Priests, Seventies, Elders, Priests, Teachers, and Deacons, by which and through which the affairs of the Church are conducted and the Gospel preached to the saints and to the world and the ordinances of the Gospel administered for the salvation of souls. 

For the knowledge I have and of which I humbly testify that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, I am truly thankful and feel to praise the Lord. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. God bless the people of the Latter-day Saints, and prosper his work, and bless those who preside over and direct the affairs of his Church is my prayer, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

An original dramatic poem, written especially for this occasion, will now be read by its author, Elder Orson F. Whitney. 

Elder Whitney then took the stand and read the poem, which follows : 

THE LIFTED' ENSIGN— A CALL TO ISRAEL 

"And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth." — Isaiah 11 :12. 

Characters Impersonated : elias :: ephraim :: judah 

elias : 

A voice that crieth in the Wilderness : 

"Make plain and straight the Highway of our God!" One Hundred Years, on Time's swift pinions flown, Since raised the Ensign for the Gathering — One hundred years, and still the standard waves, Summoning the chosen from world-wandering, Calling the covenant people from afar, To greet the coming of their God and King. 

Children of Jacob, Isaac, Abraham, Sheep of the flock the Shepherd comes to fold! How have ye answered to his beckoning call ? What have ye done his pathway to prepare ? 

Give answer, Ephraim, from thy mountain height, Where streams the signal seen and sung of yore — First-born of God in these, Earth's final days, Speak thou, and let the winds thy story tell! 

ephraim : 

I hear thee, and with joy I answer thee: 'Twas mine to welcome the return of Truth, Of old from Error's wide domain withdrawn; Mine to unshroud the buried mystery Of mighty nations, whispering from the dust; Mine to unfurl the Ensign, and to sound O'er sea and land the tidings wonderful; Flooding the world with truth and righteousness, Thrusting the sickle in the golden grain, Reaping a ripened field, and garnering The earliest sheaves of Israel's harvest home. 

I've toiled and wept and bled to bring once more 

The fulness of Christ's Message unto men; 

To build redemptive Temples, that the dead, 

Obedient to law in spirit realms, 

Might with the living share in joys divine. 

More wouldst thou hear ? — 

There's more I fain would tell. 

elias : 

Tell on! — tell on! Truth wearies not mine ear. ephraim : 

Expelled by tyranny from Freedom's ground, 

I tracked the lone untrodden wilderness. 

Here 'neath my virile touch, once barren wilds 

Now sing for joy and bloom delightsomely. 

I've planted Zion's outposts, firm and strong, 

Rock-fortressed by the everlasting hills, 

Where Faith expectantly doth bide the hour 

When Zion's self from Eden's soil shall rise, 

Thrilled by the glad acclaim : "The Bridegroom comes Nor all my ministries on Western shores, 

Nor all my sympathies with next of kin. 

Have I not stood on ancient Olivet, 

And offered prayer to heaven for Judah's weal ? 

Have I not combed the universe and drawn 

The choice of nations to this favored land, 

Where homing tribes shall shout to trembling hills, 

And lift hosannas to the listening skies 

That light the towers of New Jerusalem? 

By these and kindred works my faith is shown. Thus have I answered to the Shepherd's call. 

elias : 

And answered well. And He whose day now dawn 

Shall crown thy valor with a recompense 

As boundless, endless as eternity. 

Now, Judah, tell thy tale! 'What deeds of thine 

Are strewn as flowers along Messiah's way? 

judah : 

Messiah ? — Him I see not in the man 

Whom Christians name the Christ, their holy one. 

I see not in their God my fathers' God, 

Whose covenant abides with Abraham; 

Who spake to Moses in the fiery Mount, 

And gave the Law to govern Israel. 

Blind am I to what Ephraim beholds. 

Perchance the air is purer, view more large, 

On yonder height where stalwartly he stands, 

Than in the misty vale where I respire. 

Thinkst thou I err, his thought interpreting ? 

But I am with him in the war for right, For justice and the freedom of the world. And to this cause give I a willing hand, And pledge my friendship, faith and loyalty. 

elias : 

Thou sayest well — yet well might'st say far more For Israel's God, Jehovah, Lord of All, Who gave the Gospel as He gave the Law, And died that endless death might vanquished be. What limit to His merit or His claim? 

judah : 

Plead not with me my ancient faith to change — Older than aught by Christians deemed divine; Pure as the snowy peaks of Lebanon, That pour reviving streams o'er thirsty plains. What nobler doctrine than the Decalogue? What higher law than Justice can'st thou name ? elias : 

Is Justice more than Mercy — more than Love ? No need to change thy faith, but build thereon. If thou the Perfect Law wouldst comprehend, Its loftiest, purest, heavenmost height attain, Add unto justice the pure love of God — Sweet Charity, of graces all the crown. 

judah : 

Justice — not Mercy — is the Jew's demand. 

And tell me, when did Christian charity 

Mean justice for the wronged, down-trodden Jew? 

Mercy, forsooth! what mercy have they shown, 

Who slaughter 'neath the banner of the Cross? 

Too much we hear of love and charity, 

From lips of hate, from hearts of cruelty, 

Boasting a leader whom they follow not, 

Prating of love, but never practising. 

This Jesus, whom they laud, not emulate, 

Good man — e'en great perchance. But why a God ? 

Joseph and Mary's son, a common Jew, 

Who sat at feet of rabbis famed for lore, 

And learned from them, yet brought forth nothing new. 

Why should the knee of Israel bend to him ? 

elias : 

Sat He at no man's feet for power to save And lift up fallen worlds. His wisdom came From heights more distant than the unseen stars, Fresh as the morning dew upon the flower; Pure as the snow — so white on Lebanon Till tainted by the soil through which it flows — Truth by tradition's muddy stream unroiled. 

The sapient rabbis, famed for antique lore, 

Might well have learned from Him — but would not learn. 

The wisest of the scribes and pharisees, 

Astounded, routed were, and put to shame 

By One who spake as no man since or ere. 

Old was his doctrine — truth is ever old — 

Old as its parent spring, Eternity, 

Old upon earth, from Adam until now. 

Yet seemed it new to them; — and this the cause, 

The chief and primal cause of that great crime 

Which on the cross He pardoned and forgave. 

Man — merest man will die a friend to save. Who but a God, to save both foe and friend ? And very God was He, though human-born, Divinely-gotten Child of Deity. But why waste words upon those recreant Jews, Those pseudo Christians — false that mask as true ? The salt can lose its savor — so with them — Unworthy parts, bespeaking not the whole. Why dwell upon these human happenings? Lift thought and argument to higher planes. 

JUDAH : 

Amen! say I. And now to me make plain — To me, who am so dull — this mystery : What need had Israel of this Nazarene? Why came a Christ, great Moses having come? And why a Gospel when the Law was known ? 

ELIAS : 

What need of Christ — the Lord — since Moses came? 

Moses to Christ was but as part to whole, 

Preface to book, mere river to the sea, 

And all the dispensations of the past, 

When heaven hath gladdened earth with spirit showers, 

Are but as streams that to one Ocean flow. 

Why separate the Gospel from the Law — Greater and less — container and contained? Why part God from his prophet messengers, Sent from Above to voice and work his will, And preparation make for mightier things Than e'er were known among the sons of men; Completing what creation's morn began, When Gods in glory launched a universe? 

judah : 

But Abraham — the solemn Covenant — 

Jehovah's sacred promise to His own : 

"In thee and thine all men, all nations blest" — 

Spoken these words upon the idle wind, 

That now they be as though they ne'er had been ? 

elias : 

'Twas Christ made covenant with Abraham, Jesus, Jehovah — for the twain are one; — Then gave Himself that covenant to fulfill; And mixt His people with earth's alien tribes, That all — not Israel only — might be blest, Nor least and last of nations fail to share In blessings showered through him upon the world, Sprinkled, as rain, with his believing blood; Peopling the arid wastes of unbelief With souls responsive to the clarion call Shaking the seas and isles and continents, And gathering what was scattered ages gone. JUDAH : 

But Moses — what of him? Lived he for naught? Sayest thou his mighty mission was in vain? 

elias : 

Nay; but to round his glorious ministry, And link the lesser with the greater part, Making effectual all that went before, In this, the dispensation last of all, Came he the Keys of Gathering to restore; Lest Ephraim's rallying" standard wave in vain O'er Joseph's land and Zion's, known of old By seers and prophets from thy household sprung. Whose sacred words flow down the centuries To find fulfillment in this ample age, Where past and present, sire and son must join, Perfection reign, and all in Christ be one. 

Ephraim his part hath played, and thou no less, In God's great drama — "Marvel and Wonder" named. Wherefore, complete thy story, well begun. What hast thou done His pathway to prepare ? 

JUDAH : 

His pathway! — his, the peasant carpenter, Whose body, stolen from the tomb, long since Hath crumbled and returned to native dust? Granting, for argument, he is to come, Why should I strew with palms his earthward way? Why for his coming should my soul prepare? 

elias : 

Because He is thy Father and thy Friend, 

Because He is the God of Israel — 

Buried yet risen Savior of mankind, 

Author and Giver of the life divine. 

What hast thou done that He on earth may reign ? 

Silent? Then wouldst thou choose one speak for thee, 

Who ne'er unfriendly was to thee or thine, 

But sympathetic in thy sorrows all? 

For thou hast borne the brunt of martyrdom, 

Alike in Christian and in heathen lands, 

Enduring long and suffering patiently, 

While lesser breeds have trampled thee and spurned. 

Driven — despoiled — tortured and trodden down, 

Drinking the bitter cup, Captivity, 

Yet still, through groaning, pain-racked centuries 

Honoring Jehovah's name, Jehovah's law, 

Spreading the knowledge of the living God 

Amid the shrines of Baal and Ashtoreth. Why 'twas thy hand the instrument became Of purpose heaven-ordained ere earth began, Whereby, through sacrifice and death, came Life, To rescue and redeem a fallen world, — No mortal knoweth. Only this men know: Christ did not cast thee off. He that forgave Is still thy Friend — as are true Christians all; For none love God who hate what God doth love. 

Forth in these modern days thine eager hand, 

To build anew the old Jerusalem, 

To raise once more her walls, oft leveled down; 

To gather in thy sons and daughters fair, 

And sow a sterile land with f ruitf ulness; 

Redeeming thus thine ancient heritage, 

That Zion's King may sit on David's throne. 

Not all thy sons thy wearied arms uphold, 

Not all are Hurs and Aarons in the strife. 

Summon thy worldings from the tinseled show, 

Where folly reigns and ruin works its will. 

Teach them to play a better, nobler part, 

And walk with thee the greater "Great White Way." 

Rouse all that slumber beneath sordid spells, 

Or unto gods of dust low homage pay; 

Bid them to bring their gold and jewels rare, 

Their heaped up stores of precious merchandise, 

Their wealth, like Pelion on Ossa piled, 

And beautify the Holy Place of Him 

Whose law shall yet from Zion's land go forth, 

Whose royal edict from Jerusalem. 

For Israel o'er Amalek must prevail, 

And repossess in full the Promised Land. 

Ah! Judah, couldst thou see what Ephraim sees — Thy monarch in that lowly Nazarene, Long-symboled by the oft-slain paschal lamb, Prophetic of the Sacrifice Supreme. 

Would thou couldst see what ancient seers discerned, 

What spirit-quickened eyes may now behold — 

Messiah in that Prophet first-of-all, 

The Moses of a mightier Exodus 

Than e'er was dreamt of in rabbinic lore; 

Deliverer of a captive universe, 

In bondage to the powers of death and hell! 

And thy Deliverer in a day to come,  When hostile legions thunder at thy gates, When half thy city hath become a spoil, As written in the scroll of prophecy. Then shalt thou see and feel His wounded hands, Then shalt thou fall and worship at His feet; And all that fight 'gainst Jacob's, Judah's God, Shall be as dust and ashes whirl-wind-blown, As flying chaff before the hurricane. 

JUDAH : 

What confirmation hath this mighty claim ? How can I know if such great things be true? If I be blind, who will my sight unscale? 

ELIAS : 

He who makes blind to see and deaf to hear! — Hearken to Him and whomso'er He sends. Bow to the sceptre of the Son of God, The Gospel of the High and Holy One, And by that Gift which maketh manifest Thou'lt clearly see and of a surety know The message Ephraim brings thee is divine, — Old and yet new, the Everlasting Truth,  Pure from the presence of our fathers' God. Fresh from the fountains of Eternity. 

JUDAH : 

Why Ephraim ? Why his proud pre-eminence, 

Towering amid the tents of Israel? 

Why should his word or thine determine all? 

elias : 

Because it is the word of Israel's God, 

Whose servant I, as I would fain be thine; — 

The God of Moses and of Abraham, 

The God of patriarchs and prophets all, 

The God of Israel free and Israel chained; 

God of the humble and the pure-in-heart; 

God of the just, in every age and clime; 

The Christ of Bethlehem and Calvary, 

The King of Kings, the crucified and crowned. 

Come, weary-laden, He will give thee rest, 

And thou shalt tread the rose-strewn path of peace. 

ephraim : 

Heed, Judah! heed Messiah's messenger, Hearken to me, thy brother and thy friend. No more doth envy of thee sour my soul, Nor doth thine anger vex me, as of yore. Forgiven as I forgive, clean, clear I stand, And I am sent Good Tidings to proclaim. No man-made creed — no dogma vague, unsound — The Ancient Faith, pure, simple, sweet, sublime, The Gospel in its plentitude of power, The Gospel in its fulness — this I bring. 

elias : 

Judah! 'tis Ephraim calls — he loves thee well, His hand extends, his heart, to welcome thee. Why stand aloof ? Why doubt and hesitate ? Jerusalem and Zion are as one. See Japheth launch his ships to people them! The Gentile, all unknowingly doth serve The cause of Him who summons Israel To Joseph's land, to Judah's hills and vales. Behold them in their flight from Babel's doom, Borne on the shoulders of the Philistine? 

Be not outstript in such a glorious race. Judah, arise! Put on thine ancient might, Expand thy soul, enlarge thy sympathy; Join hands with Ephraim, and bring to pass All that the prophets and the seers foretold! 

judah : 

Thy speech I can believe most kindly meant, Thy motive pure and generous and just. But who can change the course of destiny? Who void what Great Jehovah hath decreed ? 'Tis conscience guides me, and high Heaven alone Doth hold, of that mysterious lock, the key. 

Yet something tells me we shall meet again. God grant it be as friends! And so, farewell. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "High on the mountain tops." 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

My dear brethren and sisters : I am going to read my remarks on this occasion in the interest of brevity, but chiefly in order that I may know when I am through. I warn you, however, that I read very much worse even than I speak. If I do not present all I would like to say on this occasion I shall still be very happy, because I am going to ask leave "to print" the parts that must be omitted in my verbal remarks. In this, too, I shall be happy, because the printed parts of the speech are already set up by the printers, and those parts constitute six large volumes, each from five hundred and sixty to six hundred pages per volume, making in all over 3,400 pages. That work, with the verbal remarks I am now making, will constitute my discourse at this first centennial conference of the Church, covering one hundred years of organized existence. 

Of course you will surmise by now that I am making reference to the Comprehensive History of the Church, Century I, which the Presidency of the Church has directed to be published as one of the features of this centennial conference; and which they directed me about a year ago to prepare. I can now report that five of those volumes are printed and bound, and that the sixth will be printed and bound by the middle of April or at farthest by the first of May. 

I would not have you think, however, this history of a hundred years has been wholly prepared in the time limit of a year. Its present publication is rather the culmination of many years — I might say of a life-time of work. Under circumstances quite remarkable — but too full of detail to speak of now — an opportunity came to me to write for a New York magazine what its publishers called a detailed "History of the Mormon Church." To make space for it they changed the magazine from a bi-monthly to a monthly periodical; enlarged its size, and at the same time changed its name from "The American Historical Magazine" to "Americana." "The History of the Mormon Church," as the article prepared was then called, ran through six years of that publication, beginning in 1911, and ran at an average of forty-two pages per number. After its publication in that form, two years more were spent in verifying its numerous references and improving its arrangement; and now another rather strenuous year has been devoted to its final preparation for the press. 

I will ask you to remember that this publication is not mine beyond the mere matter of construction. The publication of it both in the first instance and now was made possible by action of the Presidency of the Church, by President Joseph F. Smith, and now by President Heber J. Grant. From first to last the Presidency will have advanced for the publication as it now issues from the press at least $100,000; and they propose to have it sold at such prices to the people — as I understand it — so nearly the cost of producing it, that I am doubtful if they will ever recover from the sale of it the money they have advanced for its production and reasonable interest upon it. 

Permit me to say that financially this work means nothing to me. Its publication and sale will not bring me one dollar for its preparation; if it did I should shame to speak of it here as advertising my own wares. But this is not so, the work is not mine financially, I could not have financed it, neither shall I profit financially by it. My work in connection with it has been given in the ordinary service of my regular work in the Church, prompted and sustained through all the years by my deep love of the subject, and my desire to leave on record one sermon on the New Dispensation of the Gospel. And I am grateful to  who have made possible the production of my discourse that requires six large full volumes to contain it. In my remarks, then, I am just reporting a work which the Church has undertaken and has brought to what I venture to think is a successful termination. 

Some may question the need of so voluminous a work. Six volumes! Why could not the history of a hundred years of the New Dispensation have been written in one volume, or at most in two? For some purposes that might well be. But I desire to say a word of justification for the largeness of this work. 

In the first place you have to deal with an immense subject. You have to consider the first century' of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. That is the dispensation of all dispensations; the one which will gather into itself all the dispensations of God's revealed will through all the ages, from the days of, Adam until the present time; the dispensation when God will "gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and in earth, even in him" (Eph. i). The history of this dispensation then is some contract. In it the ends of the earth meet. It comprises in a way, the history of the world and of the human race. It will have to deal with all true philosophy and all true religion, and the contact of these with false philosophies and false religions and the struggle for existence between the two — the false and the true. Of course, I have not attempted in my puny six volumes to go into the treatment of all this vast field. My work covers merely the first century of this New Dispensation; but even so the work, as you see, is necessarily a large one, and needs scope for its treatment; room for the consideration of its mighty themes and the correlation of them with past, present and future. So that the very largeness of the theme alone would justify and demand a large work. I have found the scope of six volumes inconveniently narrow in places for an adequate treatment of some phases of the great subject in hand. There are other considerations also which justify the employment of so large a treatment of the subject besides mere largeness of it. 

A few years ago a critic of some standing in the Christian world — he was secretary of a large group of so-called Christian churches — conceded that "the Mormon church is possessed of elements of great power. These elements are founded in its principles of centralized power, and in its social program." He said, "there is no real menace in the Mormon Church to our (i. e. United States) political institutions;" dangers along that line were past. And then : 

"Mormonism has reached the zenith of its supernatural visions, is receding, gradually fading in the Mormon consciousness itself. The time spirit will cure it of its abnormalities. It will die amid its own worshippers." 

"The way to oppose Mormonism is not to throw mud upon it. A campaign of detraction only helps it to grow. The thing to do is to treat it with candor and fairness. * * * It must fall of its own, weight, if it is so to fall at all." 

Then he treats us to this reflection with its implication : "Our little systems have their day; They have their day, and cease to be; They are but broken lights of Thee, And thou, O Lord, art more than they." 

This critic is Wm. Oeschger, Secretary of the Nebraska Christian churches (State Journal, Nebraska, Nov. 24, 1918). 

At a public meeting in Reading, Penn., a lady submitted the following question to me : 

"In view of the fact that the drift of the world's thought is away from acceptance of the miraculous, what is to be the future of Mormonism?" 

The question is a thoughtful one. It is a fact that the trend of the world's thought is away from acceptance of the miraculous. It is also true that Mormonism had its birth in what men call miracles; in such miracles as are said to tax the credulity of the mind of man to accept, and of modern man in particular. In view of these premises, then, what is to be the future of your faith, Latter-day Saints? The future of Mormonism? Is it the case of an inflowing tide that has carried a ship far up a gently sloping shore, and that now the tide ebbing, leaves the ship beached on the shore, to become a helpless derelict that in time must perish ? 

Another suggestion: A recent writer, as late as January, 1930, discusses what to him are the necessary limitations of Mormonism. Permit me to say that this writer knows his subject, and our protagonists will not find it the easiest task in the world to meet all his criticism. This writer concedes that of the whole group of religious movements in America that arose about the same time that Mormonism had its origin, Mormonism alone has survived; that is, in any way worth while, and is today a really "going concern." Then he asks, this being so, "Why then has not God's kingdom overspread the Republic ?" His answer is : "Simply because it is self -limited." And he argues that matter of self-limitation of "Mormonism" in this way : 

"The quest for the perfect American religion could be successful only on the lowest level of intelligence. Piety and business could only be completely fused by means of a creed too ridiculous for any widespread acceptance. * * * The doctrines of Mormonism are indispensable to its system." 

The critic is right on that point. "The doctrines of Mormonism are indispensable to its system." Mormonism must be wholly accepted or wholly rejected. Its doctrines, and the whole-hearted acceptance of them is indispensable to membership in its system. The miraculous visions of Joseph Smith, the miraculous visitation of Moroni, and the miraculous translation of the Book of Mormon, the fact of direct and continuous revelation from God, all must be accepted or Mormonism can have no standing; nor can anyone have a standing in Mormonism without acceptance of these doctrines. Then our author proceeds : 

"If they [meaning the doctrines] are altered or rejected in any particular, the system must collapse!" 

Nothing. more true was ever said of Mormonism than that; and I hope Latter-day Saints appreciate the fact of it. Then our writer launches his thunderbolt : 

"And they (the doctrines of Mormonism) compose a body of belief almost incredibly absurd. Mormonism made a formidable effort to include all the imbecile dreams that were contemporary with its rise. It was and it remains, at once, millennial restorationist and perfectionist. Fossilized in its canons is nearly every metaphysical, theological and liturgical insanity of the American pentecost. It epitomizes the religious nonsense of a full half century. It was too fundamentally a reaction, as creeds of restoration must necessarily be, so that it retains notions long since discarded by its competitors. A body of beliefs as absurd and grotesque may exist on a small scale here and there, in Los Angeles or Zion City, but none so grotesque is accepted by any number comparable to the Mormons.," 

And these "absurd" and "grotesque" miraculous doctrines, it is argued, will constitute the limitations of Mormonism, and confine its acceptance to a few. That is to say, according to this view Mormonism may become a tolerated, minor sect, but never will be a world movement — God's kingdom, overspreadjng the republic and the world. To recur to my Reading, Penn., lady's question — for involved in that, by implication, is the same argument and conclusion as in this American Mercury writer's discussion — "In view of the trend of modern thought away from acceptance of the miraculous, what is to be the future of Mormonism ?" 

Which is it to be, Latter-day Saints, a limited but tolerated sect, or a world movement? A beached ship on the shore — derelict of the receding world-thought-tides, or the kingdom of God overspreading the nations? What is to be your answer, Oh Church of Latter-day Saints, to these criticisms and this prediction based upon your alleged self-limitations, which are relied upon as marking your defeat as a world movement? 

Again what is to be your answer? My answer is — Your history of one hundred years will be your vindication; will effectively prove your claims to the world movement character of your religion and your church. Not a sect, but the universal religion founded upon Jesus Christ — his Gospel and the New Dispensation of it, the complement and fulfilment of all that has gone before, and prophecy of what shall be hereafter. To make this appear, however, your historic statement, your history must not be merely a recital of events. The events must be coordinated and so linked together that the rationale of successive events shall be made apparent; and how they link in with the world movements which but spell out God's purposes struggling to get expressed. All this requires ample space — every word of six volumes! 

Above all, your history must be honest and fearless. Not mere eulogy of what may be your own side, and a convenient silence, or a half concealment of the facts and consequences that make against you. If it be the duty of the drama and acting to so hold the mirror up to nature as "to show virtue her own features, scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his form and pressure," still more is it the duty of history to so mirror truth and only truth. All this that your History may command the respect of mankind. In our case the History must be so full and frank and fair that truth and the spirit of truth shall be what sunlight is to the atmosphere, so permeating it as to be in and through it an everywhere present spirit of truth, as the Spirit of God is everywhere preserve through his creations. Such a presence that can no more be separated from your History than sunlight can be plucked from the atmosphere. Such a statement of, and such a treatment of the great truths brought forth in Century One of the organized existence of the Church of the New Dispensation; and so related to what must be the grand purposes of an All-wise and All-loving and Just and Merciful and Righteous Heavenly Father, that the truth will stand vindicated and self-evident to the minds of the men of good will by the mere statement of it, largely enough accepted to make it the dominant kingdom of truth. Here a doctrine of our first prophet, Joseph Smith, helps us : 

"Every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God has such an influence over the mind that it is convincing without other testimony. Faith cometh by hearing." 

That is to say, Truth has a native power of its own, and if stated clearly and fully it will be its own witness. 

"No," said Joseph Smith, so sure was he of this principle — "No, I don't want anyone to tell I am a prophet, or attempt to prove my word." He was confident of the self-evident truth of the spoken word. This being true, our cause shall suffer little from the threat of selflimitations, and the menace of unbelief because of our doctrines being "absurd" or "grotesque," since the truth of them may be established by a clear and effective statement of them; the truth being its own witness. Tell your story, preach your sermon. Write your History in the very spirit of truth; and the spirit of truth will rise up to confirm it; "its own convincing power will be its witness." 

I have so tried to write your history. 

As to whether Mormonism will be merely a tolerated sect, or a world movement, the veritable kingdom of God to spread over all nations, it but remains for those who are the members of this Church which God has founded, who constitute its priesthood and its membership; it only remains for them to keep the vision splendid before them with which this work began; and I predict a world movement, not a sect will be its character. 

God, who at sundry times and in divers manners made known his plans and purposes with reference to man's earth life, such revelations being known as dispensations of his Gospel, has in these last days made known that these successive dispensations have come through the ages as an intermittent stream flows through a valley, fed at times from side streams coming in from right and left. Sometimes the river  become wholly dry; then the river springs up again to flow for a time copiously, with life-giving force, only to sink again from view. But finally God, fulfilling his purposes designed from the first, opens the heavens and gives such floods of rain that so start the stream from all its sources, that it shall never again run dry or spread out and be lost in desert sands. It will constantly widen and deepen until ultimately it will merge with the ocean, which is its home. So God's dispensations shall be gathered and flow into one, the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. Your dispensation and mine, meaning the one in which we work; God's dispensation, really, in the which he will gather together in one "all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are in earth, even in him." 

This, then, is the message of our Church voiced from Century One of our organized existence to the world — the incoming of the final dispensation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

"Hear, O Heavens and give ear, O Earth, for God hath spoken!" The veil between heaven and earth has been rent from top to bottom. Heaven's pavilion is taken up, and God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son are revealed anew. 

God's plans and purposes in all the dispensations are made known, there has been a unifying of the truth of all the dispensations of God to men ward. 

The everlasting covenant, of which the blood of the Christ is both sign and seal, has been renewed. 

A true priesthood, which is God's power and authority given to man, which becomes God working through men, has been conferred on man in regular order of succession. 

The Church of Jesus Christ has again, and for the last time, been set up and made the depository of God's truth and the fulness of it; and has been given the missiqn of proclaiming that truth and the fulness of it to every nation and kindred and tongue and people. Also to this Church has been given the high mission of perfecting the lives of those who receive its truth. 

The gathering of all Israel has been proclaimed, and the restoration of Judah to Jerusalem with commandment to resume his national life. 

Joseph, son of Jacob, his place as prince in Israel has been made known; and to him has been given the gathering of the tribes, to receive their blessings at the hands of Ephraim, preparatory to going to their own and final lands of inheritance. 

The Record of Joseph in the hands of Ephraim, the Book of Mormon, has been revealed and translated by the power of God, and supplies the world with a new witness for the Christ, and the truth and the fulness of the Gospel. 

The Zion of God_. the capital of the empire of the Christ in the new world, the place of it is revealed, and for many years proclaimed and will not be moved out of its place, Elias who held the keys of God's Church in the days of Abraham and blessed him, has restored the patriarchal powers and graces of the priesthood, to link together the families of men in patriarchal order, from now to the time of the end. 

Elijah, translated to heaven without tasting death, and therefore made the man of two worlds, heaven and earth, and by that token capable of working in each and both, has restored the keys of the long promised, priesthood that turns the hearts of the children to the fathers, and the hearts of the fathers to the children. In this first century of existence for the Church, and in consequence of this, Elijah's, mission, more than seven millions of baptisms for the dead have been performed, and more than fifteen millions of ordinances (including the baptisms) have been performed for the dead. Seven temples have been erected in various parts of the land of Zion, for a continuance of this holy work, and more will yet be builded. Think what that work may be when there are a hundred temples instead of seven! 

Stakes of Zion are multiplied in the land of Zion, in Canada, in Mexico, in the midst of the Rocky Mountains, and also along the Pacific slope; and soon, as our first Prophet declared, and but three months before his death, cn the Atlantic seaboard likewise would stakes of Zion be organized, naming specifically stakes of Zion to be established in Boston and New York, and other great cities. The Atlantic ocean but washes the shores of Zion land on the east, as the Pacific ocean washes the shores of Zion land on the west; and the great interior valleys of the Mississippi and his mighty tributaries, will also be places for stakes of Zion, and the Gulf slopes — the southland — as well. 

Zion is lengthening her cords and is strengthening her stakes, and multiplying her altars to the true God by the erection of temples, stake, houses, and chapels throughout the land. It seems to me that the chief activity of our President, Heber J. Grant, in late years, has become the dedicating of places of worship throughout and in all parts of the land of Zion. 

And these things will increase more and more. And while, as the prophets of the Book of Mormon foresaw, the possession of the saints upon the land of promise would be few, and scattered upon all the face of the promised land (I Nephi, chapter xiv:12), yet will they be multiplied until they shall become a mighty people; and from among them will arise those who shall be able to move in upon and redeem Zion, the centerplace thereof, and fulfill God's word and purposes as to the mission of the capital city of the Christ's spiritual, growing empire in America. 

May men truthfully call this a work of narrow limitations? The business and work of a merely tolerated sect — one of the broken lights of God ? Or is it the beginning of a world movement for the decreed fulfilment of all the purposes of God? A world movement, I say, for the completion of God's purposes with reference to the establishment  Zion, the salvation of men, the redemption of the earth and the fulfilment of all the words of the holy prophets since the world began! 

A PRAYER 

And now, O God, the Eternal Father! Here as to an altar, I bring this work of mine, and dedicate it unto thee and to thy cause. If there is any way of excellence in it, I am sure, it is of thee, and unto thee belongs all glory and all praise and honor. As thy dear Son, the Christ, in the council before the world began, when accepting the mission to redeem the world, said, "Father, the glory be thine;" so now, in this so infinitely smaller matter, but I trust in that same spirit, I say in the presence of all these people, Father, the glory be thine for this work accomplished. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The bouquet of beautiful flowers to my left was sent to me by Mr. Gus L. Becker of Ogden. With the flowers came a letter in which he states that during his forty years of residence here he has discovered that we are a God-fearing, honorable, upright people. 

The bouquet just behind me was sent by the various General Boards of the auxiliary associations. It is composed of one hundred roses. 

A solo and chorus, "I have seen my Maker face to face," was sung by Rilla Wilson and the choir. 


