10
Afternoon
03 10 1941
Elder Richard R. Lyman
17
25-31

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles  
  
The lawyer said:  
  
Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. (Matthew 22:36:39)  
  
The world's greatest need in this its most tragic and its most terrible hour is spiritual regeneration and applied religion. And it is concerning this need that I desire to speak today. I appeal to you for serious consideration of those great fundamental religious ideals, those basic laws of God which from the beginning all good people have had a desire and an ambition to obey. Those who appreciate and really understand modern Christian civilization believe in being honest, they believe in being true, and they believe in doing good to all men.  
  
LOVE YOUR ENEMIES  
  
Anciently it was said:  
  
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.  
  
Only the beast-like, those not endowed with that gift of reason and feeling with which man is endowed can practice such a revengeful and selfish teaching. The words of the Savior are:  
  
But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you.  
  
And he adds:  
  
Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. (Matthew 5 :38-48)  
  
This is real religion. Measured by this perfect standard which the Savior laid down and in accordance with which He Himself lived, where will you and where will I be classified?  
  
Again Paul says:  
  
Remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. (Acts 20:35)  
  
And the Psalmist records: Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile. (Psalms 34:13.)  
  
This again is real religion. Measured by such a standard where would a fair classification put you and me? Again:  
  
If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, that man's religion is vain. Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this: To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. (James 1:26-27.)  
  
In this most tragic and terrible hour, will all good people not agree that this is real religion? And judged by these high and perfect standards let me ask again, where would a calm and a fair judgment put you and me?  
  
NO CHILD HUNGRY OR COLD  
  
While the Gospel plan is perfect and we mortals may not be able to live that plan perfectly, we can make an effort in that direction, and the greater the effort, the more nearly perfect will be the result. What a glorious condition would prevail in the world if we could practice in high degree these teachings of real religion, the love of God, and the brotherhood of man. What a glorious condition would prevail if no child anywhere were hungry, barefooted, or poorly clothed; if every child had a well-balanced diet, and a comfortable home in which to live, with ample health and educational opportunities; if all who are able-bodied could secure work so as to make it possible for them, by the sweat of the brow, to earn their living; if those who are unable to work and earn could, with genuine willingness and love, be cared for in real comfort, then truly the conditions prevailing would be glorious. And let us remember and realize that real practical, unselfish, applied religion can bring about this greatly desired condition.  
  
We all need that genuine Christian spirit which not only acts so effectively as a spur to promote human happiness, comfort and welfare, but which reacts upon ourselves, stimulates our growth and development and encourages in us a general community spirit of cooperation and well doing. Man thus actuated will not only lead a better individual life but he will help to build a stronger and a better nation.  
  
MAN TO HAVE DOMINION  
  
Man was made to be free, to rule and to have dominion. And this does not mean a dominion to be gained by military power or by brute force but by the power of love, unselfishness and understanding.  
  
It is because some of the leaders of men today lack spirituality and proper adherence to religious ideals and standards that the whole world is filled with war and cries of war. Men may call out peace, peace, but there is no peace. The whole world, every nation therein, is preparing for war, or for so-called defense, at a rate and at a cost unknown and unheard of before even in man's wildest imagination. And all this has come about because of the selfishness, greed, envy, hate, ambition and the tyranny of some of the leaders of mankind. Nothing but spiritual regeneration, and a return to the religion of justice, fairness and love can remove from the world the causes of this mighty, this unparalleled conflict.  
  
RIDING DRUNKENLY TO A FALL  
  
Let me ask you if the training given to our young people these days is providing a solution to the great problems with which our beloved country and all other nations are confronted? Was Agnes Bryson right when she said:  
  
Crime is increasing, poverty is increasing, indecency is flaunting itself, dishonesty in private life and in public life in these days oftentimes causes but little comment.  
  
And she concludes:  
  
We are riding drunkenly to a fall.  
  
You know that those moral and religious standards which civilized people have looked upon throughout the ages as well founded and as controlling principles are, in some quarters today, treated with disdain and with contempt. In many places cruel and merciless brute force has replaced reason and a feeling of fair dealing. The ruling agency of some leaders is violent and irrational emotion. One civilized and free nation after another has been conquered by the use of force as devoid of reason as is that force the tiger uses when he devours a lamb. We are seeing in these days how it may be possible for force unguided by religion, morals or honor to conquer the world:  
  
POWERFUL BEAST, HELPLESS PREY  
  
What some are calling a "New Order" follows the oldest order known. It is not unlike the practice of the powerful beast devouring its helpless prey. It is an order whose motives are prompted by envy, hatred and malice. It is an order that takes from man his freedom and makes it impossible for the individual, however righteous, trustworthy, talented, ambitious or competent, to work effectively, to rise and to make his contribution to the good of mankind by rendering the highest human service of which he is capable. This so-called new order is distinctly, yes, violently against the progress and welfare of the masses of the people. It would destroy the very foundations of free government. This plan displaces the rule of moral principle with that of selfishness, force and greed.  
  
PEACE THAT PASSETH UNDERSTANDING  
  
Compare such a condition with the spirit of real religion expressed in the scriptures as "The love of Christ which passeth knowledge" (Eph. 3:19) "and the peace of God which passeth all understanding." (Phil. 4:7)  
  
APPALLING ATTACK ON INNOCENTS  
  
As an illustration of what has come into the world for lack of justice, honor and religion, we need only remember that it is but thirteen years since in the City of Paris the governments of nearly all the nations of the world united with their fellow governments in a pledge, covenant and treaty to renounce war and to proceed to the settlement of international differences and disputes by means of peaceful discussion and arbitration. The leaders of some nations, contrary to these their solemn and sacred pledges, began at once extensive preparations for war. The democratic nations, taking it for granted that the other powers were honest and would keep faith, did little in the way of making military preparations and thus brought about the unfortunate situation which has led to the downfall of France and to the appalling attack that is now being made on Great Britain and its people.  
  
HOLDING PISTOL AT NEIGHBOR'S HEAD  
  
Is using force the wise way of proceeding to get even that which may be fairly and justly due? All truly civilized peoples around the world will unitedly answer, "No." Babson is probably right when he says:  
  
Anything gained today by holding a pistol at your neighbor's head will surely be lost tomorrow.  
  
We must in our country do away with those activities which are carried on for selfish and for personal interests with little or no regard for human personality or for the good and welfare of the people or of the nation. Pressure methods, mob rule, whatever its form, must be overcome if we are to preserve our form of government. It was internal dissension, lack of unity, yes, it was the lack of the spiritual values of which I am speaking that brought ruin to that once great, powerful and glorious French Republic.  
  
PLEDGES FLAGRANTLY DISHONORED  
  
What a sorry condition our world is in when in it there are nations whose promises and pledges are flagrantly and openly dishonored! Such actions lead only to the making of new agreements whose terms contain provisions of ever-increasing severity and harshness. There appears to be no limit to the demands which some government officials make of their victims. Conditions today in many conquered countries are bad, but it appears they will continue to grow worse. The rights promised to the conquered people may, at any moment, be taken away because of the lack of integrity on the part of the conquerors. The plan seems to be to so lower the morale of these unfortunate ones as to make them positively helpless.  
  
FUNDAMENTALS OF FREEDOM  
  
Our national defense program sets forth the idea of our giving assistance to those who are struggling to secure a world order built on such moral foundations of justice, cooperation, freedom and unselfishness that war will be impossible and will be done away with forever; that the light of liberty shall not be extinguished, that the blessings of peace and freedom shall be preserved, and that all people shall have the privilege of living together as equals. We are struggling to maintain our five great fundamental individual liberties, namely, freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, and freedom to petition the government for redress of grievances.  
  
NATURAL ABILITY RICHLY REWARDED  
  
Our country has had an unparalleled development and growth because here in this land of freedom men and women who exhibit exceptional ability and capacity for achievement are given an opportunity to rise quickly to positions and opportunities of ever-increasing importance.  
  
President Nicholas Murray Butler says that of the chief administrative officers of twelve of the greatest railway companies in our country, five began their services as clerks, two as office boys, one as fireman, one as locomotive engineer, one as a track laborer, one as a stenographer, one as a telegraph operator, and one as a rodman in a surveying party. This indicates how in a free country opportunities and positions of the highest order are open to those who possess exceptional native ability.  
  
LEADERS COMPETENT AND RIGHTEOUS  
  
The right to work, to earn and to save, and the right by the use of savings to increase productive power and thus to provide the ever-increasing number of human needs is a fundamental of our form of government which we must preserve. The liberty of which I speak and the Christian ideals which are its foundation will carry civilization forward swiftly generation after generation if we can but have the leadership of those who as leaders are the most competent and the most righteous. Progress and development depend upon the ability, the capability for achievement and the high moral and religious standards of those who lead.  
  
WHICH? FIGHT OR ARBITRATE  
  
Need I ask you or people generally which is right and righteous, which is wise, which conforms to the methods of modern education and civilization, — to fight or to arbitrate? One is the method of force, the other the method of intelligence and reason; one the method of the brainless beast, the other the method of man who is created in the image of God.  
  
LEAST MAY BE GREATEST  
  
Our own Church is a well-nigh perfect example of true democracy. Our Bishops, our Stake Presidents, other Ward and Stake officials, the General Authorities of the Church, and our missionaries may come from any or all of the various walks of life. No one in the Church occupies a place so humble that he cannot find ample opportunity somewhere in this organization to exercise his leadership if he has a good character and if by nature he has been blessed with unusual ability to lead.  
  
IN UNITY THERE IS STRENGTH  
  
And it is not only the right but the duty of the officials in the Church to use the ability and intelligence the Creator has given them. These leaders are expected when matters are being discussed to express their own personal views fully and completely. But when a majority of any Church group has reached a decision, that decision becomes the decision of the whole group and all are expected to sustain that decision whether or not it agrees with their original views. Our Church people realize that in unity there is strength and that a house divided against itself cannot stand.  
  
FREEDOM AND JUSTICE FOR ALL  
  
Let us therefore forever unite in our prayers and in our efforts to preserve that great principle of "freedom and justice for all" for which our forefathers so nobly fought, so freely bled and in many cases gave their lives so gloriously on the field of honor. Let us stand for and practice that dependability which Dr. Thomas Nixon Carver calls the greatest modern saving device. Let us be honest, let us be true, let us try to be unselfish and struggle always to do good to all men. According to the standard set for the Boy Scouts, let us do our daily good turn, let us help other people at all times and may we by thus practicing the teachings of real religion acquire truly a genuine spiritual regeneration and know and feel in our hearts that love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that peace of God which passeth all understanding, I humbly pray.  