11
Afternoon
03 10 1941
Elder Samuel O. Bennion
2
31-34

None

None

Of the First Council of the Seventy  
  
Thanks to President McKay for the few moments of warning. It is said that to be forewarned is to be forearmed, but I am a little doubtful about it now.  
  
APPRECIATION OF PRESIDENT GRANT  
  
I was very much impressed this morning with that rich testimony that came to us from President Heber J. Grant. I do not know how many of us regard his testimony as we should do — the testimony of a prophet of God. As I looked at him I thought of the prophets of old. They occupied no greater position than does he, if as great, for in these the latter days many, many wonderful things have been revealed and inaugurated that were not heard of in the ancient order of the Church, in the centuries that are past. To me his message was most impressive, and I marveled at his strength.  
  
I believe if there ever was a time when men and women should hold to the principles of truth and be absolutely genuine in their endeavors and in their appeals to the Lord, it is now. And it gives us all renewed faith and courage to behold a man like President Grant, whose many years of righteous living have made him so valuable to the children of men, not only in this Church, but out of the Church; all men must be profited by listening to him.  
  
PREPARATION FOR COMING EVENTS STRESSED  
  
I was greatly impressed by those words of President Clark that we should prepare for the great things that are coming. There are organizations that are formed now, that, it is claimed, will serve as a cushion when the fall comes, and it will come, for there cannot be a continuation of conditions as they now exist, there never can be a government of peace under the present propaganda. It is the thing that has rocked the old world and put it in the war, and, unless a change takes place, it will throw this country into conflict just as surely as we are here. Nothing but the supreme power of God can withstand the blow that is to come, and I take it He will very likely allow men to carry on as they will. But here in this Church we know the truth. Here we sit in council and in conference. Here we are well informed, and we do not need to do any guessing about it. We know that just as surely as the world is at war, just so surely will this country be thrown into conflict, unless the power of right prevails. Only those who are prepared will be able to stand.  
  
This Church must be held as a unit of the great commonwealth of the country. Men and women must stand by the principles and ideals of this Church, and they must know the things whereof they speak. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that nothing but pure knowledge will save a man, and that means there is a great deal of knowledge in this world that is not pure or good or genuine. But the wise use of pure knowledge will save men.  
  
THE GOSPEL RESTORED IN POWER  
  
The plan of salvation has been outlined carefully for us. There is not a man or a woman who holds membership in this Church but who knows in his heart, with all the surety that can be crowded into a mind and heart, that the Lord appeared to Joseph Smith; that that boy received the revelations that he said he did, and the visitation of the Father and the Son; and that he was so filled with the power of God that he carried with him that influence so long as he lived in the earth. He left his testimony, he left the written word, he gave to the children of men so much doctrine that as long as the earth stands they will not be able to consume or understand it all, for those principles were pertaining to eternal life, as well as here. This is the preparatory state.  
  
QUOTATIONS FROM PRESIDENTS OF THE CFIURCH  
  
I want to read something that President Joseph F. Smith said from this stand some years ago:  
  
"Men and women should become settled in the truth and founded in a knowledge of the Gospel, depending upon no person for borrowed light, but trusting only upon the Holy Spirit, who is ever the same, shining forth and forever testifying to the endurance of the Priesthood, who live in harmony with the laws of the Gospel, of the glory and will of the Father. They will then have light everlasting which cannot be obscured. By its shining in their lives they will cause others to glorify God, and by their well-doing put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, and show forth the praises of Him who hath called them out of darkness into His marvelous light."  
  
President Heber J. Grant said not long ago:  
  
"No people upon the face of the earth have ever been blessed as have been the Latter-day Saints. No other people have ever had the manifestations of kindness and mercy and long-suffering of God, that have been bestowed upon us, and we, above all men and women upon the earth, should live God-like and upright lives.  
 
STUDY OF THE WORD OF GOD URGED  
  
Now, brethren and sisters, these principles of salvation which the Lord has revealed, and which He renews constantly unto us, through the voices of His prophets, are the word of God unto us. I am wondering if this group of people known as the Latter-day Saints read the doctrines of Christ as they ought to read them. I am wondering if we put in as much time studying and re-reading as we should.  
  
Jesus said:  
  
I am the way, the truth and the light. No man cometh unto the Father but by me.  
  
And He also said:  
  
Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me.  
  
I wonder how many of us read the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and the revelations of God that come to us by way of speech and sermon and in song.  
  
KNOWLEDGE OF CHURCH HISTORY IMPORTANT  
  
I think we are facing today a crisis that the Church has never faced before. There are so many things in this world that lead men and women astray, that lead the youth of Zion away from us — propaganda and vicious habits, things that have not had such sway in the world before as they do at the present time. I wonder if men with families have provided themselves with enough reading matter so that their sons and daughters may be informed as to the conditions of things that have happened and that will happen, according to the revelations of God. How many of us have the History of the Church in our homes, the documentary evidence of the Church. In that history we shall find a record of the hand dealing of God with this people, from the days of the appearance of the Father and the Son, until the time of Brigham Young; the foundation principles that brought into existence the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, the organization of the Church, the trials of the members of the Church in Nauvoo and in Missouri, and their trips back and forth into Kirtland.  
  
Many boys and girls there are who are attending the schools of our country, who pay no attention at all to these wonderful references. The history of the Church, which records the manifestations of God and the revelations which He has given, should be where young people can read it, and where men and women can review it.  
  
In their reading they should seek the Holy Spirit, it is the power of God; it is the thing that gives unto the children of men knowledge. "No man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed; and no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost."  
  
The Holy Ghost ministers unto the children of men, and it will bear testimony to any boy or girl who will read the doctrines of the Church and the scriptures, and who will do it soberly, with a desire to know. It will give unto them a testimony, even though they be young. And to those who are old, it will enlarge their circle of understanding. It will establish faith in our hearts, and by that faith we will prepare for the future that awaits us in this life, and will be made strong to meet the trials ahead. It will be the thing that will help each and every one of us to say, I listen and I obey the leadership of this Church. I will do my very best to sustain and establish the cause of Christ.  
  
Out of this knowledge comes power, and when men have knowledge and they want to use that power that comes from it, they can do it in their homes, in their fields, in places of business, and in places where they are thrown together among men who do not believe as we do. We will have the power of truth and cannot be swerved.  
  
A TESTIMONY AS TO THE LEADERS OF THE CHURCH  
  
Brothers and sisters, my time, I am sure, is gone. I am happy to be here. I know that this is the work of God. I know that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that Heber J. Grant stands at the head of the Church as the anointed one of our Eternal Father, to give and to lead and to guide; and associated with him are his Counselors and the Twelve, and all who are assisting in the leadership of the Church. If we stand by them we will carry out the plan of our eternal Father, and I pray that we may do it, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 