14
Afternoon
03 10 1941
Elder James Judd
263
41-43

None

None

Former President of the Australian Mission  
  
I feel very humble, but yet I am grateful for this opportunity of reporting the Australian Mission. Sister Judd and I are thankful to our Father in heaven, and to the Presiding Authorities of this Church, that they saw fit to call us to go into that foreign land as their representatives.  
  
I am grateful for the young men that were sent there to preach the Gospel, the sacrifices that their parents made, that they might be ambassadors of truth. They were real representatives of their families. They were true disciples of our Father in Heaven, and they took advantage of every opportunity that was given them to deliver their message to those people who were sitting in darkness, or who had been misled by men and women who were not familiar with our teachings. It was surprising to me to see the courage that these young men had. They would meet up with men and women who had had years of experience, who had spent their life in studying the Bible, but yet they would approach them and explain our principles in a very clear and convincing way, and would leave an impression upon the minds of those people.  
  
I doubt very much whether, since this Church was organized, we have had the publicity in the Australian Mission that we have had the past three years, through the efforts of the Elders, and through the help which we have received from the various organizations here in Salt Lake. The Elders were very active in basketball, and by so doing it afforded them an opportunity to associate with hundreds of young men. The Australian people are very broadminded. They take to every kind of sports, and as basketball was new to them they were anxious to learn the fundamentals of that game. Even the police force of the city of Sydney was anxious that their younger members be taught this game; and the Chief of Police, in addressing about three hundred young men whom the Elders were going to teach the game, said:  
  
"These young Mormon gentlemen have come from America. They do not smoke; they do not partake of intoxicating drinks; they do not profane; they do not make vulgar statements, and when you are in their presence see that you do likewise."  
  
Just before I left Australia, when I was completing my necessary papers to leave that foreign land, Chief Connor said to me:  
  
"Do you know when your Elders are going to return? When they do, the police force of Sydney wants to be the first to welcome them back to the shores of Australia" — and the police force is composed of about twenty-two hundred men.  
  
Our teaching of the Word of Wisdom is having a great effect upon the minds of those people. On one occasion there — it was on Boxing Day, which is the day after Christmas, and one of their most popular holidays, and being summer-time the people go to the ocean shores and the beaches by the thousands — we were on Manly Beach. The water was rough, and the life-guards were very active in saving many that were being drifted out into the current. While a number were being drifted out Sister Judd tried to take a moving picture. Thousands on the shore were watching the scene, and while so doing a young gentleman bumped into her. And he turned around and said:  
  
"Pardon me! Ah, an American, huh?" (If she had been an Australian she would have said: "I am sorry.")  
  
She said: "Yes, and there are a number of others standing right over there."  
  
He came over, thinking that he was going to give us a real treat. He had a package of American cigarettes. He said, "Have a cigarette."  
  
One of the Elders said: "I never smoke." The man made the same offer to the second, and to the third. The same reply: "I never smoke." He withdrew the package of cigarettes, threw down the one he was smoking, and said:  
  
"Yes, Latter-day Saints," and he put out his hand and shook the hands of the Elders, and was more pleased to meet them, because they did not smoke, than if they had accepted his cigarettes. This young man had met, on the shores of England, with some of our Mormon Elders. He knew our principles.  
  
At the time the cablegram was received from the First Presidency of the Church for the evacuation of all the Elders from Australia, — five days after that message was received all but a very few were on their way home. At that time most of the Branches were in charge of the Elders. Due to their departure it left most of our Branches in a disorganized condition, but the local brethren realized the responsibility which was resting upon them. Every Branch was completely organized, and they are at the present time very active in carrying on their duties. We have some of the finest tithe-payers there that there are in the Church. They pay their other offerings; they attend their meetings; they keep the Word of Wisdom.  
  
The Australian people are a very polite people. They are hospitable and friendly. They are determined, and when they start out to accomplish anything they are going to accomplish it. I think that that has been well proven, due to their wonderful fighting in the World War, and also that which they are doing at the present time. Due to the war we have been robbed of a great many of our Priesthood. At the present time more than twenty-five percent of the Priesthood are in the service of their country, and one who was acting as a member of a Branch presidency at the commencement of the war is at the present time a Major in the Australian Army, and is in active service in Lybia.  
  
The Mission is under the leadership of President and Sister Elvon Orme and the members there are going to carry on. Sister Judd did a wonderful work in the Relief Society there. She made a great many friends, not only members of our Church, but also outside. One of her very closest friends was a granddaughter of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was not a member of our Church, but she came to our home quite frequently. Sister Judd gave her a book, The Way to Perfection, of which Brother Joseph Fielding Smith is the author, and when she saw the name of the author she said: "Why, that is my cousin." During a number of conversations she said: " I have learned more of the Church through my visits to your home than I ever did before."  
  
I pray that God will bless us, that we may all be able to accept any position we may be called upon to fill by those who are placed to preside over us. I know that they are men of God. I know that they are inspired to give us the counsel and advice that they are giving us in these meetings. May we accept it in the same spirit in which it is given, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 