15
Afternoon
03 10 1941
Elder W. W. Seegmiller 
230
43-44

None

None

Former President of the Western States Mission 

When Elder Sylvester Cannon talked about a revelation having been received in Liberty Jail, I thought, what a paradoxical name — Liberty Jail! Then I was reminded that it is no more paradoxical than many things we do today in the name of liberty. Again I thought, sin is bondage, and righteousness is liberty, so all who would be free need only obey the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, given by the Prince of Peace and the Author of Liberty.  
  
When I received a telegram in Denver, notifying me that my successor had been appointed, I confess that I read it with disconsolate feelings. It was not a pleasant thing to contemplate leaving the thousands of friends and hundreds of missionaries in the Western States Mission. I loved my work. I was engrossed in it. I felt that it was my life, and so I confess disappointment. But on more mature consideration I became firmly convinced that the decision of the Brethren that Mission Presidents shall be often rotated, released and exchanged, is the proper order, and I am sure that President Elbert R. Curtis will be a blessing to that Mission, and that the Mission will grow and advance more rapidly because of his coming.  
  
It was hard to leave Denver. I wondered just how we would go through with it. But I am happy to be here. This is a great privilege. I am happy to be in our humble little cottage. I am happy to be in the Bonneville Ward. When the Bishop asked me what I wanted to do there I said: "Whatever you want me to do," and he notified me in a few days that I was the Adult Aaronic Priesthood supervisor of that Ward. I had rather have that position than any other position in the Ward, had I felt at liberty to take my choice, because I feel a great opportunity has come to me to continue missionary work.  
  
When I met with the Priesthood of Bonneville Ward and Bonneville Stake I said to Sister Seegmiller: "Is there a finer body of men in the world? If there is, I don't know where to find it." Could a man be associated with any men, anywhere, that it would be such a privilege? I cannot conceive of a place where they could be.  
  
The new Bonneville Ward is where I live, and I am happy to be there. I am happy to be here. I know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true. Sometimes I wonder, in the varied activities of missionaries, if we forget that our calling is to bear testimony that the Gospel has again been revealed, that it is here, and realize full well that we missionaries are disciples of Jesus Christ, just the same as was Peter, James, and John.  
  
So, my brethren and sisters, the thing I hope all new missionaries will remember is that they are called to preach the Gospel, that they are called to bear witness. It is a simple thing to preach truth, because truth is simple, truth is convincing. That is all we have to do, as missionaries, is to be faithful and true and diligent and preach the truth.  
  
I know that the Gospel is true. I hope that I shall always have strength to endure and be active in it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 