2
Morning
03 10 1941
Elder Joseph Anderson
158
3-5

None

None

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE, WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST APRIL CONFERENCE — 1941  
  
Elder Joseph Anderson, Clerk of the Conference, read for the information of the Conference the following report of changes:  
  
Special Appointments:  
  
Hugh B. Brown, appointed Religious Coordinator of military camps, with headquarters in California.  
  
Marion G. Romney, one of the five Assistants to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, appointed Assistant Managing Director of the Church Welfare Plan.  
  
J. Karl Wood, principal of the seminary at Hyrum, Utah, appointed Supervisor of the Church Seminary system.  
  
New Mission Presidents:  
  
Ernest C. Rossiter, manager of Temple Square Hotel, appointed to succeed Eugene M. Cannon as President of the Tahitian Mission.  
  
Elbert R. Curtis, second counselor in Granite Stake Presidency, appointed to succeed President W. W. Seegmiller of the Western States Mission.  
  
William L. Warner of Richfield, Utah, member of Sevier Stake Presidency, appointed to succeed President EIRay L. Christiansen of the Texas Mission.  
  
Walter Miller of Taber, Alberta, Canada, appointed to preside over the newly-formed Western Canadian Mission, with headquarters at Edmonton, Alberta. President Miller is under the supervision of the presidents of Alberta, Lethbridge, and Taylor Stakes.  
  
New Stake Organized:  
  
The South Salt Lake Stake was organized August 31, 1941, by a division of Wells and Grant Stakes, and consists of Burton, Columbus, Central Park, Eldredge, Southgate, and Miller wards. The Wells Stake is now composed of Belvedere, Ivins, Jefferson, McKay, McKinley, Waterloo, Wells, and Whittier Wards. The Grant Stake is now composed of East Mill Creek, Grandview, Hillcrest, Wandamere, Wilford, and Springview Wards.  
  
Stake Presidents Chosen:  
  
William A. Pettit chosen president of the Pasadena Stake, to succeed President Bertram M. Jones.  
  
Claudius Brown chosen president of the Twin Falls Stake, to succeed President Jesse W. Richins.  
  
Christian Call chosen president of the Idaho Stake, to succeed President Alonzo J. Gilbert.  
  
Dermont Madsen chosen president of the Moroni Stake, to succeed President Joseph R. Christiansen.  
  
Axel J. Andresen chosen president of the newly-organized South Salt Lake Stake.  
  
Owen G. Reichman chosen president of the Bonneville Stake, to succeed President Marion G. Romney. 
 
New Wards Organized:  
  
St. Anthony Third Ward, Yellowstone Stake, formed by a division of the St. Anthony First Ward.  
  
San Bernardino Second Ward, San Bernardino Stake, formed by a division of the San Bernardino Ward and from the Colton Branch.  
  
Bonneville Ward, Bonneville Stake, formed by a division of the Yale and Yalecrest Wards.  
  
Springview Ward, Grant Stake, formed by a division of the Wandamere Ward.  
  
Eldredge Ward, South Salt Lake Stake, formed by a division of the Miller Ward.  
  
Capitol Ward, Washington Stake, formed by a division of the Washington Ward.  
  
Independent Branches Made Wards:  
  
Homedale Ward, Nampa Stake, formerly Homedale Branch.  
  
San Bernardino Second Ward, formerly Colton Branch and part of San Bernardino Ward.  
  
Ivins Ward, St. George Stake, formerly Ivins Branch.  
  
Flagstaff Ward, Snowflake Stake, formerly Flagstaff Branch.  
  
La Cienega Ward, Inglewood Stake, formerly La Cienega Branch.  
  
Rockport Ward, Summit Stake, formerly Rockport Branch.  
  
Everett Ward, Seattle Stake, formerly Everett Branch.  
  
New Independent Branches:  
  
Canal Zone Branch, independent of any stake or mission, to be accountable directly to Church headquarters in Salt Lake City.  
  
Hawthorne Branch, Reno Stake.  
  
Ward Disorganized :  
  
Rosette Ward, Bear River Stake, merged with Park Valley Ward — new unit to be known as the Park Valley Ward.  
  
Ward Transferred:  
  
Papago Ward transferred from Phoenix Stake to Maricopa Stake.  
  
Ward Name Changed:  
  
San Bernardino Ward, San Bernardino Stake, name changed to San Bernardino First Ward.  
  
Branch Name Changed:  
  
Snake Valley Branch, Nevada Stake, name changed to Garrison Branch.  
  
Obituary;  
  
Rulon S. Wells, senior president of the First Council of Seventy, member of the Council of Seventy for 48 years, former European Mission President, and member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A. for 29 years, died May 7, 1941.  
  
John Wells, counselor in the Presiding Bishopric for 20 years, died April 18, 1941.  
  
B. Cecil Gates, Church music composer, conductor, and director, former member of the Y. M. M. I. A. General Board and of the Church General Music Committee, died August 29, 1941.  
  
Alfred Cornelius Rees, member of the General Board of the Deseret Sunday School Union, and former president of the East German Mission, died July 26, 1941.  
  
Mrs. Stringham Stevens (Beatrice Farley Stevens), member of the General Board of the National Woman's Relief Society since 1937, chairman of the Society's music committee, and also active in M. I. A. and Primary work, died June 19, 1941.  
  
Mrs. Isaac Brockbank (Mary Park Brockbank), 98 years old, believed to be the last surviving pioneer of 1847, died August 18, 1941.  
  
L. A. Ramsey, noted Utah artist, who has painted a number of religious portraits and subjects for the Church, died May 11, 1941. Fourteen of his portraits now hang in the Salt Lake Temple.  
  
Bishops who have passed away while in the service:  
  
Bishop J. Alma Smith of the Bridgeland Ward, Duchesne Stake, died March 28, 1941, after having served 2 ½ years.  
  
Bishop John O. Smith of the Malta Ward, Raft River Stake, died April 28, 1941, after having served 4 ½ years.  
  
Bishop Milton Bodell, Herriman Ward, West Jordan Stake, died June 18, 1941, after having served five years.  