21
Morning 
04 10 1941
President David O. McKay
18
52-58

None

None

Second Counselor in the First Presidency  
  
Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me. (John 14:1)  
  
Such were the words given by Jesus to His Apostles just at the conclusion of the Last Supper. If He could offer such consolation on that solemn occasion, facing betrayal and death as He was, I am sure that He would say the same to the people today, many of whom feel discouraged and distressed. The Savior also gave an antidote to trouble, which is belief in God. Absolute faith in Christ will drive out fear and will alleviate sorrow. We have a beautiful hymn written by Sister Woodmansee, that expresses that thought:  
  
When dark and drear the skies appear, And doubt and dread would thee enthrall,  
  
Look up, nor fear, the day is near, And Providence is over all.  
  
It is true the world is passing through a period of transition, of sorrow, and to many of despair. Nations are being subjected to tyranny. The four devastating Horsemen — War, Famine, Pestilence, and Death — are galloping seemingly unchecked. The daily press announced recently — "The greatest battle of annihilation in all history." Freedom of the individual to speak, to act, and to work is being shackled. Systems of government heretofore advocated as the best and safest for mankind are being questioned. Religious truths, once held sacred, are now doubted, ridiculed, or rejected. In some parts of the world, even hell itself seems to have broken loose, spreading hatred, terror and death in its wake. Now as never before we should put our trust in God, "stand fast in the faith, quit ourselves like men, be strong."  
 
BRINGS NEW CHEER  
  
Notwithstanding the topsy-turviness of the world generally, I bring to you this morning a word of encouragement, a note of cheer, a message of hope and faith. I say this first because I have faith in the overruling power of Providence. Man, through his littleness, through his rejection of the Gospel, his selfishness and weakness, brings contention and strife upon himself. He is, as Emerson says:  
  
A divinity in disguise. A god playing the fool. It seems as if heaven had sent its insane angels into our world as to an asylum, and here they will break out into their native music and utter at intervals the words they have heard in heaven. Then the mad fit returns and they mope and wallow like dogs.  
  
But a wise Father will work out of men's mistakes and blunders greater blessings than they might have obtained with their own wisest foresight. Gloomy clouds often hang heavily about us, but the rains that descend from them often prove a blessing. So it may be with the ominous clouds lowering today over civilization.  
  
I do not believe in the advocacy of discouragement and gloom; better, the gospel of Hope. Remember, the Church of Christ is established never more to be thrown down or given to another people. The Gospel has not yet been preached to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, and I am sure that the Lord will open up the way for the consummation of His purposes.  
  
There are many things as a Church for which we should be grateful and hopeful, and I am going to name some of these this morning.  
  
CHURCH CONDITIONS  
  
Conditions were never more favorable or more promising in the Church than today. Priesthood quorums were never more active as groups than they are today. More presidencies of quorums are sensing their responsibilities as presiding officers, and as a result are striving more earnestly to set their quorums in order.  
  
The Auxiliary associations show progress all along the line.  
  
The Relief Society, numbering over ninety thousand, now extends to all Latter-day Saint women the opportunity for service and development which comes through membership in this society, and the officers hope that at the end of the year 1941 nine thousand more women will join their ranks, thus increasing their membership to one hundred thousand by the Centennial year.  
  
TITHING  
  
As we heard yesterday, the tithes of the people show a most encouraging increase over last year, and indeed, over any previous year.  
  
FAST OFFERINGS  
  
Fast offerings also reflect a more general adherence to this important phase of Church policy and true Christian practice. 
 
THE CHURCH WELFARE PLAN  
  
Many of you heard this morning the program given by the Church Welfare Committee. The Church Welfare Plan was organized just five and a half years ago, the underlying purpose of which is three-fold, viz:  
  
1. To supply in a helpful and dignified manner food, clothing and shelter to every person so in need.  
  
2. To assist men and women who, through misfortune, ill luck, or disaster, find themselves without gainful employment, to become once again self-supporting; and  
  
3. To increase among the members of the Church the true spirit of the brotherhood of Christ, having in mind in all their service the divine saying, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me."  
  
The plan is not something new, but rather a means of uniting along well established lines quorum, auxiliary, and ecclesiastical groups in their efforts to serve one another and the Church. Presidencies of Stakes, Bishoprics of Wards, quorum officials, Relief Society officers, now work unitedly instead of independently in giving relief and helpfulness to those who merit assistance. The only modification or addition in the ecclesiastical organizations of the Church is the uniting of several Stakes in what is called a Region.  
  
NUMBER OF PERSONS NOW ENGAGED  
  
The latest report (furnished upon request by Elder Roscoe Eardley), shows that there are now serving on Welfare Committees 9,754 persons; that there are 83 storehouses already completed or in process of being built; that during 1941, and still active, there are 1,590 quorum projects; that 173 homes were built during 1939-40 with quorum assistance, and 92 thus far during 1941.  
  
An interesting development of the Welfare Plan during 1941 was:  
  
First. The number of persons who had been working on Church-directed projects who found employment in defense and private industry.  
  
Second. The increased number of faithful quorum members, Relief Society sisters, and others who donated their labors to carry the Welfare Plan forward.  
  
Of such voluntary service you heard some encouraging examples this morning. Here are others:  
  
During the first eight months of 1941 in the Salt Lake Region 1,055 persons were assisted by Personal Welfare committees of Priesthood quorums, Ward Work directors, and Church Welfare employment departments. Proportionately good records have been made by other Regions, including northern Utah, which centers at Ogden; southern California, which centers at Los Angeles, and eastern Idaho, which centers at Idaho Falls.  
  
In addition to the 1,590 quorum projects already named, Priesthood groups have been organized to assist at storehouse centers and on other projects under the direction of the Regions. Assistance has been given in the building of meeting houses, the renovating of buildings already erected, and in beautifying public grounds.  
  
During the past three months, in the Salt Lake Region, 926 Priesthood quorum members have donated labor at Welfare Square, and 1,500 Relief Society workers have assisted in preserving foods for storing. Men and women, eager to help, have sometimes traveled great distances. For example, five Relief Society workers living 136 miles distant from the regional cannery, came at their own expense. Sisters from another Stake, 35 to 60 miles away from the cannery, came on a number of occasions, supplying .their own transportation and bringing their own lunches. This group included not only the Relief Society workers but a number of younger women of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, accompanied by their Stake and Ward officers.  
  
EXCELLENT RESULTS  
  
During the past summer, Stake Presidents, accompanied by Priesthood quorum members have come to Welfare Square to work on Welfare projects. The same procedure has been followed by a number of bishoprics with excellent results. Part of the work accomplished by these men has been the loading and unloading of more than 200 cars of wheat. As a result of these activities, it is estimated that fully one-third more has been produced during 1941 than during other years since the Welfare Plan was inaugurated.  
  
A further important development has been the closer cooperation between the Relief Society organizations, the Ward Welfare committees, and the Priesthood quorums. Closer association of the brethren and sisters in Welfare Work has prepared the way to meet more efficiently any emergencies that may arise in the future.  
  
EUROPEAN MISSIONS  
  
As we heard yesterday, encouraging word comes even from our branches in war-torn Europe. In Great Britain the historic publication, The Millennial Star, is issued every week, as it has been practically every week since 1840.  
  
We might go on enumerating conditions evidencing the progress in the Church, but time will not permit.  
  
In the light of all these facts, and many others we might mention, are we not justified in having our souls lifted, our hearts encouraged, and our hopes brightened? Our plain duty is to move forward with a determination to do what the Lord requires of us, "to deal justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with our God."  
  
THE GOSPEL OF LOVE  
  
Absolute trust in the Lord will awaken a desire, at least, to try to live in accordance with Christ's teachings, chief of which is to LOVE, not hate one another. Now, as perhaps never before, all men and especially Latter-day Saints should preach and practice the gospel of love, and decry, as well as deplore, manifestations of ill-will and hate.  
  
He that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes.  
  
In answer to a lawyer's question, which is the great commandment in the law, Jesus answered in one word, "Love," and then He specifically stated whom we should love; first, the Lord "with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind;" and, second, "thy neighbor as thyself."  
  
The opposite of Love is Hate. As Christ is the personification of love, so Satan is the embodiment of hate.  
  
Hate is cruel and vicious; even when unexpressed and smouldering, it consumes the individual as surely as when it bursts into flame. Hate feeds on envy. It prompts and justifies unrighteous conquest; it looks for weaknesses in others; lives in the realm of iniquity and feeds on falsehood and slander; it injures the hater even more than the hated. It "is of all things the mightiest divider, nay, is division itself."  
 
WAR A RESULT OF REJECTING THE GOSPEL 
  
Rejection of the Gospel of Love, which is the Gospel of Jesus Christ, brought on the World War that began in 1914, with what result?  
  
Seven million men killed, twenty million wounded, five million of whom were maimed and crippled for life. Six million men imprisoned. Twenty million women in Europe deprived of a home of their own. Countless millions who suffered privations in the trenches, and in lonely homes of the poor. Fifty billion dollars worth of material and property destroyed. One hundred billion dollars to provide for the cost of the war and interest.  
  
Hatred smouldering in the hearts of Germans against men and nations who imposed upon Germany what to the Germans were unjust terms of peace is the cause of the present world-wide conflict. As a result, millions of men are again being slaughtered, homes broken up, property destroyed, women and children massacred, nations subjugated or practically obliterated, the right of self-government destroyed, and liberty itself threatened.  
  
Terrible as things are, I repeat, I still have faith that God will overrule all for the good of humanity.  
 
EVILS TO BE CONDEMNED 
  
There are things in the world which we may and should despise, but we can condemn the evil without hating the man. We should develop an aversion for the things which we ourselves can and should resist or overcome, and for the things which Christ hated. We can have an aversion for the works of the flesh as enumerated by Paul, among which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, hatred, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings and such like; "of the which I tell you before as I have also told you in times past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God."  
 
ATTENTION TO LITTLE THINGS VITAL IN ERADICATING HATE  
  
When the rich young ruler asked Jesus "what great thing may I do to obtain eternal life?" the Master called his attention not to any one great thing, but to several specific commandments.  
  
So there may not be any great act we may do to eradicate hate, war, and suffering in the world; but there are many little but very important duties within our power and province to accomplish.  
  
This is a time when men and women should curb their tempers, and when prompted to condemn others, to hold their tongues. In national affairs, for example, there are those who think actual participation in the European conflict will be necessary to end the struggle and to bring about peace. There are others who think such a step would be most tragic. The interventionist and the isolationist each has equal rights to his views, and each may be equally sincere in expressing them. My message, therefore, today, is to keep hate and enmity out of the controversy.  
  
Then, too, an election is approaching. Candidates and policies will come before us for consideration. In times past, political campaigns have engendered animosity and sometimes personal hatred. Hate thus harbored indicates an inferior grade of intelligence, a low degree of culture.  
  
ELIMINATE HATRED  
  
I know of no better way to bring about harmony in the home, in the neighborhood, in organizations, peace in our country, and in the world than for every man and woman first to eliminate from his or her heart the enemies of harmony and peace such as hatred, selfishness, greed, animosity and envy.  
  
Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?  
  
Pertinent to this thought, Charles Wagner, author of The Simple Life, makes this comment:  
  
Each person's base of operations is the field of his immediate duty, neglect this field, and all you undertake at a distance is compromised. First, then, be of your own country, your own city, your own home, your own church, your own work-shop; then, if you can, set out from this to go beyond it. That is the plain and natural order, and a man must fortify himself with very bad reasons to arrive at reversing it.  
  
Brethren and sisters: "Let not your heart be troubled, ye believe in God," believe also in the Gospel of Jesus Christ — a belief such as the Savior had in mind on that solemn occasion will express itself in action. So in conclusion:  
  
Keep your faith in the God above, And faith in His righteous truth;  
 
'Twill bring you back to your absent love And the joys of a vanished youth.  
  
You'll smile once more when your tears are shed, Meet trouble and swiltfy rout it;  
 
For faith is the strength of the soul inside, And lost is the man without it.  
  
May increased faith and trust in the Lord and in the Gospel of Jesus Christ supplant the spirit of contention and hate now so rampant, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 