22
Morning
04 10 1941
Elder Levi Edgar Young 
48
58-60

None

None

Of the First Council of the Seventy and President of the New England Mission 

It is a joy to me to come across the Continent from Boston to attend this Conference of the Church, and I humbly pray that I may say something that will be helpful to us all.  
  
A TRIBUTE TO MISSIONARIES LARORING IN NEW ENGLAND  
  
The parents of some of our missionaries in New England are present here to-day, and you may be assured that your boys and girls are doing a fine work in the cities where they have been called to labor. They are clean, honest, and true; and have become fine students of the Gospel. They would hardly like me to speak about their work, for they have learned the secret of success because they have forgotten themselves and think only of the work of God. They realize their call to the service of the Church, and they know that there is no sphere of life in which a man can more certainly lay out all his talents than in the service of his Maker. They come in contact with all kinds of people, human beings in every conceivable relation, and there is no life so rich or so full of those joys which come from serving people at the point of their greatest need. They realize that the Master is calling and they give answer. He calls not to comfort nor to power, as the world reckons power: He calls for heroic service. Your sons and daughters have taken up the cross to follow Him, and this they are doing nobly. You are very happy, I know, in having them in the field, and you may rest assured that we will do all we can for them. They will honor the call, for they are working under the direction of the Spirit of the Lord, and their lives are made beautiful in consequence.  
  
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SEVENTY  
  
I should like to say a few words to the Seventies assembled here this morning, because we are interested in you and the great work which the Lord has appointed you to do. We are the men who are ordained to go forth to give the message of the Master to the world. You have discovered that the most significant factor in human life is to be found in the ability to make response to great principles and great ideals; in you is power for great action by faith, and hope, and love. In a word, you are to show yourselves responsive to the Spirit of the living God who speaks through all of you to the souls of men. The message is a word of duty uttered from above, it is also the word of highest privilege uttered from within. "If thou wilt enter into LIFE, keep the commandments." "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy mind, and with all thy strength." This is the first imperative which you, my brother Seventies, must abide by if you would "enter into life." Be sure of God! By simple living and loving worship, by purifying yourselves, by continual moral obedience keep close to Him. You are giving help in ushering in the Kingdom of God. The King is calling and you are answering. It is a great living duty, a duty of love and thanksgiving. From now on more than ever before, you are to hear the admonition of Paul: "Wherefore, I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind." You are responsible to teach the Restoration of the Gospel to the world, and your hearts must be prepared for this great responsibility.  
  
You recall from your history that the Prophet Joseph Smith brought the Seventies into existence in February, 1835. It was a glorious occasion for it followed within a few days the calling of the Twelve Apostles in fulfillment of the revelation given before the organization of the Church. These twelve men were chosen from those who went up in Zion's Camp and the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon were to select and ordain them. Another meeting was called for February 28, and the brethren were chosen from those who went to Missouri in Zion's Camp and these brethren constituted the first Quorum of Seventy. Hazen Aldrich, Joseph Young, Levi W. Hancock, Leonard Rich, Zebedee Coltrin, Lyman Sherman, and Sylvester Smith were called to the office of the President of this Quorum of Seventy. These brethren and those appointed to form the first Quorum were ordained under thhe hands of the First Presidency. And says the Book of Doctrine and Covenants:  
  
The Seventy are also called to preach the Gospel, and to be especial witnesses unto the Gentiles and in all the world; thus differing from other officers in the Church in the duties of their calling.  
  
POWER IN THE PRIESTHOOD TO BRING ABOUT CHANGES  
  
We do not have any individual organizations of the Priesthood in the New England Mission, but we are teaching the few members we have the meaning and power of the various offices of the Priesthood, and in our Youth organizations we are emphasizing the restoration of the Gospel and the coming of John the Baptist and Peter, James, and John who restored the full power of God to the Prophet Joseph and his brethren. This power we have to-day, and it is the one thing that is to bring a new life of Faith into the world. It is a truth of the highest importance, for man is made in the image of God. "God created man in His own image; in the image of God created He him." Man is divine; and in this day when people are speaking of the hours of doom, we must stir that gift of God within us and within the world, for man can rise above sin and wrong and bring about the supremacy of Truth. We recall the last words that Jesus uttered when He sent His disciples forth:  
  
Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you.  
  
That is the message that must ring true in our hearts to go forth into the world and preach the Gospel. We are told to keep the commandments of God, we who are divine in the sight of God sent into this life for a divine and holy purpose. If we will remember these divine words of Paul the Apostle we will keep the commandments of God, for we will look up and not down; and we will not leave this awful feeling of doom and despair, in our hearts, for God lives, and we have everything of beauty and truth and goodness.  
  
UNITED EFFORT NECESSARY TO SUCCESS  
  
Let me say in conclusion to all of us Seventies. We will be united as never before for this great cause. And if we are united, we will keep in mind these words of Paul:  
  
For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God.  
  
It is in God's love that we will be able to love mankind and in loving mankind we will love God, and it is with this spirit, my brethren and sisters, that the Elders, the missionaries, your sons and your daughters are going forth in the New England Mission; never with hate, never with unkindness, never with anything false, but with Truth, with kindness, with hope, and with a knowledge in their hearts that they are the servants of the living God. This is what I wanted to say to you as your servant and fellow-laborer and brother, and as a co-laborer with our fine boys and girls in New England.  
  
God bless us all that the truth of this message of the living God may live in our hearts forever, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 