23
Morning
04 10 1941
Elder John H. Taylor 
164
60-62

None

None

Of the First Council of the Seventy and President of the Temple Square Mission 

As you are aware, I am laboring in the Temple Square Mission.  
  
EARLY GUIDE SERVICE  
  
My first contact with guide service was when I was a young boy running up and down the dusty streets in my bare feet. We were living in one of the houses of Grandfather Taylor, and because of the interest in him, strangers who came to visit Salt Lake City were taken by the hack driver past grandfather's homes. The hack driver would always stop and make explanations of who lived in the house or houses and something about the doctrines and practices of the Church. We boys used to line up quite near to the carriage and listen to the stories that were told by the driver. When the driver was through and commenced his way up the street, we trotted along in the dust and said in our indignation: "Liar, liar, liar." Mother didn't approve of it very much, not because we weren't telling the truth but because of the company we were keeping. She had the fine philosophy of life that it is never worthwhile to get even or to hurt people, when trying to put over your own cause. She also had in mind the good people who were riding in the carriage who had to listen to what was told them.  
  
BEGINNING OF THE BUREAU OF INFORMATION  
  
It was in 1901 that the thought came to some of the brethren that it would be a good thing if the Church would provide an organization to take care of this situation and enable our visiting friends to hear the story from our point of view instead of allowing men who were prejudiced and who were not familiar with the ways of life and doctrines of the Church to do all of the teaching. The matter was presented to the M. I. A. General Board and it resulted in a committee being organized to look after the strangers, especially those who were visiting within this sacred Block. Later it was taken over by the First Presidency, and a number of missionaries were called to labor on the Block. In the commencement of any new type of work the servants of the Lord are not only inspired in effecting its organization but they also have the inspiration to choose the type of men who will pioneer the movement. Even though the organization is important, it is just as important to select the right man to commence it. Brother Benjamin Goddard was chosen to do this work, and he laid a splendid foundation on which others who followed him might build. Others might continue to add to the building and perhaps to polish the stones but without such a solid foundation and introduction, I am quite sure that it would not be going along as efficiently as it is today.  
  
Succeeding Brother Goddard was President Levi Edgar Young; after him, Joseph S. Peery, and then Joseph J. Cannon. Each one has done a magnificent work in this Temple Square Mission.  
  
INTEREST IN THE WORK MANIFESTED  
  
The guides are all interested in the work. They are real missionaries. They are trying to do everything they can to inspire and put into the hearts of men and women a knowledge and testimony of the truthfulness of this great work. Sometimes when we discuss releasing missionaries they come and ask that extensions might be made in their case because they love the work and do not desire to be released.  
  
This year we have had around 416,000 people come to the Block as visitors. This is something like 89,000 more people than we had last year. Today, because of war conditions and employment possibilities in different parts of the country, and because Europe is not open to travel, people are traveling extensively in this country.  
  
Among some of the interesting things to the tourists as they visit the Block are the way we handle our young people, both in a religious and a social way; our Temple work and the conception we have of the justice of God in requiring both the living and dead to do the same things in order to receive the same rewards; that men and women are able to obtain help and assistance, even though they may be on the other side. To them it is a new and thought-provoking doctrine. They are interested in our conception of marriage and family relationship, both here and hereafter. The doctrine that men and women, if they are faithful and true, may have each other, may have their children, may have their fathers and mothers in the eternities, is startling but satisfying. In speaking to a group one time, mention was made that women might have their husbands on the other side. A woman spoke up and said, "What! No rest in heaven"? Undoubtedly this lady had not had such a happy married life, but as we talk about the Temple work and its possibilities, I notice that the older people who are in the crowd look at each other and draw a bit closer and one can almost hear them say, "That is what we would like to have happen to us." And the young couples who are traveling, perhaps on their honeymoon, hold each other's hand more firmly and one can almost hear them say, "God being willing, we will live this life righteously and have each other forever and ever."  
  
May the Lord bless us and keep us as we walk through life, that the inspiration and power of God shall always be with us and that we shall take a happy interest in men and women not of our faith, that they, too, might see and understand the beauty of the Gospel and eventually, because of the righteousness of their lives, find their way back into the presence of God, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen. 