26
Morning
04 10 1941
Elder Kenneth R. Stevens 
264
66

None

None

Former President of the Tahitian Mission 

My brethren and sisters: This is an unusual surprise to me, for I had not expected that the opportunity would be provided for me to occupy this position. Neither, however, did I anticipate that a call would place me in charge of one of the Missions of this Church.  
  
I bring you greetings from our brethren and sisters in the Gospel in the land of Tahiti, in the South Pacific. They are some 1500 strong, and in addition to those who claim membership in our Church, I also bring you greetings from some more than 20,000 residents of those islands who have an appreciation of our program, and though they do not claim membership in our Church, principally because of the habits which make it impossible for them to conform to our standards, yet they appreciate the value of our program in their midst and would hesitate to see it taken out entirely. They truly mourned the loss of the missionaries when they were withdrawn from those islands, and they look forward to the time when they may return.  
  
I rejoice that while being in the midst of that people I came to learn through their legends that there was a time when they believed in the Gods of heaven as we do, even a plurality of Gods, and that they believed in the creation of this earth even as our doctrine teaches. This, however, has been explained away and replaced by modern Christian doctrine which teaches of a God who is everywhere present, and so small He dwells in the human heart, but who has no parts nor passions, and by a different story of the creation. And so it thrilled me when our missionaries preached Mormonism to have those people nod their heads and say, "It sounds like the old doctrine which was common to our people."  
  
I bear you my testimony in humility that I appreciate my membership in the Church. I hold it dearly sacred, and trust that I may continue to be favored with activity in the Church, because I realize that only in that service is there safety for each of us.  
  
My testimony helps me to understand that it is God's Church to which we belong, that it was established under His own immediate supervision, and that the Church membership will be held individually responsible for its degree of adherence to the principles, ordinances, and covenants which we accept.  
  
And may I express my appreciation to my parents who helped me establish a foundation for the testimony I have of the Gospel. My father gave his life for the Gospel in the missionary service of the Church while laboring in New Zealand; and this sacrifice, while he was but a young man, made an indelible impression on my mind that our Church must have the Truth. The teachings of my widowed mother and the close and intimate friendship and association which we have been permitted to enjoy, have further aided me in standing by the Truth when I might have been tempted to do wrong. I am thankful that she still lives and continues to find joy and happiness in the program of the Church.  
  
God bless us all. Amen. 