33
Afternoon
04 10 1941
Elder Charles A. Callis 
3
82-85

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The prophet Azariah said to young and old:  
  
The Lord is with you while ye be with him, and if ye seek him ye will be found of him. But if ye forsake him, he will forsake you.  
  
THE COST OF TRANSGRESSION  
  
This is partnership with God. I wish you would consider with me, for a few moments, this question: What does it cost not to serve Jesus Christ? The figures to me are astronomical. With my poor mathematical mind I cannot soar to their heights. But I can go and look at the wretched inmates of the prison; I can look at men and women who are crushed beneath sin; I can visualize those battlefields over the waters, those valleys that are running red with human blood, — and I ask myself what does it cost not to serve Jesus Christ? The answer is before me. Beneath the stars of heaven there is no sight so pathetic as the wreck of a human being, and a home covered with shame is a tragedy.   
 
The Lord said:  
  
Behold, the world is ripening in iniquity; and it must needs be that the children of men are stirred up unto repentance, both the Gentiles and also the house of Israel.  
  
Old-fashioned, you will say. Yes, they may seem so. They are not the empty words of philosophy, so called, but they are the true words of God.  
  
And again:  
  
And the whole world lieth in sin, and groaneth under darkness and under the bondage of sin.  
  
Is that true? Are we not under bondage, with these billions of dollars of national debt over us like a dark shadow? The Lord says every man who is in debt is in bondage. Do you not think that the word of the Lord should be heeded, and that we, as individuals, should get out of debt, and then we will have more force with our Government? But the world is in bondage. The world is ripening in iniquity, and therefore the Lord said: "Say nothing but repentance unto this generation."  
  
Speaking of our country, I think the business men are largely to blame for these chaotic conditions. The Lord says: "Search out good and wise men" — not of any party; not of any church, but search out these good men and put them in charge of our civil affairs. But if you ask a business man to run for office, he becomes a Pharisee, a political Pharisee. He says: "I don't like to enter into the slime of politics." But who has made it a slime? The men who were unworthy to hold office. Business men say: "We can't be elected." Well, when, in the name of heaven, will you be any stronger? Why not enter the conflict? There ought to be common ground where good and wise men may stand, and their influence will be felt at headquarters in Washington.  
  
"Isn't repentance," as Carlyle says, "of all acts of men, the most divine?" The reward of repentance is a new man, a new birth. Think of the sweet influence that repentance brings. It changes the heart. It makes us feel that we have no more disposition to do evil, but to do good continually. Our Heavenly Father entreats us to be correct in manner, proper in our conduct, and an example and a light unto all mankind. Oh, the strength, the beauty there is in purity of heart! Emerson said: "My strength is as the strength of ten, because my heart is pure."  
  
You know the old story of the student who created a monstrous being from materials gathered in the tomb and the dissecting-room. Of course, it is a fable. The monster acquired life. The student was unable to control him. This monstrosity strangled the student, killed his bride and others of his loved ones, and finally found an end in the North Sea. By permitting this intemperance are we not constructing a monstrous being that will prove to be our master; and this monster of adultery — for unchastity is the dominant evil of the age. These great evils will strangle our youth and kill all that we cherish most dear, and yet we are responsible.  
  
If we had done our full duty our people in the tops of these mountains would not be afflicted with these beer stands and liquor stores. We had the power — we have the power now to prevent it. Should we not, in the majesty and strength of a free people, rise up and crush this destroyer, before it crushes us?  
  
WARNING TO AMERICA  
  
About our nation Moroni said — and his word is greater than all the statesmen of ancient or modern times — he is speaking of the United States of America:  
  
And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God — that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done.  
  
Then Webster, the great expounder of the Constitution, catches the inspiration of the Nephite prophet, and in his matchless eloquence he adds to this warning:  
  
But if we and our posterity reject religious instruction and authority, violate the rules of eternal justice, trifle with the injunctions of morality, and recklessly destroy the political Constitution which holds us together, no man can tell how sudden a catastrophe may overwhelm us, that shall bury all our glory in profound obscurity. Should that catastrophe happen, let it have no history! Let the horrible narrative never be written! Let its fate be like that of the lost books of Livy, which no human eye shall ever read; or the missing Pleiad, of which no man can ever know more than that it is lost, and lost forever.  
  
FAITH EXPRESSED IN THE FUTURE  
  
If America falls, we will be the ones who have robbed ourselves of our glorious heritage, but I am not afraid that this republic will fall. I believe the Constitution is going to endure until the King of Kings comes in glory. He shall reign over the earth, from the rivers to the ends of the earth. The Book of Mormon is filled with divine prophecies, and divine promises to this American nation. Speaking of it the Lord says:  
  
And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles.  
  
And I will fortify this land against all other nations.  
 
For he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish, for I, the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king, and I will be a light unto them forever, that hear my words. (II Nephi 10:11, 12, 14.)  
  
I am not afraid of any dictator coming over and conquering us. I cherish, in the fondest and deepest faith, the belief that the Star Spangled Banner shall reign over this land, and that no alien flag shall ever be permitted to be the "abomination and desolation" in free America. But all that depends upon the people serving Jesus Christ, who is the God of the land. If we serve Him — and here is our glorious opportunity — He will fortify us against all nations, and though the world combine in arms and attempt to invade us, every true American will meet them in battle array and send them back in the confusion of retreat, for when God is with us, who can be against us?  
  
And the Star Spangled Banner in triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave,  
  
if we remember God and seek Him while He may be found. This is my prayer, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 