35
Afternoon
04 10 1941
Elder Alma Sonne
260
85-87

None

None

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles  
  
My brethren and sisters: I am conscious at this moment of a tremendous responsibility. I am full of fear and apprehension, and I confess to you that when the call came to me to serve in a high position in this Church I was full of doubts and misgivings. Yet I pledge to you my best efforts, with the help of God.  
  
RECOLLECTIONS OF PAST TEACHINGS  
  
When President Grant spoke yesterday there came out of my boyhood three stimulating memories. One of these was the visit of President Wilford Woodruff to Logan when I was a boy. I remember his testimony. He spoke of Joseph Smith the Prophet, as one of his associates, and he told us that Joseph Smith was a mighty man, full of faith, full of courage, and full of integrity, but he said when Joseph Smith assumed his responsibility as a leader of the people, he was meek and humble as a child. I shall never forget the fervent testimony of President Woodruff.  
  
The second memory that came to me was President Heber J. Grant's visit to Logan, also when I was a boy. I remember his sermon on temperance and the Word of Wisdom. I shall never forget what he said on that occasion.  
  
The third memory is a recollection of seeing and hearing that venerable, scholarly and cultured leader, President Lorenzo Snow. He spoke of the law of the tithe, and urged the people to honor that great law, and he said if they would do so the Lord would lift them out of their economic distress. There are many people living in the Church who can remember the admonition of this great leader.  
  
QUOTATION FROM "RAYS OF LIVING LIGHT"  
  
Thirty odd years ago I was a missionary over in England. I remember distributing a tract written by President Charles W. Penrose. That tract was called "Rays of Living Light." To me it has always been a masterpiece, for Brother Penrose explained the Gospel magnificently in that little booklet. I have frequently pondered the last paragraph in this Gospel tract, and I am taking the liberty of reading it to you this afternoon, in view of the many things which we have heard concerning the trouble and gloom of these last days.  
  
Said President Penrose:  
  
"This is a day of warning. It will be followed by a time of judgments. The Lord is about to shake terribly the kingdoms of this world. War, pestilence, famine, earthquake, whirlwind, and the devouring fire, with signs in the heavens and on the earth, will immediately precede the great consummation which is close at hand. These are the last days. All that has been foretold by the holy prophets concerning them is about to be literally fulfilled. The everlasting Gospel has been restored to the earth as one of the signs of the latter days. Israel is being gathered. The elect of God are assembling from the four quarters of the earth. The way is opening for the redemption of Judah. Soon all things will be in commotion: 'men's hearts failing them for fear and looking for the things that are coming on the earth.' The places of refuge appointed are in Zion and in Jerusalem. The Lord, even Jesus the Messiah, will come to His holy Temple. He will be glorified in His Saints, but will 'take vengeance on them that know not God and obey not the Gospel.' He will break in pieces the nations as a potter's vessel. He will sweep the earth as with a besom of destruction. He will establish righteousness upon it and give dominion to His people. 'The meek shall inherit the earth and the wicked be cut off forever.' Therefore, repent and turn unto Him, all ye nations, and obey Him, all ye people, for these words are true and faithful and are given by His Spirit! Salvation has come unto you; reject it not lest ye fall and perish. The time is at hand!"  
  
THE EXAMPLE OF THE PIONEERS  
  
Brethren and sisters, this great Gospel tract has found place in many homes in this nation and in old England. And so I say we are living in the last days, and when these events are transpiring. There is confusion in the world. We are beset with difficulties, and sometimes I think it is well for us to hark back to the days of the pioneers to get our bearings and to learn the principles upon which they succeeded. Those sturdy people who laid the foundation of all we have and are, were men and women of faith. They were obedient to the commandments of the Lord. They knew that freedom is a priceless treasure. How could they fail?  
  
In conclusion, I want to say that freedom in the earth must be safeguarded, and it will be safeguarded, brethren and sisters, because Jesus Christ was the great advocate of equal rights, and His precepts will eventually prevail. I firmly believe that Thomas Jefferson received his inspiration to write the Declaration of Independence from the Holy Scriptures, and that he was familiar with the life of Jesus Christ as told in the New Testament.  
  
May God bless you. May He bless this Church. May He prosper the cause of truth in all the earth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 