39
Morning
05 10 1941
Elder George Albert Smith
31
96-102

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles  
  
I am very happy to be here today. A few weeks ago as I lay on a hospital bed, not knowing just when I would get out, I was looking forward to the opportunity I might have of meeting with you brethren and sisters again. I would like to take this occasion to thank those who sent flowers and messages of encouragement to me. I have no other way of reaching many of you, but with all my heart I thank you for your kindness.  
  
ENCOURAGEMENT FOR WOMEN TO JOIN THE RELIEF SOCIETY  
  
This Conference is usually preceded by the Conference of our National Woman's Relief Society, an organization of which I am proud and for which I am grateful. They set us a fine example in attendance and program. I wonder at times if some of the women of the Church really appreciate that wonderful organization, the first society for women in all the world that has persisted. I suggest today that you men encourage your wives and daughters to become members. It is the department in the Church that the Lord particularly provided for women. I think it would be fine to surprise the Relief Society by helping to increase their membership to 100,000, yes, and make it 200,000 while we are at it. I am sure it would prove a real blessing for all wives to attend the Relief Society meetings in the Wards and Branches in which they live.  
  
THE AARONIC PRIESTHOOD DEMONSTRATION  
  
The other night I saw here on the platform a group of your boys of the Aaronic Priesthood. I think that was a marvelous demonstration and I wonder if anybody ever heard any finer singing than they treated us to. It was lovely. I feel to commend the Presiding Bishopric for the splendid work that they are doing in supervising the Aaronic Priesthood. Let us all give them a hand in the Wards and Stakes in which we live.  
  
THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST ABSORBS ALL TRUTH  
  
Last night this house was filled with men who hold the Priesthood. They were standing all around the gallery and seated in the aisles. I might mention other groups that are all intended to develop character. Is it not wonderful to belong to a Church that absorbs everything that is praiseworthy? Every good thing is a part of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. This is His Church. He directed its organization; He gave it His name. Sometimes we carelessly refer to it as our Church but it is not ours. I feel grateful that I have the privilege of having my name enrolled on the records as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
As we go to and fro in the world other church leaders think that we are trying to take their membership away from them to add to our numbers. That is not what we are trying to do. We are trying to add something to what they already have. They do not have anything that is important for exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom that is not a part of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. All the churches together do not have any more virtues or laws and regulations set up by the Lord than has this one little Church. All that they have that is desirable we have, and in addition, Divine Authority. We are a small organization, but we, if we do our duty, will be the leaven that will leaven the lump.  
  
We have had wonderful weather up to this morning, and now we are reminded of the fact that while we are here in comfort, across the seas, perhaps at this very hour, millions of men are facing one another upon the battlefield destroying each other and in many cities lives are being wiped out by the thousands. Why? Because they have failed to adopt the Christian teachings that were given by our Lord. That is why. There could not be any war if the so-called Christian nations really lived according to the teachings that Jesus of Nazareth gave to them. Surely we ought to be grateful this morning that we have been permitted to receive the Gospel and partake of the blessings that result from honoring it.  
  
I have no doubt that there are some here who were blinded and had difficulty to understand the Gospel, but when the light came how beautiful it must have been. How satisfying to understand that everything that is desirable in all the world may be enjoyed by the members of the Church of Jesus Christ.  
  
OUR MISSIONARIES AND SOLDIERS NEED ENCOURAGEMENT  
  
I am thinking this morning of our representatives in the missionary field, scattered throughout the different sections of this country and in some foreign lands. Pray for them, brethren and sisters. They need the help of the Lord and they need our faith and prayers. Write to them and encourage them, that when they get a letter from home they will know that they are remembered all the time.  
  
Reference has been made to our men who have gone into the army of the United States. They need our encouragement and I hope that those of us who know any of these men will find time occasionally to send them a few lines and inspire in them a determination to live up to the ideals of their forebears and of the Church that they represent, because these men who have gone out from Zion do represent the Church.  
  
THE TABERNACLE CHOIR RECEIVES PRAISE  
  
This morning we have enjoyed this marvelous Tabernacle Choir. Do you realize what it is doing? I wonder if you know how many people appreciate the members of the Choir. These singers interest them in the Gospel of Jesus Christ in a way that none of the rest of us can because they have the facility of the great organ and the combination of their tuneful voices inspired with a desire to bless mankind.  
  
Some time ago I received a request from a fine Catholic man in Northern California who was injured in the World War. He said, "I wish you would have the Tabernacle Choir sing something for me on a certain Sunday." He explained that he had to go on the operating table the next day to have his leg taken off and wanted to have the Tabernacle Choir sing for him. He mentioned the song he desired to have sung. I telephoned to the Choir leader and asked if it were possible. He said, "No, the program is already prepared, but say to that good man that if he will listen in we will sing something that will be pleasing to him."  
  
I wrote him that they were going to sing and that it would be something he would enjoy. He asked the hospital attendant if he could have the privilege of bringing a radio into his room, but was told that radios were not allowed in that hospital. He was greatly disappointed. Then he sent for the Superintendent and finally convinced him that he was entitled to a radio. He told him he was going to lose his leg, that he was an ex-soldier in a government hospital and that the radio would not bother anybody else. And so he gained permission to have the radio in his room. Then he sent for his folks who lived sixty or seventy miles north. They came down and sat around his bed and enjoyed the music. When this great choir was singing he listened with genuine satisfaction, the result of which was that the next morning when the doctor examined him, he said: "There is no necessity of taking you into the operating room, man, your leg is getting all right. We will not take it off."  
  
In a few days my friend wrote to me and said: "I wonder if other people would think what I think," inferring that he had been healed by hearing the hymns of praise that the Lord loves to hear.  
  
I want to say to this Tabernacle Choir that is only one of the many blessings that we could trace to them if we had time, for others have come to my attention.  
  
OBEDIENCE TO THE COMMANDMENTS BRINGS BLESSINGS  
  
How blessed we are in this Church! We have these lovely flowers on the stand and can enjoy the comfort of this building while it is snowing outside. Here we are fed the bread of life and are promised every blessing we can desire if we will be faithful, but we will only receive these blessings and enjoy them if we keep the commandments of our Heavenly Father. He has told us in great plainness that the world will be in distress, that there will be warfare from one end of the world to the other, that the wicked shall slay the wicked and that peace shall be taken from the earth. And He has said, too, that the only place where there will be safety will be in Zion. Will we make this Zion? Will we keep it to be Zion, because Zion means the pure in heart?  
  
When I look into the faces of you good people here, when I mingle with you in your homes, in the Wards and Stakes of the Church, I wonder if we really appreciate the opportunities that are ours to set an example to the world, that they too may desire to know what the Lord has given to us. Then, as I see some of the brethren and sisters a little careless in their attitude towards their blessings I wonder if they realize that these blessings may be lost.  
  
The Gospel of Jesus Christ can only be a benefit and blessing to us if we keep the commandments of the Lord. We cannot live like the world and hope to have the favor of our Heavenly Father. We must live as the Lord indicates that we should live. It is true that He has said that if we will keep His commandments, if we will be worthy of His blessings He will exalt us; and when the final test comes when Satan and his cohorts will be trying in every way to destroy the world, the Lord says, "I will come down from heaven for the preservation of my people."  
  
Are we going to be worthy of that preservation? Because only those who are worthy will be preserved. And after all He has given to us — and He has bestowed upon us everything that He has given anybody that ever lived in the world that is worthwhile — He has said that unless we keep His commandments we will forfeit our blessings and the calamities that are already abroad in the earth and are spreading day by day will find us.  
  
Brethren and sisters, how grateful we ought to be for such information, to know that God is interested in us and to know He has provided a way for our safety not only here but for our eternal exaltation as well. How grateful we ought to be that we are considered worthy to have our names upon the records of His Church as members in good standing. How embarrassed we will be, when we check on ourselves, if we find that our names are not there and that we are not entitled to the blessings of eternal life in the Celestial Kingdom.  
  
The Lord has told us very plainly that all our blessings are predicated upon obedience to His laws and His laws are so plain. Faith, repentance, baptism, the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost are the first principles. Then He offers other things, including Temple work, salvation for the dead and missionary work in all the world. In our great universities we have marvelous training, but I want to say that without the training of the Gospel of Jesus Christ those who graduate from the great universities of the world will be disappointed that they have not earned a place in the Celestial Kingdom.  
  
A GOOD EXAMPLE IS EXPECTED OF MEMBERS OF THE CHURCH  
  
This is the Lord's Church. This is His world. He has prepared it for us and given us the opportunity to dwell here under the most favorable circumstances of any people that has ever lived upon the earth. Are we grateful for it? Do we manifest by our conduct day by day, in our association with our fellows, that we do appreciate it?  
  
The Lord has said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." Are we thinking of that? Do you realize that every soul in the world is precious to Him, and that we have the key that may be turned to open the door of life and salvation to millions of God's children who do not understand? Are we appreciative of it? If we are, then let us put our own homes in order. Husbands and wives should live together in peace and happiness. The man who should be dearest of all in the world to the wife is her husband, and the woman who should be most precious in all the world to the husband is his wife, and not anything but death should separate them.  
  
Let us be examples of righteousness to our children, have our family prayers and ask the blessing upon the food. Let our children see that as husbands and wives we are affectionate with one another. While there is yet time take the opportunity as husbands and wives to bless each other with your love, with your kindness and your helpfulness in every way. Take opportunity while there is yet time to teach your sons and daughters how to live to be happy. The Lord has said that it is our duty to do so and if we fail to teach them the Gospel — faith, repentance, baptism and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost when eight years of age — the sin be upon our heads. Let us not be found sinful in that regard. Let our homes be sanctuaries of peace and hope and love. Wherever we go let us radiate sunshine that will attract others and will make them desire to know what the Gospel of Jesus Christ really is.  
  
As I stand here this morning and realize the blessings that have come to me through the faith and devotion of my forebears, my father, my grandfathers, my greatgrandfathers and their wives, all members of the Church, is it any wonder that I have pride in my ancestors? Oh, how proud we are to trace ourselves back to these great men and women who have lived and kept the commandments of God and have set examples in the world. How pleased we are to say, "These were my forebears." There is another thought that should be in our minds, and that is, when we join them in heaven, if we are permitted to do so, will they be proud of us? They will be proud only if we have kept the commandments of God and if we have been worthy of exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom.  
  
Now brethren, the storm is on — not the snowstorm — but the storm of malice and hatefulness and disagreeable feeling, and bitterness in the hearts of the children of men. Let us not partake of it; no matter what group we may have belonged to in the past, let us come into the sanctuary of the House of the Lord and attune ourselves to the spirit that is always present when He is there. Then when we go out we can resist the temptations that sometimes threaten to destroy us, and in turn destroy our families.  
  
TESTIMONY AND BLESSING  
  
I know that God lives; I know that Jesus is the Christ; I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God; I know that this Church was organized by Him for the blessing of all mankind who would be worthy to accept it or who would prepare themselves to accept it. We need not hesitate to divide with our non-Mormon neighbor the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ if we have qualified to do so. If we will store our minds so that we know what it means and as opportunity offers drop the words of encouragement and help that they need they will bless us forever.  
  
There are people living in this city and elsewhere, not members of the Church, who are probably listening in to this program this morning. They have not yet joined the Church, but they know that there is something comforting and uplifting that comes from this house when we have services here, and I have had some of them say to me, "It is a blessed privilege that we have to sit at home and listen over the radio to the program that you have down there at the Tabernacle."  
  
Now, brethren and sisters, peace be with you. God bless you. Let us each here this morning renew our determination to be worthy of our membership in this Church and determine that as far as it is possible we will do what the Lord would have us do to bless His other children, for inasmuch as we do it unto these, His other children, He has said we are doing it unto Him.  
  
Think what it will mean if, instead of having been selfish trying to save only our own little family, we can count by the dozens and by the hundreds men and women that we have influenced to accept the Gospel of our Lord. Then will we feel blessed indeed and enjoy their love and appreciation forever.  
  
I pray that we may so live that He who knoweth all things will welcome us and say: "Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."  
  
That this glorious greeting may be for us and all that we may be able to influence in the world, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 