40
Morning
05 10 1941
Tabernacle Choir And Organ Broadcast 
57
102-104

None

None

During the period from 10:30 to 11 :00 a. m., Mountain Standard Time, the regular weekly nation-wide broadcast of choral and organ music and brief spoken word was presented as part of the General Conference proceedings. This program was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, and broadcast through the courtesy and facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting System's coast-to-coast network, throughout the United States and Canada, and by short wave transmission to many foreign lands. The broadcast originated with Radio Station KSL, Salt Lake City, and exclusive of routine introductory and closing announcements, was as follows:  
  
Announcer, Richard L. Evans: With the passing of another week of life we pause, according to the custom of many years, to welcome you again within these hallowed walls, shadowed by the everlasting hills of the West. This is the 638th nationwide performance of this traditional broadcast from Temple Square, heard each week at this hour through the facilities of the Columbia network and its affiliated stations.  
  
The audience that fills the Tabernacle this morning is gathered here from out of many lands.  
  
* * *  
  
We begin with one of the vigorous hymns of the restoration by William W. Phelps, as arranged by the conductor, — "Now Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation."  
  
"Now Let us Rejoice," by Wm. W. Phelps, arranged by Cornwall Choir  
  
"Nocturne," by Grieg Organ  
  
Announcer, Richard L. Evans: As this traditional hour from Temple Square continues, we turn to the works of Franz Joseph Haydn, to present from "The Passion" the chorus known as "Lamb of God." It begins with words from St. Luke which are among the most unforgettable of all scripture — "Father forgive them, for they know not what they do." (Luke 23 :34)  
  
"Lamb of God," from "The Passion," by Haydn Choir  
  
Announcer, Richard L. Evans: There seems to have come to dwell among us the spirit of escape. Perhaps it has always been present, but the tenseness of our times makes it more apparent. We seem to want to escape reality; to postpone the day of settlement; to prefer present pleasure to future happiness; to escape the consequences of our own mistakes. There are some who seek to escape by borrowing rather than face the restrictions of a sound economy. There are some who would rather mortgage the future than curtail their appetites. There are some who would like to escape from truth, because acceptance of it isn't convenient to their way of thinking or living. There are some who count heavily on mercy and the opportunities of the moment, rather than on justice and the certain reckoning of the future. Some have become materially and spiritually insolvent — bankrupt, both in the things of this world and in things of the realm beyond — and rather than facing the facts and paying the price and beginning again on humble but substantial foundations, they prefer continuing on borrowed time, always with the shadow of inevitable consequences hanging over them, but never looking at things quite squarely. No doubt there would be less of the spirit of escape if we could bring ourselves to the realization that there is no such thing as permanent postponement. Retribution cannot forever be outdistanced. The judgments of men may be slow, but they are sure, and yet more certain are the judgments of God. No one was ever able to cheat at anything permanently. No one has ever been able to postpone a time of reckoning forever — even though he may have departed this life before he faced the facts — for it is written in the record of scripture:  
  
Verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed." (D. and C. 1 :2,3)  
  
And since there is no way of permanent escape, to all who seek an easy way out it should be said: Face the issues as they come; pay the price, whatever it is; make your peace; put your house in order, and build on sure foundations for that future wherein no mistakes have yet been made.  
  
"High on the Mountain Top" by Ebenezer Beesley Organ  
  
Announcer, Richard L. Evans: For the hymn just concluded we are indebted to Ebenezer Beesley — "High on the Mountain Top a Banner is Unfurled," as arranged by the organist.  
  
"To Thee O Lord," by Kalinnokoff Choir  
  
Announcer, Richard L. Evans: We close now from Temple Square with a chorus from Mendelssohn's "Elijah," combining a scriptural text from Isaiah and the Psalms — "And then shall your light break forth as the light of morning breaketh — Lord, our Creator, how excellent thy name is in all the nations! Thou fillest heaven with thy glory!"  
  
"And then shall your Light Break Forth," by Mendelssohn Choir  
  
The Tabernacle Choir was conducted by J. Spencer Cornwall. Alexander Schreiner was at the organ.  