48
Afternoon
05 10 1941
Elder Marvin O. Ashton 
246
135-137

None

None

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I do not think I ever appreciated the Gospel of Jesus Christ more in my life than I do at this time and have done during the past few days. There is a story told of a great king who built a big castle and stretched the wires from tower to tower. The only time the wires from tower to tower played a tune was when the tempest came up. I believe if there ever is a time when we appreciate the Gospel it is in time of storm, it is in time of tempest. That is when the Gospel plays its best tunes — when the storms rage the worst. May we always hear the music.  
  
GRATITUDE EXPRESSED FOR KINDNESS  
  
I would think myself and ourselves most thoughtless if we did not take this opportunity to thank the people of the Church for their kindness towards us. It is strange that Brother Merrill and I should be called upon, one right after the other. I certainly sympathize with him in the trial he is going through. From Hawaii, Canada, and Mexico, and every point of this Church has come kindness. Whatever has been our lot in the way of grief, if you folks had your way, from President Grant and his splendid Counselors down, you would take up this flood of sympathy to drive this trouble from our hands. We do feel to express thanks to you today.  
  
LITTLE CHANGE IN HUMAN NATURE  
  
I think it is just good sense that I should say very little on this occasion. I have been impressed with one thing particularly in this Conference and it is that we are emphasizing fundamentals. In a sense, I would not like to be considered old-fashioned, but remember there is nothing quite so important, quite so full of gold as real fundamentals. Your Ford has changed its model; your airplane has decidedly changed; steam engines change, but this human anatomy has not changed very much — it is pretty much the same model. I agree that for looks some of our models should be changed, but we are pretty much the same. Once in a while we ought to take a look on the compass and see where the storm is taking us. We must get back on the old track.  
  
The other day a good society lady — I say that respectfully — called in a doctor. The baby had a terrible cold on its lungs. She, of course, expected him to give her some hifiluting brand new 1942 prescription. But he didn't. He said.  
  
"My dear, if I were you, I would put a mustard plaster on that child just as quickly as you possibly can."  
  
"But," she said, "doctor, isn't that old-fashioned?"  
  
The sound answer came. "Yes, madam, and so is your baby."  
  
RESTRAINT NECESSARY IN BUILDING OF CHARACTER  
  
Just one story I want to leave with you folks today. Some good Bishop in Ogden told it to the Lesser Priesthood group a year ago, and I pass it on to you. This is something that President Clark and some of the other brethren continually hammer on — restraint. Some men who go on transgressing think they are the only men who have human appetites — I am using the words of President Clark to me the other day when a pitiful case came before us. He said: "That is the trouble with these men, they think they, are the only ones in the world that have appetites." I am telling you that in my judgment, if something does not curb the appetites of America and American people, the Lord knows where we are going.  
  
Here is the story: In Arabia to breed a thoroughbred horse they have him go through some particular definite education. They start him out when he is a few months old or a few weeks old, (we had better stay with months I think to be safe). They teach that colt that when he hears the bell ring he is to run to his master's tent and be ready for service. When the horse is about a year and a half old he is put through the "acid" test. They let him go without water for three or four days. Then he is so thirsty he will actually eat mud. They then put him in a corrall next to a running brook. When they are all ready, they turn him loose. He makes a bee-line for the flowing water charging as hard as his fleet feet will take him. Then they ring the bell. If he stops and runs back to his master's tent he is a thoroughbred. If he runs for water he is a cull, and they don't use him for breeding purposes.  
  
That is a good story. It applies to human beings. There is no civilization without restraint, and we do not want to forget it. Since I heard that story I have been reading about horses. I read about Napoleon's horse, Washington's horse, and some of those thoroughbreds that the army has picked out — horses that have gone down in history. There is no horse that has interested me more than the horse whose hide is stuffed this minute in Washington D. C. in one of the museums. Do not forget, with all your blooded horses in America, that really when put to the test, those that amount to something come from the Arabian blood. This horse I am talking about had a wonderful master. The cannon booms! He and his steed are twenty miles away. The rider leaps into the saddle. Thomas Buchanan Read made heroes of these two brave fellows in that famous poem. And So and So "was fifteen miles away"; the next verse ends "ten miles way"; the next verse and "he is five miles away." Then we come up to the battle front. The men are retreating in a riot. Here comes that valiant horse with that valiant man — Phil Sheridan; with his sword pointing toward heaven he thundered out. "Boys we are going back." I saw that play. I saw the horse come on the stage. He was lathered from head to foot, his grand old nostrils steaming out "fire." He was ready for game after going the twenty miles. He was a thoroughbred. The defeat was turned into victory because of that horse that day. Why did he have it in him? Because of a breed that came from Arabia, a breed that learned restraint, a breed that learned to take it on the chin. We have got to be the same. God bless you. Amen. 