52
Afternoon
05 10 1941
President David O. McKay 
18
149-150

None

None

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Daily the Latter-day Saints pray that the Lord will bless and inspire and preserve the President of the Church. In the future when we thus pray let us also ask Him for power to follow President Grant's righteous life, for I testify to you that he is a righteous man and sets a worthy example to all Israel. Let us ask also that we might have power and ability to do what he has asked us to perform as officers and members of the Church. We will associate with our prayer that God will bless him, these two petitions — first, that we may be righteous as he in our daily lives, in our dealings with our fellowmen; secondly, that we might have increased power to perform our duties in the Church. Then I am sure that the spirit of this great Conference will be carried to our homes and will abide in our hearts and the prayer we offer for President Grant's preservation will be answered in blessings upon our own heads.  
  
I am sure you would have me express at this time appreciation of the inspiring songs given by the Tabernacle Choir, also those rendered by combined choruses of the Relief Society Singing Mothers, and the quartet of High Priests from Pasadena Stake.  
  
I think it highly fitting for us to express appreciation for the silent messages of appreciation and love that have come during this Conference from these beautiful flowers placed here by thoughtful hearts. We want the donors to know that we appreciate these gorgeous bouquets, "nature's jewels," depicting God's goodness and glory.  
  
President Edward J. Wood of the Alberta Temple:  
  
I believe that it would be with the consent of all here if we should stand and offer a silent prayer for thirty seconds to show President Grant our faith.  
  
President David 0. McKay:  
  
President Grant suggests that we join with the one who offers the benediction whom we will have express the prayer that you now suggest. We will continue to pray vocally and silently in our homes. A silent prayer, a prayer of the heart, even that of a little child, will be heard of God.  
  
The Tabernacle Choir will sing, "Worthy is the Lamb," from the "Messiah" by Handel, and after the benediction this Conference will stand adjourned for six months.  
  
President Samuel G. Dye of the Ogden Stake will offer the benediction and will express our prayerful wishes for President Grant's health and restoration.  