6
Morning
03 10 1941
Elder Clifford E. Young
259
18-20

None

None

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 
 
My brethren and sisters, I am sure that you appreciate my position here this morning. I have been impressed as you have with the spirit of this Conference thus far, particularly to have our leader talk to us as he has. We do believe that which we have heard.  
 
FOLLOWING GOOD ADVICE BRINGS SECURITY 
 
If we could carry to our homes the counsel that President Clark has given, and if we could carry out this advice in our administrative work in the Ward and the Stakes, I am sure we would find a reawakening. On one occasion the Lord said to His disciples:  
  
My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me. If any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself.  
  
This has a far-sweeping significance. In the last five years, perhaps six, we have been advised of steps we should take to make ourselves economically secure. We have passed through one economic tragedy we were not prepared to meet, for we had been laboring in some degree of lethargy; so I repeat that we were not prepared to take care of the economic needs of our people. The result was that we became more or less confused in our thinking and lost sight of some of the old standards that had been set up in the Church.  
  
PRESIDENT YOUNG'S EPISTLE TO SAMUEL BRANNAN  
  
I am reminded now of an epistle that President Young sent to the Saints in California by Samuel Brannan. Brother Brannan intercepted the Mormon people on their way westward out on Green River. You remember he had instructions to take a group of Saints then residing in the eastern part of the United States around Cape Horn and up to San Francisco, and it was originally intended that they should later join the Saints in the Rocky Mountains. They settled in 1846 around San Francisco Bay, and in 1847, when Samuel Brannan learned of the coming of the pioneers under the leadership of Brigham Young, he, with two others set out across the mountains and over the Oregon Trail, and about the last of June, 1847, met the Mormon leader on Green River. He remained with the pioneers and came into the Valley with them, and as he was about to leave, President Young gave some very definite instructions in an epistle which Brother Brannan was to take back to the Saints.  
  
Among other things, the President wrote this:  
  
We feel to say to those who are unitedly engaged with Brother Brannan in laboring for the good of the whole, that the poor, the widow, and fatherless may not want, that you will be blessed if you keep your contracts to the end of the two years, and labor diligently in your several occupations; and when that time shall expire, we hope you will be able to cancel all your obligations and have enough to give each family an inheritance or stewardship, that he may commence, as it were, anew in the world, just as we are commencing here at this place (Salt Lake City). We do not believe in having all things in common and on general principles, as some have taught, both in the Church and out, but we believe that it is right for every man to have his stewardship, according to the ability that God has given him.  
  
Now the reason he said that at that time was that he wanted the Saints to understand that they should be individualistic, should stand on their own foundation, and that they should work for what they got, giving full value, maintaining an integrity consistent with their standing as members of the Church.  
  
The epistle is an interesting one and all of it is worth our reading, but the point I wish to emphasize is the point that President Young made with Samuel Brannan, that the Saints must be consistent, must be loyal to their trust, but must stand independently and aloof except for the help that they themselves might contribute to a common cause.  
  
SUCCESS OF THE WELFARE PLAN DEPENDS UPON LOYALTY  
  
The President pointed out that it was the duty of the leading brethren to look after those who were unfortunate, and who could not make their contribution because of illness or physical defect or otherwise, that all the membership of the Church should contribute their part and do their part. In this instruction, as I see it, is the very essence of the success of our Welfare Program. Not in what we receive, but in what we do, in what we contribute in our own Wards and Stakes. We have not been so successful in the production of commodities, not so successful as we would like to be, and yet we feel there has been attained a degree of success because of the loyalty of the men and women who have sought to do their part. When men and women will go down on projects and work in the mornings and the evenings; will assemble at our storehouses, women who are busy in their homes, yet are willing to assemble in the storehouses and do their part in furthering this great program — I say when men and women will do that we need not fear the outcome, although the material things may not be so plentiful as we would like. It is in the spirit of the thing that we feel the power and the strength of this effort.  
  
So my brethren and sisters — my time is limited — if I may just say this: if we will DO, we will know of the doctrines. If we will contribute of our energies, and our efforts, we can accomplish much. Brother Clark has pointed out what may be accomplished in the Fast if we do our part, and then concentrate, centralize that in the great divisions of the Stakes and the Regions, and finally the central storehouse. What may we not be able to do to help meet that which confronts the Latter-Day Saints, and may confront them when the time of need comes!  
  
So I repeat the words of the Savior; "My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me. If any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." The doctrine He was teaching was not His, but belonged to God, as every bit of energy and effort that is put forth under the Welfare Plan for the benefit and blessing of the people is in harmony with the will and purposes of God. If we do His will, we will know of its effectiveness and of its blessings. And may God help us to do this, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 