8
Morning
03 10 1941
President David O. McKay 
18
24-25

None

None

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Before we close this session I think it appropriate to read an appeal that has come to the First Presidency from the Chief of Police of Salt Lake City.  
  
My Dear Brethren: The Ward Teachers pamphlet for August, 1941, appealed to Latter-day Saints to obey traffic laws, to stop the waste of human life and property resulting from a disregard of these laws. What a timely, important message.  
  
May I urge that this matter again be brought to the attention of all those who attend this Conference.  
  
We stress the importance of keeping our bodies healthy and strong through observance of the Word of Wisdom. It is almost as important to achieve the same results by obviating accidents, both to ourselves and to others. There is a definite responsibility resting upon the shoulders of each Latter-day Saint.  
  
Our problem is to try to convince everyone as to the seriousness of this situation. This is difficult, for deaths and accidents have increased despite numerous safety campaigns. Fewer than 24,000 were killed by bombs in Britain during 1940. More than 34,000 were killed by automobiles in the United States during 1940.  
  
The 1940 record for accidents and fatalities was appalling; but the 1941 figures to date are staggering. There is a more wanton disregard for life and property than ever before. Hence this personal appeal, for we have our share locally.  
  
We desire that everyone may have a time of rejoicing at Conference and we earnestly hope that all may be able to return to their respective homes, free from all accidents and harm.  
  
EDUCATION, ENFORCEMENT, ENGINEERING, all play their part in a safety program. However, the human equation is the most important of all. Therefore, particularly during Conference please be careful.  
  
Keep mentally alert while walking or driving. Remember, 150 pounds or so of human flesh is certainly not a fit antagonist for 3000 pounds of steel.  
  
Human life is sacred. It should be preserved in every way possible. In this, as in all other things, let us be real Latter-day Saints.  
  
One other reminder. Please do not leave clothing or other valuable property in your automobiles unless you are there to watch over it.  
  
With the kindliest of personal regards, I remain, Respectfully,  
  
REED E. VETTERLI,  
  
Chief of Police  
  
That is an appeal which needs no comment. Let us heed it.  
 
The combined choruses of the Relief Society Singing Mothers will now sing, "Holy Art Thou," by Handel; Director: Mrs. Olive Rich of the Bonneville Stake. The solo part will be sung by Sister Ruth Jensen Clawson.  
  
May I express to you our sincere appreciation and gratitude to the Singing Mothers for the inspirational service they have rendered this session.  
  
The benediction will be offered by Elder German E. Ellsworth, after which this Conference will be adjourned until this afternoon at 2 o'clock.  