Afternoon
08 10 1922

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

When this great auditorium was built, we were a thousand miles from civilization; nails were worth a dollar a pound, therefore the building is mostly pinned together with wooden pins. 

Elder Junius F. Wells handed me a memorandum day before yesterday and I have had it copied, and I am sure it will be of interest to all of. the people here assembled: 

THE FIRST CONFERENCE IN THE GREAT TABERNACLE 

"Fifty-five years ago today, October 6, 1867, the first General Conference ever held in this building convened, on Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. 

"The building was incomplete — there was no gallery. The gallery was added in 1870; improvised seats; the organ was partly built, 700 pipes, and it was announced that when finished there would be 2000 pipes. Joseph J. Daynes played upon it. Choir was led by Robert Sands. The choirs of Springville, Payson and Spanish Fork attended — Elder Fishburn conductor. Croxall's Brass Band, Eardley's Ogden Band and the Nephi Brass Band attended. A hymn by Eliza R. Snow composed for the occasion was sung. Solos were sung by W. C. Dunbar and J. T. D. McAllister. 

"The General Authorities were: First Presidency: Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and Daniel H. Wells. Quorum of the Twelve Apostles : Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt, Sen., John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, George A. Smith, Ezra T. Benson, Charles C. Rich, Lorenzo Snow, Erastus Snow, Franklin D. Richards, George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith. (All present but F. D. Richards presiding in the European Mission.) Patriarch: John Smith. First Seven Presidents of Seventies : Joseph Young, Levi W. Hancock, Henry Harriman, Albert P. Rockwood, Horace S. Eldredge, Jacob Gates and John Van Cott. Presiding Bishopric: Edward Hunter, Leonard W. Hardy and Jesse C. Little. Reporters: George D. Watt, David W. Evans, Edward L. Sloan, Clerk of the Conference. 175 

"Of the General Authorities sustained that day all died in the faith. (Four of the Twelve became Presidents and three Counselors in the First Presidency.) Neither before this period nor for thirty years afterwards could this be said. The Church then numbered less than 120,000. It has increased three-fold if not four in the fifty-five years. 

SUBJECTS AND REMARKS BY THE SPEAKERS 55 YEARS AGO 

"President Young congratulated the workmen and the people on the good work done towards completing the building and gave out a number of texts for the brethren to preach upon : The Perpetual Emigration Fund; Education of Children in the Ways of the Lord; and of Young Women in Business, so that they could be profitably employed in Light Labor, such as Bookkeeping and Store Work; On Raising Five Hundred Teams to Haul Rock for the Temple; On the Southern Mission; On Temperance in Eating and Drinking; and the Word of Wisdom. 

"Elder Orson Hyde said : 'This is the largest congregation I ever addressed and the largest assembly of religious worshipers I have ever seen together.' The house was filled to overflowing. He testified that at a meeting in Iowa, in 1848, the Lord revealed to the Twelve Apostles and others that Brigham Young should be their leader. 

"Elder Orson Pratt remarked upon how the great tabernacle appeared towering above other buildings like an artificial mountain — "the Mountain of the Lord's House in the tops of the mountains," as he came down Parley's Canyon, returning from his late mission to Europe. He delivered a powerful discourse on the personality of God, and touched on the resurrection. 

"President Young said he did not know how the resurrection would be but supposed he knew as much about it as any one. 'No man can explain it except he has received the keys of it by revelation.' He said that we should preserve our personality and that the essential parts of our bodies endure forever. 

"Elder John Taylor spoke upon the supremacy and superiority of the laws and government of God over the governments of men, and of the comprehensiveness of the gospel, comparing savage and civilized peoples. 

"Elder Wilford Woodruff spoke of the wonderful providence of God in the growth of the people, in means and members, and advised the young people to marry and lay the foundation for homes and happiness. 

"Elder George A. Smith advocated home manufactures, recommending the use and economy of wooden-soled shoes and urged the people to emigrate the poor. 

"President Brigham Young delivered a wonderful sermon on the Word of Wisdom. He said : 'It is wisdom for us not to drink liquor, tea and coffee, and to let tobacco alone.' If there are any cases when a cup of tea or a little tobacco will do good he would not object to their being taken; but who is to be the judge of, when they will do GENERAL CONFERENCE ? He was satisfied that when the least lenity is given, there would be a disposition to treat resolution. Some seem to think that this counsel will soon die away and that the people will return to the use of tea, coffee, tobacco and liquor. He would say that if any of the Elders of Israel should treat this counsel lightly he would promise them the curse of God would be upon them. It is required of the Latter-day Saints that they keep the Word of Wisdom and if they trifle with it they will be sorry for it. He spoke briefly several times during the conference. He offered the opening prayer and he made the benediction. 

"Elder Ezra T. Benson spoke on home industries, and referred to the good effect of President Young's recent trip in the North. 

"Elder Charles C. Rich spoke briefly on home industries and upon the unity of the Saints, saying there never had been a time when they were more united than at the present. 

"Elder Lorenzo Snow spoke on education and preaching the gospel, warning the nations of the judgments and calamities coming. He illustrated his theme by reciting the dreams of Joseph and their fulfilment in Egypt. 

"Elder Erastus Snow spoke prophetically of the South country saying there were elements of great worth there, which in time, would justify the wisdom of colonizing that country. About one hundred and fifty young men were called to go south and live, and strengthen the settlements there. This was the 'Muddy Mission.' The names were called out by Elder George Q. Cannon, who also presented the General Authorities sustained as above. He spoke on education, and of the regeneration of a people through observing the Word of Wisdom. He also laid before the audience the plan of the Sunday School Union soon to be organized. 

"Elder Joseph F. Smith was called into the Twelve to fill the existing vacancy. He delivered an interesting discourse on individual duty and obligations and advised all foreign born Saints to learn to speak the English language. He said : 'Our mission i s jo work righteousness and to bring all things subservient to the will of God.' 

"President Young paid Brother Joseph F. Smith a remarkable tribute, and commented upon the honors, rights and privileges of every man holding an office in the Priesthood. 'No man succeeds to the crown or honors of another; each secures his own by his faithfulness and his deserts.' 

"On Tuesday, October 8, the President said there were things he would like to teach the people that would keep them together continuously, but it was not prudent to hold them too long. A vote was then taken to decide whether to adjourn conference for six months or to continue it over another day. The vote was to continue, and so the fourth day, Wednesday, October 9, meetings were held all day. The emigration of Saints from Europe was stressed by all the speakers. 

A REMARKABLE GATHERING 

"This was a remarkable conference. There were no railroads here 177 , no street cars, no paved streets, no sewers, electric or gas lights, no telephones, automobiles or radiographs, nor three story buildings in Utah. There were no High Schools, Improvement Associations or Primaries. The University had but a nominal existence. The instructions were nevertheless to preach the gospel of Christ; emigrate t he poor; build up Zion substantially; educate the children; cultivate the land; produce our own wares, food and fabrics; set our own fashions; be kind to families, charitable to all people, clean, refined, virtuous, lovers of God, obedient to his counsels, and loyal to country and one another." 

I felt sure that this audience would be pleased to hear what transpired in that conference! fifty-five years ago — before I was eleven years old. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT (Introducing Mr. J. R. Howard) 

We have the honor of having present with us today, President J. R. Howard, of the Farm Bureaus of the United States of America, and he has consented to address us. He will be the next speaker. 

MR. J. R. HOWARD 

{President of the U. S. Farm Bureaus) 

I deem it a very great privilege, as well as a favor, to stand before you and acknowledge before you my belief in God, and in his Son, and in the guidance of his Holy Spirit. 

I come from a farming community. Agriculture is my business. My neighbors, as well as myself, belong to the common people of America, and I am glad to know that in this audience, and in this splendid inter-mountain empire, there are many of my own kind of folk. 

I am sure you will agree with me that the measure of strength of any church or any government or any school, is that of the average individual. The purpose of us all, in our work, is to raise the level of the average, rather than to create an aristrocracy of wealth or of intellect. We are going through trying and troublous times, as a people. I am convinced that there is but one thing that is going to restore normalcy in this world, and that is the advancement of the religion of Christ. We will not get back to the place where we can further make progress, except we are anchored on things eternal. 

On my farm, as I go to my work, and look at my crops, I love to see, in their growth, the work of a divine hand. I never travel or cross the mountains but what I think of the eternal God which made those hills. But we, as a people, need to recognize God, not alone as the God of the fields, of the flowers and the plants; not alone as the God of the mountains, but we must recognize him as the God of the human heart. So, I am glad to bring you this greeting, and to tell GENERAL CONFERENCE  that the spirituality of this session and the session of this morning are as a sweet incense upon my soul. 

I often think of a patriarch and prophet of old, who returned to his country after it had been devastated by enemies. He found the walls of the city down, and the temple destroyed. He set about, with a brave heart, to rebuild the walls of that city, but the enemies on the plains beset him and hindered him and harassed him, but the brave old man worked on, regardless of the enemy. Finally, the last gate of the wall was almost completed, and the enemy, in order to distract him from his work sent a delegation to him saying, "Come down to one of the cities of the plains and let us talk this thing over." I want to bring you his reply today, and to say to you that I hope that your lives are so adjusted, whether you be farmer or merchant, manufacturer, laborer, school-teacher or housewife, whether your position be high or lowly; I hope that his reply will be your reply, as it is mine. I imagine I can see the flash in the old man's eye and the straightening of his shoulders, as he said to those who sought to distract him from his noble work, and get him to come down to the city of the plains. These were his words: "I am doing a great work. I cannot come down." 

May those be your words, and may He who rules over the destinies of men and nations continue with you and all of us in your good work. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities of the Church, and by unanimous vote of the assembly, they were sustained in their various offices and callings, as follows : 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Charles W. Penrose, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Anthony W. Ivins, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith The counselors of the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 179 

FIRST SEVEN PRESIDENTS OF SEVENTY 

Seymour B. Young- Joseph W. McMurrin 

Brigham H. Roberts Charles H. Hart 

Jonathan G. Kimball Levi Edgar Young Rulon S. Wells 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop David A.' Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant, Trustee-in-Trust, for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. Wm. Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe 

Charles W. Penrose David O. McKay 

Anthony W. Ivins Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson Arthur Winter, Orson F. Whitney Secy, and Treas. 

Joseph Fielding Smith 

COMMISSIONERS OF EDUCATION 

John A. Widtsoe Stephen L. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS 

Adam S. Bennion 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John C. Cutler Peter G. Johnston 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. 

B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor Cannon, Asst. Organists 

John J. McClellan, Organist George C. Smith, Sec. and Treas. 

And all the members of the choir. 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren arid sisters : There is a large clock in the other end of this building, that is greatly illuminated. It is placed there for the benefit and help of the speakers. When I am sitting on my seat I can see the time clearly, but when I arise to' speak in this great building, in the midst of this great congregation, I regret to say I go blind and cannot see the time (laughter). 

I wish to commend and to congratulate Professor Lund and the Tabernacle choir, and the young lady soloist, for the anthem that was sung at the closing meeting this morning. It was magnificently done. The young lady has a wonderful voice. It went up and up to such a high note that T thought for a moment the drum of my ear was shattered, but it was not; and then she went up and up and up until it seemed to me that she stood on the edge of a precipice and would surely go over, but she did not. It was a wonderful performance, and the anthem this afternoon also was grand, impressive and beautifully rendered. 

Day before yesterday, I was proud and high-minded and lifted up in my feelings. Through some strange accident, I got hold of the hat of President Penrose and wore it all the afternoon. I am free to confess that I could not' fill his shoes, but I filled his hat (laughter). 

VIOLATION OF MORAL LAW A FATAL AND DEADLY SIN 

The President in the opening meeting gave the keynote to the conference by counseling obedience to law; obedience to divine law, and obedience to the law of the land. The divine law is always a righteous law and needs no repealing. The law of man generally, and in the main, is a righteous one. Sometimes the laws of man are not righteous, therefore when they are not righteous they ought to be repealed. Most of the speakers of the conference have touched upon this vital question from various angles. It would be well perhaps to treat it for a few moments from still another angle. Let me say, I feel that I am justified in saying, that there is no future for any nation that despises virtue, and continuously and persistently violates the moral law. This is a fatal and deadly sin. Whenever the cup of their iniquity is full, such nation or nations will be overthrown and suffer the displeasure of an offended God. This assertion, brethren and sisters, is attested by many examples of sacred as well as profane history. 

AN EXAMPLE FROM PROFANE HISTORY 

For instance, take Rome. One of the greatest and most powerful empires of the ancient world was the Roman Empire. It had in it the strength of iron to bruise, to crush and to break in pieces. It conquered many nations and kingdoms and brought them into subjection. The fear of Rome extended to all the known world of that day, and to be called a Roman citizen was regarded as a great dis181 . In the early days and years of Rome, as I have said, she was strong, she was invincible but in later years through yielding to the subtle influence of luxurious living and the violation of the moral law, she became weak, and was finally broken to pieces. A French editor, M. Guizot, gives us a short, vivid picture of the decline and fall of Rome, in the preface of Gibbon's Rome. This is what he said: 

"The gradual decline of the most extraordinary dominion which has ever invaded and oppressed the wor'd; the fall of that immense empire, erected on the ruins of so many kingdoms, republics and states, both barbarous and civi'ized, and forming in its turn, by its dismemberment, a multitude of States, republics and kingdoms; the annihilation of the religion of Greece and Rome; the birth and the progress of the two new religions which have shared the most beautiful regions of the earth; the decrepitude of the ancient world, the spectacle of its expiring glory and degenerate manners * * * such a subject must necessarily fix the attention and excite the interest of men, who cannot behold with indifference those memorable epochs." 

Other examples in profane history might be given. 

ILLUSTRATIONS FROM SACRED SCRIPTURE 

Let us turn for a few moments to sacred history : In the early years of the world the people became very wicked. Noah, a prophet and a righteous man, preached to them one hundred twenty years and pleaded with the people to repent of their sins and to forsake them, but to no avail. They were guilty of every kind and species of wickedness, and "God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually." And again the record says: "God looked upon the earth and beheld it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth." It was then, God decreed that all flesh should be destroyed. He sent the flood, and the children of men were submerged, only Noah and his family escaping. 

The Lord brought the children of Israel up out of Egypt and out of bondage with power and an outstretched arm. He brought them into the wilderness, he brought them to Mount Sinai, and there, with a demonstration of his power and might in the midst of thunders and lightnings, gave to them the moral law. It was bound up in the Ten Commandments — "Thou shalt not commit adultery." This law was strictly enforced among the children of Israel, and its violation was attended by severe penalties, and thus — mark you, brethren and sisters, were they measurably protected from that great sin. Finally the children of Israel were brought to the land of Canaan. Palestine, the land that was given by promise to Abraham and his seed, was inhabited by six or seven great nations, and the Lord commanded his people to go in and drive out those nations, to destroy them and to take possession of the land. This is what he said, if they would indeed obey his voice: "I will be an enemy unto thine enemies," I will be an adversary unto thine adversaries, for mine Angel shall go before GENERAL CONFERENCE , and bring thee in unto the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites; and 1 will cut them off. Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after the; r works; but thou shalt utterly overthrow them, and quite break down their images." 

It may be said by some, that God in this matter' was cruel, that he was unmerciful, that this was a vengeful thing to do, but you must remember that the people in Canaan were steeped in wickedness, were guilty of every species of crime, were engaged in idolatry, and were violators of the moral law. Their cup of iniquity was full, they were ripe for destruction, and destruction came. 

And the children of Israel went into the Promised Land and in those early years they were prospered and strengthened and upheld by the power of their Maker. Oh, what a blessed people! He smiled upon them and they also had prophets to minister to them in the things of God. But in later years, when they forsook the worship of God and turned to idolatry and ceased to observe the moral law, great distress and trial came upon them, and they were visited by great destruction. 

.MORAL LAW EMPHASIZED IN THE MINISTRY OF JESUS 

In the meridian of time John the Baptist came in the wilderness preaching the gospel, the gospel of repentance, and Jerusalem and all Judea came to his baptism and when John perceived the wickedness and hypocrisy of the Pharisees, he said to them : "O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? "Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance." 

Jesus came later preaching the gospel and counseled the people to repent and receive it. It seems to me that the moral law was greatly emphasized in the incident of the woman who was taken in transgression. She was brought to Christ by the Pharisees who charged her with the crime of adultery, and they stood there before him impatiently. They were urgent for his condemnation upon the woman that they might take her out and stone her to death. Christ looked upon them intently, and then he knelt down and with his finger wrote in the sand then stood up again. The Pharisees were still urgent for his action, but he, perceiving the wickedness of their hearts, said: "He that is without sin let him cast the first stone." He again knelt and wrote in the sand, and then he stood up once more and looking around said to the woman : "Woman, where are thine accusers ? Is* there no man to condemn thee ?" And the woman said : "Lord there is no man to condemn me." Now, you remember his sublime answer, brethren and sisters : 

"Neither do I condemn thee. Go thy way and sin no more." But, mark this, he did not apologize for her sin, he did not excuse her, he did not condone the sin, but said : "Go thy way and sin no more." I think this is a wonderful example of God's mercy and also of God's justice, quite beyond us. 183 

PAUL S ANALYSIS 

Paul the Apostle in his epistle to the Corinthians went deeper into the matter when he said : "Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy: for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are." 

Oh, how sublime! It is logical, it is philosophical, it is reasonable. We are the children of God, and he designates his children as temples, living temples of God. It is wonderful, it is beautiful! There are temples of wood and stone, but these are living temples. 

Paul's interpretation amplified by the prophet joseph smith 

Now, brethren and sisters, we are of the children of Israel, and the great moral law that was made binding upon them is also equally binding upon us. It has been renewed to us in our day, and the language of Paul has been amplified, greatly enlarged, by a modern revelation. You will find it in Section 93, Doc. and Cov., where these wonderful words are recorded : "For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receiveth a fulness of joy. And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple." 

IF MAN IS IMMORAL HE IS WEAK AS WATER 

So we are now under that great and important law. It is vital to our welfare, to our salvation. Go out upon the street. You may see a man standing there. He is wonderfully well developed, strong physically, strong' mentally. Why, he may have been through college, a graduate. Oh, how well equipped he is for life! But I tell you, brethren and sisters, if that man is immoral he is as weak as water. Another man who is famous throughout the land as a lawyer, who can command his thousands and thousands of dollars, his knowledge is so desirable. But I tell you that if that man is immoral he is as weak as water. And still another man may have studied medicine and attained to great eminence. You may envy him. I tell you if he is immoral he is as weak as water. And take a young woman who has had every advantage of education and culture. She is accomplished, she can play the piano most beautifully, she may be a great writer, but I Tell you, if that young woman is immoral she is as weak as water; because, remember, that the Spirit of God will not dwell in unholy temples. If I can leave that impression with you this afternoon, brethren and sisters, oh, how thankful I shall be. 

I rejoice in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I know it is true. I do know that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was and is his prophet, and that he stands at the head of this last dispensation. He was indeed a wonderful man, and, I apprehend, was a great spirit GENERAL CONFERENCE  the spirit world before he came to this earth. I rejoice in this testimony, and I bear it to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The trio, "Lift Thine Eyes,"' was sung by Lola Leonard, Louise Watson, and Edna Gothberg. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There has never been, within my recollection, anything to compare with the wonderful outpouring of people, to our semi-annual conferences, such as we have had during the past three days. 

CONSIDERING A FOUR-DAYS CONFERENCE 

I think that, perhaps, in the future it may be well— and we will seriously consider it — to have four days of conference. Several of our speakers limited themselves to sixteen, seventeen, and eighteen minutes, and, as you know, only two of the seven presidents of seventies have had the opportunity of addressing the vast congregations that have appeared in this building, and only one of the presiding bishopric. The suggestion made fifty-five years ago and carried by a vote of the people, that they continue the Conference for another day, if carried out at our next meeting, in six months from now, would, in all probability, give each of the brethren of the general authorities, and some of our mission presidents, an opportunity to express themselves without feeling very much limited for time. I am not sure but that the addresses of the three or four of our brethren, including the addresses of the presidency, that were beyond the short limit of fifteen to twenty odd minutes, gave the brethren who delivered them greater liberty of utterance, and a freer flow of the Spirit, than was enjoyed by those I had to request to make their addresses short. It is only fair to say that a great many of the Latter-day Saints have expressed to me, time and time again, the idea that if we cannot all find the time to bear our testimonies and deliver our messages at a general conference, it would be better to only have a number of us talk at one of the conferences, and the balance at the next one. But, I have felt in my heart an anxiety that each of those who are presiding over our missions throughout the United States, and each of the general authorities of the Church whom you have voted to sustain here this day — the twenty-six members that stand as the presiding authority in the Priesthood — -should lift up their voices in each and all of our conferences and bear witness of the goodness of God to them. For that reason we have always had them speak, and occasionally we have heard from some others in addition. I have heard a great many people say that one cannot very well deliver much of a sermon in ten minutes, but some of the very choicest of all the choice sermons that I have ever heard in this building, have been delivered in five and ten minutes. 185 

EXPRESSED THANKS TO ALL WHO HAVE TAKEN PART 

 When I think of the scores and scores of conferences I have attended in October, through driving storms and snow, to say nothing about the cold and the blizzardy weather we have had, I have rejoiced and been thankful to the Lord for the very wonderful and splendid weather we have enjoyed during this conference. I extend to the Saints my thanks and my blessing for the wonderful outpouring of the people at these conference meetings. I am grateful to our choir and to all who have taken part in rendering to us the very splendid music that we have enjoyed during our conference. I am thankful to each and all of the speakers who have spoken here in this building, and to those who have spoken in the overflow meetings. I feel that the Lord has abundantly blessed us, and poured out his spirit upon us, and that we will go from this meeting refreshed in spirit, renewed in our determinations to serve him and keep his commandments, and to proclaim the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ by the uprightness, the honesty, the integrity and the devotion of our lives. 

THEY ARE THE GREATEST SPEAKERS WHO LIVE THE GOSPEL 

The Latter-day Saints, as a people, have the greatest number of preachers in all the world, for the reason that nearly every lay member has been on one or more missions of from two to five years, proclaiming the gospel, without money and without price. We are a nation — small nation, so to speak — of preachers, but the greatest and the most wonderful preacher among the Latter-day Saints is the man or the woman who lives the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. "Show me thy faith by thy works" is the thing that counts. James said that he would show his faith by his works, and that faith without works is dead. It is like the body without the spirit, and you know that needs to be buried very soon after the spirit departs, or it becomes obnoxious. It is by our works, our diligence, our faithfulness, our energy, that we can preach this gospel, and the people of the world are beginning to recognize, to know and to comprehend the fact that the fruits of the gospel of Jesus Christ, as taught by the Latter-day Sains, are good fruits. To have the lowest death rate, to have the highest birth rate, to have Utah tie — (nearly twenty years ago, when I was in England, presiding over the European Mission) for second place among the states of America, for literacy — only one state ahead of us — show that we are making a record that we can well be proud of. I have said to people, in my travels as a member of the Council of the Twelve, during the past forty years, that all we ask any man or of any woman, at home or abroad, that they do for the Latter-day Saints, is to judge them by their fruits. The one great standard laid down by the Savior of the world was, "By their fruits ye shall know them." For happiness in their homes, for contentment, prosperity, business integrity, sobriety, for observance of the laws of God and of man, I am at the GENERAL CONFERENCE  of the world to find any other people superior to the Latterday Saints. I am not speaking now of "Mormons" who do not keep the commandments of God. 

THE STANDARDS BY WHICH WE WISH TO BE JUDGED 

No true Americans desire to be judged by the Benedict Arnolds of our country, but they desire to be judged by men like George Washington and Abraham Lincoln and others who have been devoted to the principles upon which this country stands and to the Constitution of our country, who respect that Constitution, who stand for the obeying of the laws of the country, and who have given their lives, or offered their lives, for the country. Those are the people whose lives we desire shall be the standard by which the United States of America shall be judged — not by the law-breakers. We desire that the Latter-day Saints shall be judged by those who keep the commandments of the Lord, who obey the word of wisdom, who obey the commandment to give to the Lord one-tenth of all that shall come into their hands, who attend to their family and their secret prayers, who are ready and willing to go, without money and without price, to the uttermost ends of the earth to proclaim the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and who do it under the inspiration of the' Spirit of the living God. 

A PROMINENT EXAMPLE 

We desire to be judged by men, for instance, like Col. R. M. Bryce Thomas, who came to Salt Lake City about thirty years ago, a retired Colonel in the British Army. His wife was taken sick and they were stopping in what was then known as the Templeton hotel, and, across the road from that hotel was the headquarters, then, of the Deseret News. Over the front door was a sign " 'Mormon' publications for sale." Day after day he read this sign, until it got on his nerves, so he went and bought a lot of "Mormon" publications, and he read and studied them. When he returned to London, he attended our meetings, and later joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He made twoi trips all the way from London to Salt Lake, to perform ordinances for his dead ancestors, in the temple of the living God, on this block. He wrote a long letter — I imagine fully a hundred, if not more, pages, telling his friends why he had joined the Church of Jesus Christ. It is entitled My Reasons for Leaving the Church of England and Joining the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. This was written for the express purpose of enlightening his friends. He received so many letters asking him why he had joined this unpopular people, that it kept him constantly busy and so he decided to publish his reasons, with no idea that his pamphlet, or the letter that he sent to Liverpool to have published for his benefit, would be used as a tract. We ask to be judged by men like Colonel Thomas. 

It has been said, and I believe truthfully, that about the tenderest part of the human anatomy, of the male variety of the species, is the pocket, and Colonel Thomas, from the day that he was baptized sends once a month to the London office a fast-day offering; once a month a check comes for one-tenth of his compensation as a retired Colonel in the British army. 

THE JOY OF CONVERTING SOULS AND PROCLAIMING THE GOSPEL ' 

We ask to be judged by those men who are giving their all — their talents and their lives — and those women who are doing the same, for the advancement of God's kingdom, by those who feel a desire in their hearts to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ, that feel exactly as did Alma of old, when he said (Alma 29) : 

"O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people! 

Yea, I would declare unto every soul, as with the voice of thunder, repentance and the plan of redemption, that they should repent and come unto our God, that there might not be more sorrow upon all the face of the earth. 

"But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish; for I ought to be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me. 

"I ought not to harrow up in my desires, the firm decree of a just God, for I know that he granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that he allotteth unto men, according to their wills, whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction. 

"Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men; or he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his desires; whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of conscience. 

"Now, seeing that I know these things, why should I desire more than to perform the work to which I have been called? 

"Why should I desire that I were an angel, that I could speak unto all the ends of the earth? 

"For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his word, yea, in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true. 

"I know that which the Lord hath commanded me, and T glory in it. I do not gloryi of myself, but I glory in that which the Lord hath commanded niie; yea, and this is my glory, that perhaps I may be an instrument in the hands of God to bring some soul to repentance; and this is my joy. 

"And behold, when I see many of my brethren truly penitent, and coming to the Lord their God, then is my soul filled with joy; then do I remember what the Lord has done for me, yea, even that he hath heard my prayer; yea, then do I remember his merciful arm which he extended towards me. 

"Yea, and I also remember the captivity of my fathers; for I surely do know that the Lord did deliver them out of bondage, and by this did establish his church; yea, the Lord God, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac,, and the God of Jacob, did deliver them out of bondage. 

"Yea, I have always remembered the captivity of my fathers; and that same God who delivered them out of the hands of the Egyptians did deliver them out of bondage. 

"Yea, and that same God did establish his church among them; yea and that same God hath called me by a holy calling, to preach the word unto this people and hath given me. much success, in the which my joy is full." 

There is no living soul in all the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterGENERAL CONFERENCE  Saints, who has gone forth to proclaim this gospel, from the midnight sun country of Scandinavia, where the mother of Reed Smoot heard the gospel, down; to South Africa; from Canada to South America, but who like Alma of old has had that same joy and that same happiness, when he or she has been an instrument in the hands of God of bringing some soul to a knowledge of the divinity of the work in which you and I are engaged. 

"But I do not joy in my own success alone, but my joy is more full because of the success of my brethren, who have been up to the land of Nephi. 

"Behold, they have labored exceedingly, and have brought forth much fruit; and how great shall be their reward! 

"Now, when i think of the success of these my brethren my soul is carried away, even to the separation of it from the body, as it were, so great is my joy. 

"And now may God grant unto these, my brethren, that they may sit dbwn in the kingdom of God; yea, and also all those who are the fruit of their labors that they may go no more out, but that they, may praise him for ever. And may God grant that it may be done according to my words, even aa I have spoken. Amen." 

1 know of no joy on earth that can compare with that which comes to the heart of the man who is an instrument in the hands of God of saving some soul and turning it from that broad way that leadeth to destruction, into that straight and narrow path that leadeth to life eternal. 

AN ILLUSTRATION IN TLIE CONVERSION OF THE SPEAKER'S BROTHER 

As I stand here today, I remember what to me was the greatest of all the great incidents in my life, in this tabernacle. I saw for the first time, in the audience, my brother who had been careless, indifferent and wayward, who had evinced no interest in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and, as I saw him for the first time in this building, and as I realized that he was seeking God for light and knowledge regarding the divinity of this work, I bowed my head and I prayed God that if I were requested to address the audience, that the Lord would inspire me by the revelations of his Spirit, by that Holy Spirit in whom every true Latter-day Saint believes, that my brother would have to acknowledge to me that I had spoken beyond my natural ability, that I had been inspired of the Lord. I realized that if he made that confession, then 1 should be able to point out to him that God had given him a testimony of the divinity of this work. Brother Milton Bennion was sitting on the stand that day, and he had been asked to address the congregation. President Angus M. Cannon came to me and said, "Before you entered the building, Brother Grant, I had invited Brother Milton Bennion to speak, but he can come some other day." 

I said, "Let him speak." Brother Cannon said, "Well, I will ask him to speak briefly, and you will please follow him." 

Brother Bennion told of his visit around the world; among other things, of visiting the sepulchre of Jesus. 189 

I took out of my pocket a book that I always carried, called a Ready Reference, and I laid it down on the stand in front of me, when I stood up to speak. It was opened at the passages that tell of the vicarious work for the dead, of the announcement that Jesus went and preached to the spirits in prison, and proclaimed the gospel of Jesus Christ to them. I intended to read about the baptism for the dead, and I intended to preach upon the fact that the Savior of the world had not only brought the gospel to every soul upon the earth, but that it reached back to all those who had died without a knowledge of it, or in their sins, that they would have the privilege of hearing it; that, as I understood and had read in the Doctrine and Covenants, Jesus came into the world to be crucified for the world and to die for the sins of the world and that he saved all except only those who denied the Son after the Father had revealed him — those who> had lived and those who had died. 

I remember standing here feeling that that was perhaps the greatest of all the great themes that we as Latter-day Saints had to proclaim to the world. I laid the book down, opened at that page; I prayed for the inspiration of the Lord, and the faith of the Latter-day Saints, and I never thought of the book from that minute until I sat down, at the end of a thirty-minute address. I closed my remarks at 12 minutes after 3 o'clock, expecting that President George Q. Cannon would follow me. Brother Angus came to the upper stand, and said, "George, please occupy the balance of the time." 

He said, "No, I do not wish to speak," but Brother Angus refused to take "No" for an answer. 

Brother Cannon said, finally: "Alright, go take your seat, and I will say something," and he arose and said in substance: "There are times when the Lord Almighty inspires some speaker by the revelations of his Spirit, and he is so abundantly blessed by the inspiration of the living God that it is a mistake for anybody else to speak following him, and one of those occasions has been today, and I desire that this meeting be dismissed without further remarks," and he sat down. 

. " I devoted the thirty minutes of my, speech almost exclusively to a testimony of my knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and to the wonderful and marvelous labors of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and bearing witness to the knowledge God had given me that Joseph was in very deed a prophet of the true and living God. 

The next morning my brother came into my office and said, "Heber, I was at meeting yesterday and heard you preach." 

I said, "The first time you ever heard your brother preach, I guess?" 

"Oh, no," he said, "I have heard you lots of times." I said, "I never saw you in meeting before." "No," he said, "I generally come in late and go into the gallery. I often go out before the meeting is over. But you never spoke as GENERAL CONFERENCE  did yesterday. You spoke beyond your natural ability. You were inspired of the Lord." The identical words I had uttered the day before, in my prayer to the Lord. 

When I heard George Q. Cannon, after I sat down, and before his brother spoke to him, say to himself, "Thank God for the power of that testimony," the tears gushed from my eyes like rain and I rested my elbows on my knees and put my hands over my face, so that the people by me would not see that I was weeping like a child. I knew when I heard those words of George Q. Cannon, that God had heard and answered my prayer. I knew that my brother's heart was touched, and the next day when he came and repeated my words, I said to him, "Are you still praying for a testimony of the gospel'" 

He said, "Yes, and I am going nearly, wild." 

I asked, "What did I preach about yesterday?" 

He replied, "You know what you preached about." 

I said, "Well, you tell me." 

"You preached upon the divine mission of the Lroohet Joseph Smith." 

I answered, "And I was inspired beyond my natural ability; and I never spoke before — at any time you have heard me, as I spoke yesterday. Do you expect the Lord to get a club and knock you down ? What more testimony do you want of the gospel of Jesus Christ than that a man speaks beyond his natural ability and under the inspiration of God, when he testifies of the divine mission of the prophet Joseph ?" The next Sabbath he applied to me for baptism. 

If I were offered today, all the wealth of all the world, and had my brother in the condition he was in — without a knowledge of the divinity of this work, I know, as I know that I live, it would not be the slightest temptation to me. 

I do rejoice beyond all the power with which God has endowed me, in the divinity of this work in which we are engaged, and in the joy and the happiness that it brings to everyone of the Latter-day Saints who keeps the commandments of God. 

SARCASTIC ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROHIBITION 

I had here a lot of things I was going to read, and I have forgotten about all of them but one. There is one thing I want to read and I want to call attention to the hypocrisy of a certain article in Judge, now combined with Leslie's Weekly. It is a contemptible and sarcastic sample, as we find here in an editorial in the Improvement Era, which says: 

"As a sample of the sarcastic and contemptible argument made by the anti-prohibitionists, Judge, which is a combination of the former Leslie's Weekly and the comic paper, Judge, has this editorial in a recent number : 

"light wines and beer "Volstead Prohibition has  — smothered us in prosperity, 191 

— solved our labor problems. 

— diminished crimes of violence. 

— improved our morals. 

 — cut down our divorce rate. 

— produced greater respect for the law 

— discouraged corruption. 

— improved our foreign relations. 

— lessened the privileges of wealth. 

— increased our patriotism. 

— made us happier. 

"This list contains eleven lies. To make it an even dozen, we'll add that Judge is a prohibitionist." 

I lack language to express my contempt for any such an editorial as that in Judge, therefore I will not attempt to do it. The Lord has not given me the power. 

BABSON ON PROHIBITION 

I want to read something from the greatest statistician in America — Mr. Babson: 

"Another optimistic factor in our present business situation is national prohibition." 

Mr. Babson, I guess, is paid more money for what he writes than any other living man in the United States, even, I venture the assertion, about ten times as much as Judge with all the whisky money that they get for writing such stuff as I have read from Judge for you. 

"Before the Prohibition Act was passed, $3,000,000,000 were spent annually for drink." 

What is $3,000,000,000? Three dollars a minute for every minute until now, since the birth of the Savior of the world — three dollars a minute — three billion dollars, and no human being is benefited one particle by that $3,000,000,000 of expenditure, and hundreds and thousands and tens of thousands are ruined physically, morally and every other way, and many hundreds commit murder because of the liquor that they have. 

"Now, this $3,000',0O0,00O that was formerly spent for drink, goes to the buying of merchandise, the building of homes, the furnishing of homes and the starting of savings accounts. No matter what interpretation may be put on the law or what new legislation may be enacted, of this we are quite certain — that same $3,000,000,000 which formerly went to drink will hereafter be used for stimulating the regular channels of business. It will be used to buy merchandise, start savings accounts and do those things which tend to make people happy and prosperous." 

It will increase and has increased, in every land and in every clime, by a hundred to two or three hundred per cent, the amount of milk consumed, and milk is the best food that human beings can have. 

GETTING THE TOWEL DRY IN BUSINESS 

"As a successful merchant needs delivery wagons, so a successful nation needs a good merchant marine. Thanks to the war, the United States has such today. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Finally, w,e are today citizens of the richest country in the world. Where formerly we were a country owing the other nations of the world, we are today a credit country, with the rest of the world owing us. For this and other reasons, this country, fundamentally, is all right. Even at the present time, this medial line which represents fundamental conditions, is slowly but constantly going upward. 

"During 1917-19, however, [he is referring to the towel as representing business] the towel became saturated with water. This is just what happened to business. The drops of water that fall off the towel when lifted out of the water may be indicative of orders for goods which fall to us during such inflated times. The saturated towel represents business when we were at the highest point in January, 1920, thoroughly saturated with water. Such saturation must be taken out. We must always get the towel dry again." 

ADVICE TO THE SAINTS TO GET OUT OF DEBT 

I say to the Latter-day Saints : Get the water out of your business at the earliest possible date; get down to bed-rock. Remember the wonderful teachings of Joseph F. Smith from this stand, years ago, that would have saved hundreds and thousands of Latter-day Saints from ruin financially if they had listened to it. He said, "Get out of debt and keep out of debt." Cattle and sheep men, merchants, farmers and everybody, in the days of the boom, who got more land, more sheep, more cattle, more everything, by running into debt, would thank the Lord Almighty if they had only listened to President Joseph F. Smith. 

THE SECRET OF "MAKING GOOD" 

I want to read a little story. I do not think it will take me over five minutes, and then I am through. I read so much that I make people tired, but I do it in the hope they will read it again after it is published : 

"There were two boys named Brown; they were brothers. The mother had died with tuberculosis when the children were young. The father was a sea captain, one of the best of the town, but he was lost when these boys were fourteen and sixteen years of age, respectively. They, however, lived together in their three rooms, did thir own cooking and housework, and went to school. The people called them 'hatchet and handle' because they were always together. The older boy, Jimmie, finally went into a store, but the younger boy got that longing for the sea which only those brought up near the ocean can appreciate, and when sixteen j-ears old he w.ent out 'on the banks' for a fishing trip. 

"The boy had been away only two weeks, when to that New England town came word that the vessel with all hands had gone down. The disaster was, of course, a great blow to the older brother, Jimmie — a terrible blow. It occurred in February or March. The spring came on; the birds returned. The summer followed; and again the trees changed their color in the autumn. Still Jimmie was very sad. In November a rumor came through the town that a great four-master schooner had gone on the rocks near the Point. The boys of the town, as always, went with the crowd to the Po:',nt to see the wreck. When they reached the shore, the life boat had alreadv gone out." 

"THE SPIRIT WHICH MAKES GOOD." 

And I want every Latter-day Saint to make good. "It was a wicked afternoon; that life boat would rise to the top of 193  waves and then go completely out of sight. Every one held his breath until it would come in sight again. Finally, the boat reached the ship, took off the crew, and came back to shore. As soon as it landed', the Life Savings men and the shipwrecked crew came stumbling out, falling exhausted on the beach. They were taken to a fire which had been built of driftwood, were given hot food and rubbed. They were gradually recovering when a rumor ran about the crowd that a chap, sick and helpless, had been left aboard 1 the ship; that because of his weak condition they could not get him into the life boat, since the waves were too severe, the sea running too high. Well, that didn't go with the people of that New England town and they urged the life boat crew to go back and save the other man. The crew replied : 'No, we cannot. It is too much to attempt again in these waves this afternoon.' 

"Then to the surprise of every one, little Jimmie Brown jumped up on a rock and shouted: 'I have nothing to live for. I have lost my brother. Let me go and I want some boys to go with me.' So the boys formed a volunteer crew, went out to the ship, and brought the other chap ashore. They also fell exhausted on the beach on their return. But they were rubbed and warmed; while the unconscious lad was taken to another fire to be nursed by the good women living near by. Finally, the unconscious one smiled and opened his eyes. Every one was happy. Gradually, one by one, the volunteer boy crew came up to the fire to look at this chap they had saved. Finally Jimmie Brown came and looked. Lo and behold, it was his younger brother! The crew of the fishing schooner had all been lost excepting this young Brown. He had been picked up by the fourmaster on its way to Manila, which, on its homeward voyage, was wrecked on the New England coast. 

"Young men and women who read this book: Remember Jimmie Brown. Forget yourselves. Think of the other fellow. Become interested in doing what is right; in standing for industry, integrity, service. If you do, you (like Jimmie Brown) will find what is dearest to your hearts, namely, PROSPERITY. The secret of making good is being good and doing good." 

No other people upon all the face of the earth have done as much good, have spent as much time/ have spent as much money in proclaiming the gospel and in living the gospel, by paying their tithes and their offerings and doing the things that God has commanded, as have the Latter-day Saints. 

God bless you all. Amen. 
