Morning
08 10 1922

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

I sincerely desire, my brethren and sisters, during the few moments which I may occupy this morning, of the time which is allotted to us, that I may be sustained by your faith and prayers. I feel my dependence upon the Lord, possibly as I have never felt it before, because the older I become, the greater my experience, the more I come to realize that the power of God, our Father, alone can make us strong. 

THE CREATION 

"In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth." 

If the chronology of the Bible is correct — and I know of none better — nearly six thousand years have elapsed since the declaration which I have read was made, and which is the first paragraph from the book of Genesis. It will be observed that this statement, like all others made by the Lord, is a definite, abstract declaration of fact. It is not stated as a theory, a thing which may or may not have been, depending upon the opinions of man for proof. 

God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him, male and female created he them, and said unto them be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. 

The story of the creation of man, and the purpose for which he was placed upon the earth, is told, not in its fullest detail, of course, in the brief scripture from which I have quoted. Of the story of man during the Adamic dispensation, we know but little. The history of one thousand five hundred years and more is told in the Bible on ten short pages, and modern revelation gives us but brief account of the happenings between the creation and the deluge. 

MAN GOVERNED BY CONTRARY POWERS 

This much, however, is made clear to us : That from the earliest period of his existence until the present man has lived a dual life, has been governed by one <of two influences, each diametrically opposed to the other. From the beginning these two powers have striven for the mastery, one leading men on to higher ideals, teaching faith, hope, charity, 'patience, love, self sacrifice, humility, righteousness and justice. The other leading men away from these divine ideals, teaching selfishness, personal ambition, love of power, disregard for virtue, chastity, equality and self sacrifice. 

One teaching that man is the offspring of Deity, created in the image of God, and placed upon the earth endowed with intelligence to discern between good and evil, between right and wrong, and that the Creator would hold him responsible for the use he made of the agency which had been bestowed upon him. The other teaching that man is responsible to no power other than that which he himself has created, and that his future state is not influenced by, nor dependent upon, allegiance to, or acknowledgment of a supreme being. These two influences were manifested soon after our first parents were placed upon earth. 

From God, our Father, through his Only Begotten Son, came teachings which, if adhered to, would lead man back into the presence of the Father, and redeem him from the transgression into which he had fallen, because he had listened to Lucifer, a son of the morning, who had rebelled against God, and because of his rebellion had been cast down with his angels, banished from the presence of the Father, and had become Perdition, destined to fight against God, to be the father of lies, and the enemy of all that is good. 

Notwithstanding the fact that the Father talked with Adam, making plain to him that he would provide, through his Only Begotten Son, a Savior, and means by which redemption would come to his posterity, as the people multiplied they refused to listen to his teachings, and came to love Satan more than God. <, 

ENOCH SENT TO CALL THE PEOPLE TO REPENTANCE 

Before the birth of Seth, who was i obedient to the teachings of his father, Adam, and became a preacher of righteousness, the people had become sensual and devilish. Cain had learned, through the teachings of Satan, 'that by taking the life of his brother Abel he could become possessed of his flocks and herds, he had been taught that by combining in oath-bound societies power could be obtained by the shedding of blood, and war 'and bloodshed prevailed among the people. 

At this time the Lord sent Enoch to call the people to repentance, and he 'went forth testifying to the redemption which would come in the meridian of time, through the atonement which was to be made by the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, but they refused to listen, and so great 'was their opposition to Enoch, and enmity toward those who accepted his word, that it became necessary for the Lord to take them from the earth. 

iTHE PROPHECIES AND WORK OF NOAH 

Again the Lord sent his prophet to warn the people, and rescue them from the power of Satan, who held them imbondage. Noah, who was the son of Lamech, who was the son of Methuselah, who was the son of Enoch, went among the people (prophesying that except they renounced their (allegiance to Satan, and returned to the Lord they would be utterly destroyed. Again the message fell upon deaf ears, only Noah and his sons, and their families being saved when the windows of heaven were opened, land the floods covered the earth. 

Thus the first effort made by the Lord to teach his children the plan by which they might be redeemed, and brought back into his presence, had 'failed, so far as the great majority was concerned, one thousand five hundred and fifty years after they had been placed upon the earth. 

After having witnessed this great manifestation of the power lof God, and the result which is inevitable to those who follow after Satan, for he sooner or later leads people to death, sone would think that the lesson would always be remembered. Noah and his sons went out from the ark humbled and convinced, for they had witnessed the destruction of their race, but the lesson was soon forgotten. Two hundred and fourteen years after the ark rested on jMount Ararat the people were again traveling in the broad road which leads to destruction. They had again turned from the worship of the true God to the worship of idols. 

THE CALLING OF ABRAHAM AND THE RISE OF ISRAEL 

At this time there occurred an event which was to have a more direct effect upon you and me than any which had hitherto transpired. From his home in Chaldea the Lord called Abraham, and taking him up into Palestine entered into covenant with him, that notwithstanding the fact that he was a childless man, he would make his posterity innumerable, and would give Palestine to him and his children for an everlasting inheritance, and that through him all of the nations of the earth would be blessed. 

In fulfilment of the word of the Lord Isaac was born to Abraham and Sarah, and he became the father of Jacob, who was the father of the twelve patriarchs, the founders of the twelve tribes of Israel. Again the keys of the Priesthood were conferred upon men, again the prophets declared the great plan of human redemption, again the law of sacrifice was restored by which the people were taught that an infinite sacrifice would be provided, by which they were to be redeemed from death, because He who was to come would be the first fruits of the resurrection from the dead. 

At one time it appeared that the word of the Lord would not  fulfilled, for Israel left Palestine, and went into Egypt, where for a period of more than two hundred years, the greater part of the time in servitude, they adopted the customs and idolatrous worship of the Egyptians. But the purposes of the Lord were not to be frustrated, and he called his servant Moses who led Israel out from the Egyptian bondage, and back to the promised land, the land which the Lord had given to their father Abraham to be an everlasting inheritance. 

ISRAEL, UNDER DAVID AND SOLOMON, A DOMINANT NATION 

The Lord again showered blessings upon the people, until under David and Solomon, their prophet kings, they became one of the dominant nations of the world. 

During the Israelitish period the Lord again raised up prophets who testified, as prophets had testified in earlier dispensations, that the Lord would send, through the lineage of David, the Messiah, who would be the Redeemer of the world. Isaiah prophesied that a virgin would conceive and bear a Son, whose name should be called Immanuel, and that he would take away the sins of the world. 

The time had come when the Lord was again to offer redemption to the people, when another gospel dispensation was to be ushered in, the effect of which would be of greater importance than any which had gone before, or would follow after. The appearance of prophets, warning the people to turn from the service of Satan, and serve the Lord, was not its outstanding feature. The Lord himself, in the person of his Only Begotten Son, was to come to earth, that through him unconditional redemption from death might be wrought out for all mankind, and forgiveness for personal sin assured through obedience to the doctrines of the gospel which he would teach. 

The Jewish people, blinded by the teachings of men, because of their prejudices, their traditions, their pride and faithlessness, failed to recognize in Jesus Christ, Shiloh, to whose coming they had long looked forward, influenced as they were by Satan rather than by the Lord, as generations before them had been. 

THE COMING AND THE MISSION OF CHRIST 

In vain the Redeemer pleaded with them, in vain he wept as he gazed upon the holy city, and contemplated the ruin which must inevitably come. In vain he warned the people of the consequences which would follow rejection of his word. The power of the Almighty which was manifested in his works, the love of God exemplified in his ministry, none of these things could move hearts made adamant by the power of the evil one. 

Christ was persecuted, ridiculed, his message rejected, and finally he was put to death by the most ignominious process known to man, and that by his own people whom he had come to redeem. In part his mission had failed, but the great purpose of his coming had been accomplished, for the bands of death had been broken, the prison doors had been opened and the captives set free, death could no longer forever hold captive the spirits of men. 

CHRIST REJECTED BY THE JEWS 

The Church which Christ and his disciples established struggled heroically for existence, but the evil one so dominated the minds of men, persecution was so intense, that the keys and power of the Priesthood were withdrawn, the ordinances of the gospel changed, until the Lord ceased to recognize the Church as his. 

The prophets had foreseen and declared all of these conditions. They saw the dispersion of Israel, the suffering of the Jewish people, because of their rejection of the Savior, who had been sent for their redemption. They looked forward to a time which they all desired to see, a day when the Lord would set his hand for the last time to redeem his people, when Satan would be bound, be banished from the earth, and his power to tempt mankind, and lead them on to destruction, cease. 

A NEW GOSPEL DISPENSATION 

It was a period when a new gospel dispensation was to be ushered in, when the Lord would again offer salvation to the people of the world, when he would gather in the outcasts of Israel, when he would prune his vineyard for the last time, restore the keys of his Priesthood, and consummate the work which had been commenced in the beginning. When he would send his Only Begotten Son to earth again, this time to reign as King of kings, and Lord of lords. 

The time, the place, the manner of this restoration were plainly outlined by the prophets. It was to be in the latter days, the dispensation of the fulness of times; a time when Satan would rage in the hearts of the children of men, when men's hearts would fail because of fear, when there would be war, and rumors of war, when the sea would heave itself beyond its bounds and the whole earth be in commotion. 

At such a time a light was to break forth among those who sit in darkness, which light was to be the fulness of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. This gospel, the Lord himself declared, shall be preached in all the world, as a witness unto all people, and then shall the end come. 

THE GATHERING FORETOLD 

The place to which scattered Israel was to be gathered was plainly indicated. It was not to be upon the islands of the sea, not upon the broad plains nor in the open vallies, but in the tops of the mountains, in a country which had been regarded as a barren waste, where the desert would be made glad because of those who were to redeem and convert it into fruitful fields. To such a place people from all nations were to flow, that they might be taught the law of the Lord, and learn to walk in his paths. 

That a work could be inaugurated, having for its purpose the conquest of sin, the subjugation of Satan, and his final banishment from the earth, without resistance on his part is not to be expected. Knowing that the hosts of heaven were being marshaled for the last great struggle between the powers of light and darkness, of good and evil, of right and wrong, he has fought, as never before, to defeat the purposes of the Almighty. 

THE PERSONAGE WHO INAUGUARTED THE WORK 

When the time came for the opening of the present gospel dispensation, Joseph Smith, who was to be made the instrument through whom the work would be inaugurated, moved upon by the Spirit of the Lord, went into the woods to pray. The effort made by Satan to prevent the accomplishment of the purposes of the Lord, is told by Joseph Smith as follows : 

"After I had retired to the place where I had previously designed to go, having looked around me, and finding myself alone, I kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my heart to the Lord. [ had scarcely done so when I was immediately seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me, and had such an astonishing influence over me as to bind my tongue, so that I could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around tme, and it seemed to me for a time that I was doomed to sudden destruction. But exerting all my powers to call upon God, to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was about to sink into despair, and abandon myself to destruction, not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of some actual being from the unseen world, who had such marvelous power as I had never before felt in any being, just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me. 

"It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held me bound." 

THIS RESTORED GOSPEL OF THE KINGDOM TO BE PREACHED IN ALL THE WORLD 

This gospel of the kingdom was to be preached in all the world, as a witness to all people. In 1837 Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde and others were sent to Great Britain to bear the message of the restoration to the people of that country, which was to contribute such strength to the Church. They arrived there on the 20th of July. Converts were made to the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith, and a time appointed when the ordinance of baptism was to be administered to those who had accepted the truth. Sunday was the day when this ordinance was to be solemnized. 

EFFORTS OF THE EVIL ONE TO PREVENT THE PURPOSES OF GOD 

The efforts put forth by the evil one, to prevent the accomplishment of the purposes of the Lord, on the night before the Sunday indicated, is told by Heber C. Kimball and Orson Hyde, as follows. Heber C. Kimball says: "While I was thus engaged I was struck with great force, by some invisible power, and fell senseless to the floor. The first thing I remembered was being supported by Elders Hyde and Richards, who were praying for me. I then arose and sat upon the bed, when a vision was opened to our minds, and we could plainly see the evil spirits who foamed and gnashed their teeth at us. They came toward us like armies rushing to battle." 

Orson Hyde, in a letter written to Heber C. Kimball, at a later date, says : "Every circumstance which occurred in that scene of devils is just as fresh in my recollection as it was at the time of its occurrence. While you were apparently senseless and lifeless upon the floor, and on the bed, after we had laid you there, I stood between you and the devils and fought them face to face, until they began to diminish in number and retreat from the room." 

EFFORTS AND METHODS ADOPTED BY THE EVIL ONE TO THIS END 

Failing in his endeavor to prevent the restoration of the gospel, and the organization of the Church, the evil one has concentrated his efforts to prejudice, by falsehood and misrepresentation, the people  of the world against the truth. Misrepresentation, persecution, in some instances death, have followed the elders of the Church whereever they have gone, and not* satisfied with the effort put forth among the people of the world, Satan has, by every strategy known to him, endeavored to lead away from the Church those who have entered into covenant with the Lord that they will serve him, and keep his commandments. 

The means which he employs for the accomplishment of his purposes, are many and varied. Permit me to read from the Book of Mormon : 

"Wo unto them that turn aside the just for a thing of naught, and revile against that which is good, and' say that it is of n|D worth! For thie day shall come when the Lord God will speedily visit the inhabitants of the earth; and in that day when they are fully ripe in iniquity they shall perish. 

"But behold, if the inhabitants of the earth shall repent, of their wickedness and abominations they shall not be destroyed, saith he Lord of Hosts. For the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which belong to it must needs be stirred up' unto repentance, lor the devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be stirred up to anger against that which is good, and perish; for behold at that day shall he rage in, the hearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good. 

"And others he will pacify, and lull them away into carnal security that they will say : All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth all is well, and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell. 

"And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell, and he sayeth unto them, I am no Devil, for* there is none, and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasp them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverence." 

SUGGESTIONS FROM THE ENEMY OF RIGHTEOUSNESS 

Have you, my brethren and sisters, experienced the effect of these various efforts of the evil one to shatter your faith ? Has he ever whispered in your ear, when you have gone to the Lord in prayer,  there was no one to hear and answer you ? At times when your prayers have not been answered, as you may have desired, has his voice whispered to you that it was useless to pray? Has doubt and uncertainty entered your minds where faith and hope had been before? Has he attempted, by flattery and praise of the world to persuade you that you are great and strong, and do not need the strength which comes from the Lord? Has he filled your heart with ambition, thirst for wealth and power, banishing from you the spirit of humility and self-sacrifice, without which it is impossible to please the Lord? Has he whispered in your ear that violation of the law of chastity is not a grave offense, that you may lie a little, steal a little, take advantage of one because of his words, that you may disregard and violate the law of the land, or the law of the Lord, and be- justified ? 

All such suggestions come from the enemy of righteousness, to whom I have made reference, and to whose strength and power I have desired to call your attention in my remarks. If we transform the mental pictures which are photographed upon our minds by this power, into actions, we are in the grasp of Satan, from which only sincere repentance can rescue us. 

' HOW SHALL WE FORTIFY AGAINST THESE SHAFTS OF EVIL? 

By what process may we be fortified and made impregnable against these shafts of the enemy? We must put on the armor of righteousness, and keep it constantly bright in the service of the Lord. We must keep in constant communion with him through prayer. 

Prayer is the key which opened this gospel dispensation, it is the channel through which the Son communed with the Father, through which Saints were strengthened to endure, and rejoice in persecution, the gateway through which the repentant sinner may find his way back to God. 

Are the Latter-day Saints forgetting this obligation which they owe to the Lord, this one source of strength against the power of Satan? Are we regular in our family prayers, do we go to the Lord in secret, and put our trust in him in all of the activities of life? Let these presidents of stakes, these seventies, bishops, ward teachers and Church members who are present ask themselves these questions, and answer them. Let me again read briefly from the Book of Mormon : 

"Therefore may God grant unto you, my brethren, that ye may begin to exercise your faith unto repentance, that ye begin to call upon his holy name, that he would have mercy upon you. 

"Yea, cry unto him for mercy; for he is mighty to save. 

"Yea, humble yourselves, and continue in prayer unto him. 

"Cry unto him when ye are in your fields, yea, over all of your flocks. 

"Cry unto him in your houses, yea, over all our household, both morning, mid-day, and evening. 

"Yea, cry unto him against the power of your enemies. 

"Yea, cry unto him against the devil, who is an enemy to all righteousness. 

"Cry unto him over the crops of your fields, that ye may prosper in them. 

"Cry over the flocks of your fields, that they may increase. "But this is not all; ye must pour out your souls in your closets, and your secret places, and in your wilderness. 

"Yea, and when you do not cry unto the Lord, let your hearts be full, drawn out in prayer to him continually for your welfare, and also for the welfare of those who are around you." 

My brethren and sisters, these words of the Lord apply to us today, as they applied to those to whom they were delivered in times gone by. The power of the evil one is not broken; he rules the world today. The lust for power, ambition, selfishness, class distinction, the hatred of one race toward another, all of these things are inspired by the same influence which led away our first parents. 

HOW WE MAY KNOW THE WILL OF GOD 

A person said to me the other day: "What is the use of trying? The will of the Lord will be done, anyhow." 

The trouble, my brethren and sisters, is that the will of the Lord has never been done, from the beginning to the present, so far as it applies to the people at large. It was not his will that the people should perish in the flood. He repeatedly called them to repentance, and promised that destruction should be stayed, if they would only return to him. 

It was not his will that Israel should be scattered, and the Jewish people suffer as they have, it was because of their transgression. It is not his will that turmoil, war and bloodshed prevail in the world today. These conditions are all because of lack of faith on the part of the people, and because they refuse to listen to the voice of the Lord, as it has come to us through his servants, the prophets. 

The Lord has repeatedly called the people to repentance, has repeatedly said that redemption might come, if they would return to him, and renounce their allegiance to the evil one. In this dispensation he has said that Zion might have been redeemed had the faith of the people been sufficient. 

It is true that the Lord has decreed certain definite unchangeable purposes, and these he will accomplish. How may we know, then, the will of the Lord, and distinguish between his works and those of Satan? The key is a simple one. Everything which persuades to do that which is good, is from the Lord. Whatever is evil, and persuades men to do that which is not good, is from the evil one. 

REPENTANCE NECESSARY 

Have not we, ourselves, been witnesses of the inevitable results which come to those who follow after Satan? Never before in modern times, and I believe not in ancient times either, has the necessity for repentance been more plainly manifest than in our day. 

THE NATIONS HAVE AGAIN REFUSED TO LISTEN TO GOD'S CALL TO PEACE 

It was not the will of the Lord that we should become involved in the greatest war the world has ever known, it is not his will that the  are divided and in strife today, that war clouds are again gathering which threaten the peace of the world, and the very existence of civilization. It is because men refuse to listen to the voice of the Lord, who is calling them to peace, and good will one toward the other. Peace can be established at any moment, it could have been established long ago, if the people of the world would only unite in a determined effort to prevent war. Ridicule it as you may, make light of it, oppose it, the fact remains that never in the history of modern time, has such opportunity been held out to the people for the establishment of peace, as that which has come in our day. Humbled, in sorrow and mourning, when the time came that war might have been forever suppressed, when conditions might have been established which would have made war impossible, the nations refused to listen. 

Again they started in the broad road, which leads to destruction. Again selfishness, pride, love of power, the exalting of one nation above another, one race above another, menaces the world, and the civilization which is upon it. 

MAY THE TIME SOON COME WHEN THE WORLD WILL TURN FROM 

EVIL TO GOOD 

God grant that the time may soon come when the people of the world will learn, from the experiences of the past, which we seem slow to profit by, that it rests with them, with us, to turn from all that leads us away from the teachings of the Redeemer, to turn from evil to good, lest God's judgment come upon the people of the world, and they be so humiliated and decimated that there will be none to offer resistance, when the time of redemption shall finally come. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, fortify us against the power of the evil one, make us strong in righteousness and good works, that we may be accepted of the Lord, and keep our feet planted firmly in the path which leads back into his presence, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem by Evan Stephens, "Let the mountains shout for joy.'' 

The choir and congregation sang, "Praise God from whom all blessings flow." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The evidence of the "decline" ( ?) of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is seen in this vast audience. When I was one of the junior members of the Council of the Twelve, we never held an overflow meeting Sunday morning, because this building held all of the people. Today the Assembly Hall is crowded to overflowing; people are standing here, and we have an overflow meeting on the grounds in front of the Bureau of Information, because the assembly hall in that building will not hold the Saints. I am informed there are three thousand people on the outside. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that the spirit that has characterized this gathering, and the other sessions of this conference, may continue to the end, and that I may be a partaker of it to the extent that my tongue may be loosed and that the inspiration of the Lord may flow through me, during the time I stand here. I feel my weakness, and I sense the responsibility that attaches to one who is called to address the members of this great Church, in a general conference. 

We have, during the splendid sessions that we have attended, received many instructions. There has been running through all the discourses, that which was given to us by the President in his opening address — the keynote, if you will, of this conference — "Obedience," not only to the laws of the land, but to the word of the Lord. Our heavenly Father has made it very plain to us in our day, that no man hath need to break the law of the land in order to follow the teachings of our heavenly Father. On the contrary, he has made it obligatory upon us that we should observe the law of the land. 

A BLESSED LAND IN WHICH WE LIVE 

I find in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 101 :76-80, the following : 

"And again I say unto you, those who have been scattered by their enemies, it is my will that they should continue to importune for redress, and redemption, by the hands of those who are placed as rulers and are in authority over you — 

"According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; 

"That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. 

"Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. 

"And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." 

Brethren and sisters, if there is any doubt in your minds about this being a blessed land in which you live, and that an all-powerful hand controls its destinies, remember that it was the Lord himself who raised up wise men to give to us our Constitution — the greatest paladium of human rights that any people have ever known. 

A LAND HIDDEN FOR THE LORD TO PEOPLE 

There are those who would destroy the Constitution of this land; and there are some who would rejoice if they could overthrow thisNation, not realizing that our heavenly Father has given us the best government on earth. No loyal member of this great Church will raise his voice against the government, but he will be found upholding it; he will be found praying for those who have been exalted to the office of presidency and for those who make the laws, under the Constitution. He will petition his Father in heaven for the governors and legislators of States, and for all those who are chosen from time to time to administer the laws that are calculated to continue unto us our liberty that they may be wise and just and exemplars to the people. If you are doubtful as to the interest of our heavenly Father in the settlement of this land, read in the first chapter of 2nd Nephi in the Book of Mormon, where the Lord says that it had been his purpose to keep America hidden from the other nations until he was ready to have it peopled. Read also from the Book of Mormon, I Nephi 13:10-19: 

"And it came to pass that I looked and beheld many waters; and they divided the Gentiles from the seed of my brethren. 

"And it came to pass that the angel said unto me : Behold the wrath of God is upon the seed of thy brethren. 

"And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was separated from the seed of my brethren byt the many waters; and 1 beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man: and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land. 

'And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of God, that it wrought upon other Gentiles and they went forth out of captivity, upon the many waters. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of the Gentiles upon the land of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God, that it was upon the seed of my brethren; and they were scattered before the Gentiles and were smitten. 

"And I beheld the Spirit of the Lord, that it was upon the Gentiles, and they did prosper and obtain the land for their inheritance; and I beheld that they were white, and exceedingly fair and beautiful, like unto my people before they were slain. 

"And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles who had gone forth out of captivity did humble themselves before the Lord; and the power of the Lord was with them. 

"And I beheld that their mother Gentiles were gathered together upon the waters, and upon the land also, to battle against them. 

"And I beheld that the power of God was with them, and also that the wrath of God was upon all those that were gathered together against them to battle. 

"And I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles that had gone out of captivity were delivered by the power of God out of the hands of all other nations." 

This refers to Christopher Columbus and the Pilgrim Fathers. It was the Lord that inspired that little band of people who crossed the mighty ocean and landed at Plymouth Rock, because they desired to worship him according to the dictates of their own conscience. He watched over them and safeguarded their descendants and those who followed them to America, and in due time, there came an opportunity to establish liberty such as humankind had not known before. The Lord raised up Washington, and with him that body of men who fought valiantly to establish for us in this land a government for which surely we are all grateful. 

OBEY THE LAWS; SEEK THE LORD, AND KEEP HIS COMMANDMENTS 

Do not be deceived by evil minded men who would destroy your happiness. Seek the Lord in prayer and he will hear your petition and inspire you aright; and we have need of his guidance in these days. We read in the Doctrine and Covenants, 46:7-9: 

"But ye are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you even so I would that ye should do in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving, that ye may not be seduced by evil spirits, or doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men; for some are of men, and others of devils. 

"Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived seek ye .earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given; 

"For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefitted that seek or that ask of me, that ask and not for a sign that they may consume it upon their lusts." 

Our feet have been planted upon this sacred soil for a wise purpose. This land has been dedicated for the blessing of mankind. The Constitution and the laws that have been enacted under its provisions are calculated to insure liberty, not license, to all who dwell here. This Church with which we are identified, stands, if it stands for anything, for the perpetuation of the liberties of all mankind. We should not listen to those who find pleasure in teaching sedition. Neither should we follow those who claim to be citizens of this land, who go about violating the laws that govern it. There are many who are failing to do their duty as citizens who have the right of franchise, but who are unworthy of that blessing that has come to those who live in this wonderful country. 

President Ivins has very beautifully portrayed to us this morning the condition of the world, and has pointed out that the trouble is that men have apostatized from the gospel of Jesus Christ. They have set up churches of their own. Men have assumed, of their own wisdom, to point the way, and they have forgotten the teachings of the Creator and in their pursuit of the gifts of our Father in heaven, — they have forgotten the giver. 

Upon you men of Israel — to whom the Priesthood of the Holy One has been given — there rests an obligation. You must serve the Lord and keep his commandments. It matters not what others may do, but for you there is only one course, and that is to be obedient to law, and to sustain the Constitution of this great land, and to sustain those influences and powers wherever they may be, that are calculated to uplift the human family. 

OBEDIENCE ENJOINED 

Our heavenly Father has given unto us this information, in the Doctrine and Covenants 130:18-21. 

"Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. 

"And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life, through his diligence and obedience, than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — 

"And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." 

There should go forth from this great Church an influence intended to leaven the whole lump. We have received knowledge and information that our Father's children elsewhere know not of. We are in the position of Noah, who, in his day, went to and fro in the world, proclaiming the truth, calling all men to turn from the error of their way, warning them of the impending judgments that would fall upon them if they failed to repent; but, in due time those who refused to reform, their lives and failed to listen to that servant of the Lord, became absolutely unfit to inhabit this earth and they were overwhelmed by the flood, while the eight who were righteous were preserved from that awful calamity. 

REPENTANCE A KjE&IEDY FORI THE! ILLS OF THE WORLD 

History has repeated itself many times — children of God who have followed his teachings have been preserved, and those who have refused, have gone into darkness and have been destroyed. Take the American Indians as another illustration. Their ancestors were a white and delightsome people, brought away by the Lord before the destruction of Jerusalem, in order that they might have an opportunity to develop upon this favored land. Because , they refused to keep the commandments of God, because they disobeyed the law and determined to be a law unto themselves, they retrograded and were cursed with a dark skin and became the unfortunate race that wandered over this great western hemisphere for generations, before the coming of the white man. 

The Lord has watched over this land, he directed Columbus to these shores, he led the Pilgrims here, he established the Constitution of the United States, and through the Prophet Joseph Smith, restored the everlasting gospel to bless the children of men, and if they will accept it and obey it, it will be the salvation of the human family. 

There is no other remedy for the ills of this world but repentance; there is no preservation from the evils that will overtake mankind but on the score of righteousness. Unless men turn to the Lord history will repeat itself and destruction overtake the wicked. You already know that and understand it — you, upon whose heads have been laid 

98 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the hands of the servants of the Lord; upon whom have been bestowed the holy Priesthood — you realize that God will not be mocked and that it is our duty as men of Israel to go in love and in kindness and with charity to all men, and divide with them this glorious message that has been given to us in this latter day. 

OUR DUTY TO PREACH THE GOSPEL OF PEACE 

We read in the 23rd chapter of St. Matthew, where the Savior foresaw the calamity that was coming upon his people and was greatly distressed. He said : 

"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets and stonest them which ar,e sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathered her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!" 

O that this great Church, with power that has been given to it of God, might be able to more rapidly disseminate the truth, and save the nations from destruction. We are growing rapidly, as an organization, but I rejoice not so much in the increase numerically as I do in the belief that the influence that we radiate is being felt for good and that our Father's children, from the north to the south, and from the east to the west, are hearing the message of life and salvation, without which they cannot dwell in the presence of the Redeemer of mankind. ' 

ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S IMPORTANT MESSAGE 

President Abraham Lincoln, in one of his important messages, gives to us this remarkable advice : 

"Let every American, every lover of liberty, every; well-wisher to his posterity, swear by the blood of the revolution never to violate, in the least particular, the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their violation by others. As the patriots of 76 did to the support of the Declaration of Independence, so to the support of the Constitution and laws, let every American pledge his life, his property, and his sacred honor. Let .every man remember that to violate the laws is to trample on the blood of his fathers and to tear the charter of his own and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap. Let it be taught in schools;, in seminaries and in colleges. Let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in the legislative halls, and enforced in courts of justice — in short, let it become the political religion of this nation." 

That was the voice of him now stilled in death, who gave his life because of his desire for the perpetuation of the liberty that was guaranteed under the Constitution of the United States. He was unafraid. When the duty was placed upon him to battle for the liberties of mankind, he dedicated his life to that purpose, and in due time, our Father in heaven accepted his offering, and his name is emblazoned upon the pages of history as a great and noble man who dared to do right, and his praises will be sung and his virtues extolled throughout all time. 

FREE AGENCY OF MAN 

It was the Master who decreed that men must have faith, and we are told that without faith we cannot please him. It was the Master Who declared that all men must repent, and sent his disciples into the world to cry repentance. It was the Savior who gave to us the gospel of Jesus Christ that bears his name, that declared that all men must be baptized. It was the same blessed Redeemer who said : "If I go not away, the Comforter will not come," and after he had left them, there came upon his disciples the Holy Ghost. Faith, repentance, baptism by immersion, (for that was the form of baptism that our Master received) laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, as taught by him, are the requirements in his Church that all men must subscribe to if they would obtain celestial glory. Men may refuse to accept this opportunity. We have our agency and can please ourselves, but the Lord says in the Doctrine and Covenants 93 :31 : 

"Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man; because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifested unto them, and they receive not the light." 

That is the trouble with this world — the holy scriptures are filled with the teachings of a kind and merciful Father that are not appreciated, and today there are hundreds of the elders of this Church going to and fro in the world, pleading for a hearing that they may be able to point out the pathway of life and salvation. This is our Father's work. The gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to the earth for the last time. It will never be taken away or given to another people, and upon us devolves the responsibility and obligation to so live that wherever we go, or whatever we do, our light will shine in such a way that others, observing our upright lives, will be constrained to seek after the Redeemer of mankind, and to become identified with his Church, in preparation to living with him eternally. 

That the Lord will strengthen our hands; that our voices may be made powerful in truth; that the Holy Ghost may remain with the elders of this Church to inspire them to greater effort that to the very ends of the earth all men may have an opportunity to know that this is God's work, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

I never felt so humble, and my weakness more than at this moment. I never felt better in the work of the Lord, in my life, than I do at the present time. I have never enjoyed a general conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as I have enjoyed the present one. Beginning with that remarkable sermon delivered by our President, the opening day of the conference, down through all of GENERAL CONFERENCE  speakers, I have had in my heart an echo of gladness and approval that has indeed made me feel that life is worth living. 

THE TEACHINGS OF MOTHER 

I do not know why it is, but from the opening session of this conference, I have thought of my mother, perhaps more times, from that moment until this, than any other time since she was called to the beyond. I had a chance, last night in my dreams, to thank her — her boy thanked her — for the teachings that she gave and instilled in my heart when I was but a boy. It seems that I can hear her voice ringing out now; it seemed in my dreams but last night that I could hear her pleadings to me, and her sound counsel and wise advice. I remember so' well that she used to impress upon me that no person, whether he be baptized into the Church or not, can retain a testimony that God lives, without he asks of Father in heaven, in humility and prayer, to give him, and help him maintain that testimony and the love of the work. She used to tell me that if I did not have a testimony, then, that Jesus is the Christ, the way to get it was to pray to God constantly and in earnestness, and she promised me — my mother promised me, — that the Lord God would give it to me in due time, if I kept myself unspotted from the sins of the world. That promise came true, not perhaps in the way that I intended it should come; not in the way that I expected it must come, to satisfy my soul, but it came in God's own way, and there is nothing that I appreciate so much in all the world, and I shall never cease asking my God to help me as long as I live, to maintain that testimony and be true to God's work and cause here upon this earth. 

Her slogan was: "Be true to yourself, be true to your country, and be true to your God; and no matter what happens to you, the end will be success." I hardly understood it then. I did not know what it meant, but, thank God, I know what it means today, and I testify to the people here, and in all the world, that if you will be true to yourself, true to the covenants you have made with God, true to your country, there can be no danger that will in any way, shape or form, bar you from receiving the blessings of God and the plaudits of all honorable men. 

POSITION OF THE CHURCH TOWARD THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES 

When President Grant was reading section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants, that section in which is contained the declaration of the Church regarding our obligations to our government and the laws of the same, I could not help but think back some twenty years — a mere span of time — when I was charged with being disloyal to my government. I was charged with taking an oath, as a Senator of the United States, that was inconsistent with the oath that I had taken as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 101 

Nothing ever hurt me so much. I knew, in my soul, that I would give my life, not only for my Church but for my Country, if necessary. I knew there was no man living that was more loyal to the constitution of the United States, her laws, her institutions, than I, unless that man had greater power and greater wisdom given him. And, at the hearings of the case, as they dragged on from month to month, and from year to year, I remember well the late senator, Philander C. Knox, of Pennsylvania, a member of the committee on Privileges and Elections of the Senate, coming to me one morning and asking me if the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints believed in our form of government. I told the senator we believed that the constitution of the United States was an inspired instrument from God; we believed that the men who drafted and put it into force were inspired and directed by the overruling hand of God. He said, "Have you any declarations to show your belief?" I called his attention first to the 12th article of our faith. I read it to him, but it hardly satisfied him — that short statement — and he asked if there were not some written, published statement of the Church, showing its attitude toward the government and the laws of our land. I said: "Senator Knox, I will see that by tomorrow morning, you will get a copy of the Doctrine and Covenants, and I ask you to turn to section 134 and read the section, and you will find there a clear, concise, straightforward statement of the position of the 'Mormon' Church, so-called, toward the government of the United States and the laws of our country." It satisfied him. I had no more loyal supporter than the senator from Pennsylvania. 

THE POWER OF PRAYER 

My brothers and sisters, I want to acknowledge before you this day that during all of that troublesome time, I recognized the hand of God in it all. It was not Reed Smoot that they were fighting — it was the Church of God, and I want also to acknowledge to the people here today, that no greater power came to me from any source than from above, through the constant and earnest prayer for assistance from above. 

I wonder whether the world today believes in prayer, as they did in the early days of our country. The prayer of an honest man availeth much. I wonder whether our own people are attending to their daily prayers as was their wont in years past. Fathers and mothers, if you do not teach the children how to pray, and if you do not pray yourselves, there will be unlocked a door and the evil influence of the powers of darkness will enter the home. I remember, when I was a counselor in the Utah stake of Zion, although there were but few cases of trouble between the wife and the husband that ever came before the Presidency for decision, in every such case, it developed that in that home prayer had been discontinued; and I plead with the people here that they not only pray themselves, but that they have their children pray as well, and teach them how to pray. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I cut out of the paper yesterday morning, a clipping from a Chicago paper. I was delighted to read it, and I am going to read a portion of it now to you. Perhaps you did not notice it: 

"Consideration, at the Protestant Episcopal Triennial General Conference, of divine healing, and the question of giving it official sanction as a part of church work, drew attention to the fact that several of the churches in the Chicago diocese already maintain classes in faith healing. Our method is that of James, the Anglican layman, who conducted meetings of healing in Chicago a few years ago;" and then, brothers and sisters, it goes on and describes what they are undertaking to do, and winds up by saying that they were following the plan of James — not the Apostle James of old but James, the Anglican layman. 

They deny that there is any power of God in the administration. I thought to myself : I would that the peoples of the world would begin to think more of prayer and follow the teachings of the Master — follow the plan laid down by James, in the days of the Savior, for he says — "Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the Church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil, in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him. up, and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him." 

A RECENT EXPERIENCE 

I know as well as I know I live that there is power in prayer. I do not know but what it would be proper for me, at this time, to call attention to an experience that I had four weeks ago today. Sunday afternoon I called at the White House, to call upon the President. For days Mrs. Harding had been lying at the point of death. The President was in the sick room when I arrived, together with Dr. Mayhoe, Dr. Finney, Dr. Harding and some three or four other prominent doctors. The attendant announced to the President that I had called to see him, and he came out of the sick room into his private office adjoining the sick room. He had been watching over Mrs. Harding for days and nights past, seeing each day bring her nearer to the brink of the grave, and the doctors had just decided that nothing would save her but an operation. The question of the operation was left to the President for decision. The President said : "I have never had, in all my life, a question brought to me for decision that I feel so helpless in arriving at." I haven't the time to go into the details. Worried as he was, haggard as he was, it seemed to me if any word of encouragement could be given to him, it ought to have been given. What a wonderful woman Mrs. Harding is, lying upon her sick bed for days. When Dr. Finney was leaving the room, she gave orders to take him down to the depot in the President's car, rather than send for one himself; and, while the President and I were discussing questions affecting legislation, on which he had asked me to make a report to him, and just as I was about to leave, the at103  brought into the room a beautiful box of roses, stating that Mrs. Harding had directed him to bring them to me to deliver to Mrs. Smoot. Nobody thought that Mrs. Harding would live through the night. The decision as to an operation had to be reached, so the President told me, before midnight; and, as I left the room, he came with me until we stood at the head of the stairs. I turned to the President and said, "President, there is hope yet. I have seen men and women raised from a death-bed. I know that there is power, Mr. President, in prayer- — the wife can yet be saved. Do not be discouraged." And I said, "This night a prayer shall go up from my home, that God may spare her life, that she will not have to undergo an operation." He said to me : "Senator Smoot, I wish I knew that. I believe in prayer. I wish I knew that God through prayer would heal the sick." There were millions of people praying for her, from one end of the land to the other, but as those noted physicians sat around the bed, as midnight was approaching, there came a change. God had heard the prayers for her and the crisis had passed. 

How many cases could we relate, testifying to just such power, and I hope and I trust that we will never forget that God rules the universe. 

The other day, my attention was called to a wonderful painting, the author of which was Tompkins H. Mattson. It was called "The First Prayer in Congress." I noticed in that painting that a majority of all the members of that first congress that was held in Carpenter Hall, Philadelphia, September 5, 1774, were kneeling in prayer, and among those who Were kneeling, I noticed George Washington, Patrick Henry, John Rutledge, Col. Folsom, Payton Randolph, Richard Henry Lee, John Jay, Isaac Lowe — some of the most renowned American citizens that ever lived. 

A WARNING TO VIOLATORS OF THE LAW 

I wish now just in a few words, in closing, for I see the time is past, to say that the laws of the land must be obeyed and enforced. I want to warn law makers; I want to warn business men; I want to warn the wealthy of the United States, that they cannot violate the law with impunity. Some time in the future, their actions will arise to plague them. Men cannot serve liquors of all kinds at their dinners — not only in violation of the law on the part of the party that sold the liquor to them, but in violation of the law on their own part —  without, sooner or later, paying the penalty. Violation of the law is the first step to anarchy, and don't let us think that the man who has no regard for law, no love for the constitution of the United States — an outcast in all society — can see the violation of laws, on the part of legislators, the wealthy of the land, and not take advantage of the same by offering it as an excuse for his actions. So, my brothers and sisters, I ask you to be loyal, not only to the constitution, but the laws of our land. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation." I know that God lives. I know that this is his Church. I know that all he has predicted will come to pass, if we are but loyal and true and sustain his work here upon this earth. 

God bless you all. Amen. 

The choir, with Miss Dolores Seal, soprano, as soloist, sang, "Inflammatus." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder John V. Bluth, president of the North Weber stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


