Morning
09 10 1938

Sunday rnorning, October 9. 

Every seat and available space in the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries was occupied far in advance of the time to open the fifth session of the Conference. In addition, thousands of people who could not find accommodation in the Tabernacle congregated in the large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle, and on the Tabernacle grounds, where they listened, by means of amplifying equipment that had been installed, to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

President Heber J. Grant, who presided, called the meeting to order promptly at 10 o'clock. He announced that the. Tabernacle Choir with J. Spencer Cornwall conducting, would furnish the musical numbers for this session, and that the Choir and congregation would sing as the opening number, "How Firm a Foundation." 

After the singing of this hymn, the opening prayer was offered \>y Elder Alexander Brown, President of the Seattle Stake. 105 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

WORLD WAR BROUGHT HOPE 

Twenty-one years ago our fathers, brothers and sons were enlisting in the great struggle of the World War; they were responding to the appeal that we were going to make the world safe for democracy, and we were led to hope and believe that it was the last great war, and the war to end war. 

When the war was over we saw nation after nation abandon their monarchial forms of government and become republics, patterned after this nation, and our hearts were full of joy at the prospect that at last democracy and peace were going to reign. 

QUICK RETURN TO WORSE CONDITIONS 

Since then we have been greatly disturbed to see nation after nation abandon its democracy and go back to a condition some of us think worse ' than the condition under the czars, the kaisers, and the rulers, into a dictatorship. Today we witness the nations of the earth spending more money than in any other time in their history in building equipment upon the sea and the land for future wars. It is a sad picture, and yet I suppose that our wish was father to our thought, and we had hoped to see the end of the struggle and strife in this world. 

GOSPEL ALONE CAN BRING PEACE 

But the Lord knew that there could be no peace only upon certain principles; peace could not come through treaties filled with hatred, malice, greed, and selfishness. Peace could not come through the might of armies, it can only come in one way. He offered that way one hundred years ago to the world, and more than sixty thousand missionaries of the Church have carried the message to the nations of the earth, offering them peace through the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that makes for genuine real brotherhood. 

The Lord knew there would be only a few who would accept that message. The majority would reject it. He provided for the few a refuge of peace; but so far as the world is concerned he said — (I am reading from the 1st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants) : 

And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth : I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; 

For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. 

And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst. 

Peace taken from the earth, and the devil having power oyer his dominion. During the last one hundred years, or since these words were 

106 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Day 

spoken, more light and knowledge has come into the world in the realm of science, through the laboratory, and otherwise, than in all the ages that have preceded it, and if this were all used for the alleviation of human suffering, peace and prosperity could be here, and poverty abolished. 

But when we see men and nations spending their wealth to use the gas engine, the laboratory, the air plane, as means of human destruction, surely the devil has seized the blessings and privileges the Almighty intended to use to bring about peace, and is using them to destroy that which he presently shall lose the right to rule over. If the devil is not in the character of warfare that goes over the front line trenches, swoops down upon the poor helpless women and children, drops its deadly bombs and. assassinates them, then I do not know anything that has ever happened in this world that is so like the work of the devil as that. He is ruling in the midst of men. 

But it is not a picture that we need to be discouraged with. Hope is only to be deferred, for the promises shall be realized. 

PERILS TO OUR COUNTRY WILL COME FROM WITHIN 

I read again another word of warning, this from the 45th Section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, wherein the Lord said, concerning this nation or land of America, (reading from the 68th and 69th verses) : 

And it shall come to pass among the wicked, that every man that will not take his sword against his neighbor must needs flee unto Zion for safety. 

And there shall be gathered unto it out of every nation under heaven; and it shall be the only people that shall not be at war one with another. 

Thank the Lord for that promise. I am not afraid of any foreign foe disturbing this nation. Our perils will all come from within. It is true the Prophet saw even the Constitution hanging as by a thread, but, thank the Lord, he never saw the thread break. He saw this people play a conspicuous part, to be a balance of power with others to preserve it. For after all, it is destined, according to the word of the Lord, to become the savior and blessing of all flesh, not only the peoples of the United States. And after the experiments with dictatorships and other methods, they will, at last, when they have learned their lesson and are prepared for it, be willing to receive the Lord's offering, after much suffering. 

They could have saved themselves all this, for if all the nations of the earth had received the message of the Gospel, as your fathers did who came from those foreign nations, would there be peace in the world? Yes. If the spirit that is in the hearts of you Germans, you Scandinavians, you English, you Scotch, who are irj this Church, were ip the hearts of all your people living in these foreign lands today, there could not be war. There would be brotherhood and there WQuld be peace. 

I am, I say, therefore disturbed only aver the problems, that, may 107  here with us. You students of history know well that the adverse circumstances, the poverty, the want, the unemployment and the depletion of the value of the currency of the various European nations laid the foundation for dictatorships; unknown dictators arose who offered security against want, against poverty, against need, and like drowning men grasping at straws, the nations of the earth accepted the proffer, and sold their liberties for bread. 

That is not the spirit of one of the founders of this republic who said : "Give me liberty or give me death." Liberty, one of the most precious things, must be preserved. I have said in many places to our Latter-day Saint brethren and sisters who are converts from abroad: "I cannot blame you for being proud of your English ancestry, your Scotch ancestry, or your German ancestry, but when you joined this Church and came to America you should have kissed that all goodbye, and it is not my business to glorify the dictators who now reign, no matter how good I may think their services are to that nation from which I came; it is not my business to glorify them, but to become loyal to the government of the nation in which I live." I hope we shall not find any Latter-day Saint members glorifying the conditions that are in their Old World homes. 

PROMISES MADE BY THE LORD REGARDING ZION 

Again the Lord said, in the 115th Section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, that he had provided for the security of the membership of the Church even in this land. I read as follows : 

The gathering together upon the land of Zion, and upon her stakes, may.be for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth. 

Here is the place of refuge — America. When I read the story last week of the people leaving London, and Paris to go into the rural districts, digging trenches on their front lawns, and gas chambers being built in every home, everybody being prepared to put on gas masks suddenly, as in a few hours these cities might have been engulfed in a terrible raid such as modern war provides, I said : "Thank God for the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans that separate us, (at least from the immediate danger,) from these perils. There is no place on earth so secure as in these United States, and it is the business of every Latterday Saint to be loyal to this government. 

That is why the Church is undertaking this relief program, to win everybody off from the back of the Government, and off from the back of the State, who can stand on his own feet. Many, of you aged people may feel somewhat offended that you have been asked if you can support yourselves and not be a burden upon the State or the Nation, for we can lie down upon our Government to the extent that we may imperil its credit and produce the very conditions that would bring the same revolutions and the same troubles that engulf the Old World. God bless us that we may not come to that day, and Latter-day Saints, show the way! 

108 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Day 

There is another message found in the 103rd Section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, which was given in the darkest hour of the Church, at a time when the Saints had been exiled from Missouri. They were in dire distress, many had turned away, and then the Lord said : 

Verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a decree which my people shall realize —  

How wonderful the promise! It is all conditional. I want to focus your attention upon the conditions : 

I have decreed a decree which my people shall realize, inasmuch as they hearken from this very hour unto the counsel which I, the Lord their God, shall give unto them. 

Behold they shall, for I have decreed it, begin to prevail against mine enemies from this very hour. 

And by hearkening to observe all the words which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world are subdued under my feet, and the earth is given unto the saints, to possess it forever and ever. 

THE LORD'S PLAN MUST BE FOLLOWED 

These conditions we must comply with; we must adhere to the appeals that have been made during this conference; we must adhere to the word of the Lord as given to this people, to observe to keep the commandments, to keep the Word of Wisdom. You young people, we are not asking you to give up your tobacco, your liquor, and your other evil practices, immorality, just to punish you or deny you what you think are privileges you ought to have. We see your destiny, but we know you cannot go forward to that destiny, to carry the work of the Almighty to the triumphant victory over the nations of the earth, unless you adhere to the Lord's plan. If you do subscribe to it, if you do pay your tithes and offerings, if you do adhere to the Word of Wisdom, if you adhere in loyalty to this Church, there is no power on earth nor in hell that can stop this people from marching on to their glorious destiny, to be the light of the world, and to win the world ultimately to Christ. 

When that day comes — for only through him can peace come — then will swords be beaten into plowshares, and spears into pruninghooks. God help us to realize our tremendous responsibility, not only for ourselves and the Church, but for the whole world, and for the kingdom of the Redeemer that shall be triumphant in the earth. God speed that glorious day, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST 

During the period from 10 :30 to 1 1 :00 a. m., the following program of choral and organ music was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ as part of the proceedings of the General Conference, and was broadcast by radio throughout the United States and Canada by the courtesy of the Columbia Broadcasting System, originating over Station KSL, Salt Lake City: 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 109 

"Listen to the Lamb" (Nathaniel Dett) Choir 

"Erotik" (Grieg) Organ 

"A Mighty Fortress is our God" (Luther) Choir 

"Deep River" (Arrangement by the organist) Organ 

"Behold the Great Redeemer Die" (Careless) - Choir 

Hymn selections Organ 

"And the Glory of the Lord" Choir 

The Choir was conducted by J. Spencer Cornwall. Organ accompaniments and organ solo presentations were played by Frank W. Asper. 

CHURCH OF THE AIR BROADCAST 

Immediately following the Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast, the following program was presented on the Columbia Broadcasting System's Church of the Air series : 

The Tabernacle Choir and the congregation joined in singing the hymn, "High on the Mountain Top." 

The male voices of the Choir sang the hymn, "The Morning Breaks, The Shadows Flee." 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

"Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature." (Mark 16:15). This was the final injunction of Jesus the Son of God. 

JOY IN MISSIONARY WORK 

Sixty thousand Mormon missionaries have heeded this admonition. And nearly sixty thousand have declared that the years they spent in the mission field were the happiest years of their lives. 

When the religion of a people evolves full, useful, joyous living, when their religious philosophy extends unbounded promise of eternal progression, when it points the way to that righteousness which fills men's hearts to overflowing with joy and gratitude, then the call for them to share these experiences with their fellowmen is regarded as a privilege rather than as a duty or a command. 

The interest of the members of the Mormon Church in missionary work, from its very inception in 1830, has gone forward with ever-increasing intensity and Church members are continuing to give to this great cause a surprisingly large percentage of both their time and their money. 

SACRIFICE REQUIRED 

Approximately 2,000 young men and women are maintained in the mission field all the time. Their parents, their friends and these young people themselves pay the entire cost of their maintenance while they 

110 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 9 Third Day 

labor as missionaries. The actual necessary cash outlay is roughly $1.50 per day per missionary. This means a daily cash expenditure of $3,000.00, or an annual cost in cash of $1,095,000.00. If on an average the missionary's time is worth $3.00 per day, this means an additional sacrifice of $2,190,000.00 per year, or a total annual expenditure of $3,285,000.00. This sum, which faithful members of the Church contribute for the good of their f ellowmen must be acknowledged as a mighty gift from a Church membership of but 750,000. 

The sacrifices made are often very great. Widows, in many cases, toil to maintain their sons in the mission field. Many young women struggle at various kinds of labor in order to help pay the expenses of their brothers or their young husbands. Priesthood quorums, wards and other Church groups contribute to missionary funds and sometimes the well-to-do open their hearts and open their purses and maintain as missionaries some worthy and capable Church members who are not able financially to pay their own way. 

There is scarcely a family anywhere in the Church that has not borne, and borne gladly, a share of this burden. Many families have sent more than one missionary into the field at the same time, and many have also sent one after another until all their sons have rendered service. One father has performed four different missions himself and his wife has performed one. Together they have sent all of their five sons and three of their four daughters into the mission field and in addition they have given assistance to two other missionary relatives. This family therefore has to its credit the equivalent of maintaining one missionary in the field for a period of more than forty years. The value in money of the missionary service contributed by this one family on the basis above explained is $65,700.00. Such sacrifices made by people who never have had a dollar they did not earn by honest effort tend to prove that when people are genuinely converted to the cause of the Master there appears to be no sacrifice they will not make for its advancement. 

Those having in their souls a testimony and conviction that the original Gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored "in these last days" through the Prophet Joseph Smith and that it must be preached in all the world "to every nation and kindred and tongue and people," as the scriptures say, feel a personal responsibility for carrying out the instructions of Jesus the Son of God. 

LIVING THE GOSPEL BRINGS TESTIMONY 

Mormon missionaries devote themselves faithfully to a study of the Bible and other inspired literature and they struggle to live in accordance with the high standards and ideals set forth therein. By their efforts to teach to others the fundamentals of righteous living, they strengthen and fortify themselves in their own high ideals and standards. The teaching of Christian virtues has impressed on the missionaries themselves the importance and the value of living in conformity with the ideals and standards of the Church, and the high degree of spirituality found in the mis111  field has brought into their hearts a satisfying knowledge, testimony and certainty concerning the restored Gospel message which only the light and inspiration of Heaven can bring. 

Our missionaries have been humble men and humble women. They have not, except in very rare instances, been trained theological scholars. Perhaps their conduct, their ideals and their standards of living have been more effective in some cases as factors of conversion than have the words which they have spoken. The simple, straightforward manner in which these missionaries live, teach and preach you must admit is the method of Christ himself. And furthermore, that message has not changed. The Gospel today is the same Gospel which the Savior taught. Being the truth it will endure unchanged forever. 

BRIEF REPORT OF EUROPEAN MISSION 

The European Mission of the Church, whose affairs in a general way I have directed as its president during the last two years, consists of twelve separate and distinct missions which are located in sixteen different nations of the Eastern Hemisphere. The geographical area it covers is bounded by and includes South Africa on the south, Palestine and Czechoslovakia on the east, Norway on the north and Ireland on the west. Each of these twelve different missions has its affairs carefully directed and its work carefully supervised by an able and experienced mission president who has had years of effective training in the different branches of Church activity. Mission presidents are called from ordinary pursuits and give three or more years of service without compensation other than payment of mere expenses. 

In general our Elders are kindly received and fairly treated in all of the sixteen different countries included in the European Mission. Old prejudices have largely disappeared. 

Last year President Heber J. Grant, world-wide head of the Mormon Church, visited all of the missions in the European Mission except South Africa and Palestine. He was greeted everywhere by the people and by the press with hearty words of welcome. Members of the Church and their friends came out in large numbers to see and to hear him. 

The missionaries live in accordance with that great fundamental teaching and practice of the Church appearing in our twelfth Article of Faith, namely: "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." They refrain from discussing governments or governmental policies and they are all instructed positively not to participate in the politics of the countries where they labor. They are sent forth to give purpose to living, to improve the conditions of the present and to inspire in the hearts of the people hope for the future. 

LIVES OF CONVERTS TRANSFORMED 

The Gospel transforms many from an aimless life into a life of purpose; it teaches thrift and industry to those who are poor; to those who. 

112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Day 

are rich it brings the blessed unselfishness of sharing; it teaches to the 

indolent the gospel of work; it brings courage, hope and ambition into the souls of those who are cast down; it fills the heart of the sinner with the glorious gospel of repentance; it brings joy, happiness and satisfaction into the hearts of men and women by instructing" them how to live in accordance with the unselfish and satisfying ways of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

 While large sums have been expended in both time and money and great sacrifices have been made to maintain our many missionaries in their fields of labor, rich and rare compensation for this expenditure has been realized again and again in many different ways. The great spiritual development and uplift these Elders have received has brought into their souls, and into the lives of Saints and converts also, as the scriptures say, that "peace of God which passeth all understanding." (Phil. 4:7.) 

BLESSINGS OF MISSIONARY WORK FAR REACHING 

But not by any means do all of the blessings that come as a result of missionary effort come to the Elders themselves, to the Saints in the mission field or to those who have been converted. As a result of the rich, broadening and deepening experiences missionaries get in the mission field, the homes of the communities which send them forth receive from these missionaries, after their return, the advantage and benefit of the experience, judgment, richer personalities, culture and polish which worldwide travel lends. 

Boys from the country, from the field, and from the herd acquire that education and refinement which extensive travel and contact with great historic centers and metropolitan life always seem to bring. And on the other hand, young men who have been brought up in the city are often times given that broadening experience and training which those are sure to get who participate in the rigors of primitive life to which many missionaries are subjected. It is certain that in no other section of the country is the percentage so great of those who have traveled and have seen the world as in Mormon communities. 

While enlarged information, experience and polish are important, at the same time, at most, these are but secondary. The outstanding feature of missionary work is the great exhilarating spiritual uplift, inspiration and ambition which it brings, combined with that stabilized character which it produces in the manhood and womanhood of the Church. 

Imagine the extent, importance and effectiveness of this missionary training and experience when we have, as at present, missionaries laboring in Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, Germany, Great Britain, Hawaii, India, Japan, Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palestine, Syria, Samoa, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Tahiti, Tonga, and all of the States of the United States. 

These workers of righteousness scattered as they thus are all around the world learn not only to respect the many different kinds and classes 113  people with whom they live and labor, but they acquire for them genuine admiration and affection and for them they have hearts filled with praise and commendation. They have learned that great fundamental principle that in general one needs only to know his neighbor in order to like him. 

Our returned missionaries are found in practically every large city of America, yes, in every section of the nation. With their deep interest in and their genuine affection for humanity, they are invariably ambassadors of good will from the various countries in which they have labored, and they therefore tend to create a sympathetic feeling for and a deep interest in the various people with whom, as missionaries, they became so intimately acquainted. Thus these young men and women create an impression for good. They play an important part in influencing public opinion. Two-thirds of them are college graduates or university students. After their return, many of them take front rank in civic, educational and religious affairs. Some become mayors of our cities, governors and legislators in our States, judges on the bench, and influential and powerful national congressmen and senators. They hold professorships in our seats of learning and become distinguished men of science. With one thousand of these returning annually from the various countries of the world, they are sure to wield an influence that will be an important factor in helping advance the great cause of good will among men and nations. 

PROPHECIES BEING FULFILLED 

It is the belief and conviction of our Church that as a result of our missionary work the mountain of the Lord's House, which prophets said anciently was to be established in the top of the mountains, is here built. It is our conviction that the kingdom spoken of by Daniel to be established by the God of Heaven, which is never to be destroyed but which is to stand forever, is the Church here established in these modern times, "in these last days," under the direction of and in accordance with the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

In spite of the fact that practically every nation in the world is preparing for war, or for defense, at a rate and at a cost unknown and unequaled before in all histroy, it is our conviction that the last days are here in which, as the prophets say, the God of Jacob is to judge among many nations and rebuke strong nations afar off; that the day is coming when nations are to beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks, when nation shall not lift up sword against nation and when nations shall not learn war any more, "but they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree; and none shall make them afraid : for the mouth of the Lord of hosts hath spoken it." (Micah 4 :4.) 

For the mighty and important work which the ancient prophets said would come to pass "in these last days," it is our conviction that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will pave the way, and that in bringing about that great final international understanding, that peace 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Day 

on earth, and good will to men which Christ himself came to bring, the 

missionary activities of the Church will play a most important part. 

And it is our further conviction that the Kingdom of God is here established, that the Gospel will be preached to all the people in all the world, and that then will come again the Lord of Lords, the King of Kings, the Prince of Peace, to reign as King forever and forever. May we do well our part to speed his corning, I humbly pray. 

(End of Church of the Air Broadcast) 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Do What is Right." 

ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I wish to speak for solidarity in the Church. By this I mean simply, — standing together, — all striving to promote the common cause. I scarcely need point out the results of unity. They are many and they are apparent. I will name but two. The first is individual and collective happiness. 

FRIENDLY TIES IN PRIESTHOOD 

Association within the Church is of such a nature as to promote pure friendship. Next to family ties, the bonds of the Holy Priesthood which are by revelation said to be "stronger than the cords of death," and other companionships we enjoy in the Church, knit the souls of men and women together more perfectly than do any other relationships. I have known a man to travel across the continent to renew friendship with a missionary companion with whom he had spent but a few months in the service of the Master. Since all Church service is cooperative, we must be congenial to enjoy it. A man is neither happy nor effective in the cause if he is not one with his fellows. The Savior said, "Except ye are one, ye are not mine." 

A COMMON PURPOSE NECESSARY 

Another result of unity is efficiency in achievement. Discord and dissension are the wrenches thrown in the machinery. Concord is the oil which smooths the operation of the plant and immensely increases the output. A careful study of the history of the Church will disclose the fact that while it has suffered tremendously from persecution and oppression from without, yet a large part of all its difficulties has been attributable to dissenters and traitors within its own ranks. The driving of the Saints, particularly from Nauvoo, the revocation of the Nauvoo Charter and even the martyrdom itself may be laid largely to disaffection and betrayal. Perhaps the most potent enemies of God's work have always been, ostensibly at least, within it. Internal unity is indispensable to success. 115 

In the present day we are not wont to look for enemies and traitors within the camp. And if we did I am sure we would not find them as in times gone by. There are no overt acts of treachery, for which we must all be grateful. But can we feel assured that there are not other things, of less gravity, perhaps, which militate against the unity and common purpose of our people? It is of these things I wish to speak. Undoubtedly I shall not be able to enumerate all of them but I will mention a few which have occurred to me. 

PRIVATE INTERPRETATIONS OF DOCTRINE HARMFUL 

First. I point out a growing tendency toward private interpretation of scripture and doctrine and this I do not regard as particularly serious in point of perverting the general doctrines of the Church. It is with reference to the status of the individual that I feel concerned. For instance, I hear people, young and old, contend that the Word of Wisdom does not prohibit tea and coffee, certain commonly sold drugs and modern beer, claiming that these items are not specifically prescribed in the 89th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. I find people, also, sometimes officers in the Church, attempting to justify a private interpretation of the law of Tithing, particularly with reference to a deduction of debt, living expenses, losses through speculation and other items from salaries and personal income before tithing is computed. I am sure there are hundreds attempting to persuade themselves that going to picture shows, playing baseball and golf and participating in other commercialized amusements are not infraction of God's law commanding that we keep the Sabbath holy. There are people in the Church, far too many, who are at variance with the President of the Church and his associates, the General Authorities, in the interpretation of our Temple ordinances and ceremonies and some of their requirements. These are what I call private interpretations of the doctrines of the Church as contra-distinguished to the long established interpretations of these items by the General Authorities. Perhaps I should brand these variances as attempted justifications of individual weaknesses, but I do not wish to be harsh or inconsiderate of anyone who has sincerely convinced himself that his own interpretation is right. 

PRESIDENCY INTERPRETERS OF GOD'S LAWS 

Now who is entitled to interpret the doctrine of the Church, granting that some items are susceptible of different constructions? I am sure that upon serious reflection there is no real difference of opinion on this question among the members. It is so well established by the revelations which we have received and the practice of the Church that the President and his Counselors are invested with this authority that I cannot believe any member will seriously dispute it. In the language of the revelation they, the Presidency, are constituted "a quorum .... to receive the oracles for the whole Church." They are the supreme court here on earth in the interpretation of God's law. 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Day 

In the exercise of their functions and delegated powers they are controlled by a constitution, a part of which is written and a part of which is not. The written part consists in authenticated scripture, ancient and modern, and in the recorded utterances of our latter-day prophets. The unwritten part is the spirit of revelation and divine inspiration which are appertinent to their calling. 

In formulating their interpretations and decisions they always confer with the Council of the Twelve Apostles who by revelation are appointed to assist and act with them in the government of the Church. When, therefore, a judgment is reached and proclaimed by these officers it becomes binding upon all members of the Church, individual views to the contrary notwithstanding. God's Kingdom is a kingdom of law and order. He is the Lawgiver and the Supreme Judge but he has delegated authority and conferred the keys of the Kingdom upon these men whom he has chosen. They act for him and, thank the Lord, we accept them. It is the only safe thing to do. 

There are some, perhaps who may feel that it is subversive of individual freedom of thought and expression to be controlled by the interpretations of our leaders. I wish to assure them that any feeling of contraint will disappear when once they secure the genius and true spirit of this work. Our unanimity of thought and action does not arise, as some suppose, from duress or compulsion in any form. Our accord comes from universal agreement with righteous principles and common response to the operation of the Spirit of our Father. It is actuated by no fear except one. That is the fear of offending God, the Author of our work. 

THOUGHTLESS CRITICISM UNPROFITABLE 

Now the second contributing factor which I would mention which militates against unity in the Church is the proneness of men to criticize and condemn. I am not here today to contend that everything is perfect. I know nothing about the Church that is perfect, excepting only the plan itself which is God-given. Things that men do will never be perfect until they themselves reach the perfection of Christ, the Perfect One. I suppose none of us realizes his own imperfections, at least not to their full extent. It is probably salutary to be told of them occasionally. We may reform if we are told. But I have never felt that much good came from telling others of my weaknesses. 

President Grant is one of the most democratic men ever to come to the Presidency. Some of us feel that his office is too open and that he permits too many impositions upon his time and patience for the good of his health. I believe that there is not a man or woman in the Church, or out of it for that matter, from whom he would not courteously receive a constructive criticism or helpful suggestion. 

With such a disposition, what a cowardly and mean thing it is for members of the Church to attempt criticism behind his back and thus undermine his influence and reputation. Fortunately there are but few 117  are so mean. I do believe, however, there are many who are thoughtless, who speak lightly and carelessly and disrespectfully of leaders and principles and sacred phases of this Church. I think it is a shame to jest about sacred things and sometimes it is as blasphemous as taking the name of God in vain. I rebuke those who do it and I call upon them to stop and think. If they will but think, I believe they will realize the incalculable harm they do, the faith they destroy and the unhappiness they bring. 

I cannot pass this point without importuning some of my brethren to stop swearing. No man can love God and damn him anymore than he can love his wife and damn her. Think again, please. Think of the utter futility of this vulgar habit. Think of its effect in youth. Men teach boys profanity. It is not congenital with the race. It is the nature of man to love God and not to damn him. 

This proneness to criticism and careless judgment I must carry a step beyond its chief victims, — the authorities and officers of the Church, to the relations among the people themselves. Someone has said that the supreme charity of the world consists in simple obedience to the divine command, "Judge not." Certain it is that a large part of the unhappiness of the world results from inconsiderate judgment. Many a pillow is wet with the sobs of those who are its victims. We cannot read the hearts of man. We may not know their good intentions. We often judge them only by their failures, and we are unkind enough to circulate our judgment in the form of rumors and gossip and thus do irreparable damage. Every man who is a man prizes his good name, for, as the immortal Shakespeare said, "He who steals my purse steals trash, 'twas mine, 'tis his; but he who robs me of my good name filches from me that which enriches not himself and makes me poor, indeed." 

God grant that we, the disciples of the Master, who bade us forgive all men and love even our enemies, may be' free from adding to the burdens and the unhappiness of our brethren and sisters by inconsiderate judgment. 

ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS BRINGS UNITY 

I wish now to mention the third and last factor in my brief summary of causes contributing to disunity within the Church. It is the indifference to and poor attendance in the regularly established meetings provided for the people. My observation has taught me, and I believe all will agree, that no person can regularly go to the meetings of the Church and mingle with his brethren and sisters without catching the spirit of the work and developing within him a warmth of affection and a fervor of devotion which will tend to make him one with his fellows. The sacrament meeting which was given of the Lord by revelation is designed specifically to promote unity. We are even admonished not to partake of the sacrament if we entertain unkindly feelings in our hearts toward others. 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Day 

TRUE BROTHERHOOD IN QUORUMS 

The quorum meetings, too, in this respect have a vital purpose to conserve. A quorum is three things : first, a class; second, a fraternity; and third, a service unit. Within it the men of the Priesthood learn of the principles of the Gospel, establish true brotherhood, and carry forward the work of Christ. It is a God-given association from which they derive more of lasting advantage than from any other fraternal organization in our society. Its prime purpose is to encourage and safeguard the individual. You can't tell me that men can absent themselves from their quorum meetings without losing something vital to their own well being and that of the Church also. 

I fear we have some men who have received the Holy Priesthood who feel themselves too big and too important to associate with their brethren in the quorum. I am sorry for them. They are making a great mistake. For it is they, chiefly, who are retarding the progress of the work of God. I am certain that I am right when I say that if all of the men of the Priesthood would be loyal to their quorums the work of the Church would be accelerated beyond anything we have ever known. 

In our concept of the Kingdom of God, every individual shares responsibility. We have no priests as distinguished from the laity. We are all priests in the kingdom, that is, we men folk, and the women, too, are priestesses therein. Every member either helps or hinders. There is no middle ground. 

So I present these items which I have mentioned,- — private and ofttimes perverted interpretations of our doctrine, ill-considered criticism, and non-attendance upon meetings and duties, as among the chief factors contributing to disunion within the Church. In so doing I hope I have given no offense. My sole purpose has been to assist in rectifying conditions that militate against our success. 

UNITY BRINGS SUCCESS 

And what success we could have with complete unity and harmony in the Church! How effectively could we demonstrate the efficacy of applied Christianity if all our people stood together as one man behind our leaders! When we consider the things we might accomplish, the impressions that we might make, what a pity it seems that our progress should be stayed by those of our own membership who are not one with us in purpose and deed. 

I know that to many it seems a very insignificant thing to smoke cigarettes, to take a drink, to gamble a little, to swear moderately, and to make the Sunday a holiday. I do not deem it my province, nor is it my desire, to condemn to purgatory those who are guilty of such infractions of our standards but I do appeal to them with all the fervor of my soul to stop these discordant practices and come in line with the great procession of their Church. It is such a little thing to endure a slight deprivation in personal desire or appetite as compared to the success and triumph of a mighty cause that would soon envelope the whole earth if we were all faithful to it. 119 

So in kindness I plead for solidarity, union, and love in the Church of Christ. God is forgiving. We all have need of repentance. No one has strayed so far that he cannot turn back. It is a strong man who will acknowledge his mistakes. We need each other's help and we need God's help. With unity and his aid we can bless this troubled world as it never has been blessed before. May he grant us this high privilege, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.  

ELDER WILLIAM T. TEW, JR. 

President of the East Central States Mission 

I do not know that I have ever recognized the truth of the statement of King Benjamin to the ancient Nephites more fully than I do at the present time, wherein he told them to. remember the greatness of God and their own nothingness. 

I feel very humble and very weak in this great work that I am called to perform in the East Central States Mission. I feel that we have received, this morning, help for us as we return to the mission field. I am sure that if other mission presidents are as I am, we often sit in with our own individual thoughts; we wonder, we think and meditate, we pray and consider the plans and the methods of procedure in the mission field. We are alone, only as we consult with our Heavenly Father and receive his inspiration in the things we are to do. 

Coming to these wonderful conferences we meet, as it were, in a great clearing house of ideas, doctrine, and principles. I think now of St. Paul's admonition in the scripture wherein he said : 

All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: 

Why all of these things ? 

That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. 

I rejoice in the fact that we can meet together in these conferences and hear scripture from our living prophets, our living leaders, who speak under the inspiration of the Spirit of God. To me it is scripture, even though it is orally expressed. The Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, were oral gospels for many years before they were committed to writing. Why should not we as Latter-day Saints, knowing as we do that these men have been called of God, that they speak under the authority of the Holy Priesthood, and under the inspiration of the Spirit of God, I say, why should not we members of his Church in conference assembled accept these statements of theirs as scripture to us ? 

I rejoice in the remarks, the doctrines, the instructions, the cor? rections and the reproofs that we have received in this conference. Brethren and sisters, and friends who are here today, I feel that Sain| Paul of pjcj had, at times, difficulties the same as we mission presidents 

120 GENERAL-CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Dan 

do at the present time. Likely there came into his soul times of depression, times of discouragement. I recall a statement of his which I should like to read here this morning. As he was encouraging the people of Philippi, the first place in Europe that the Gospel of Jesus Christ was introduced, he held up to them the thought, as President Grant did here last night, that worldly things sink into insignificance in comparison with the values and the beauties of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He said : 

Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended; but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before. 

I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. 

In my opinion this conference has sounded that keynote. There is no return, there is no backing up in the things we have attempted to do. Our vision points towards the future, and if there is any one thing that I am trying to eliminate and eradicate from among the members of the East Central States Mission, it is some of those things that were discussed a moment ago by Brother Stephen L Richards, especially dissension, and disunity within the Church. 

Brethren and sisters and friends, the war in heaven was a war beween the "brethren" and the "accusers of the brethren." Satan is here in our midst, this is his dominion, he is the accuser of the brethren, and when we find ourselves accusing our brethren, belittling them before men, we are fighting Satan's battles that he is hoping will be victorious. 

I am glad to report that the East Central States Mission is in a healthy condition. Our baptisms this year are almost a hundred per cent more than they were last year. We have one hundred and four missionaries in the field at the present time, seventy-nine Elders and twenty-five lady missionaries. Their health has been good in general, although we have had some few who have been afflicted during the summer months. They are happy in their work, their development is pleasing to me, and I am sure it is pleasing to the members of the Church in that mission field and to our Heavenly Father. 

My hope and prayer is that we shall continue to train our boys and girls in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe that we should understand that a knowledge of the Gospel and a testimony of the same are not hereditary, they do not come to us by reason of the fact that we have been born of goodly parents, unless we have accepted the teachings and the training those parents have given unto us. Religion without education has often degenerated into superstition, but theology that leads to religion, if accompanied by education, may result in the exaltation of man to the highest degree in the celestial kingdom when he applies it in his life. 

May the Lord bless us; may we carry into our fields of labor the instruction, the inspiration, and the great enthusiasm that we have felt in these conference sessions, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 121 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Once more I congratulate you on seeing that there are no accidents. I hope and pray that you will be very careful during the remainder of the day. I feel humiliated always when I hear that Utah leads the whole nation in killing and injuring people by automobile accidents in proportion to our population. 

The Choir and congregation sang "Doxology," after which the closing prayer was offered by Elder Edwin L. Murphy, President of the Moon Lake Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


