Afternoon
09 10 1938

The concluding session of the Conference commenced promptly at 2 o'clock p. m., Sunday, October 9. 

Once more the great Tabernacle was crowded to capacity, as was also the large Assembly Hall on the Tabernacle Block, and thousands who could not find accommodation in either of these buildings congregated upon the adjoining grounds, where they listened to the services as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle Choir, under the leadership of J. Spencer Cornwall, furnished the musical program for this meeting. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Praise to the Man who Communed with Jehovah." 

Elder Heber Moon, President of the Duchesne Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "How Blessed are They." 

ELDER A. LORENZO ANDERSON . 

President of the Mexican Mission 

I have been thrilled by the singing and by the remarks that have been given in this conference, and at this moment particularly am I thrilled at the words of President Grant when he tells us to be just as brief as our consciences will let us. 

I was thrilled this morning with the remarks of Brother Stephen L Richards, when he pleaded for unity of the membership of this Church, and while he was speaking I was reminded of the remarks of one of our great statesmen when we were having trouble in the United States. He 

122 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 9 Third Day 

was pleading for unity of the people of the United States, and he told them "If we will be united all the armies of Europe, of Asia, and Africa combined, with a Napoleon for a leader, could not take a drink of water out of the Ohio river." 

I should like to paraphrase that statement and say, that all the powers of this earth and hell combined, with Lucifer as generalissimo, could make no inroads on the membership of this Church if we would but be united. 

In the Mexican Mission we have a faction that has been causing us considerable trouble, they think because of the fact that they are the sons of father Lehi that they are the heirs of the kingdom and that we ought to turn it over to them and let them run it. 

I want to testify to you this afternoon that as Daniel said, the God of heaven has established his kingdom upon the earth again, never to be destroyed nor given another people. 

The Mexican Mission, aside from these few people to whom I have referred, who are illusioned for the time being, is in a healthy condition. We have nearly 3000 Saints there, and when I came to this conference I came with the idea that we were about the poorest mission of all. We have nineteen million of the sons of Lehi down there waiting for the Gospel to be preached to them, and we have only twenty-eight missionaries to do it. Eleven of those are descendants of father Lehi. 

Mexico, because of religious oppression in the past, has been forced to pass certain laws which make it impossible for the body of the Church to send us missionaries. We are dependent entirely upon the Juarez Stake and the Mexican Mission proper to furnish missionaries to preach the Gospel to those nineteen millions of the sons of father Lehi. I know the Lord is able to do a wonderful work. 

During the broadcast this morning I sat where I could not see Brother Richard L. Evans, and all I had to do was to close my eyes and then I was down on the tops of the Sierra Madres listening to him over the radio. I appreciate very much the power for good in the radio, the preaching of the sermons that come out over this radio to the people. We people who live so far away are able occasionally to listen to some of the brethren preaching the Gospel. 

I pray that the Lord will bless you all, that he will bless this great work, the missionary cause, that we may be able to preach the Gospel to all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

President of the Canadian Mission 

On the 11th day of December, in the year 1907, I received a telephone message at the office of the County Clerk in Salt Lake County, where I was serving as chief deputy. That message said that my father wanted me to report to him at the Salt Lake Temple. The message came 123  me at about ten o'clock, and when I went to the temple I was ushered into the room occupied by the Presidency and Twelve, by Brother Salmon, and was notified that Charles W. Nibley had been chosen, to serve as Presiding Bishop of the Church, and that he had chosen Orin P. Miller as his first counselor and I was to be the second counselor. 

When the announcement was made I had not expected such a thing. It was not an unusual thing for father to call for me to look after his personal affairs. I turned dizzy. I steadied myself by the arm of the chair. 

On the 6th day of April, in the year 1938, 1 was confined to my home on account of a severe cold and sore throat. A few minutes before two o'clock President Grant telephoned to me and told me that a new Presiding Bishopric would be sustained, and admonished me not to worry as something would be found for me. 

Today only seven of the men are still living who .constituted the General Authorities of the Church when I first became one of that body. I am grateful that I have had the privilege of knowing those who served then and who are gone. I am grateful for the privilege I have had of laboring with and knowing the men who now serve as the General Authorities of this Church. I have tried to serve faithfully, for I have had faith. Every fiber of my body testifies that God lives and as I have said to you many times it is not where we labor but how we labor that leads us to salvation. It is not the Priesthood that assures to us exaltation, but the manner in which we honor and labor under the authority of that Priesthood. As I have tried to labor in the past to serve my God, I assure you that in my new calling in the Canadian Mission I shall go with that same faith and with that same desire to support the authorities of this Church, with the same appreciation of the privilege which comes to me to labor with my fellows in the authority of the Priesthood, the object being to bring souls unto our Father. 

We have only a few members in that mission, about one-half the number that comprises the membership of the Ward in which my residence has been. I have met them in meetings and in their homes, conversed with them, and if I dare say so I would say I have found a people who put to shame many of those who live under the influence of this great building and the Priesthood, where they can partake of the bread as it comes from those who hold the authority to teach. 

I rejoice in this privilege, and I pray God that he will continue to sustain me, that I shall not fail in the trust which has been imposed upon me. I sincerely hope that he will continue those blessings to me and the people over whom I preside, that we may continue to rejoice in him and his work, and in the opportunity which comes to us to serve. 

These blessings T ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

124 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Day 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

0/ the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I thank my heavenly Father for the privilege I have of standing before this immense audience of his servants and handmaidens, and as time is limited I have decided that the only way to stop when you get started is to have it in such form that you will know when the end is reached. 

Get into the habit of being happy. I tell you you can do it. You can say to yourself when you are awakened in the morning, "Everything is all right," and keep on saying it. You will be surprised to find how nearly all right the mere saying of it at the beginning of the day will really make everything right after all. This is true in business as well as in the home. Prophets of gloom are never popular, and ought not to be. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S SAYINGS 

Joseph Smith was the author of such sayings as these: 

The glory of God is intelligence. 

It is impossible to be saved in ignorance. 

Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. 

And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. 

The Prophet was true to his principles. He established schools and championed the cause of education. 

A TRIBUTE TO JOSEPH SMITH 

A Mormon writer has said: 

His educational ideals passed over the threshold of time and strode down the halls of eternity. With a full appreciation of the knowledge that makes men and women capable and skilful in this life, he prized, and taught others to prize, above all, the knowledge that maketh wise unto salvation. 

How to solve life's every-day problems is of course important, but how to grapple successfully with the mightier problems of the great hereafter, how to store up treasures in heaven and lay hold upon eternal life, is far more consequential. Education meant to him the leading of the latent potential powers of the individual, the training to perfection of every divine attribute in man. As a child of God, and as a God himself in embryo, he stood for the full and complete development of the soul, body and spirit combined — mental, physical, moral, and spiritual education, the education contemplated and inculcated by the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and every succeeding President of the Church has stood for these principles. 

DEFINITION OF CAN'T 

There is a place provided in our Church organizations for every member. Excuses are sometimes offered, and many times the reason 125  is, "I cannot give the time." "Can't!" What a word! That which I intend to quote now is Edgar A. Guest's definition of the word can't." 

Can't is the worst word that is written or spoken Doing more harm here than slander or lies. 

It has many a strong spirit broken, 

And with it many a good purpose dies. It springs from the lips of the thoughtless each morning, And robs us of courage we need through the day: 

It rings in our ears like a timely sent warning, 

And leaves when we falter and fall by the way. 

Can't is the father of feeble endeavor, 

The parent of terror and half-hearted work; 

It weakens the efforts of artisans clever, 

And makes of the toiler an indolent shirk. It poisons the soul of a man with a vision, It stifles in infancy many a plan; 

It greets honest toiling with open derision 

And mocks at the hopes and the dreams of a man. 

Can't is a word that none should speak without blushing; To utter it should be a symbol of shame; 

Ambition and courage it daily is crushing; 

It blights a man's purpose and shatters his aim. Despise it with all of your hatred of error, Refuse it the lodgment it seeks in your brain; 

Arm against it as a creature of terror, 

And all that you dream of you some day shall gain. 

Can't is a word that is doom to ambition, An enemy ambushed to shatter your will; 

Its prey is forever the man with a mission, 

And bows but to courage, and patience, and skill. Hate it with hatred that is deep and undying, For once it is welcomed 'twill break any man; 

Whatever the goal you are seeking, keep trying, 

And answer this demon by saying "I can." 

DEVELOPMENT THROUGH WORK 

One splendid way to avoid falling into error is to labor. Don't become a loafer. There is always something to do for a boy and girl, a father and mother, around the home, in the home. Take part in the Church in any interest for the welfare of the people. You remember in the old fable the tortoise won the race with the hare, not by a single burst of speed, but by plodding along steadily, tirelessly. In the Civil War it was found that Lee's army could not be overwhelmed in a single battle, but one federal general perceived that it could be worn down by time and the pressure of numbers. "I propose," said Grant, "to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer." It took more than a summer, it took nearly a year, but he did it. 

In the moral realm likewise, all things excellent are as difficult as they are rare. Character is not attained over night. The only way to develop moral muscles is to exercise them patiently and long. This is so well expressed by that renowned man, J. G. Holland, as follows; 

126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 9 Third Day 

Heaven is not reached at a single bound; 

But we build the ladder by which we rise From the lowly earth to the vaulted skies, 

And we mount its summit round by round. 

I count this thing to be grandly true : 

That a noble deed is a step toward God, 

Lifting the soul from the common clod To a purer air and a broader view. 

We rise by the things that are under feet; 

By what we have mastered of good and gain; 

By the pride deposed and the passion slain, And the vanquished ills that we hourly meet. 

We hope, we aspire, we resolve, we trust, 

When the morning calls us to life and light, But our hearts grow weary, and, ere the night, 

Our lives are trailing the sordid dust. 

We hope, we resolve, we aspire, we pray, 

And we think that we mount the air on wings Beyond the recall of sensual things, 

While our feet still cling to the heavy clay. 

Wings for the angels, but feet for men! 

We may borrow the wings to find the way — We may hope, and resolve, and aspire, and pray; 

But our feet must rise, or we fall again. 

Only in dreams is a ladder thrown 

From the weary earth to the sapphire walls; But the dreams depart, and the vision falls, 

And the sleeper wakes on his pillow of stone. 

Heaven is not reached at a single bound; 

But we build the ladder by which we rise From the lowly earth to the vaulted skies, 

And we mount to its summit, round by round. How rich- are you, how rich are any of us ? I think the letterportraying and answering that question is very well worded. No one yet has learned the author. When first it was published every effort was made to learn who the author was, but up to the present time we know not. But no matter who the author was I think the words are beautiful : 

I do not mean how much money you have in the bank, or how much your real estate is worth, there are other riches more valuable than these. Some day I am going to write a book about how every man and woman may be rich, right now, today, in the things that really count. In my scrap book I have a little article about being richer each day that I would like to share with you. Here it is : 

"You are richer today than you were yesterday. If you have loved often, given something, forgiven often, made a new friend today, or made stepping-stones of stumbling-blocks, if you have thought more in terms of thyself than myself, or if you have learned to be hopeful even if you were weary, you are richer tonight than you were this morning. If you have taken time to trace the handiwork of God in the 127  things of life, or if you have learned to count things that really do not count, or if you have been a little blinder to the faults of friends, and know you are richer if a little child has smiled at you, a stray dog has licked your hand, or if you have looked for the best in others and given others the best in you." 

STRENGTH OF THE CHURCH 

My brethren and sisters, I have often wondered why intelligent men and women who believe in the Bible, men and women who believe that there was a Christ, do not attend church. We find churches in all parts of America with but very few in attendance. I have had men ask me time and time again how it was that the Mormon Church had that power and influence over people to tell them to do a thing and they do it with all their might, mind, and. strength, and with joy in their souls. They do not understand why our missionaries go out into the world for two or three years, once or twice, or three times, as the case may be, bearing their own expenses in an effort to convert the people who believe that they have the Gospel. 

How happy we should be that our lives, our position, our belief are based upon a direct visitation from the Father and the Son to Joseph Smith in this dispensation! If that were not true do you think that this Church would have lived and grown and become the power it has ? And do you think that any man, I care not whether it was Joseph Smith, or Brigham Young, or any other living soul, could have done this if it were not true that the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith, and also that later the Priesthood of the living God was conferred upon him and he was instructed to organize the Church to which you and I belong ? 

God grant that we may ever be loyal and true to it, and that whatever comes, and whatever demand is made we may know it is what God would desire. God be with you, and bless you, and prosper you. May the Gospel of Jesus Christ grow every day and every year until the Master shall come, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My dear brethren and sisters, nowhere in all the world do I feel myself so much in the presence of friends, as in these great General Conferences of the Church — thousands of men and women who are of the same faith, with the same objective in life, having the same aspirations as to the hereafter. I feel myself as one of a great family in these conferences. Yet there is a feeling as one stands before this group, akin to fear, akin to awe. I have heard my brethren say that they also have that feeling. Brigham Young explained it by saying that we are all children of Almighty God, his very children, begotten in the spirit world before we came here upon this earth, and that within every one of us, for that reason, is a spark of divinity. When a man stands before a group of thousands of righteous men and women, as I do this moment, Third Day  feels the divinity within them, and feels much as he would if he stood before Divinity itself. 

I rejoice in having this opportunity; yet when I look at the clock I know that "the time is far spent, there is little remaining" — except speakers. You will permit me therefore, I am quite sure, to lay aside the theme that I have selected for this conference — it may sound just as well next April — and to bear testimony to you as the Spirit may move upon me at this moment. 

I do bear testimony to you of the truth of this work, which has brought us together during this great, wonderful, thrilling conference. This work is of God, not of man. It was founded in revelation. It has been guided by revelation. It is being directed today by revelation. It possesses the authority of eternity — we call it the Priesthood — the power by which the heavens and the earth were made. 

The man who stands at the head of the Church today holds the keys, rights, privileges, and authority held by every man who throughout the generations of time has been called to lead the cause of God. He stands as the representative of God's great plan of salvation. 

Our destiny is for all men. We are servants of the human race, bearers of truth and light to those who are in ignorance, -and who sit in darkness. We are not like other men; we are not like other women. We are chosen and set apart unto the greatest and gravest responsibilities that the Lord has ever placed upon his children on earth. 

This is the last dispensation, not the first. It is the summation of the thousands of years since the earth was made. This is the evening of earth's Saturday. The work is about to be completed. The manner and time of its completion, and all that pertains to these last days are left very largely with us, the commissioned servants of Almighty God in this great work. 

I rejoice in this testimony, and I bear it to you. And I want to say to you, my brethreq and sisters, that this testimony is knowledge, the higher knowledge, transcending mere belief, or even ordinary faith. It is the best in my life, as it is the best in your lives — for I speak but as one of hundreds of thousands in this Church and kingdom who bear this testimony. This testimony is my priceless possession, the thing I value most, the thing to which I want to cling throughout life. 

You may well ask me, and you have the right to ask me, as you may ask my brethren and sisters by the ten of thousands who like me can bear this same testimony, how we dare to declare such a testimony, how we dare to say that we know that this is the work of God. In answer, thousands in this congregation, would join with me in explaining how such a testimony may be won. EVIDENCES OF THE TRUTH ARE PLAIN TO BE SEEN' 

The evidences of the truth of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ lie all about us, if we but search and seek. They lie within easy reach. 129 

They are evidences no man can deny, so clear to the vision, I was about to say, that the blind can see them. Who can read the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the backwoods boy of New York, untaught, unlettered, except as revelation came to him, who can read his career and the teachings of his life without saying of him, honestly, "The man did not speak of himself. Powers beyond man spoke through him for the benefit of humanity" ? 

Take the life of our own President, the commissioned leader of our Church today. His life is like an open book; we know every chapter in it. Who would dare to say that Heber J. Grant the President of the Church today speaks only through the great natural endowment that was recognized in him even while he was a boy ? One must be blind, indeed, and hard of hearing who cannot recognize the spirit of inspiration and the voice of God speaking through the prophet of this day, our day, this Sunday, in which we are living. 

Yet, evidences are not enough to gain a testimony of the truth; we have something more. I was brought up in scientific laboratories, where I was taught to test things, never to be satisfied unless a thing was tested. We have the right to test the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. By testing it I mean living it, trying it out. Do you question the Word of Wisdom? Try it. Do you question the law of tithing? Practice it. Do you doubt the virtue of attending meetings? Attend them. Only then shall we be able to speak of these things intelligently and in such a way as to be respected by those who listen to us. Those who live the Gospel of Jesus Christ gain this higher knowledge, this greater testimony, this ultimate assurance that this is the truth. It is the way to truth. All the while, brethren and sisters, we must seek help from the great unseen world about us, from God and his messengers. We call that prayer. A man never finds perfect peace, never reaches afar unless he penetrates to some degree the unseen world, and reaches out to touch the hands, as it were, of those who live in that unseen world, the world out of which we came, the world into which we shall go. 

SIMPLE THINGS LEAD TO GREAT TRUTHS 

I want to conclude by saying that in seeking a testimony of the truth of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Gospel restored in our day, we need chiefly to give attention to the little things of life. The little things are really the great things of life; and the things we call great in life are the little things. Life is made up of little things, our daily duties. We are too prone to say that that which is clear and understandable is of little consequence; while that which is complex and difficult to understand we sometimes hold to be great. Let us remember that the little things of life, the simple things, are the ones that lead us into the greater truths. 

I was taught in my scientific day to look for fundamental principles, the governing principles, and not to worry about the complexities or mysteries of things. I found that when I looked down deep into the heart of things, I found that the principles that govern and guide were always 

130 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 9 Third Day 

simple and easily understood. Man's progress towards truth has been along simple ways. 

The theme of President Grant's opening sermon just a few days ago was constant labor of the right kind as far as we have strength and ability. That is a simple, elementary principle; yet so fundamental that in practice it changes the whole world for every man who lives in it. Brother Bowen spoke of honesty — another simple principle; yet he wove it into the pattern of our character. Brother Merrill spoke on unselfishness — a simple principle, yet the power that makes the world habitable. From such simple principles are woven the pattern of the peace and prosperity of the world. 

CONCLUDING TESTIMONY 

Now I must not say more. I have borne you my testimony. It may be gained by any and every person. The way is simple; God has not made that road difficult to travel; but we must obey certain principles of truth to guide us if we are to reach the end. Every man may reach it who really desires it. There are hundreds of thousands of people, I am happy to say, in this last dispensation who have found this testimony, who have secured this certain and firm knowledge of the truth, and who can bear witness, perhaps even more certainly than I can — though it seems to me that my faith has passed beyond doubt — that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God divinely inspired and guided, and that we are . engaged in the work of God for the completion of God's great plan with respect to the human race. 

I thank God for the Gospel, in my behalf and in your behalf. God bless us and make us true to the truth, I pray, in the name of the Lord Tesus Christ. Amen. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang "By Babylon's Wave," (Gounod). 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brethren and sisters, as I contemplate the growth of the mission of the Church of Christ, I feel to exclaim with Browning: "God's in his heaven: all's right with the world." Men and nations make errors and will be punished therefor, but ultimately the Lord will overrule the acts of men for the triumph of Truth. This great Conference has given added assurance in the success of this, God's work. I hope all who have attended the sessions or who have listened in have had their faith increased in the divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

PURPOSES OF CONFERENCES 

Such is one of the purposes of these conferences. Reference to the Doctrine and Covenants will disclose the fact that there are four principal purposes of holding conferences of the Church : 131 

First, to transact current Church business, 

Second, to hear reports and general Church statistics, 

Third, to "approve of those names which I (the Lord) have 

appointed, or to disapprove of them." 

Fourth, to worship the Lord in sincerity and reverence, and to 

give and to receive encouragement, exhortation, and instruction. 

GROWTH OF THE CHURCH 

It is a good thing in the Church, as in business, to check up on ourselves to see whether we are succeeding or failing. 

Organizations as individuals are either progressing or retrograding — they seldom if ever stand still. To progress is to obey the law of life. If the Church or any part of it were not improving, you may rest assured that it would be deteriorating. No Ward, Stake, or Branch of the Church can long remain stationary. It is a source of satisfaction to all of us to realize that we belong to a Church that is moving forward. Statistics for the nine months ending September 30 corroborate this fact. Since January 1, 1938 there have been organized six new stakes, 24 new wards, and 21 independent branches — 4 wards and 5 independent branches have been disorganized, leaving a clear gain of 20 wards, and 16 new independent branches. This increase during these nine months is but indicative of the steady growth of the Church since its organization. 

I have been reminded, since attending this Conference and listening to the reports of some of the Mission Presidents, and the remarks of Stake Presidents when I have met them, of the great growth manifested since I became associated with the General Authorities. For example, in 1910 I visited the California Mission. As I recall it, the total membership then was about 2000, and only one Church building owned by the members, and that was up at Gridley. Today we have 9 stakes, 70 wards, 10 independent branches, with a church membership of approximately 35,000, and Church property amounting to approaching two million dollars. In addition to this the California Mission numbers 9,400, and owns property valued at approximately $227,500.00. 

I have heard President Grant refer to his early experience in Bear Lake Stake which was organized June 20, 1869. I do not know what the membership was then at the time of organization; but about ten years later it was 3,418. Today in Idaho there are 25 Stakes, 244 wards, and 14 independent branches, comprising a membership of approximately 100,000 — (99,111) and two more stakes already approved. 

The growth of the Church in the Northwest during the last few years has been outstanding. Portland, as you know, is now the center of an organized Stake, as is also Seattle. 

Thriving stakes are found in Chicago and New York, and a promise of another in Washington, D. C, the capital of the nation. 

132 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Dag 

COMMENDATION OF WELFARE WORKERS 

An important and most commendable enterprise undertaken by the Church is its Welfare Program. Of its value and significance much has been said during the Conference. I desire to commend in the presence of this large audience the able and unselfish work of the eleven members of the General Committee chosen to assist the General Authorities. These men are leaders in their chosen occupations and professions. They, as you, give their very best to the advancement of this great undertaking, contributing their time and ability without a cent of compensation. The reward of their effort lies in their love for the work. 

Under the direction of this committee and the management of experienced and dependable contractors, the Central Storehouse Building Project is being carried on at 751 West 7th South, this city, one of the pivotal centers around which this entire plan revolves. 

In your mind's eye, come with me momentarily and stand outside those unfinished buildings. Here we see a worthy example of cooperation. The steel lying there, being used to reinforce the cement, has been furnished at cost; by firms not members of the Church. So have the cement and the lumber; so 'have the materials purchased from merchants in this city, also the electric poles and the wire. The spirit of cooperation is manifested by members and non-members. Here are from 40 to 60 men working daily — men otherwise unemployed, each recommended by his Bishop. Each receives for his labor small amounts in cash, the balance in orders on the storehouses. 

One of the most pleasing things which you observe is the fact that union men work side by side with non-union men. I wish to commend the Brick-layer's Union particularly for their attitude toward this great Welfare movement in permitting their men to work side by side with others in the spirit of true brotherhood. 

I would ask you, too, to contemplate the Mormon Handicraft Project carried on by the Relief Society, a most commendable enterprise, in which 650 women have found employment while they remained at home with their families. 

The spiritual progress of the Church also is equally encouraging. Tithing has increased; so has the fast offering. The growth in interest in the Priesthood quorums, while it is not yet what it should be, indicates clearer vision on the part of officers as to the responsibility of these groups. 

Such are a few of the sign posts of the progress of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I refer to them not with a desire to boast or to overestimate their significance, but as indications that the Church is moving forward. 

PRESIDENT DAVID 0. McKAY 133 

PEACE THE MESSAGE OF THE CHURCH 

The future and permanency of the work is assured so long as the Priesthood will keep in mind the great mission of the Church. It is truly a messenger of peace. When Christ came to the earth his advent was heralded by an angelic chorus singing: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, good will toward men." This message has been repeated so often that it seems trite, and, yet, if peace and brotherhood could even be approximated, it would prove the greatest boon that could come to humanity. 

Since time began men have kept the world in turmoil with their useless strivings, their bickerings, and their contentions. There is an old, old story told that a man from another planet was permitted to visit the earth. From an eminence he looked down upon the bustling cities of the world. Millions of men, like ants, were busy building palaces of pleasure, and other things that would not last; chasing will-o'-the-wisps and seeking financial bubbles that burst before their eyes. As he left to go back he said : "All these people are spending their time in building just bird's nests; no wonder they fail and are ashamed." 

The peace of Christ does not come by seeking the superficial things of life, neither does it come except as it springs from the individual's heart. Jesus said to His disciples : "Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you; not as the world giveth, give I unto you." Thus the Son of Man as the executor of his own will and testament gave to his disciples and to mankind the "first of all human blessings." It was a bequest conditioned upon obedience to the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is thus bequeathed to each individual. No man is at peace with himself or his God who is untrue to his better self, who transgresses the law of right either in dealing with himself by indulging in passion, in appetite, yielding to temptations against his accusing conscience, or in dealing with his fellowmen, being untrue to their trust. Peace does not come to the transgressor of law; peace comes by obedience to law, and it is that message which Jesus would have us proclaim among men. 

If we would have peace as individuals, we must supplant enmity with forbearance, which means to refrain or abstain from finding fault or from condemning others. "It is a noble thing to be charitable with the failings and weaknesses of a friend; to bury his weaknesses in silence, but to proclaim his virtues from the house tops." We shall have power to do this if we really cherish in our hearts the ideals of Christ, who said : 

If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee; Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. 

Note the Savior did not say if you have ought against him, but if you find that another has ought against you. How many of Third Dan  are ready to come up to that standard? If we are, we shall find peace. Many of us, however, instead of following this admonition, nurse our ill-will until it grows to hatred, then this hatred expresses itself in fault-finding and even slander, "whose whisper over the world's diameter as level as a cannon to its mouth, transports its poison shot." Back-biting, fault-finding, are weeds of society that should be constantly eradicated. Gossip, too, brings discord and thrives best in superficial minds, as fungi grows best on weakened plants, "Bear ye one another's burdens," but do not add to those burdens by gossiping about your neighbors or by spreading slander. Diogenes was asked one day to name that beast, the bite of which is the most dangerous. The old philosopher replied : "Of tame beasts, the bite of the flatterer; of wild beasts, that of the slanderer." 

During the approaching political campaign let us refrain, from making personal attacks and from hurling slanderous abuse, and thus avoid injuring one another's feelings, and after election have fewer regrets and heartaches. 

If the world would be at peace it must supplant the rule of force by the rule of love. The scriptures tell us that in the beginning Satan proffered to force all men into subjection to the will of God. By compulsion he would save every person, and for so doing he asked that the honor and the glory that are the Lord's should be his. 

There is an example of dictatorship supreme! In contrast to this, Christ's plan was to give men their free agency. 

To every man, says Joseph Smith, is given an inherent power to do right or to do wrong. In this he has his free agency. He may choose the right and obtain salvation, or he may choose evil and merit abomination. 

A man may act as his conscience dictates so long as he does not infringe upon the rights of others. That is the spirit of true democracy, and all government by the Priesthood should be actuated by that same high motive. We are told, 

The rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven. 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy. WHERE PEACE IS FOUND 

Peace is not found in selfishness, but in striving to help make the world better and happier. 135 

"There was a time when I was happy," said Browning's Parcelsus. 

"When was that?" asked his friend Festus. 

The old philosopher answered : "When, but the time I vowed myself to man." 

And then Festus said : "Great God, thy judgments are inscrutable." 

Then Parcelsus continued : "There is an answer to the passionate longings of the heart for fullness and I knew it, and the answer is this : Live in all things outside yourself by love, and you will have joy. That is the life of God : it ought to be our life. In him it is accomplished and perfect; but in all created things it is a lesson learned slowly and through difficulty." 

Finally, the perfect peace comes to the individual who has a testimony of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. That is the greatest blessing, brethren and sisters; all else may be sacrificed rather than that. If you would have it then follow the words of the Savior : "He that will do the will of my Father which is in Heaven shall know of the doctrine whether it is of God, or whether I speak of myself." 

How different the peace of God from that of the world! It calms the passions, preserves the purity of conscience, is inseparable from righteousness, unites us to God, and strengthens us against temptation. The peace of the soul consists in an absolute resignation to the will of God. 

The way to peace for individuals and nations is to have "the Kingdom of God within you." 

May peace come to each of us, and to the whole world. I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

GRATEFUL FOR BLESSINGS 

My brothers and sisters : I am grateful for this great conference, and for the spirit that has been with us during its sessions. I am grateful for the music which we have had, all of it, for the great choir — and we may properly so term it — for its leader, Brother Cornwall, for faithful Brother Asper, and for Richard L. Evans and his sermonettes, which are reaching tens of thousands of people, and the inspiration and the spirit which will come to him from his new calling will many fold increase his influence in this work. 

I am grateful for the welfare plan, and for the success which is attending the efforts of those who are carrying it out. I thank the general committee, the regional committees, the stake and the ward committees, the Priesthood quorums, and last, but by no means least, the Relief Society, who are the "mothers" of the welfare household. 

I am grateful for every blessing which has come to us, which the Third Dag 

Lord has given to us. He has given us bounteous crops, he has given us great natural resources, he has provided us with the necessities of shelter and of clothing, and if anyone shall suffer, it will not be the Lord's fault, but ours. One thing is required beyond everything else — we must not waste what God has given to us. 

Repeated reference has been made to the great council in heaven, and to what it meant. One element of it I should like to refer to, namely, — what Satan then proposed to do was to give salvation without labor, that is, to get something for nothing. This is the spirit which is abroad today. It is the spirit which we must fight, or it will destroy us. 

Last night I said something about the up-building of hate in the world, and about foreign propaganda with which this whole nation is being deluged. I warned that this propaganda does not give us the whole truth by any means. I indicated that hate, aided by greed, avarice, and ambition could overwhelm the world in another world war. I entreated the brethren as I now entreat you brethren and sisters to be charitable towards those people whom the propaganda would condemn unheard. 

I besought the brethren last night, as I now beseech you, to consider whether or not we Americans who have gained the most of the land which we possess — including that on which we stand — by conquest, and whether or not the other great nations who have glutted themselves with the spoils of conquest, are in a position to condemn without mitigation some other nation which is merely attempting to march along the way of empire which we and those other nations followed. I beseech you not to put yourselves nor this nation in the position of whited sepulchers. I loathe war, I loathe conquest, I loathe oppression, I loathe the destruction of the liberties of men; I love freedom, I love our free institutions, but let us not visit upon the people themselves the sins of their governments. Let us not make a great body of the membership of our Church feel that they are outcasts from us because of the acts of their governments. Let us draw the distinction between peoples and governments. Let us be patient in our judgment, let us exercise charity. 

Righteousness and hate cannot dwell in the same heart, no matter how great the righteousness nor how little the hate. 

I want now to say a few words to the parents, to the teachers and to the youth of the Church about a matter that seems to me to be of the most far-reaching importance. 

To Moses on Sinai came the law of all time: "Thou shalt not commit adultery." WARNING AGAIST FOREIGN PROPAGANDA PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. The Master, Jesus Christ, found his most approbrious term in the phrase, "an adulterous generation." 

The Lord in His time and in ours has put adultery and fornication side by side. Both are cardinal sins. 

The Church has from the beginning demanded of its youth — male and female — one standard only, absolute continence until proper marriage has legalized and hallowed the sexual relations. To this there is no exception. I repeat what I have said before: Man is a biological unit, an animal, but he is more than this, he is the temple of an immortal spirit; that spirit can be defiled by the flesh, and defilement comes when the laws of chastity are violated. 

Our very civilization itself is based upon chastity, the sanctity of marriage, and the holiness of the home. Destroy these and Christian man becomes a brute. 

ETERNAL UNION A LOFTY RELATIONSHIP 

For Latter-day Saints the family relationship continues through eternity. It is the loftiest and most sacred human relationship we know. 

To the chaste young man and young woman beginning the building of a home there is a trust, a confidence, a joy unspeakable, an all but divine harmony, that no other purely human undertaking can bring. The rightful heritage of such a beginning is a life of righteousness that builds upward to eternal life. 

To the unchaste who marry there is ahead either a life of distrust, lack of confidence, unhappiness, leading to the divorce court, or a life of promiscuous sexual relationships that ends in misery, disease, and sham. Debauchery never gave birth to good of any kind. 

CHASTITY TO BE TAUGHT 

Chastity is fundamental to our life and to our civilization. If the race becomes unchaste, it will perish. Immorality has been basic to the destruction of mighty nations of the past; it will bring to dust the mighty nations of the present. Every one of us who instructs our youth in whatever place or position, and in whatever capacity, must teach the young people of today to abstain from unchastity. We must surround our teachings with due and proper reserve and modesty. We must approach and teach the youth as the children of God, with spirits that are to live throughout eternity, and tell them plainly and clearly that the laws of God, and of men also, demand that they live chaste. If we shall teach anything less than this we will destroy our youth and we will bring ourselves under a condemnation which is too great to be fathomed by human mind, and which God alone can alleviate. 

In what I have said I include all of us parents. How can we parents face our Maker if we have failed in one featherweight to meet the duty which is ours in these matters ? And let us not make the mistake, any of us, of assuming that our children are beyond temptation and may not fall. This is a delusion and a snare that will bring us to the 

138 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Day 

very depths. Let every father and every mother, every brother and every sister, stand guard day and night, that their loved ones be not seized and carried away by lust. 

And now you young people — May I directly entreat you to be chaste. Please believe me when I say that chastity is worth more than life itself. This is the doctrine my parents taught me; it is truth. Better die chaste than live unchaste. The salvation of your very souls is concerned in this. 

A FRIENDSHIP NOT TO BE TRUSTED 

I ask you to believe me when I say that whenever a man or woman, young or old, demands as the price of his friendship that you give up the righteous standards of your life, or any of them, that man's friendship is not worth the price he asks. You may not trust that friendship; he will cast it off as he does his worn-out coat. Friendship is not now, and never was, the offspring of debauchery or unrighteousness. 

I ask you young women to believe me further when I say that any young man who demands your chastity as the price of his love, is spiritually unclean, and is offering something that is not worth the purchase price; his love will turn to ashes under your touch; it will lead you to misery and shame; and too often it will curse you with dread disease. 

To you young men I say that any woman who comes to you offering her person outside of legal wedlock, is playing the harlot. 

The Lord has said in our day : "For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance." (D. and C. 1 :39; Alma 45 :16), and to Moses of old he said that no unclean thing can dwell in the kingdom of God or in his presence. (Moses 6:57.) 

FORGIVENESS THROUGH REPENTANCE 

Yet there is forgiveness for the sinner who truly repents. God's mercy is just as boundless as his justice. To the woman taken in adultery, condemned to death by the Mosaic law, Jesus said: "Go, and sin no more." (John 8:11.) But the heart must be ripened in repentance before forgiveness can come, and sorrow alone is not repentance. A new and righteous life must be led. 

Church members, young and old, the Lord demands that you be chaste; the Church requires chastity from you under penalty of disf ellowship and excommunication. If any have already sinned, your brethren and sisters stand ready and anxious to forgive if you shall come with a repentant heart and contrite spirit. 

I have spoken plainly because plain speech is necessary. I have tried not to speak indelicately. I have not spoken lewdly. 

A WORD TO SCOFFERS 

To the unbelieving scoffer who says, "All you say merely shows how old and out of date your religion is," — or, as one educator said, "How much your religion is of the kindergarten type,"— to the scoffers 139  say that man has outgrown the old God with his rewards and punishments, his standards, and that man must now create for himself a new God — and this is at the root of much of the modern so-called philosophy which considers man as creating his God, not God as creating His children — to these scoffers it is sufficient to say that thus have their kind spoken since Cain tried to find a better way than the one God had provided. Thus will they always speak until God shall close their mouths. 

ADVICE TO YOUTH 

Youth, be not disturbed. Be valiant. God lives. The Gospel is His way of life. Follow the Gospel path to eternal life. "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3.) 

May the Lord give us his Spirit, bring home to our hearts the necessity of chastity for every man and every woman, for every boy and every girl, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

For the first time since I became President of the Church, we will have to fail to hear from all of our General Authorities, and some of our Mission Presidents. We cannot stop the clock like the legislature does. 

Our next speaker will be Brother Samuel O. Bennion, and after him Brother John H. Taylor. 

Elder Rufus K. Hardy is at home on account of illness, but is improving. 

There are just fifteen minutes left. The brethren will have to limit themselves to five minutes each, and we shall ask the Mission Presidents to save their speeches, the same as Brother Widtsoe is doing, for the next time. I think we shall have to have four days of conference in the future, or not try to crowd it all in and let every man who takes more time than he has been requested learn not to do it again, and that would help us out a little. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

Since listening to that fine junior choir that sang so beautifully for us yesterday I have been much impressed by the strength of our boys and girls in this Church. If that same spirit of improvement is being carried on in all branches of this Church, both in the Priesthood quorums and in the auxiliary organizations, so that every note and expression will ring as true as did the voices of this youthful choir, the Church will make wonderful progress in the next few years. 

This Church has had a continual and steady growth. My testimony to all is that the youth of Zion are growing in faith, that they are firm and true, and that they will hold the places of those who are older when 

140 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 9 Third Day 

these pass on, for the youth of today are the men of tomorrow, and the training that they receive every day of their lives is the thing that will qualify them for positions of trust. 

We lost, through death, the leader of our Council, President J. Golden Kimball, whom so many knew and loved. His departure is a real loss to us. In just a short time, however, another man has been found who will be able to assist in the responsibilities of our work. And so the Lord provides. 

I was in the ministry long enough to see young men fill missions, go home, be married, and send me their sons and daughters. I saw fine improvement in them. I know that the training the father and mother received in the mission field was carried over and was evidenced in that boy and girl who came to me. I found faith among the sons and daughters of God at home. I found the fathers and mothers who had provided the means for the missionaries to accomplish their work and to develop into faithful servants of the Lord had in their hearts the spirit and integrity of Latter-day Saints. Many of them were not heard of, many of them lived their quiet lives, but they contributed of their means and of all they had for the preaching of the Gospel. 

In one of the stakes where I went to hold conference, I noted in the audience on the first day an aged brother, the kindness in whose eyes attracted me. I asked the president of the stake to call him up, but the president hesitated. I learned that the man's wife had died and that he was living with his children and grandchildren. His beard was unkempt, his hair likewise. But he attracted me. The second morning I asked again if this brother might speak. The president said : "I am very doubtful about his wanting to speak." 

In the afternoon that same impression came to me again. I said, "Go down and ask him if he wouldn't like to speak. I feel impressed to call upon him." And when the invitation was given the old brother said : "Yes, I should like to speak," and he stood up and said : "I have never been called on a mission, I have been called on to speak only once or twice in my life. I helped to build the town and make the roads and bridges. I sent every one of -my sons on missions. Where the money came from I do not know but I have kept my pledge with my Lord." 

There are many such in the stakes of Zion. I pray the Lord to bless these noble souls in their valiant endeavors to carry on. I pray that the youth may continue to measure up to their glorious heritage, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I know I speak for the First Council of Seventy when I welcome Brother Richard L. Evans as one of our members. I have known him for many years. His noble character and fine intellect have been an influence for good wherever he has gone. His father died when Richard 141  a little boy, and was one of the truest men that ever lived. Richard's mother has reared a large family. She has faced sorrows with fortitude, but always with deep faith in the ways of Providence. 

May I say to President Grant and all the brethren under whose direction the First Council works, that the Seventies throughout the Church are doing nobly in their quorum activities, and have risen to the call to carry the Gospel into the homes of all people. 

To my brethren of the respective quorums, I should like to remind you of the words of Paul the Apostle to Timothy, when he said:. 

When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also. 

Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. 

For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. 

That we may go forward in carrying out the wishes of the First Presidency and the quorum of the Twelve to the end that thousands, yea millions, of the children of men may be brought to the knowledge of the truth, I ask in His name. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy May I relate these two instances : 

Last week I had the opportunity of going into the Missionary Home for a day or two and meeting the splendid missionaries who were about to leave for the mission field. Yesterday, one of the missionaries looked for me all day and when I went over to my missionary reunion he was waiting with his father at the door. Because of something I had said or done, he desired that I be the one to ordain him to the office of Seventy. 

When I was twenty years of age and went on my first mission, as I came out of the meeting that had been held for my farewell, an old lady who was earning her living by washing stood by the door with a shawl over her head. She put a dollar into my hand and said to me, "John, it is not very much but I would like you to have it. I hope I shall live to welcome you back again, for when I go I would like you to say something about me at my funeral, because I love you." 

The good things we say and the good things we do bring us happiness and joy. When we say evil things or do evil things in life, we are ashamed and uncomfortable. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful and true to the fine things in life, so that we might be helpful to our fellow men, I humbly pray, in Jesus' name, Amen. 

142 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 9 Third Dag 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Again I express my gratitude for the singing that we have had, for the wonderful "Elijah" oratorio, for the fine speeches that we have heard, for the marvelous attendance at this Conference, and for the blessings of the Lord that have been with us. 

INVOKES BLESSINGS OPON THE PEOPLE 

I rejoice beyond all else in the growth of faith among the Latter-day Saints, and with all the power and authority that God has bestowed upon me — and I know as I know that I live that he has directed me from boyhood, that he has heard and answered my prayers, that I have had revelations, so to speak, from the Lord, and have endeavored to carry them out — I pray God to bless every honest-hearted soul at home or abroad. I pray that what has been said here may sink deep into the hearts of the people, that we will judge not that we be not judged, and that we will not condemn people in any of the countries today that are doing things that we think they ought not to do, because many of them are doing what they are doing because they dare not do otherwise, and are just as much opposed to it as we are. 

May the spirit of peace and brotherly love grow among the Latterday Saints. 

Again may I plead with the people to get down on their knees and ask God to direct them in every act of life, and then if they get the Spirit of God they will feel happy and content in what they do. Do not do something that you can not ask God to help you to do. Grow in the light and knowledge of the Gospel, and as a servant of God I promise you peace and joy and happiness, in the name of our Redeemer, Amen. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "Glory and Praise to God" (Handel), after which the benediction was pronounced by Elder William R. Ellsworth of the Maricopa Stake Presidency. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

The musical exercises for the Friday morning session were furnished by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, Wade N. Stephens, Conductor; at the Friday afternoon session by the Woodruff Stake Choir, under the direction of John Nielson; at the Saturday sessions by the Moroni High School Choir, Ray Anderson, Conductor; and at the Sunday sessions by the Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor. The congregational singing was directed by J. Spencer Cornwall and Richard P. Condie. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played b> Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Anderson, A. Lorenzo 121 

Ashton, Elder Marvin O 57 

Authorities Present 74 

Authorities, Presentation of 16 

Backman, LeGrand P 84 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 105 

World War brought hope, 105 — Quick return to worse conditions, 105 — Gospel alone can bring peace, 105 — Perils to our country will come from within, 106 — Promises made by the Lord regarding Zion, 107 — The Lord's Plan must be followed, 108. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O 139 

Bowen, Elder Albert E 63 

The Articles of Faith, 63 — Honesty a requirement, 64 — Business men's opinion, 64 — Covetousness the cause of dishonesty, 64— Consequences of dishonesty, 65 — Keeping of commandments brings peace, 65 — Civilization based on honesty, 66 — Requirements of the Golden Rule, 67. Broadcast. .. Choir and Organ 108 

Broadcast, Church of the Air 109 

Callis, Elder Charles A 22 

Peace a blessing, 22 — The story of Nineveh's repentance, 22 — Respite through prayer, 23 — Prophetic words, 23 — Joseph Smith's statesmanlike word, 23 — Lincoln's plan to end war, 24. 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q. 94 

Missionary experiences, 94 — Testimony of the truth, 94 — European visit to examine into building problems, 95 — Uniform building policy needed, 95 — Efficient expenditures of tithes, 96 — Missionaries, officers and members faithful, 96 — General conditions in Europe, 97 — Two major influences at work, 97 — Temptations of the Savior, — Temptations of mankind, 98 — Human characteristics, 99 — Which influence will prevail, 99 — Our privilege as Latter Saints, 100. 

Changes in Church Officers, 19 

Choir and Organ broadcast 108 

Christiansen, El Ray L ...102 

Church of the Air broadcast 109 

Church Welfare Committee 18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 135 

Grateful for blessings, 135 — Satan's plan, 136 — Warning against foreign propaganda, 136— Violation of laws of chastity condemed, 136 — Eternal union a lofty relationship, 137 — Chastity to be taught, 137 — A friendship not to be trusted, 138 — Forgiveness through repentance, 138 — A word to scoffers, 138 — Advice to youth, 139. 

Clawson, President Rudger 33 

Joseph and Hyrum Smith, 33 — Brigham Young a prophet, 33 — Five other great leaders, 34 — Experiences in the ministry, 34 — Testimony of the Holy Ghost, 35 — Contact with the adversary, 35. 

Evans, Elder Frank 44 

Evans, Elder Richard L 90 

Eyring, Elder Carl F 43 

First Day Afternoon Meeting 33 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

General Authorities of the Church 16 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Auxiliary Officers - 18 

General Officers of the Church 17 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Selections from "Treasures I Would Share," 2 — "God Give Us Men," 3 — Age, 3 — Work a blessing, 3 — Incident regarding President Penrose, 4 — Thrift, 5 — My Creed, 5 — I shall not pass again this way, 6 — Three Lessons, 7 — Favorite hymns, 7 — The time is Nigh, the Happy Time, 8 — God Moves in a Mysterious Way, 8 — Come Let Us Anew, 9 — Come, Come, Ye Saints, 9 — Should You Feel Inclined to Censure, 10 — O My Father, 10— -A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief, 11— O Ye Mountains High, 13 — School Thy Feelings, O My Brother, 13— The Flag Without A Stain, 14— The Word of the Lord, 14 — Thankful for knowledge, 15— Idleness condemned, 15. 

Grant, President Heber J 32 

Urges care be exercised on streets and highways, 32. 

Grant, President Heber J 52 

The missionary system as an educator, 53. 

Grant, President Heber J '.. 53 

Evan Stephens' anthems, 53. 

Grant, President Heber J 78 

Thanks Moroni High School Choir, 78. 

Grant, President Heber J 82 

Mission Presidents asked to limit their remarks, 82. 

Grant, President Heber J 104 

Observe the Sabbath, 10. 145 

Grant, President Heber J 121 

Urges care on the highways, 121. 

Grant, President Heber J. 139 

Not sufficient time to hear from all, 139 — Elder Hardy absent because of illness, 139. 

Grant, President Heber J. 142 

Invokes blessings upon the people, 142. 

Hinckley, Elder Bryant S. 51 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R - 40 

Lyman, Elder Richard R. 109 

Joy in missionary work, 109 — Sacrifice required, 109 — Living the Gospel brings testimony, 1 10 — Brief report of European Mission, 111 — Lives of converts transformed, 111 — Blessings of missionary work far reaching, 112 — Prophecies being fulfilled, 113. 

MacDonald, Elder W. Aird 75 

McKay, President David O. 16 

Sustaining of Authorities, 16. 

McKay, President David O 130 

Purposes of Conferences, 130 — Growth of the Church, 131 — Commendation of Welfare workers, 132 — Peace the message of the Church, 133 — Christ's plan gives free agency, 134 — Where peace is found, 134. 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F. 31 

By their fruits ye shall know them, 78 — Latter-day Saints should live up to professions, 79 — Satan seeks to overcome saints, 79 — The Golden Rule not operating in world struggles, 80 — Duty of the Latter-day Saints, 82.  

Nibley, Elder Preston 100 

Pratt, Elder Harold W. 83 

Rees, Elder Thomas D. . 74 

Rich, Elder Abel S 87 

Richards, Elder George F. 54 

Fruits are evidence of the work of the Lord, 54 — Testimony as to divinity of Latter-day work, 54 — Leaders of Church have carried on the work, 55 — Christ's part in the rebellion in heaven, 56 — The Word of Wisdom given as the will of God, 57. 

Richards, Elder Le Grand 47 

A marvelous work, 47 — The power of God manifest, 47 — A Church for the youth, 48 — Opportunity for all, 49 — Achievements through Gospel's restoration, 49 — Power of revelation continues, 49 — Accomplishments of Welfare Program, 50 — Effect on Church missionary system, 51. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 114 

Friendly ties in Priesthood, 114 — A common purpose necessary, 114 — Private interpretations of doctrine harmful, 115 — Presidency interpreters of God's laws, 115 — Thoughtless criticism unprofitable, 115 — Attendance at meetings brings unity, 117 — True brotherhood in quorums, 118 — Unity brings success, 118. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 78 

Second Day, Morning Meeting 54 

Smith, Elder David A 123 

Smith, Elder George Albert 25 

Our early hymn books, 25 — Preface to the fourteenth edition, 26 — A prophetic hymn, 26— Missionary work in the South Sea islands, 27 — Among the Maoris, 28 — Preaching the Gospel in Australia, 28 — Illness of Brother Hardy, 29 — Friendliness manifested by government officials, 29 — Native clothing, 30 — Men of wisdom and ability, 31 — For the blessing of mankind, 31. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 36 

The command to remember the Sabbath day, 36 — The land to observe the Sabbath, 36 — The counsel of Latter-day leaders, 38 — Present day customs decried, 39. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 124 

Joseph Smith's sayings, 124 — A tribute to Joseph Smith, 124 — Definition of can't, 124— Development through work, 125 — True riches, 126 — Strength of the Church, 127. 

Taylor, Elder John H 141 

Tew, Elder William T., Jr 119 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 121 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 104 

Ursenbach, Elder Octave F 85 

Wells, Elder Rulon S. 60 

Widtsoe, Elder John A. 127 

Testimony as to divinity of work, 128 — Evidences of the truth are plain to be seen, 128 — Simple things lead to great truths, 129 — Concluding testimony, 130. 

Wirthlin, Elder Joseph L 69 

Woodruff. Elder Elias S. 72 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 140 

(BddIl 

The Deseret Book Company is headquarters for all L. D. S. publications, as well as for general books of every kind. We especially call your attention to the following books, on sale here: 

Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of 1 Latter-day Saints, by John A. Widtsoe..$1.25 (plus 

, postage) 

A Rational Theology 

by J. A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

A Century of Mormonism in Great Britain, 

by Richard L. Evans $1.25 (postpaid) 

Romance of the Book of Mormon, 

by Josiah E. Hickman. $2.50 (postpaid) 

Progress of Man, 

by Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 (postpaid) 

Whatever your book needs, consult us first. We have the most comprehensive stock of books in the intermountain region, and we specialize in books about the Mormons and the West. We invite your inquiries. 

Expert Service by Mail. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 

Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith 

Taken from his sermons and writings as they are found in the Documentary History and other publications of the Church and written or published in the days of the Prophet's ministry 

Selected and arranged by the Historian, Joseph Fielding Smith, and his Assistants in the Historian's Office of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Many of these discourses and writings appear in the Documentary History of the Church, but others have not been included in these volumes, but are scattered through the early publications of the Church. It has been difficult even for the student to obtain these because the old publications are not accessible for general use. 

In accordance with the many calls that have been made that there be a more extensive compilation of these discourses and sayings, the matter was taken up in the Historian's Office and such a compilation has been prepared, submitted to the First Presidency and passed by them for publication. 

Price $2.25 

Deseret Book Company 

44 East on South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 







