Afternoon
08 10 1938

The fourth session of the Conference commenced promptly at 2 o'clock, with President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The musical exercises for this session were furnished by the Moroni High School Choir. 

The Choir and congregation sang as an opening number, "We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet." 

Elder Arthur C. Brown, President of the Millard Stake offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir then sang the anthem, "Inflammatus." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We are very thankful indeed to the Moroni High School Choir for coming here and singing for us. We enjoyed very much their singing this morning. Considering the small population of the town of Moroni we certainly feel to congratulate the people there on their fine choir, their good singers, and their school. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Brethren and sisters: As all of you know, this is an extremely important position to hold at this time. None of us come here do so without carefully thinking of what we may have to say, what we would like to say or what we ought to say, and we dread a good deal about it. 

You brethren and sisters who are here, and the many more who are listening come because you want comfort, you want encouragement, you want strength, you want instruction relative to your duties as they appear at the present time, and those of us who occupy this position have a great deal of responsibility in that connection. 

I have committed to writing a few things that it occurred to me I might say. I hope that any words I may say will give no offense, because it is my thought only to say things that are helpful without complaint or without fault-finding. 

BY THEIR FRUITS YE SHALL KNOW THEM 

In the early beginning of this dispensation, speaking by revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord said: "Hearken and hear, O ye inhabitants of the earth. Listen ye elders of my Church together, and hear the voice of the Lord; for he calleth upon all men, and he commandeth all men everywhere to repent." D. & C. 133 :16. 

In a former day when the Master lived on the earth, among other  in his great sermon on the Mount he said : "Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. Not everyone that saith unto me Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." Matt. 7 :20, 21. 

As an illustration of the meaning in these sayings of Jesus, the Apostle James wrote : "What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith and have not works ? Can faith save him ? . . . . Yea, a man may say, thou hast faith, and I have works; shew me thy faith without 

thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works Wilt thou 

know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead ?" James 2 :14, 18, 20. 

And so may we not think of the gospel, the gospel the elders of the Church are called to preach, as being a gospel of faith, repentance, and work? Certain is it that work — an application in our daily lives of the principles we teach — is an essential of our religion. 

LATTER-DAY SAINTS SHOULD LIVE UP TO PROFESSIONS 

The thirteenth article of faith proclaims that "we believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men. . . . ." Hence a faithful and worthy Latter-day Saint must be characterized by the virtues named in this article of our faith. Our doctrine of work as an essential of salvation makes this imperative. 

Now, to believe, to profess a faith, may be easy; to do, is always more or less difficult, so difficult at times that none of us is perfect in all things. 

SATAN SEEKS TO OVERCOME SAINTS 

Our theology makes clear to us why mortal man fails to reach perfection. Satan is here and ever more or less near each one of us. Further, none of us has entirely succeeded, as Jesus did, in putting Satan completely behind him. In the Middle Ages when knighthood was in flower, fighting men encased themselves in metal armaments. When in combat they would try to strike opponents in the weakest parts of their armor. Satan tries to do the same thing when attempting to overcome us : he tempts us in our most vulnerable places. In other words, he tempts us in ways that are hardest for us to resist. 

Satan and his hosts were cast out of heaven after the great rebellion and came down to earth where they have since lived. In consequence, evil is in the world. The devils are here to bring pain and sorrow, distress and suffering, misery and death to the human family. They are here making efforts to thwart and overcome the work of the Lord. This could be most readily done by destroying the Saints of God. Hence wherever the Saints are Satan is not likely to be far away. 

To keep these thoughts in mind may be helpful. The situation is sueh that each one of us must ever be on his guard ready to ward off the attacks of the angels of darkness. 

And now another point: our theology teaches us that we once all lived in a pre-mortal spirit world. We are spirit children of God, our Father in heaven. A law of creation in the realm of life is that like begets 

80 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 8 Second Dag 

like. Since intelligence is the glory of our Father, we his children possess at least in embryo a spark of this glorious attribute. We were favored with the high privilege of coming to earth as a necessary step in the long path of eternal progression. But the rate of advancement depends upon us. There is from heaven no compulsion in the matter, for the principle of free agency given by the Father to all his children, operates in the premises. But to please God we must try to develop our intellects and grow in knowledge and understanding, wisdom and power, and cultivate our wills by resisting evil and doing good. 

THE GOLDEN RULE NOT OPERATING IN WORLD STRUGGLES 

What do I mean by the expression "doing good ?" The Master made the meaning clear when he gave us the Golden Rule, the rule that applies and makes visible in our lives the observance of the two great commandments, the keeping of which will ornament any human life and render it saintly. 

But the chaos existing in the world today is abundant proof that the Golden Rule plays little or no part in the affairs of men or nations. 

Looking out into the world, what do we see ? Struggle, struggle and still more struggle — men everywhere striving for position, for mastery, for power, for rule — to get into a position to dictate to their opponents the terms of settlement. So fierce and general have the struggles become that chaotic conditions prevail everywhere — at home as well as abroad. 

Overseas it is the struggles of nations that fix our attention. In our own fair land we are disturbed by myriads of strikes and lockouts, industrial disputes, struggles of class against class, groups against groups, parties against parties, etc., in great number. In all of these cases clever propaganda, accompanied by some type of force, are the weapons of the struggles. 

To see all of these things makes us fear and tremble for the morrow, for it is evident that a mighty revolution is in progress the end of which will be a profoundly different America from the historic country we received from the founders of the Republic. In those days the patriots fought against taxation without representation, the fight being the spark that set the revolution aflame. Today we fight for representation without taxation. We struggle for all the advantages of a benevolent government, set up by ourselves, made rich by the strong arm of the law seizing whatever it can from him who has. 

We fight against being taxed, but demand more and more of the benefits that taxes provide. Is this not a struggle to get something for nothing, at least to get more and more for less and less ? 

We listen to smooth-tongued demagogues, accept as truth their wild vagaries and enthusiastically follow their cunning and selfish leadership. Why? Is it not in the hope of getting for ourselves more and more for less and less ? We become adherents of various groups, pay membership dues, sometimes participate in disturbances, and. engage in various other kinds of activities. Why? Is it not in the hope of getting more and more for less and less ? 

In all of these things do we stop to ask ourselves if our conduct squares with the thirteenth article of our faith ? We profess to hate communism and fascism and stoutly deny that we would give the slightest support to either of these isms. Do we ever stop to think that in many respects these isms have much in common and that many of the things we do are heartily supported by communists who see in them an application of communistic principles? We are willing to overthrow some of our established methods and institutions, apparently without realizing that in so doing we take step after step that brings us nearer and nearer to communistic objectives. 

Our moral standards appear also to be changing, in many respects becoming weaker and lower. This is perhaps more apparent in our group and national conduct than in our individual actions. Of what group or nation can it be longer said it's word is as good as its bond? During recent years we have seen nations default on their pledges, fail in their promises and entirely ignore their solemn commitments. The situation has become so bad that nations today put little or no trust in each other's commitments. The United States, China, Abyssinia, Czechoslovakia, many private investors, and others have learned this to their sorrow. 

Two years ago a great industrial disturbance of the Pacific Coast began about this time of the year. It continued for 98 days, and cost, it was said, about seven hundred millions of dollars. What came out of it? Ill-will, misery and hatred. What was the weapon used in the struggle? Force. And force is, and always has been, the weapon of Satan and his helpers. It was the weapon he proposed in the great council in heaven that he would use to save all the Father's children. It is the weapon still used by all the Father's children who permit themselves to be influenced by this crafty enemy of all righteousness. 

Now, brethren and sisters, I refer to these things because I think our attention should be called to them. To me the outlook is anything but pleasant. If I see aright, we are traveling towards more and more chaotic conditions. Selfishness in the individual and in his group relations appear to be getting more and more pronounced. And where selfishness is strong love is weak. These two qualities cannot be boon companions nor dwell together in harmony. 

Needless, almost, to say this to Latter-day Saints. We readily grant it is true. But do we profess love and practice selfishness ? Few people among us today sympathize with communism, an ism of selfishness. But does this not make the situation all the more dangerous, when what we do establishes communistic principles? 

I said selfishness — that quality of character that demands more and more for less and less — and love cannot dwell together in harmony. I mean of course that type of love that finds application in the Golden Rule. Neither can love and injustice go hand in hand. The great Welfare Program of the Church seeks to exalt love and subdue selfishness. Would that this Godly plan were more widely in operation! 

Force as an instrument in human relations is absolutely banned by the teachings of the Master. Satan's proposal to use it to bring back to 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 8 Second Day 

heaven all the earth-children of the Father was rejected and the* doctrine of free agency proclaimed. In Christ's Church compulsion of the human will is unknown. 

DUTY OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I have used the word selfishness in its most general sense, not as applicable to you fine men and women who are here, the cream of the Church, the officers of the Church, the leaders in all the departments of the Church. In your lives you are as a light set upon a hill, but I am speaking of conditions in general, and what would I have us do, members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ? I would have us do what I think we ought to do. 

Now I use that word "think." The Lord has given us intelligence, as his spirit children we possess it for a purpose, and I think he has given it to us to be used. I think, brethren and sisters, in this chaotic world in which we are living that it behooves each one of us to use all of the intelligence that God has given us; study all propositions that come to us; study every appeal that is made; study everything that is proposed, and with God's help, on our bended knees, seeking his guidance and the inspiration of his Spirit, try to find out what he would have us do, and when we can determine that conscientiously, to the; very best of our ability, act accordingly. But in our actions we may, if we care to, get some guidance if we will look to the head of the Church. We held up our hands here the other morning to support President Grant as a prophet, seer, and revelator. Are we willing to follow him, and to follow his advice, and to take his suggestions, or will we let them pass into one ear and out of the other? Not you, brethren and sisters, who are here, but some members of the Church who are not here, some possibly who may be listening at this moment to what is being said here. 

I think, my brethren and sisters, we ought to be consistent. I think the Lord expects us to be consistent. We are to be sincere in the professions of our faith and make our conduct square with our professions. If we do that, brethren and sisters, the people of this Church will stand up and we will be a light to all the world. There will be, so far as we are concerned, a peace and a security, there will be a love among us, there will be no class distinction, we will all be brothers and sisters, we will all be devoted to each other's interests, and we will be loyal and true to the leadership of this Church. 

May God help us to be that, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am very sorry that we shall have to limit our Mission Presidents in the length of their remarks. We should really like to hear them speak fifteen or twenty minutes each, but we have to ask them to stay within the limit of ten minutes. Our conference is just half through, and we have not heard from half of this body of speakers. 

ELDER HAROLD W. PRATT 

Former President of the Mexican Mission 

My dear Brethren and Sisters : I assure you of my humility in attempting to utilize part of your time again. I realize the responsibility involved in taking part of the time of this great congregation, and I shall not speak long this afternoon. I merely wish to thank you and the leaders of the Church and our Heavenly Father, in your presence, for the opportunity of service that has been mine in the mission field. 

During the past nearly five years it has been my privilege to serve in the Mexican Mission among a people that I love. It has been my opportunity during that time to labor with many of your sons and daughters, a privilege that I esteem above everything else. I feel that my life has indeed been enriched. 

I endorse heartily the remarks of President Hinckley and of President Rees with regard to the benefits reaped by your sons and daughters through service in the mission field. I exhort you, as did President Macdonald this morning, to look toward the sending of your sons and daughters into the mission field. No finer experience can come to them, I assure you. I appreciate fully the advantage and the progress that the missionary has in the mission field. I realize what this missionary system means to the Church, the advancement and the growth that come to the Church through the experience and the progress of the individual missionaries as they return to the Church, but I wish to sound one note of warning : Let not this be our purpose in sending out missionaries. 

The Master said : "He that findeth his life shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." Let this be our guiding spirit in sending forth our missionaries. Let them go forth not so much for the benefit that they may reap, or the benefit they may bring home to us as an organization, but let them go forth rather to serve the Master, and in serving him serve their fellow men; to take the Gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation, to those who are yet in darkness. I assure you that if they go forth in that spirit, reaping the benefit that they themselves will reap, and reaping the benefits that we as an organization in sending them forth shall reap, we will all be greatly blessed. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I know that God lives, that Jesus the Christ was sent by the Father and gave his life that we might live again. I know that his Gospel has been restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I bear you my solemn testimony before my Heavenly Father that I know that the present leadership of the Church is truly inspired, that it is authorized to lead us in the path of righteousness. 

Let us take seriously the advice that we are receiving at this conference, and .go forth with a renewed determination to practice the principles of the Gospel and to live in accordance with the advice of our inspired leadership. 

May this be our lot, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Dag 

ELDER LeGRAND P. BACKMAN 

Former President of the South African Mission 

My beloved brothers and sisters, I deem this a real privilege, to stand before you this afternoon, and I pray that the inspiration of my Almighty Father may be with me on this occasion. 

I bring to you the greetings of the members of the Church in the farthest mission of the whole world, with headquarters just fifteen thousand miles away. I can assure you, my brothers and sisters, that we have some of the finest people in the whole Church in the South African Mission. 

As I sat here today my heart went back to my mission field, and I thought of the many hearts that yearn for the privilege of coming here, to be here in the Tabernacle, to see the Temple, and to hear the inspired words of our leaders. Oh, how our people down there long for that, because up to the present time they have had no General Authorities of the Church visit that great land. I realize that South Africa is a long, long ways away from headquarters, and we only have a little over two million white people in the whole of the country, but nevertheless in our work " with the white people in that land we have found them the finest people that I think we can find anywhere in the world. 

It seems that the people of South Africa are filled with the spirit of pioneering. They are open-minded. They are free to hear the truth, and I believe that we are showing wonderful progress in that great land. 

Just a little over a year ago I was in Rhodesia, near the great battle fields where conflicts between the British and some of the Kaffir tribes took place not so many years ago. On a little farm called "Fern Creek Farm," away up in that Rhodesian country, we have two families of members. We went to one of their homes one night, and there held a meeting. They had no electric light. We held our meeting by candlelight. There were just the four members of the Church and Sister Backman and two of the missionaries and myself. 

The old man and old woman, Brother and Sister Viljoen, could not speak a word of English, and so Brother Jubber acted as interpreter. After Sister Backman and the two missionaries spoke, he interpreted to them what had been said, and then I got up and spoke, and talked for some time, and as I noticed their faces I could see them light up with understanding, and they knew what I was saying. When I got through Brother Jubber said : "Shall I interpret what Brother Backman has said ?" They said : "No, we understood every word the President has said to us." 

I am just mentioning this, my brothers and sisters, to let you know that in the farthest outposts of the Church our people are blessed with the same spirit and the same inspiration that we have throughout the world among those that are true Latter-day Saints, and indeed we have true Latter-day Saints in that land. 

I have had the great privilege of seeing a wonderful progress of the 

Church in South Africa, because in 1915, when I went out to South Africa on my first mission, I was held prisoner on a boat in Durban Harbor for three days because I was a Mormon missionary, and now, when I returned again to preside over that mission, after an absence of sixteen years, I saw that most of the prejudice had been done away with. The people were willing to listen to our message. In February of this past year we had the privilege of taking our chorus from the headquarters in Cape town and appearing in the City Hall of Capetown with the Cape Town symphony orchestra, and several of the outstanding artists in Cape Town assisted us in a fine program. 

I am just bringing this to your attention to let you know that as far as South Africa is concerned, prejudice is almost done away, and we are meeting some of the finest and some of the best people in that land, and they are willling to hear our message, and they are willing to give us of their hospitality, for which they are so well known. 

I thank God with all my heart for the wonderful privilege that has been ours during the last three and one-half years, to labor in that land. I love Africa because I know that is where I learned to know my God, where I learned to gain a testimony of this wonderful Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I come back from the firing line of missionary work, filled with enthusiasm for the work of the Lord. I know it is the grandest and the greatest philosophy in life, and I only hope and trust and pray that I might be able to continue to live as I know my Heavenly Father would have me live. I thank Him for this privilege. I thank the Presidency of the Church and the Authorities for the wonderful privilege that has been mine. 

The missionaries that have been with us have been all noble, wonderful boys. Forty of them have passed through our hands in the past three and a half years, and I can truthfully say not one of them has given us the slightest concern, and I am sure that that is a remarkable record. 

May God's choicest blessings be with us all, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER O. F. URSENBACH 

Former President of the French Mission 

My beloved brethren and sisters : I am exceedingly weak in standing before you. May I be a beneficiary of your faith. 

It gives me great joy to report briefly the French Mission, which, by the way, geographically I think is the largest mission in Europe, yet we have a membership of a little less than one thousand, about fifty-five per cent in Belgium, about thirty-five per cent in Switzerland, and about ten per cent in France; but we have very lovely people, who have made sacrifices for the Gospel of our Lord, and are very devoted. In the mission there is a group of young men and women missionaries that are very excellent. Many of them went into the mission fields not having a 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 8 Second Day 

testimony of the Gospel burning in their hearts, and if they didn't find God in the wards and stakes at home, they have and are finding him in that field of labor. 

We have tried to inoculate into the hearts of these young people that they are ambassadors of life and salvation, representing the First Presidency of the Church and the Twelve Apostles, their stake presidents, their bishops, and their parents at home, and as such, putting them on their honor, we have expected them to be the missionaries that those who trust them think they are. It is surprising how this has worked in giving these young people a superstructure and a solidarity in presenting our Gospel message to the world. 

We are happy to report that in the last two years I think we have doubled baptisms of any preceding period of time in the history of the French Mission. We have done this following what we called a sevenpoint program that we presented to the Church, that it might be appropriate here for me to review briefly. 

There have been too many people baptized in the missions who did not know what they were baptized for. We have found plenty of them, many of them, who have wondered why they were baptized members of the Church, and it is no wonder some of them don't remain. 

In the seven-point program the qualifications that we presented were, 

First : Do you accept, unreservedly, God the Eternal Father, a personal being and Father of the human family ? 

Second : Do you accept the atonement of our Lord Jesus Christ as being full and complete, and that when a man or a child is baptized for the purpose of removing from him the stain of Eden, the act automatically denies the efficacy of the atonement of Jesus Christ? 

Third : Do you accept the doctrines and principles of faith, repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost? 

Fourth : Do you accept the fact of a universal apostasy in the Primitive church, necessitating a restoration of the Gospel? 

Fifth : Do you accept the fact that God and Jesus Christ appeared to Joseph Smith, and that later he was ordained to the Holy Priesthood and authorized to establish the Church of God on the earth in this dispensation ? 

Sixth : Do you unreservedly accept the law of tithing, as revealed from heaven for the upbuilding of the Lord's church in this dispensation? 

Seventh : Do you accept the missionaries as being here with divine authority to preach the Gospel, to baptize for the remission of sins, and lay on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost? 

There was one Catholic family who, after thus being qualified, answered affirmatively and whole-heartedly to every question. I said to them : "Why have you not asked me for baptism ?" "Because," said they, "we have been waiting for you to ask us." I said : "That will not happen. When you are ready for baptism you will ask me." The next Sunday they applied for baptism, and they are good members of the Church. 

In this way of qualifying members, when we bring them into the Church we know they are coming in with a knowledge of what they are doing. 

I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege of having served these four years in Europe. I am grateful for these young missionaries who are over there representing some of you parents. I am grateful that the brethren have seen fit to send lady missionaries into the French Mission. I wish I had time to tell you just what these ladies are doing. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ, my brethren and sisters, is true. The Lord said, through his prophet: 

How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of them that bringeth glad tidings and publisheth peace, and saith to Zion : The Lord reigneth! 

I wish the world could accept this, the gospel of peace that we are proclaiming to the world. If they would accept Jesus Christ and his plan of peace, we would have no war and contention in the nations. 

Completing the passage : 

Thy watchmen shall lift up their voices, and together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord has brought again Zion. 

Go the length and breadth of the earth and see if the Latter-day Saints do not see eye to eye. I have had the privilege, my friends, of visiting groups of Latter-day Saints in nine different nations, and we see that they do see "eye to eye" — the same hopes, the same aspirations, the same principles of the Gospel, the same things that are characterized, as President Clawson said yesterday, by the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

I am going to close by quoting from the thirty-fifth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. That will apply to us all. The Lord said to Joseph Smith: 

Keep all the commandments and covenants by which ye are bound; and I will cause the heavens to shake for your good, and Satan shall tremble, and Zion shall rejoice upon the hills and flourish. 

I wish we could take this to our hearts and know in our minds that we were keeping all of the commandments of the Lord, and not only part of them. If we would do this as a people I don't know what power and glory would come to us in excess of what we enjoy today. 

I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I bear my testimony to you of its divinity. It is the greatest thing in my life. 

May God bless you. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER ABEL S. RICH 

Former President of the Canadian Mission 

I am indeed happy to have this privilege of speaking just a word to you at the conclusion of the mission from which we have returned so recently. The past three years have been one of the happiest periods of our lives, speaking of myself and family. I am convinced that the mis88 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Day 

sionary system of the Church is one of the finest institutions in our Church for building the testimonies of our young people, and keeping burning alive that testimony in the homes from which those missionaries come. 

When I think of the many young men and women who came to the Canadian Mission and served while we were there, and saw their devotion to the work, the progress they made, the struggle many of them had to make to adjust to the new surroundings, and yet their willingness to go and do whatever was asked of them, and then to see the development made, the acceptance of responsibility, and the love that grew in their hearts for the cause they represented, and for the people among whom they labored, I say I am more convinced than I have ever been in my life, before, that this institution is of God. 

I enjoyed Canada and the Canadian people, a cultured, refined people. Bringing with them traditions from the Old World, they have been pretty well set in their ways. It is not infrequent that we would hear people who became interested in the Church say: "My folks have belonged to this or that religion for generations and generations, and I feel that I should remain where my ancestors were." With those well set ideas it has been most difficult to get the Gospel clearly before them. Those who have been converted in the Canadian Mission are honest, true, devoted. 

It is one of the oldest mission fields in the Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith himself went through part of eastern Canada, and when he departed from that mission I recall that he had a prayer in his heart that God would bless those people, that all may have their minds enlightened and their understandings quickened, that they may be led to accept the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Followed by the Prophet were Brigham Young and his brother, Joseph Young. Then later Parley P. Pratt and many others of the stalwart leaders of the Church went into that field, and they found many people receptive to the Gospel. It was in Toronto where a whole group joined the Church, and many of them came to Utah with the Saints. As nearly as I can discover, a large group joined the Church in Halifax and emigrated while the first companies of Saints were on the way to the West. Yet left behind in that country are scattered Saints here and there, with many pretty well organized branches of the Church, that are carrying on the work and finding joy and happiness in it. 

I enjoyed very much going through the mission with President David A. Smith, who has been recently appointed to preside over that mission. I was happy when he came, because of his understanding, and because the people loved him, and he loved them and'loved that work, for I love those people, and I am sure that the work will grow and progress in that part of the vineyard. 

I am very grateful that during the past three years we have been privileged to build the first meeting house in the Canadian Mission. Many of those Saints who have been in the Church for thirty years, or more, have never been inside of a Latter-day Saint meeting house, and when  were told that we might build a meeting house, with a recreational hall and class rooms, I cannot explain to you people the joy and happiness that came to those people over the prospects. I understand that it is just about ,completed now, and it will be the first time that those people will have the privilege of meeting in class-rooms, where they are not disturbed, and meeting in a meeting house where clubs and other kinds of meetings are not being held; and I am sure that it will turn many peoples' attention to the Church. 

During the past summer we had the privilege of receiving a number of short-term missionaries, some of our school teachers, and they formed a wonderful addition to that mission. As they went about their work so earnestly and efficiently I could not help but think what a wonderful vacation it would be for many of our people, to go into the mission field for a short-term mission. If we had doctors and lawyers, business men, and school teachers, each would be able, possibly, to meet people in the profession to which he belonged, meet them on ground that he would be able to explain the Gospel to them. For it is not sufficient only to have the truth, but we must have the ability to explain that truth, and we must 'in some way have the ability to remove the prejudice from the peoples' minds, in order to get them to see the truth as we have it for them. 

I believe that each man may meet those people of his own profession, in such a manner that the Gospel will be preached more efficiently than could be done by some one of another profession. It seems to me that some day it may be the case, that this work will become so prominent and so popular that all our people will desire to go and spread the Gospel to the world. 

We do have a wonderful thing, brothers and sisters, in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. When we have grown up in it, and have had all these fine conveniences, these beautiful buildings, with the Authorities of the Church ' here to counsel with us, we sometimes fail to appreciate just what all these blessings are. If you go into the world and see people — just a little handful of them, not enough to make the great program of the Church active as we have it here at home — and see the faithfulness and the devotion and the love of those people, I believe it creates within our hearts a greater love for the work and a greater appreciation of it. 

I shall be grateful all my life to my brethren who saw fit to let me fill this mission in the world. I am deeply grateful also for the companionship and for the support of the Authorities of the Church, of the missionaries, and of you parents, and for your fine attitude in this great missionary work. 

I sincerely pray that our Father in heaven will bless this great Church, that we may stand unitedly together, working for the upbuilding of it, and that we may receive the blessings that the Lord has promised to us, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A selection, "Cavatina" (Raff), was rendered by the Choir and a violin trio. (Arrangement by Noble Cain). Second Dag Of the First Council of the Seventy 

It seems that the usual radio technique is grossly inadequate for such a time as this. By the forewarning of a chance meeting with President Grant last Thursday evening, I thought that perhaps the shock of what has befallen me would have been somewhat alleviated yesterday morning, when it was announced here, and also this moment, but such seems not to be the case. 

I spent a sleepless night Thursday night, burning old bridges and building new ones. I think that perhaps this call would have come easier to me a little later in life, after I had had a better opportunity to make substance of more of my dreams, but perhaps this is not so. Perhaps I must just exchange old dreams for new dreams. 

It is less than three weeks, during a nation-wide Tabernacle choir broadcast, that I read from this pulpit as follows : 

There are two things that enter into the life of every man : Those things which we plan for ourselves, and those things which enter into our lives in spite of all our plans. Sometimes, happily, we fare better than we had honestly hoped, and sometimes, unhappily, we find we fall far short of achieving those things for which we have striven. But no matter how well we seem to control those elements which affect our lives, there are always to be considered things unlooked for. Surely it must be better that way. It would be difficult to imagine a more unsatisfactory existence than the life of a man into which nothing unexpected ever came. Furthermore, it is all part of a great plan. The Lord still chasteneth whom he loveth, and all those things which come into our lives in spite of our best laid plans, are part of the education and enriching experience of every child of God who walks the earth. We may think what we would like for ourselves, and then, in the spirit of that resignation born of faith, we must reconcile ourselves at one time or another, to say as in the words of the hymn about to be sung, "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord; I'll be what you want me to be." 

I knew, when I sent out these words to a nation-wide radio audience, that they were true, but I did not know that they would return home so quickly. It is a conclusive thing for a man to stand convicted by his own words, and I now so stand before you. 

My association with the General Authorities of the Church dates back to about eleven years ago, perhaps a little more, at which time I did not have a speaking acquaintance — with one exception, I think — with any of the General Authorities. At that time I found myself in the British Mission as a young man under twenty-one years of age and was aware of the penetrating eyes of Dr. James E. Talmage looking at me during my first meeting with him at a conference of the Norwich District, shortly after which I was called into the European Mission offiice at Liverpool and became associated with him in the editorship of the Millennial Star. Under his tutelage I found myself squirming at times, but nevertheless greatly benefited by his rigid scrutiny and exacting requirements. It was a good experience. And I love and honor the memory of the man who so painstakingly troubled himself to train me in ways of precision  exactitude, when of ttimes it would have been much less trouble for him to have done the task in hand himself. 

That was followed by the coming of Dr. John A. Widtsoe, and I learned more from him. The rapidity with which he worked, the breadth of his knowledge and abilities, his power to use other men and to help them realize themselves were a source of constant inspiration. 

Under him I later became secretary of the European Mission and visited countries from the Mediterranean up to beyond the Arctic Circle, and my heart is filled with thanks to him also for his. belief in a young man. 

Since that time it has been my privilege to become acquainted with all of the General Authorities of the Church, and their lives have been a testimony to me, because I know that they would not be doing the things they are doing, and would not have left the things they have left, to do the things they are now doing, except that they know of a surety that this is the work of the Lord, and must go forward. 

I have been very grateful for the opportunity of engaging in the radio activity that it has fallen to my lot to be engaged in. One of the greatest satisfactions of my life is to read the letters that come in every day, week after week, from people who listen to the nation-wide program from the Tabernacle each Sunday morning, and who find their lives touched by the spirit of it, and find cause to inquire further. 

I have known of some conversions that have come directly from this program, resulting in baptisms into the Church, which is an experience that I did not have the joy of observing in the mission field as a direct result of my own efforts. 

I know that tens of thousands more, from the character of the mail that comes in, must be deeply touched by the things that go from here each Sunday morning on the Tabernacle Choir broadcast. The music of the choir and the organ prepares the hearts of those who listen for the reception of the spoken messages, and it is very encouraging to me to realize that a truth does not need to be shouted to be appreciated — that a truth quietly spoken has much greater effect than an untruth shouted from the housetops. 

It has been a gratifying experience to me to be associated in the editorship of The Improvement Era. I struggled with myself for more than six months from the time the Presidency first called me over and suggested that I take the editorship of this magazine, until the time that it was actually undertaken. They did not make their request in the nature of a call. They left it entirely to my judgment, and it took me six months to reach the conclusion that they would not have called me over there if they had not wanted me to do it; but this realization finally settled upon my consciousness and I made the change — for what reason I did not know at the time. I was very grateful that the Presidency have left me some radio activity, because it has meant much to me and I feel that the results are gaining. 

I spent a good part of the day yesterday trying to find sympathy 

92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Day 

from some of these my brethren, the General Authorities, who are sitting around me here. I found none, so I decided to like what has befallen me. President Clark told me yesterday morning that they had all been through it, and I might just as well cheer up. I reminded him that he had not been called into the work at my age, and President McKay, sitting by him, reminded me that he had; and President Grant reminded me also that no one who ever wanted one of these positions ever got one. So with all these unanswerable rebuttals, and finding no sympathy, I have sincerely decided to like my lot. 

At an annual testimony meeting of the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association some months ago, I stated that the two paramount immediate ambitions I had were to assist in the editing of the best Church magazine in the world, and to assist in the production of what I hoped to be the best Church radio program in the world. So far as I am aware, my immediate ambitions have not changed. My remote ambitions will either have to be abandoned or await the direction of these my brethren, in whose keeping I find myself, and whose association I love, and whose judgment I trust. 

I keep in my desk a comment by Abraham Lincoln to the effect that he who molds public sentiment does more than he who enacts laws or hands down decisions. I find that to be true; I believe it to be true, and I believe that we in this Church must use every means that is available for molding public sentiment for truth, both within and without the Church. That is why I have been particularly happy with both my radio activity and editing experience, because I believe the press and the radio, combined, are the greatest and most effective means today of molding public sentiment, and we must use them to the utmost, because we must keep in mind that the same facilities that are being used to build public sentiment for truth are also being used to build public sentiment for untruth. 

I have often pondered, in my own mind, the reasons why our missionary results have not been comparable to those of the early missionaries to Great Britain, into which history I delved at some length in the immediate past. When I learned of penniless missionaries converting whole communities and baptizing thousands of souls, I was worried and puzzled in some respects, wondering what was lacking in that we are not doing the same today. I have subsequently concluded that there are at least two partial explanations. One is that the Lord advised the Prophet in that day that the field was white and ready to harvest, and indeed it was. Another is that our advantages today are comparatively not as great, or not as much greater than theirs, as it would seem, because we must keep in mind that every means that is being used for the promulgation .of the truth is also being used for the promulgation of untruth. 

That is why we must not be found sleeping at any time. That is why we must be diligent with every means at our command, to use all modern facilities with greater intelligence, with greater foresight and with greater effectiveness. This we will do increasingly, I feel sure. 

Those who were close to my feelings yesterday morning before the announcement of my appointment to the First Council of Seventy was made at this conference were aware that if there had been any way to turn back in honor I would have done so, but I do not know to what point I would have turned back, and I realize keenly that there was no turning back — that turning back would have been turning away. 

If I had been of a mind to turn back I should have done it at my mother's knee. I should have done it before she taught me to pay out my first few pennies in tithing. I should have done it before her firm and gentle hand directed my steps into the ways of truth. I should have done it before I came up through the auxiliary organizations of this Church; before I went on a mission; before I went into the service of the Mutual Improvement Association and The Improvement Era. It was only necessary for me to think quietly for a few moments to see that there is no turning back for a Latter-day Saint, and he who thinks there is, finds himself not turning back but turning away. I think that lesson may well come into the lives of all of us. 

I am grateful for the opportunity to serve. I have appreciated the kindness, the fatherliness of President Grant, President Clark, President McKay, Dr. Widtsoe, Brother Bowen, and all these brethren. They have all been kind, considerate and helpful to me. My own father died as the result of an accident when I was ten weeks old. My mother reared a family of nine children, all of whom at that time were under eighteen. With a meager and unreliable income, she immediately sent my eldest brother on a mission. Such faith as that in the home in which I was reared, could only produce one result, and the result is that all of my nine brothers and sisters have come up through the program of the Church to be a credit to my mother and to all that this Church stands for. 

I am very grateful for all of these things, and with your confidence and the help of the Lord and the advice and encouragement of these my brethren, I hope that I shall not be an unprofitable servant. 

;I know, as well as I know any of the facts of life, that Jesus was the Son of God, the Redeemer of this world; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord, as have been all his successors; and that this is the work of the Lord. 

The young men of the Church are my friends. They belong to my generation. I know them. They have their difficulties, their problems, their struggles, economically and otherwise, but I have no fear for their integrity or their ability. I have no fear for their willingness to serve as the years roll along. I know that they say in chorus : "Our hearts are not turned back, neither have we departed from thy way," and that is my expression also, in their behalf. 

I ask the blessings of the Lord upon all of us, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Day 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Associate to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

It is a source of joy to me, my brethren and sisters, to be with you in this conference, to participate in the exercises, and to partake of the spirit of the meetings we have held. I endorse the remarks that have been made and the testimonies and instructions that have been given. 

I sense the sacredness of the important calling that has come to me in the past six months. You may realize that this call was as unexpected to me as it was to you. It was farthest from my thoughts. A large part of my life has been spent, so far as church work has been concerned, in the practical and temporal affairs of the Church; and it means quite a change to devote myself primarily to spiritual and Gospel advancement, and, more directly, to the preaching of the Gospel. 

MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES 

I have spent five years of my life in the preaching of the Gospel abroad, and I may say to you that they were among the happiest years of my life. I was sent on my first mission some thirty-nine years ago, and about one and one-half years after my arrival there, when I was presiding over the Netherlands-Belgium Mission, I had the pleasure and privilege of meeting with President Francis M. Lyman of the European Mission, and many of the missionaries of the mission over which I was then called to preside. At that time President Lyman invited us to pledge ourselves anew to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, not only while we were on our mission, but throughout our lives, that we would undertake to be true to the Gospel, and active in its service throughout our lives. That was a very remarkable pledge, in many ways, and I took it seriously. I made the pledge and I have endeavored to live in accordance with that covenant and to give of my best efforts from that time to the present. In the thirty-nine years that have passed from that time to this I have had responsibilities placed upon me in the stake presidency for twenty-one years and in the Presiding Bishopric for thirteen years. During that entire time I have been happy in giving my best efforts to advance the interests of this Church, and to seek to promote the welfare of all the people of the Church. 

TESTIMONY OF THE TRUTH 

I sustain my brethren of the First Presidency, the Council of the Twelve, the First Council of Seventy, the Presiding Bishopric, all the stake presidencies, ward bishoprics, mission presidents, and all the members of the Church. I have great love for all of you. I realize that this work is the greatest cause in the world. It is the truth and it will endure and will accomplish its purpose, which is to bring about righteousness and truth in the earth, and to bring to pass the'preparation for the reign of peace which is to come. 

I have great joy in these things. My testimony has increased from day to day and from year to year. I have seen many evidences of the blessings of the Lord upon me and upon the people of this Church. I have had many answers to prayer. I have seen manifestations of the power of the Priesthood. I know that this work is divine. I testify to you that the Gospel has been restored through the revelation of our Eternal Father and his beloved Son Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith, followed by other divine revelations, and the restoration of the Holy Priesthood to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. I know that this divine authority to direct all the work of the Church, to perform all the ordinances of the Gospel, and to lead the Church in righteousness, has been given to men upon the earth, and that the men who have been called to preside over this Church from the beginning have been and are the Lord's anointed. 

I have had the pleasure of knowing five of the seven men who have presided over the Church. As a very young boy, I knew President Taylor. I had the pleasure of knowing him and seeing him in my father's home, of having him bless me because I was not very strong and vigorous. I have known every one of them to be inspired, to be fiilled with the power and ability that comes through the ordination of men to leadership in this Church. I sustain President Grant with all my heart, as I do all my brethren. I desire to be one with them in advancing every interest of this work. My heart is in it and I deire to be active and faithful and to qualify in largest measure for the responsibility that has come to me. 

EUROPEAN VISIT TO EXAMINE INTO BUILDING PROBLEMS 

As you realize, I have just returned, with Sister Cannon, after a trip of some nine weeks abroad in visiting the ten missions in Europe. I was called, under instructions of the First Presidency, to examine into the condition of the buildings in the various missions, and building problems, and so I spent the time largely in doing that work. There are some difficult but important building problems that need prompt solution. I found that there are some thirty-three branch buildings owned by the Church in Europe. They are in varying conditions as to repair and suitability. None of them, I may say, has been designed or built in accordance with the standardized procedure we have adopted in the past few years in the work of the Presiding Bishopric's office in the wards and stakes. Half of the branch buildings in Europe are in Great Britain. In addition to the branch buildings in Europe there are four Church-owned buildings occupied as mission offices and homes in various missions. 

UNIFORM BUILDING POLICY NEEDED 

There are requests being made for additional buildings. In order to save unnecessary expense, and to secure the best results at minimum cost, there needs to be a uniform, definite, supervised policy established for the erection of buildings in the mission fields, which may be somewhat different from that in the wards and stakes, and yet will require great 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Day 

care and planning and proper budgeting in order that such construction as may be undertaken will provide the most effective results and be within the available funds of the Church for that purpose. 

EFFICIENT EXPENDITURES OF TITHES 

I realize, as you do, that a large proportion of the funds of the Church comes from the tithes. The faithful membership of the Church, who are paying their tithing, realize that not only are they observing the commandment of the Lord in this respect, and enjoying the blessings that come through this commandment, which is a commandment with a promise, but they realize that in all the divisions and departments of the Church, the expenditures made from the tithes are being accurately, economically and efficiently handled. They appreciate the fact that well designed, appropriate buildings are being erected in the various wards at minimum costs and a maximum of economy, consistent with the conditions required. Naturally, in order to care for all the demands made upon the Church, in every department, in its steady growth, there must be the greatest efficiency and economy possible to promote the greatest welfare. There should always be an attitude and feeling on the part of those who preside in the various wards and stakes and missions that they are willing to accept the advice, the suggestions and plans of those who have the responsibility therefor, in carrying out the work that needs to be done in all of these various divisions, and to avoid any extravagant or unnecessary costs. 

I am sure that there can be considerable work done in the various missions in Europe, in addition to the missions in the United States and other parts of the world, that will enable us through proper planning and supervision, to obtain better results than we have had heretofore, and to maintain all buildings in such a way that they will be a credit and a pride to the Church. 

MISSIONARIES, OFFICERS AND MEMBERS FAITHFUL 

We had the pleasure of meeting with the mission presidents and with some of the missionaries in all the various missions. I attended some twenty public meetings while abroad, and also had the opportunity of counseling with the mission presidents and some of the missionaries in some of the missions. I wish to say to you that they are happy, and, with very few exceptions, are in perfect health, full of faith and courage and going forth to perform their duties and responsibilities. In my missionary experience I have found that, in general, the missionaries who spend the least money and accept the simple hospitality of the people, accomplish the most work, develop the greatest faith and obtain the greatest results. This is in harmony with the word of the Lord : "Behold, I send you out to prove the world, and the laborer is worthy of his hire. . . And he who feeds you, or clothes you, or gives you money, shall in nowise lose his reward." (D. & C. 84 :79, 90.) 

I have been delighted also to find among the membership of the 

Church — the local brethren who bear the Priesthood — -an appreciation of their responsibility, a willingness to labor in humility, faith and devotion, and to become established in the duties, labors and responsibilities of the Priesthood. That is true in many of the branches in the various missions. 

In Berlin I had the pleasure of visiting three branch meetings one Sunday evening, and of partaking of the fine spirit. There were men there who were called as a district presidency — local men who have become established in the Church — and they are an upstanding, fine quality of men. 

In Belgium, about which President Ursenbach has spoken, where my first missionary labors were begun thirty-nine years ago in 1899, today they have three pleasant, suitable meeting houses; and they have a district presidency and the presidency of each branch composed of local men, all of whom are measuring up in a fine way. I was greatly delighted to see the caliber and quality of these men who are doing the work. They are fulfilling the responsibility splendidly. 

GENERAL CONDITIONS IN EUROPE 

The conditions, of course, as you realize, in Europe are variable. In some of the nations there is perfect peace. The people are going about their business contentedly. Generally speaking, the agricultural, industrial and economic conditions are rather favorable. While, of course, there is considerable unemployment in most of the nations, still they are providing ways and means for those who are unemployed. Relief is generally handled entirely through Government sources. 

Holland and Denmark are exporting extensively food and dairy products. Czechoslovakia has a variety of manufactures. The Czechs are called the "Yankees of Europe." Belgium has probably the greatest variety and extent of manufactures of any country in Europe. Switzerland has made remarkable hydro-electrical developments. 

In Sweden, particularly, I may say that conditions look very satisfactory and prosperous, from an economic standpoint. The country of Sweden is being largely developed hydro-electrically from the extensive facilities available there. All of the railroads are operated electrically. They have a great resource in the fine quality of iron that is to be found in that country. Stainless steel is being manufactured in large quantities. They have developed, with very great success, both producer and consumer cooperatives, which are beneficial to the people generally. Their managed currency system has helped to stabilize prices. 

In Germany the people are actively engaged, under the direction of the German government, in various activities. Of course, a great deal of work is done in the service camps. All are occupied and busy. 

TWO MAJOR INFLUENCES AT WORK 

In visiting Europe and reflecting upon conditions there and elsewhere, I am reminded of the fact that there are two major influences at 

98 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Day 

work in the world of men. They are the influences of Good and Evil. They are diametrically opposite in character. The one is characterized in the highest degree by righteousness, justice, unselfishness, kindliness, love and peace. The other is evidenced by greed, selfishness, hatred, strife and lust of power. The first is personified by the Lord Jesus Christ, the second by the adversary of mankind. Under present conditions among mankind, the latter influence is more in evidence. As the Lord declared by revelation : "Satan is abroad in the land, and he goeth forth deceiving the nations." (D. & C. 52 :14.) When Jesus was finishing his earthly minstry, he said : "Hereafter I will not talk much with you; for the prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me." (John 14:30.) Those two influences are manifest in the conditions which prevail in government, in industry, in business and in religion. 

TEMPTATIONS OF THE SAVIOR 

You remember the temptations which the Savior encountered at the hands of the adversary, after He had been baptized and had received the gift of the Holy Ghost, after he had fasted in the wilderness. 

And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungered. 

And when the tempter came to him, he said : If thou be the Son of God. command that these stones be made bread. 

But he answered and said, it is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. 

Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple, 

And saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down; for it is written, he shall give his angels charge concerning thee; and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. 

Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. 

And then the last, and I think probably the greatest temptation, that which comes to mankind in large measure today and throughout the ages, as it came to the Savior : 

Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them : 

And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. 

Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan; for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. 

Then the devil leaveth him, and behold, angels came and ministered unto him. 

TEMPTATIONS OF MANKIND 

It appears to me that these same temptations are being placed before mankind today; and to many they are too alluring to resist. Essentially, they are the temptations of the appetities, of pride and vanity, and of the lust of power. When men and women give themselves over to be  by their carnal desires, they can scarcely overcome the influence of evil. Yet, every human being has within himself the power to walk in righteousness, if he will only give heed to the upright influence within him. All mankind have within them a spark of divinity. We are told that "the spirit of Christ giveth light to every man that cometh into the world." Again, "by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." It is important to be able to discern between right and wrong, and between good and evil. The observance of Gospel principles enables the Latter-day Saints to enjoy the Spirit of truth, which serves as a guide to righteousness. 

HUMAN CHARACTERISTICS 

Now, it has been remarked here that one-third of the hosts of heaven rebelled against the Lord and stood with the adversary, in the pre-existent state; but the two-thirds remaining were either valiant in the cause of truth, in those pre-existent times, or they were neutral. At least they did not rebel, and so, all are heirs to this earthly existence. Every one of us inherits something of the characteristics of our earthly parents. At the same time we inherit something of the divine attributes. We have within us the opportunity to choose which we will do, which qualities we will develop — the positive, splendid, fine qualities of righteousness, justice, love and kindliness, or the negative, degrading qualities of greed and lust of power. We should learn to be able to discern and select these finer qualities. As Latter-day Saints, it is our opportunity to exemplify these high principles, through obedience to the Gospel. So we should overcome greed or selfishness or the spirit of domination, and thus set the example to our fellowmen. Then we can put forth every endeavor to promote these same principles throughout the world, and thereby strive for peace and unity among men and nations. 

WHICH INFLUENCE WILL PREVAIL 

Which of these influences will triump in the earth ? Shall it be the spirit of justice and persuasion, or the spirit of domination and force ? Well, for the present the latter, but eventually, the former will prevail. We are told, in a revelation given by the Lord in 1831 : "The hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. . . . And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst." So that war is constantly in the air. While there are millions of people in Europe and in the United States and elsewhere throughout the world, who have in their hearts a desire for peace, and who exemplify, in some measure, at least, the qualities of righteousness and justice, yet there are those who dominate and bring about dictatorships such as we see in Europe today in some of the nations. 

 While the German people, as a whole, are a very fine people, and love peace, yet there are influences there which are stirring them up to 

100 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 8 Second Day 

promote war and strife. The people of Czechoslovakia, so far as I have been able to observe them, are people who love peace; but they are full of courage and they have a certain pride of race which in their situation leads them on to be prepared to defend themselves, if necessary, even in case of war. OUR PRIVILEGE AS LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

What is our privilege as Latter-day Saints ? First, to exemplify in our lives righteousness, justice, love and consideration for all men. Then to practice that instruction which the Savior gave to his Apostles : "Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them." Further, to encourage our fellowmen everywhere to live in conformity with these principles, and thereby promote peace, good will and prosperity. Finally, to seek constantly the light and influence of the Holy Spirit, which leads to perfect unity. 

Now, as men bearing the Holy Priesthood, it is our responsibility to harmonize our lives and actions with these instructions, referred to by President Grant yesterday morning, that "no power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, by love unfeigned; by kindness and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile. . . . Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven." 

May the Lord help us to walk humbly, to deal justly, and to love mercy, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER PRESTON NIBLEY 

President of the Northwestern States Mission 

Brother Merrill remarked that each one who comes up here to speak has something thought out and prepared. I have been thinking pretty hard for two days, and I will have to confess that when I stand here before you, whatever I have thought of leaves me. 

In the last April conference that the Prophet Joseph Smith ever attended, April, 1844, he made this significant remark : 

"I have received instructions from the Lord that from henceforth, wherever the elders of Israel shall build up branches and churches unto the Lord in the states, there shall be a stake of Zion." 

These words have been my inspiration since I have been in the mission field. When I went out to succeed Brother Joseph Quinney, Jr., twenty months ago, I found a great many branches in the Northwestern States, and I found that about ninety per cent of the people out there had moved into that section from Utah and Idaho, and that they were prepared to govern themselves, 101 

I am happy that the President of the Portland Stake is here on the stand today, Brother M. L. Bean. The Portland Stake was organized out of our mission in June, under the direction of President David O. McKay and Brother Melvin J. Ballard, and the Seattle Stake was organized out of our mission in July, under the direction of our honored President, President Grant, and Brother Ballard. 

We now have in process of growth probably five more stakes coming along in that mission, and I hope we can fulfill the words of the Prophet Joseph, that wherever the Elders of Israel shall build up branches unto the Lord, there shall be a stake of Zion. 

We continue to find many people in our mission who have not affiliated with the Church for years, and during the twenty months that I have been in the Northwest we have located forty-four groups of Latterday Saints, numbering all the way from ten to one hundred, in forty-four different cities, where we have organized Sunday Schools and branches. These people had moved out in to that section, and had remained dormant until our missionaries found them. 

I want to say that your missionaries in the Northwestern States Mission are very fine young people. As far as I know, they all have a testimony of the truth of the Gospel. I saw some figures in the paper computing the cost of missionary labor, but brethren and sisters, although it may seem hard on you to send that money to your boys and girls, I want to tell you that it is money well spent, because they come home from their missions with a sound, solid testimony that this is the kingdom of God, and that the work they are engaged in is the truth. 

President Brigham Young once made this statement regarding a testimony : 

"The world, with all its wisdom and power, with all the glory of its kings and potentates, sinks into perfect insignificance compared with the simple, unadorned testimony of a servant of God." 

I glory in the work that is going on in our mission. I know that we are building up the kingdom of God, and I know that these troubles Brother Sylvester Q. Cannon has been telling about will all be overcome by this great kingdom as it grows and progresses. To that point I want to cite you a statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith, made May 2nd, 1844 : 

"I calculate to be one of the instruments in setting up the kingdom of Daniel by the word of the Lord, and I intend to lay a foundation that will revolutionize the whole world." 

And in the same sermon : 

"It will not be by sword or by gun that this kingdom will roll on. The power of truth is such that all nations will be under the necessity of obeying the Gospel." 

Brethren and sisters, our future and the future of this kingdom is very great. Our missionary work is prospering, and everything looks good, and we are all happy in the Northwest. 

May God bless you, Amen. 

102 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 8 Second Day 

ELDER EL RAY L. CHRISTIANSEN 

President of the Texas Mission 

I pray, my brothers and sisters, that our Heavenly Father may condescend to inspire me for the few minutes that I occupy here, that I may say something that will be worthy of your valuable time. 

I am thankful that I was endowed with the power to appreciate and be moved by good music. I want to commend those who have offered music during these sessions of conference; those Singing Mothers the other day, the choir from Evanston, and these young people from Moroni. I have always been proud of the fact that I was born in Sanpete County, and I thrill whenever any one from Sanpete County produces something worth while. I am proud of these young people behind me. 

I am happy to report that your boys and girls in the Texas Mission are at this time well and happy, that their work seems to become more efficient and more effective from day to day. They have been instruments in the hands of the Lord in preparing more than twice as many converts for baptism this year as was the case in the same period of time last year. We are grateful to the Lord for his blessings in our behalf, and we feel that he is indeed blessing us in our work in that mission. 

I want to pay tribute to you mothers and you fathers who are so anxious that your boys and girls serve the Lord in honor; so anxious that they diligently go about their work from day to day; and you wives — for we have a few Elders who are husbands of wives that were left at home. We have one very efficient man, nearly seventy years of age. He is there on a two-year mission. He reported in conference not long ago that at one time he felt a little bit blue, and wrote home to his wife and said : "Mother, I believe I am a little lonesome tonight." In a few days he got word back, a brief letter saying : "Dad, if you are lonesome you had better get to work." I want to meet that wife of that fine man. She is a champion. 

We find that thinking people are becoming intensely interested in the things that our Church is doing, and in the doctrine that it promulgates. I am happy that we are able to contact people of concern, people in positions of responsibility, of leadership, executives, professional men, who are anxious to learn more of what we are doing here. 

The broadcasts that have come from this building have done a great deal to break down prejudice, as you have already been told. 

People want to know how it is that our Church has been able, in such a comparatively short period of time, to do the things that it has done. "Why is it," they ask, "that you Mormon people seem so confident, seem to be so undisturbed ? What is wrong with my religion ?" My brothers and sisters, the answer is simple. We are guided by the light of the restored Gospel. You and I have the blessing and the privilege of hearkening to the counsels and admonitions and advice of the prophet of God and of his associates. We have inspired leaders with us today, just as Christ's church has always had. We believe that the Lord meant what he said when he declared that, "Surely the Lord God will do nothing but he revealeth his secret unto his servants, the prophets." It seems to me that unless the prophet of God is on earth today, His Church cannot be, for in all dispensations of time he has used his servants, the prophets, to carry on his work. 

I am proud to belong to a church and to be actively engaged in a church which is patterned after the Church of Christ in all dispensations when it has been upon the earth. We think sometimes it would have been wonderful to have walked with Peter, and to have preached alongside of Paul, and to have been built up by their great spirit and their great testimony; but I rejoice in the fact that we have that privilege just as surely today as we would have had, had we been with them in those days. 

We have received counsel and have been advised today and yesterday by the servants of God. I am glad that I can say that I am in wholehearted support of that admonition and those counsels. "Where there is no vision," we are told, "the people perish, but he that keepeth the law, happy is he." 

My brothers and sisters, we should take that sound advice and put it into our lives. After what we have heard today I think we would be much like the man, as some one put it : "He who learns and learns, and never acts upon what he knows, is like the man who plows and plows and never sows." We would be foolish indeed, we are deceiving ourselves, if we know these things to be true, if we know that this admonition and this counsel are of worth and are the means of our salvation, if we leave this building not having determined in our own minds to hearken unto them. 

Some one said : "Why is it that we need to be told to repent continually?" There is only one answer, and that is that we are found in too much sin and waywardness. 

The belief in eternal progression of the individual is a thing which urges Latter-day Saints (who are true Latter-day Saints) to strive upward and onward at all times. The true Latter-day Saint knows that there is only one way to salvation. He knows that "there is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated, and when we obtain any blessing from God it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated," and we cannot get those blessings in any other way. 

They ask us why we are so undisturbed. That is the reason. We have the light of the Gospel, and we believe those things. Every Latterday Saint believes that this is the time to prepare to meet his God. He believes that we are now in eternity. He knows that we don't have to wait until death and the resurrection, to enter eternity; that we are now on that great long road, preparing ourselves to meet our God. He believes, as Paul said, that "Ye are the temple of God, and the Spirit of 

104 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 9 Third Dm} 

God dwelleth in you. If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy." And he knows, as Nephi promised : 

"But, behold, the righteous, the saints of the Holy One of Israel, they who believed in the Holy One of Israel, they who have endured the crosses of the world, and despised the shame of it, they shall inherit the kingdom of God, which was prepared for them from the foundation of the world, and their joy shall be full forever." 

The answer is simple, as to why the Latter-day Saints seem undisturbed in times like these. 

May God bless you and me to rise to the occasion and to honor the Priesthood, and to honor the Church, and to honor and love these wonderful men who are so inspired to lead us, I pray, in the name of Jesus, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There is one thing I want to say, and that is, do not forget to observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy. 

Once more I express my appreciation of the singing that we have had here today, and also for the marvelous audience at the Elijah oratorio last night. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "Beside Still Waters," (Hamblen). Elder M. L. Bean, President of the Portland Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until Sunday, October 9 at 10 o'clock. 


