Morning
07 10 1938

The first session of the Conference convened Friday morning, October 7, at 10 o'clock. 

When the time arrived for the opening of the Conference the large Tabernacle auditorium and galleries were rilled with people who had assembled from the various Stakes and Missions of the Church. 

President Heber J. Grant presided and announced that the Relief Society Singing Mothers, Wade N. Stephens, Conductor, would furnish musical numbers for this session. 

The opening song, "High on the Mountain Top," was sung by the congregation and the Singing Mothers. 

Elder Marion G. Romney, President of the Bonneville Stake, offered the invocation. 

"The Lord's Prayer" (Music by B. Cecil Gates) was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am very happy indeed to meet with the Saints again in General Conference. I hope and pray that the prayer which has been offered will be heard and answered and that the Lord will bless us during this session of our conference. 

SELECTIONS FROM "TREASURES I WOULD SHARE" 

I have a little book in which I have recorded from time to time for many years items that have very profoundly impressed me. Last Christmas I wrote a little note to friends and had it printed, and sent a very small part of this book of several hundred pages to over 6,000 of my friends — Bishops of wards and others — and I have decided to read here today a part of what was in my Christmas greeting. I wish that all that is in my greeting might be read by all of the Latter-day Saints. As our conference proceedings are to be published, that is my excuse for reading a portion of this book entitled, "Treasures I Would Share," which was distributed by me for Christmas of 1937. 

J. G. Holland, one of the fine poets of our country, was born in 1819, and passed away in 1881. These are two verses from his writings : 

GOD GIVE US MEN 

God give us men. A time like this demands 

Strong minds, great hearts, true faith and ready hands. God give us men. Men whom the lust of office does not kill! 

Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy; Men who possess opinions and a will; 

Men who have honor; men who will not lie; Men who can stand before a demagogue 

And damn his treacherous flatteries without winking. 

Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above the fog, 

In public duty and in private thinking. For while the rabble, with their thumb-worn creeds, 

Their large professions and their little deeds, Mingle in selfish strife — lo! Freedom weeps; 

Wrong rules the land and waiting Justice sleeps. 

—J. G. Holland (1819-1881). 

"Nicholas Murray Butler has figured that money spent for the World War could have built a $2,500.00 house, placed in it $1,000.00 worth of furniture, put it on five acres of land worth $100.00 an acre and have given this to every family in the United States, Canada, Australia, England, Wales, Ireland, Scotland, France, Belgium, Germany and Russia; could have given to each city of 20,000 or over in each of these countries a five-million dollar library and a ten-million dollar university; and could still with what was left set aside a sum at 5 per cent that would provide a $1,000.00 yearly salary for over 125,000 teachers and a like number of nurses." 

The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is, to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a weary and thirsty land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun. — Joseph Smith. 

AGE 

Age is a quality of mind : 

If your dreams you've left behind, 

If hope is cold, If you no longer look ahead, If your ambition's fires are dead, 

Then you are old. 

But if from life you take the best, And if in life you keep the zest, 

If love you hold; No matter how the years go by, No matter how the birthdays fly, 

You are not old. 

WORK A BLESSING 

Work is what keeps people young. Loafing is what starts to weaken them from the time they stop working. President Young was in active, 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

vigorous life when he passed away, but appendicitis ended his life. His successor, John Taylor was seventy-three years of age when he was made the President of the Church. John Taylor's successor, Wilford Woodruff, was eighty-odd years of age when he became the President of the Church, and according to some, he ought to have retired over twenty years before that time, and then been supported on somebody else's ' money. Lorenzo Snow came to the presidency of this Church as active as any young man, and with matured judgment, at eighty-five years of age, and when the Church was in a slough of despond financially, from which he rescued it. During his three years of administration, until he was eighty-eight years of age, his mind was as clear and active as that of any man who ever presided over this Church. 

Joseph F. Smith, according to many people, was two years past the age when he should have retired, when he became the President of this Church, and the same is true of me. Next month, according to some people, it will be twenty-two years since I should have retired and been supported on someone else's money. 

INCIDENT REGARDING PRESIDENT PENROSE 

There is nothing truer than that "Age is a quality of mind." When I was nearly fifty years of age Brother Charles W. Penrose arrived in Liverpool to take my place as the president of the European Mission. The shipping firm with whom we had done business for over fifty years sent us four tickets to the Shakespeare Theater. Brother Penrose had worked as hard that day as I had. Also a large group of missionaries had come with him and there were a lot of them going home, also more than a hundred emigrants were going to America. 

I turned to my wife when these tickets came and said : "I would not go to the finest theater on the face of the earth. I am tired, I am going to bed to sleep. Take one of the missionaries with you to bring you home, also two of the daughters and use these tickets." 

Brother Penrose spoke up and said: "Sister Grant, let the old man go to bed, I will take you to the theater." 

He was only ( ?) twenty-five years older than I. He lacked a few weeks of being seventy-five, and I lacked a few weeks of being fifty. 

The following morning I took him to see the fine home that President Smith had authorized us to buy. Somebody asked the man who was moving the furniture out to guess our ages. He guessed me to be sixty-five, and Brother Penrose sixty. I said : "I have heard that a man was no older than he felt," and there is a world of truth in that, don't forget it. "I felt so old that I went to bed last night to sleep and this old gentleman twenty-five years older than I took my wife and daughters to the theater." 

When I was up in Scotland just a few weeks before Brother Penrose arrived, a good old sister asked me : "How old are you, Brother Grant?" I told her that if I lived so many weeks I would be fifty. She said: "Ah, nay, nay, never see sixty-five again." The next Sunday I thought I would get those three "dabs between  eyes" corrected, so I asked the president of the Birmingham Branch, as I remember it, who he thought was older, Brother Penrose or myself. 

He said: "The idea of asking such a ridiculous question. Anybody can see that you are very much older than Brother Penrose." 

I hit the table and said : "That settles it. No old man shall ever take my wife to the theater again." And they never have. 

Oliver Goldsmith (The "Deserted Village") : 

111 fares the land to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth accumulates, and men decay : Princes and lords may flourish, or may fade; A breath can make them, as a breath has made But a bold peasantry, their country's pride, When once destroyed, can never be supplied. 

A time there was, ere England's griefs began, When every rood of ground maintained its man, For him light labor spread her wholesome store, Just gave what life required, but gave no more : His best companions, innocence and health; And his best riches, ignorance of wealth. 

THRIFT 

The prudent, penniless beginner in the world labors for wages for awhile, saves a surplus with which to buy land or tools for himself, then labors for himself another^ while, and at length hires another new beginner to help him. This is the just and generous and prosperous system which opens the way to all, gives hope to all, and consequent energy and improvement of condition to all. — Abraham Lincoln. 

When a man like Henry Ford starts out with a few tools, and finally employs 125,000 people who support probably a half milliorr people, he ought not to be penalized because of the marvelous work he has done for the benefit of humanity. 

MY CREED 

To live as gently as I can; To be, no matter where, a man; To take what comes of good or ill, And cling to faith and honor still; To do my best, and let that stand The record of my brain and hand; And then, should failure come to me, Still work and hope for victory. 

To have no secret place wherein I stoop unseen to shame or sin; To be the same when I'm alone As when my every deed is known; To live undaunted, unafraid Of any step that I have made; To be without pretense or sham Exactly what men think I am. 

To leave some simple work behind First Day 

To keep my having lived in mind; If enmity to aught I show, To be an honest, generous foe; To play my little part, nor whine That greater honors are not mine. This I believe is all I need For my philosophy and creed. 

You will never get me to support a measure which I believe to be wrong, although by doing so I may accomplish that which I believe to be right. — Abraham Lincoln. 

And now there is one more lesson for us to learn, the climax of all the rest; namely, to make a personal application to ourselves of everything which we know. 

There is no need of your reading the Word of Wisdom unless you make application of it to your lives. 

Unless we master this lesson, and act on it, other lessons are virtually useless and thus robbed of their essential glory. The only living end or aim of everything we experience, of every truth we are taught, is the practical use we make of it for the enrichment of the soul, the attuning of the thoughts and actions, the exaltation of life. When we DO [and "do" is in capitals and ought to be underscored in addition] "what we KNOW" [that is also in capitals] then first does it put on vital luster and become divinely precious. — William Algers. 

For several years before his death, Mr. Daniel S. Ford, the proprietor, editor and builder of the Youth's Companion, because of delicate health, did his work and managed his mammoth business from a little room in his home in one of the beautiful parks of Boston. When loving hands cleared the plain but convenient desk, there was found in a conspicuous place, much worn with frequent handling, the following poem. If the poet had intended to describe Mr. Ford's daily words and actions, he could not have done so in more appropriate language : 

The bread that bringeth strength I want to give, The water pure that bids the thirsty live; I want to help the fainting day by day; I'm sure I shall not pass again this way. 

I want to give the oil of joy for tears, 

The faith to conquer crowding doubts and fears. 

Beauty for ashes may I give alway; 

I'm sure I shall not pass again this way. 

I want to give to others hope and faith; And into angry hearts I want to pour The answer soft that turneth wrath away; I'm sure I shall not pass again this way. I SHALL NOT PASS AGAIN THIS WAY 

I want to give to others, hope and faith, I want to do all that the Master saith; 

<I want to live aright from day to day; I'm sure I shall not pass again this way. 

Not what we give, but what we share, 

For the gift without the giver is bare; 

Who gives himself with his alms feeds three — 

Himself, his hungry neighbor and Me. 

— James Russell Lowell. (From "Vision of Sir Launfal") 

THREE LESSONS 

There are three lessons I would write, 

Three words as with a burning pen, In tracing of eternal light 

Upon the hearts of men. 

Have faith, though clouds environ round, 

And gladness hides her face in scorn. Put off the darkness from thy brow : 

No night but hath its morn. 

Have hope, where'er thy bark is driven, 

The calm distorts the tempest's mirth, Know this, God rules the Hosts of Heaven, 

The inhabitants of earth. 

Have love — not love alone for one, 

But man as man thy brother call, And scatter as the circling sun 

Thy charities on all. 

— Fredrick Schiller. 

I repeated that poem in nearly every speech that I delivered while I was the chairman of the Utah Liberty Loan Drive at the time that America raised six million dollars during the World War, in one campaign; and I said : "The Kaiser of Germany ought to read that poem by one of his great poets — especially, "God rules the hosts of heaven, the inhabitants of earth". I felt sure that -he would go down to defeat as God does rule the world and He was not on the Kaiser's side. 

FAVORITE HYMNS 

Years ago I suffered intensely from insomnia. I have been ordered to leave town within twenty-four hours or I might go crazy for lack of sleep. I have been to California time and time again in early days and could sleep there three or four nights in succession, twelve hours at a time without waking up. I learned while in England to take a nap after my lunch. Nearly every day of my life now I sleep an hour in the middle of the day. I have had only two severe attacks of insomnia since I returned over thirty years ago from Europe. 

I learned to sing a song or two, or three, or four, or five, as high as ten when I would wake up, and then to get up and take some physical exercises, and take some in bed, and try to go to sleep, and failing, sit up and talk to a dictaphone for an hour, and then go back to sleep. This morning I woke up at half past one, took exercises for three-quarters of 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

an hour and was still wide awake. Then I sang ten songs. I have sung them hundreds and hundreds of times, and I never sing them when I do not think of what the Lord said in a revelation: 

For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads. 

So in song I prayed ten times this morning. I think that I cannot deliver a more valuable sermon here today than to read these songs to you. 

THE TIME IS NIGH, THE HAPPY TIME 

The time is nigh, the happy time That great, expected, blessed day, When countless thousands of our race Shall dwell with Christ and Him obey. 

The prophecies must be fulfilled, Though earth and hell should dare oppose; The stone out of the mountain cut, Though unobserved, a kingdom grows. 

The blended image soon shall fall — Brass, silver, iron, gold and clay; And superstition's dreadful reign To light and liberty give way. 

In one sweet symphony of praise, The Jews and Gentiles will unite; And infidelity, o'ercome, Return again to endless night. 

From east to west, from north to south, The Savior's kingdom shall extend, And every man in every place Shall find a brother and a friend. 

—Parley P. Pratt. 

President Wilford Woodruff called for this song that I am now going to repeat, at least once a month in the meetings of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve held in the Temple: It was his favorite. 

GOD MOVES IN A MYSTERIOUS WAY 

God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform; He plants his footsteps in the sea, And rides upon the storm. 

Deep in unfathomable mines Of never-failing skill He treasures up his bright designs, And works his sovereign will. 

Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take, The clouds ye so much dread 

Are big with mercy, and shall break In blessings on thy head. 

Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, But trust him for his grace; Behind a frowning providence He hides a smiling face. 

His purpose will ripen fast, Unfolding every hour. The bud may have a bitter taste, But sweet will be the flower. 

Blind unbelief is sure to err, And scan his works in vain; God is his own interpreter, And he will make it plain. 

— Cowper. 

No man had more perfect faith than did Wilford Woodruff. He acknowledged the hand of God in everything. 

COME LET US ANEW 

Come, let us anew our journey pursue, 

Roll round with the year, 

And never stand still till the Master appear. 

His adorable will let us gladly fulfil, 

And our talents improve, 

By the patience of hope and the labor of love. 

Our life as a dream, our time as a stream Glides swiftly away, 

And the fugitive moment refuses to stay. The arrow is flown, the moments are gone, The Millennial year 

Presses on to our view, and eternity's here. 

that each in the day of his coming may say, "I have fought my way through, 

1 have finished the work thou didst give me to do." O that each from his Lord may receive the glad word : "Well and faithfully done; 

Enter into my joy and sit down on my throne." 

COME, COME, YE SAINTS 

Come, come, ye saints, no toil nor labor fear, 

But with joy wend your way; 

Though hard to you this journey may appear, 

Grace shall be as your day. 

'Tis better far for us to strive, 

Our useless cares from us to drive, 

Do this, and joy your hearts will swell — 

All is well! All is well! 

Why should we mourn, or think our lot is hard? 'Tis not so; all is right! 

Why should we think to earn a great reward. 

If we now shun the fight? 

Gird up your loins, fresh courage take, First Day 

Our God will never us forsake; And soon we'll have this tale to tell — All is well! All is well! 

We'll find the place which God for us prepared, Far away in the West; 

Where none shall come to hurt or make afraid; 

There the Saints will be blessed. 

We'll make the air with music ring, 

Shout praises to our God and King; 

Above the rest these words we'll tell — 

All is well! All is well! 

And should we die before our journey's through, 

Happy day! All is well! 

We then are free from toil and sorrow too. 

With the just we shall dwell. 

But if our lives are spared again 

To see the Saints their rest obtain, 

O how we'll make this chorus swell — 

All is well! All is well! 

I was told by a doctor that one of his patients came to him and sold to him some securities that he owned. Then he gave his home to one of the members of the family, he gave other things to other members of his family, and then he retired on a pension for someone else to support him. The doctor said that during the two years that this man has been drawing a pension doing nothing he has aged five or six years at least, and has had to consult him, his doctor, time and time again, more often than he ever did in the same length of time before. Work — labor — is what gives people strength and power, and loafing aids in destroying their lives. 

SHOULD YOU FEEL INCLINED TO CENSURE 

Should you feel inclined to censure Faults you may in others view, 

Ask your own heart ere you venture. If that has not failings too. 

Let not friendly vows be broken; 

Rather strive a friend to gain; Many a word in anger spoken 

Finds its passage home again. 

Do not, then, in idle pleasure, 

Trifle with another's fame, Guard it as a valued treasure, 

Sacred as your own good name. 

Do not form opinions blindly; 

Hastiness to trouble tends. Those of whom we thought unkindly. 

Oft become our warmest friends. O my Father, thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place! 

When shall I regain thy presence, And again behold thy face? 

In thy holy habitation, 

Did my spirit once reside; In my first primeval childhood, 

Was I nurtured near thy side? 

For a wise and glorious purpose 

Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection 

Of my former friends and birth. Yet ofttimes a secret something 

Whispered, "You're a stranger here"; And I felt that I had wandered 

From a more exalted sphere. 

I had learned to call thee Father, 

Through thy Spirit from on high; But until the Key of Knowledge 

Was restored, I knew not why. In the heavens are parents single? 

No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal 

Tells me I've a mother there. 

When I leave this frail existence, 

When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you 

In your royal courts on high ? Then, at length, when I've completed 

All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation, 

Let me come and dwell with you. 

— Eliza R. Snow. 

I have read only six of the ten. I see the time is flying, and I have perhaps read enough. One of the songs I sang this morning was "The Flag Without a Stain," and one of them was that lengthy song of seven full verses which was sung by John Taylor in Carthage Jail at the time the Prophet was martyred. One of them was Brother Francis M. Lyman's favorite hymn, "School thy feelings, O my brother, train thy warm impulsive soul," written by Brother Charles W. Penrose after giving ten years of missionary service without purse or scrip. He was accused of taking the second-hand furniture out of the London conference house and selling it to help him to emigrate to Utah. He had given them the use of this furniture for -ten years, and of course the young Elders from the "wild and woolley West" would not handle it very gently during that time. He was broken-hearted, and went home and wrote that wonderful song, "School Thy Feelings," for his own consolation. 

(The other songs that the President sang, but which he did not repeat in his address are as follows:) 

A POOR WAYFARING MAN OF GRIEF 

A poor wayfaring man of grief 

Hath often crossed me on the way, Who sued so humbly for relief 

That I could never answer, nay. I had not power to ask his name 

Whither he went or whence he came, 

12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

Yet there was something in his eye 

That won my love, I knew not why. 

Once, when my scanty meal was spread, 

He entered, not a word he spake, Just perishing for want of bread, 

I gave him all, he blessed it, brake. 

And ate, but gave me part again; 

Mine was the angel's portion then; For while I fed with eager haste, 

The crust was manna to my taste. 

I spied him where a fountain burst 

Clear from the rock; his strength was gone, 

The heedless water mocked his thirst, He heard it, saw it hurrying on. 

I ran and raised the sufferer up; 

Thrice from the stream he drained my cup, Dipped and returned it running o'er; 

I drank and never thirsted more. 

'Twas night; the floods were out; it blew 

A winter hurricane aloof; I heard his voice abroad and flew 

To bid him welcome to my roof. 

I warmed and clothed and cheered my guest, 

And laid him on my couch to rest, Then made the earth my bed and seemed 

In Eden's garden while I dreamed. 

Stript, wounded, beaten nigh to death, 

I found him by the highway's side; I roused his pulse, brought back his breath, 

Revived his spirit and supplied 

Wine, oil, refreshment — He was healed; 

I had myself a wound concealed, But from that hour forgot the smart, 

And peace bound up my broken heart. 

In prison I saw him next condemned 

To meet a traitor's doom at morn; The tide of lying tongues I stemmed,  

And honored him 'mid shame and scorn. 

My friendship's utmost zeal to try, 

He asked if I for him would die; The flesh was weak, my blood ran chill, 

But the free spirit cried, "I will!" 

Then in a moment to my view, 

The stranger started from disguise; The tokens in his hands I knew, 

The Savior stood before mine eyes. 

He spake, and my poor name he named; 

"Of me thou hast not been ashamed, These deeds shall thy memorial be, 

Fear not, thou didst them unto me." 

— Montgomery. YE MOUNTAINS HIGH 

O ye mountains high, where the clear blue sky 

Arches over the vales of the free, Where the pure breezes blow and the clear streamlets flow 

How I've longed to thy bosom to flee. O Zion! dear Zion! land of the free, 

Now my own mountain home, unto thee I have come — All my fond hopes are centered in thee. 

Though the great and the wise, all thy beauties despise, 

To the humble and pure thou art dear; Though the haughty may smile and the wicked revile, 

Yet we love thy glad tidings to hear. O Zion! dear Zion! home of the free, 

Though thou wert forced to fly to thy chambers on high, Yet we'll share joy and sorrow with thee. 

In thy mountain retreat, God will strengthen thy feet; 

On the necks of thy foes thou shalt tread; And their silver and gold, as the prophets foretold, 

Shall be brought to adorn thy fair head. O Zion, dear Zion! home of the free, 

Soon thy towers shall shine with a splendor divine And eternal thy glory shall be. 

Here our voices we'll raise, and we'll sing to thy praise, 

Sacred home of the prophets of God; Thy deliverance is nigh, thy oppressors shall die, 

And the Gentiles shall bow 'neath thy rod. O Zion! dear Zion! land of the free, 

In thy temples we'll bend, all thy rights we'll defend And our home shall be ever with thee. 

— Charles W. Penrose. 

SCHOOL THY FEELINGS, O MY BROTHER 

School thy feelings, O my brother, Train thy warm, impulsive soul; 

Do not its emotions smother, But let wisdom's voice control. 

School thy feelings, there is power 

In the cool, collected mind; Passion shatters reason's tower, 

Makes the clearest vision blind. 

School thy feelings, condemnation 

Never pass on friend or foe, Though the tide of accusation 

Like a flood of truth may flow. 

Hear defense before deciding, 

And a ray of light may gleam, Showing thee what filth is hiding 

Underneath the shallow stream. 

Should affliction's acrid vial 

Burst o'er thy unsheltered head, 

School thy feelings to the trial, Half its bitterness hath fled. 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

Art thou falsely, basely slandered? 

Does the world begin to frown? Gauge thy wrath by wisdom's standard. 

Keep thy rising anger down. 

Rest thyself on this assurance, 

Time's a friend to innocence And the patient, calm endurance 

Wins respect and aids defense. 

Noblest minds have finest feelings, Quivering strings a breath can move, 

And the Gospel's sweet revealings Tune them with the key of love. 

Hearts so sensitively moulded 

Strongly fortified should be, Trained to firmness and enfolded 

In a calm tranquility. 

Wound not wilfully another; 

Conquer haste with reason's might; School thy feelings, sister, brother, 

Train them in the path of right. 

— Charles W. Penrose. For years and years I've waved o'er my people, 

O'er land and sea, o'er church tower and steeple; Foremost in battle proudly I reign, 

Triumphant now o'er thee, without one stain. O, how I trembled when called alone to stand, 

But brave hearts sustained me to wave o'er the land. O, my America! O my America! 

Proudly I wave o'er thee, Sweet land of Liberty. 

No flag on earth shall insult this nation, Justice and right shall e'er be our relation. 

No creed or sect shall here ever reign. While floats the Stars and Stripes, without one stain. 

Stars that were blotted are shining once again, The Angel of Peace has wiped out the stain. 

THE WORD OF THE LORD 

In addition to singing these songs this morning I repeated from the 121st section of the Doctrine and Covenants, commencing with the words "How long can rolling waters remain impure," to the end of the section: 

33. How long can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints. 

34. Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

35. Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

36. That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

37. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves, the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. 

38. Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the Saints, and to fight against God. 

39. We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

40. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. 

41. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

42. By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile — 

43. Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; 

44. That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. 

45. Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

46. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever. 

This is one of the most marvelous revelations that God has given to man, and it was given to the Prophet while he was imprisoned in Liberty Jail. 

THANKFUL FOR KNOWLEDGE 

How I do thank the Lord that I have an abiding and absolute knowledge that He lives, that He is my Father, that He hears and answers my prayers! How I do thank the Lord — it is beyond my ability to express my gratitude — for a knowledge that His Son is my Redeemer and yours; that God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ visited the boy Joseph Smith, and that Moroni delivered into his hands the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated! I thank the Lord that when I read the Book of Mormon there came into my soul a testimony that it is exactly what it purports to be. I fell in love with Nephi, and more than any other character, except my Redeemer, in the Bible or the Book of Mormon he has been my guiding star. 

IDLENESS CONDEMNED 

We should have an ambition, we should have a desire to work to the full extent of our ability. Work is pleasing to the Lord. "The idler shall 

16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

be had in remembrance before the Lord." I reached my office this morning at 8 :30 o'clock, and generally get there at 8 o'clock. As a rule I do not leave the office before 5 :30 or 6 :00, and at noon I go next door to the Lion House Cafeteria, where I get a quick lunch. Once in a great while, when I have not been able to sleep as well as usual, I have brought to my office as many as eight cylinders of letters. Working eight or nine hours a day has never injured me, and I do not believe it has ever injured anyone else. The Lord says : "Men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness." 

May the Lord bless us in this conference. I leave with you my abiding testimony that I know as I know that I live that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, the instrument in the hands of God of establishing again upon the earth the plan of life and salvation — the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

May God help you, my dear brethren and sisters, every one of you who has the same knowledge which I have, to live the Gospel, to do that which is right, and then we are sure of the reward of life eternal in His presence. This is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer and Savior. Amen. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Presented for the vote of the Conference, the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, and they were unanimously sustained, as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Reed Smoot Melvin J. Ballard 

George Albert Smith John A. Widtsoe 

George F. Richards Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L. Richards Albert E. Bowen Sylvester Q. Cannon, associate to the Council of the Twelve, 

ACTING PATRIARCH TO CHURCH 

George F. Richards 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the acting Patriarch to the Church as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Rulon S. Wells John H. Taylor 

Levi Edgar Young Rufus K. Hardy 

Antoine R. Ivins Richard L. Evans Samuel O. Bennion 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, First Counselor Joseph L. Wirthlin, Second Counselor CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Rudger Clawson Franklin S. Harris 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L. Richards Franklin L. West Richard R. Lyman 

Arthur Winter, Secretary & Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West M. Lynn Bennion GENERAL CONFERENCE 

AUDITING COMMITTEE Orval W. Adams George S. Spencer 

Albert E. Boweri Harold H. Bennett 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Lester F. Hewlett, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; Richard P. Condie, Assistant Conductor. Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

Wade N. Stephens, Assistant ADVISERS 

Melvin J. Ballard Antoine R. Ivins 

John A. Widtsoe John H. Taylor 

A. E. Bowen The Presiding Bishopric 

General Presidency of the Relief Society 

GENERAL COMMITTEE 

Henry D. Moyle, Chairman Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman Harold B. Lee, Managing Director Marvin O. Ashton Sterling H. Nelson 

Mark Austin Wm. E. Ryberg 

Campbell M. Brown Stringham A. Stevens 

Clyde C. Edmunds J. Frank Ward 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMEN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Kate M. Barker, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, 1st Asst. Superintendent George R. Hill, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Q. Morris, General Superintendent Joseph J. Cannon, 1st Asst. Superintendent Burton K. Farnsworth, 2nd Asst. Superintendent 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Lucy Grant Cannon, President Helen Spencer Williams, First Counselor Verna W. Goddard, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent Edith Hunter Lambert, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

REPORT OF CHANGES DURING PAST SIX MONTHS 

Elder Joseph Anderson, Clerk of the Conference, read the following report of Changes in Church Officers, Stake, Ward and Branch Organizations since last April Conference : 

New Mission Presidents : 

Joseph E. Evans appointed to preside over the French Mission to succeed President Octave F. Ursenbach. 

David A. Smith appointed to preside over the Canadian Mission to succeed President Abel S. Rich. 

John Alden Bowers appointed to preside over the Brazilian Mission to succeed President Rulon S. Howells. 

Frederick S. Williams appointed to preside over the Argentine Mission to succeed President W. Ernest Young. 

A. Lorenzo Anderson appointed to preside over the Mexican Mission to succeed President Harold W. Pratt. 

Apostle Richard R. Lyman released as president of the European Mission. 

Missionary Home Director Changed : 

J. Wyley Sessions released and Don B. Colton appointed. 

Members Appointed to General Committee — Church Welfare Plan : 

Antoine R. Ivins and John H. Taylor appointed advisers representing the First Council of the Seventy. 

Louise Y. Robison, appointed adviser representing the Relief Society General Board. 

Sterling H. Nelson. 

Clyde C. Edmonds. 

20 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

New Stakes Organised : 

Moon Lake Stake was created by a division of Duchesne Stake on April 24th. The new stake consists of Altonah, Bluebell, Boneta, Mt. Emmons, Mt. Home, Talmage and Upalco wards. Arcadia, Bridgeland, Duchesne, Redcliff, Strawberry, Tabiona wards and Utahn branch retained in Duchesne Stake. 

Portland Stake was organized on June 26th from branches in the Northwestern States Mission. The new stake consists of Colonial Heights, Eugene, Irvington, Moreland, Mount Tabor and Salem Wards and Hood River, Kelso and St. Helens Independent Branches. 

Seattle Stake was organized on July 31st from branches in the Northwestern States Mission. The new stake consists of Bellingham, Bremerton, Lincoln, Queen Anne, Tacoma Central, University, Vancouver, and West Seattle Wards and Chehalis, Everett, Grays Harbor, Olympia, Raymond and Renton independent branches. 

New Stake Presidents Appointed : 

Heber Moon appointed president of the Duchesne Stake to succeed Owen Bennion. 

Edwin L. Murphy appointed president of the newly organized Moon Lake Stake. 

Marion G. Romney appointed president of the Bonneville Stake to succeed Joseph L. Wirthlin. 

H. Roland Tietjen appointed president of the South Sevier Stake to succeed James R. Ware. 

Monte Lafayette Bean appointed president of the newly organized Portland Stake. 

Alexander Brown appointed president of the newly organized Seattle Stake. 

Arthur C. Brown appointed president of the Millard Stake to succeed T. Clark Callister. 

New Wards Organized : 

Price Second Ward, Carbon Stake, created by a division of Price Ward, making it Price First Ward. 

Bryan Ward, Highland Stake, created by a division of Emerson and Sugarhouse Wards. 

Colonial Heights Ward, Eugene Ward, Irvington Ward, Moreland Ward, Mount Tabor Ward, and Salem Ward, Portland Stake, created from branches in the Northwestern States Mission. 

Twelfth Ward, Ensign Stake, created by a division of the former 1213th Ward and part of the 11th Ward. 

Thirteenth Ward, Ensign Stake, created by a division of the former 12-13th Ward. 

Bellingham Ward, Bremerton Ward, Lincoln Ward, Queen Anne Ward, Tacoma Central Ward, University Ward, Vancouver Ward, and 

West Seattle Ward, Seattle Stake, created from branches in the Northwestern States Mission. 

Claremont Ward, Oakland Stake, created by a division of the Berkeley and Oakland Wards of that stake. 

New Independent Branches Organized : 

Hood River Branch, Kelso Branch, and St. Helens Branch, Portland Stake, were formerly branches in the Northwestern States Mission. 

Edmonton Branch, Lethbridge Stake, formerly dependent on Calgary Ward. 

Spanish-American Branch, Maricopa Stake, formerly Mesa Branch of Spanish-American Mission. 

Modesto Branch, Sacramento Stake, formerly a branch in the California Mission. 

Chehalis Branch, Everett Branch, Gray's Harbor Branch, Olympia Branch, Raymond Branch, and Renton Branch, Seattle Stake, created from branches in the Northwestern States Mission. 

Pioneer Branch, Pioneer Stake, created from a division of Granger Ward, Oquirrh Stake and Cannon Ward, Pioneer Stake. 

Pendleton Branch and Walla Walla Branch, Union Stake, were formerly branches in the Northwestern States Mission. 

Branch Name Changed: 

Kilgore Branch, Yellowstone Stake, was formerly known as the Idmon Branch. 

Wards Disorganized : 

San Fernando Ward, Pasadena Stake, disorganized and annexed to Burbank and North Hollywood Wards of that stake. 

Branch Disorganized : 

Gordon Creek Branch, Carbon Stake, discontinued, members moved to other wards of church. 

Those Who Have Passed Away : 

Jonathan Golden Kimball, Senior President of the First Council of the Seventy. 

Harrison R. Merrill, member of the general board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, member of board of directors of The Deseret News, Professor at the Brigham Young University and former managing editor of the Improvement Era. 

M. Charles Wood, former president of the New Zealand Mission. 

Isaac Dana, bishop of Mesa First Ward, Maricopa Stake. 

An anthem, 'Who Shall Feed His Flock" (Handel) was rendered by the Singing Mothers, Bessie Morley and Margaret Stewart Hewlett soloists. 

22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Behind the powerful and faith-promoting testimony of our beloved President, Heber J. Grant, is a power more than man's. 

PEACE A BLESSING 

Blessed are the peacemakers : for they shall be called the children of God. 

When the Son of Man was betrayed, Peter drew his sword and struck the servant of the High Priest. But Jesus said: "Put up again thy sword into his place : for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword." 

This was an ominous and prophetic declaration concerning the Jewish and the Roman states. These nations lifted up their swords against Jesus Christ and both nations perished by the sword. The man who takes the sword of animosity and hate with evil intent to injure his neighbor and besmirch his character shall himself fall a sacrifice to the weapons he has used. For they who sow the wind shall reap the whirlwind. 

THE STORY OF NINEVEH'S REPENTANCE 

By command of the Lord, Jonah went to the great city of Nineveh. He walked up and down a whole day, crying out, "In forty days Nineveh shall be destroyed." Humbled by God's awful message the Ninevites appointed a public fast.. They were on the verge of destruction. They had almost filled up the measure of their guilt, and they were ripe for judgment. The people from the meanest to the greatest followed the example of their king and covered themselves with sackcloth. 

God was moved with compassion by the depth and sincerity of their repentance; therefore he did not execute the sentence he had pronounced upon them. I think it was Victor Hugo who, speaking of the Deity, said : "Of all thy names, Compassion is the most beautiful." 

God spared that city of one hundred and twenty thousand inhabitants. But this displeased Jonah exceedingly and he was very angry. He was vexed that his prediction was not going to be fulfilled. He appeared to care little whether innocent children and defenseless women would fall victims in that great judgment. But the Lord stayed the execution of that sentence. He said to Jonah : 

And should I not spare Nineveh, that great city, wherein are more than six score thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand; and also much cattle?" 

Even the dumb beasts are objects of his compassion. 

There was a reason in this stay of execution — if I may be permitted to use that phrase. 

To men and likewise to nations the promises and threatenings of God are always conditional. In the wisdom and goodness of God good behavior, sorrowful repentance and conversion can stay the approach of judgment, or at least secure a respite. People are given time by the Almighty to return to him through repentance. There is forgiveness with Him. Thus the Lord turns aside his judgments for a while at least. Nineveh's people were rescued. They were granted an extension of time. Judgments are conditional. The people themselves are responsible for the calamities that befall them, but when they repent and turn unto the Lord, he hears their prayers. 

RESPITE THROUGH PRAYER 

A few days ago the world beheld a majestic spectacle. Millions of people entreated the Lord in humble prayer; they knelt in cottages and palaces, in mines and on farms, in workshops and in churches and pleaded with the Almighty to avert what seemed to be a certain terrible war. The people appealed from earthly rulers to the Lord Jesus Christ, and their appeal was heard and granted. A putting off was secured. God grant that the nations may lengthen out by righteousness that respite unto an endless state and come unto Him, the Prince of Peace. 

PROPHETIC WORDS 

In that historic dream, the dream of the ages, which God gave to Nebuchadnezzar, a dream divinely given and divinely interpreted, the Lord showed unto that great statesman, that mighty king, "what shall be in the latter days." He revealed unto him the kingdoms that would exist in our day. There were a few words spoken by Daniel when he interpreted that dream which makes it clear that kings and rulers should rise, but no king or ruler should ever establish a universal empire in Europe. These are the words — referring to the nations — "They shall' not cleave one to another, even as iron is not mixed with clay." They are the words of God. 

Hosea said: "And by a prophet the Lord brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a prophet was he preserved." 

JOSEPH smith's statesmanlike word 

It is part of a prophet's work not only to foretell and warn of impending conflicts and calamities, but also to show the means of escape. Joseph Smith was a prophet-statesman. He predicted the war which would terminate in the death and the misery of many souls; but this great prophet had a peace offering to give to the people. He told them of ways and means to avoid war. Unlike Jonah, he had rather have his prediction, mighty and certain as it was, lie dormant if the people would turn unto God. 

In 1844 the Prophet Joseph Smith gave the following counsel with 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

respect to a coming event which was soon to cast its black shadow over the land, and which was of great and general concern. "Pray Congress to pay every man a reasonable price for his slaves out of the surplus revenue arising from the sale of public lands, and from deduction of pay from the members of Congress, break off the shackles from the poor black man, and hire him to labor like other human beings, for an hour of virtuous liberty on earth is worth a whole eternity of bondage." The Prophet continued, "The southern people are hospitable and noble. They will help to rid so free a country of every vestige of slavery whenever they are assured of an equivalent for their property." And, by the way, in the same declaration the Prophet Joseph makes the recommendation, which is applicable to nations and states today, that more economy be practiced in the national and state governments. 

The scholarly Josiah Quincy writing about the message Joseph Smith delivered to the nation, says : 

It may be worthwhile to remark that Smith's plan was publicly advocated eleven years later, by one who has mixed so much practical shrewdness with his lofty philosophy. In 1885, when men's minds had been moved to their depths on the question of slavery, Mr. Ralph Waldo Emerson declared that it should be met in accordance with the interest of the South and with the settled conscience of the North. It is not really a great task, a great fight for this country to accomplish, to buy that property of the planter, as the British Nation bought the West Indian slaves. . . . We, who can look back upon the terrible cost of the fratricidal war which put an end to slavery, now say that such a solution of the difficulty would have been worthy a Christian statesman. But if the retired scholar was in advance of his time when he advocated this disposition of the public property in 1855, what shall I say of the political and religious leader who had committed himself, in print, as well as in conversation, to the same course in 1844? If the atmosphere of men's opinions was stirred by such a proposition when war clouds were discernible in the sky, was it not a statesmanlike word eleven years earlier, when the heavens looked tranquil and beneficent? (Figures of the Past, by Josiah Quincy, p. 335.) 

Lincoln's plan to end war 

Abraham Lincoln, the Great Emancipator, probably knew Joseph Smith very well. During a political campaign he wrote a letter in which "he gives a long list of names to which he wants documents to be sent," and in the same letter he tells a candidate "that Joseph Smith is an admirer of his, and that a few documents had better be mailed to the Mormon people." Abraham Lincoln was familiar with the prophetic message that Joseph Smith delivered and the means of escape that the Prophet opened up to the nation to save the people from the dreadful calamity which bathed the land in the blood of human beings. 

Just two months before the war closed the famous Hampton Roads Conference was held. Lincoln appealed to Alexander Stephens, Vice President of the Southern Confederacy. "Stephens," said he, "Let me write the word 'Union' at the top of this page, and you may put under it what you please, for," continued President Lincoln, "there are men in the North, the mention of whose names would surprise you, who are in favor of paying for the slaves. I, too," he said, "am in favor of giving the southerners a fair equivalent for the loss of their property." 

When he returned to Washington, Lincoln wrote, in his own hand, the joint resolution to be presented to Congress, providing an appropriation of $400,000,000 to be paid to the owners of the slaves if war should cease immediately. He laid this proposition before his cabinet, but it was unanimously disapproved. The great and lonely Lincoln, the best friend the South had, turned away sadly. "I see," he said, "you are all against me. The war is costing us $3,000,000 a day, and think of the lives being lost." (Abraham Lincoln, a History, by John G. Nicolay and John Hay, Volume 10, Chapter 7, pages 132-139.) 

Oh, if the words of Joseph Smith, the prophet-statesman, had been heeded, what an effusion of blood would have been prevented! Those young men buried in soldiers' graves would have walked the earth in the full vigor of youth and splendid manhood if the nation had accepted the means of escape which Joseph Smith pointed out to them. Among the noblest words that General Grant ever uttered were these: "Let us have peace." 

In faith we'll rely on the arm of Jehovah 

To guide through these last days of trouble and gloom, 

And after the scourges and harvest are over, 

We'll rise with the just when the Savior doth come. 

Then all that was promised the Saints will be given, 

And they will be crowned as the angels of heaven, 

And earth will appear as the garden of Eden, And Jesus will say to all Israel, Come home. 

May Christ come quickly. In the words of John the Revelator, "Even so, blessed Lord Jesus, come quickly." Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

Six months ago I was deprived of the opportunity of being here with you. I had been called, with President Rufus K. Hardy of the First Council of Seventy, to visit the missions in the South Seas and to divide with our brothers and sisters down there, and with those who are not members of the Church, some of the glorious truths that our Heavenly Father has given to us. 

OUR EARLY HYMN BOOKS 

This morning when we were singing the hymn "High On the Mountain Top" I turned to the flyleaf of the hymn book as it was first published and found this introduction : 

The saints in this country have been very desirous for a hymn book adapted to their faith and worship, that they might sing the truth with 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 7 Pirst Day 

an understanding heart, and express their praise, joy and gratitude in songs adapted to the New and Everlasting Covenant. 

In accordance with their wishes, we have selected the following volume, which we hope will prove acceptable until a greater variety can be added. 

With sentiments of high consideration and esteem, we subscribe ourselves your brethren in the New and Everlasting Covenant. 

Manchester, England. 1840. Brigham Young, 

Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor. 

This was in the first edition of the hymn book. The next'page contains the following : 

PREFACE TO THE FOURTEENTH EDITION. 

The demand for the hymn book has been so general that it has been concluded to issue another edition, making the fourteenth which has been published. 

This edition is the first published in Utah Territory, and possesses one distinctive peculiarity — it is not only printed and bound at the Church Printing Office, but the type in which it appears has been manufactured here. This issue differs from the two which precede it in one respect only, there have been fourteen hymns added to the collection; they, however, are placed in the last part of the book, so as not to interfere with the use of the other editions in common with this. 

That this little work may accomplish the object for which it is designed, and prove a source of joy and consolation to the saints, is the earnest prayer of 

Your brother, 

Salt Lake City. George Q. Cannon. 

Utah Territory, March 21, 1871. 

A PROPHETIC HYMN 

I now call your attention to the prophetic statement contained in this hymn : 

High on the mountain top 

A banner is unfurled, Ye nations now look up, 

It waves to all the world In Deseret's sweet, peaceful land — On Zion's mount behold it stand! 

For God remembers still 

His promise made of old, That he on Zion's hill 

Truth's standard would unfold; Her light should there attract the gaze Of all the world in latter days. 

His house shall there be reared, 

His glory to display; And people shall be heard 

In distant lands to say, We'll now go up and serve the Lord, Obey his truth, and learn his word; 

For there we shall be taught 

The law that will go forth, With truth and wisdom fraught, 

To govern all the earth; Forever there his ways we'll tread, And save ourselves with all our dead. 

Then hail to Deseret, 

A refuge for the good, And safety for the great 

If they but understood That God with plagues will shake the world 'Till all its thrones shall down be hurled. 

In Deseret doth truth 

Rear up its royal head; Though nations may oppose, 

Still wider it shall spread; Yes, truth and justice, love and grace, In Deseret find ample place. 

How interesting that a hymn published in so early a day should be sung by us today with a realization of the fulfilment of the promises contained therein! 

MISSIONARY WORK IN THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS 

In the South Seas we have had missionaries of this Church for many years. The first were sent by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Elders Noah Rogers and Benjamin Grouard went to the Tahitian Islands. Hundreds of missionaries have followed and preached in the other South Pacific Island groups since that time. They have continued to proclaim the Gospel of Jesus Christ until today more than thirty thousand members of the Church are found among the natives of the South Seas, in addition to those who are of European extraction. 

The Gospel has been taught to those people down there and the Book of Mormon has been published in most of the languages of the Polynesian race. It has not yet been translated into Tongan, yet in Tonga there are approximately thirty thousand of the finest people to be found in the world, members of the Polynesian race. 

I have heard the hymns of Zion sung in Hawaii, in Tonga, in New Zealand, in Australia, in Tasmania, and in both British and American Samoa. They were sung with the same spirit that they have been sung here, and it was most satisfying to know that this wonderful Tabernacle Choir -and the great organ, by means of radio, contribute to the joy of worship down there. Thousands of people living south of the equator who do not belong to the Church listen in and enjoy the programs that go out from this tabernacle. The first choir of Singing Mothers that sang here was heard over the radio down there. The idea was adopted and we now have choirs of Singing Mothers among the natives of the South Seas. 

Not only does the spoken word touch the hearts of the children of men, but our Heavenly Father, knowing the importance of appropriate 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

singing in worship, called Emma Smith and appointed her to select the hymns that were published in the first hymn book of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They have been added to from time to time, until today the songs of Zion are sung in many lands, and the words of the Gospel of Jesus Christ have been interpreted in many lands, not only by the spoken word, but by the hymns that are sung from the hearts of those who accept the Gospel of our Lord. 

We do not amount to very much in point of numbers when compared with the multitude of our Father's children but we are intended to be the leaven in the religious world. As I looked into the faces of those good people in the South Seas I was moved in my soul to thank the Lord that his servants were sent down there, not only to teach them the Gospel by preaching it, but that this Church was wise enough to establish schools to train its youth, for out of those schools have come some of the best trained and most efficient men and women that are to be found in the islands where the Polynesian people live. 

AMONG THE MAORIS 

I wish I could satisfactorily describe some of the fine groups that we met down there. One was the Maori race. Brother Hardy went for the fourth time to visit them but they were deprived of a part of the joy that they had anticipated because he became ill just prior to the great Hui Tau, where more than three thousand members of the Church assembled at the lovely Pa of the Princess Te Puea Herangi, situated on the shore of the beautiful Waikato river, that flows through her property. We held a conference lasting three days there and everybody had a delightful experience and a real uplift. 

Brother Hardy was only able to attend part of the last meeting of that great celebration. If you could have seen the people weeping when he came into the meeting and when he talked to them and bore his testimony, you would have realized how fortunate one is who goes from this part of the world to minister among that humble happy people who have in their veins the blood of Israel, and you would better appreciate how their hearts are moved with affection for those who have served them as Brother Hardy and many of our brothers and sisters have. They are delighted to have Matthew Cowley back again after seventeen years. 

PREACHING THE GOSPEL IN AUSTRALIA 

Australia was tremendously large and interesting. It is a great field for missionary activity and we could use every Elder that we have in all the mission fields on the earth in that island continent. A wonderful race of Anglo-Saxon people dwells there. Ninety-two per cent of all the people are of British extraction, the race that has sent to us not only from England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales some of the most capable men and women that the Church has enlisted in its ranks, but from Australia have come to us those who have performed splendid service  mankind. The man who created this wonderful tabernacle organ came from Australia. He was an organ builder and knew the inspirational value of organ music. In the city of Sydney, Australia, there still stands the old organ after which I think this organ here may have been patterned. 

We received a warm welcome from the Lord Mayor, recently elected, when we visited the town hall in Sydney. He knew about our organ and choir. They listen in when there is a great broadcast. Not all the broadcasts reach them, I am sorry to say. There are seasons of the year when they cannot hear, but at other times they enjoy listening to the great choir and organ and the announcements that are made by Brother Richard L. Evans and others. Those people are becoming friendly to the membership of this Church because of the singing of our brothers and sisters and the glorious sacred music that goes out from here. 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is not only taught by the written word and by the spoken word, but I say to you and I say to the Tabernacle Choir, that we all so much admire, that their part is one of the most important in allaying prejudice and disseminating the Gospel of Jesus Christ and giving people a desire to hear what a church has to say that sings as these our brethren and sisters sing. 

ILLNESS OF BROTHER HARDY 

Our missionary work is wonderful. We found your sons and your daughters in the various islands of the South Seas and we are proud of them, as you must be. Brother Hardy was unable to go to Tonga to do any missionary work. He was seriously ill. He held on just as long as he could in New Zealand but finally had to go to the hospital. The Lord was good to him and he gained sufficient . strength to continue working and return home. After we had visited Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, spending two months there, I went to Tonga for a month accompanied by a native — Elder Alex Wishart. Brother Hardy later joined us at Nukualofa, Tonga, and we together spent a month in Samoa. 

I regret that our beloved Brother Hardy is not able to be with us today due to an illness that overtook him some three weeks ago, but we have promise that in a few days he will be out again. I hope that his strength will be renewed unto him, because there are thousands of people in the world who love him and who love his wife for their devotion to the Maori race and to mankind generally. 

FRIENDLINESS MANIFESTED BY GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 

It may be of interest for you to know that down in those South Seas the government officials in many places speak of the work of this Church with commendation. In Australia complimentary reference was made to our Church by two men who hold the positions of Lord Mayors. They were friendly; they had been here in Salt Lake City and had seen what had been accomplished. 

30 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

At Wellington Brother Hardy and I went to see the men who have charge of the Government program for the Maori race in New Zealand. The Judge and a Commissioner of the native court told us "We believe you have accomplished with the Maoris what the other people have not. We want to try out a new program for the betterment of the Maori race. We would like to cooperate with one of your groups at Korongata in testing our plan. We would rather experiment with them because we believe that they can succeed and if we can do it with your people there, then we are willing to try some of the others." 

Korongata — near Hastings — was where our Agricultural College was located that was wrecked by the earthquake many years ago that destroyed the cities of Napier and Hastings. The school had to be abandoned because the building was so damaged that it was not usable. But the effect of the school on that little community had been such that they were selected from among all the Maori groups in New Zealand as outstanding to try out the program of improving their opportunities for education and by developing their farms, etc. 

When the Government officials learned that we were planning to replace our old chapel with a new one they said : "If you want to build a chapel among those people and will work with us, we will furnish you the men to build the chapel if you will supply the material." Not members of the Church these men saw the benefits that came into the lives of our people because they kept the commandments of the Lord. They said : "Your people do not drink; they do not smoke; they are not careless morally as are some of the other natives of this country." I hope you will remember that, my brethren and sisters — "Your people do not smoke; your people do not drink" — and I want to say to you that real Latter-day Saints neither smoke nor drink nor profane. We may make a pretense of worthiness but we are not Latter-day Saints when we violate the commandments of our Heavenly Father in that particular. He said that the Word of Wisdom is "adapted to the weak and the weakest of all saints who are or can be called Saints." So He Himself has indicated that we should not be called Latter-day Saints unless we observe that law. 

We found the people down there clothed in their native costumes, the "Lava Lava" in the Samoan Islands, and the "Vala" in the Tongan Islands. 

NATIVE CLOTHING 

Both men and women were simply but modestly attired at our con- , ference at Pesega, Apia, Samoa, where we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the arrival of our missionaries on those islands. There was an audience of over twelve hundred native members of the Church, not one of them dressed in European cloth but attired in native material. Two hundred of the sisters of the Relief Society wore cream colored dresses of tapa cloth that they themselves had made from the bark of trees. First they stripped the bark and reduced it to pulp, using a large log for a table. Then they pounded the pulp with a club, something like a rolling pin until they flattened it out like paper and made it of such a texture that they could fashion clothing from it. Those women were really dressed in garments of their own make and design. Each wore a purple and white Ula around their necks, this decoration also made by themselves. The dresses were generally one piece, nicely fitted like an American dressmaker might have made them. Most of the people had fine physiques and were modest and dignified in bearing — hair and eyes black, skin brown, teeth pearly white, all bareheaded and barefooted. They came in a group to greet us along with two thousand other people when we landed in Apia. It was an impressive welcome. They are a credit to the Relief Society of this Church. They are faithful and devoted to their society and are seeking to keep the commandments of the Lord. If our Relief Society sisters at home are as faithful as those native women I know that the Lord is pleased with them. 

MEN OF WISDOM AND ABILITY 

It was a joy to find among that dark-skinned people men and women who bore their testimony with power and with wisdom. One of the finest interpreters I have ever seen in my life was Fitsemann Malietoa, a Samoan Elder, who weighed three hundred and fifty-four pounds, was four feet eleven inches tall in his bare feet. He stood beside us and interpreted the messages of Brother Hardy and myself and others who spoke in English with a power and a dignity that was inspiring and made me feel more than grateful that such people identify themselves with the Church. Our interpreter is also the interpreter for the Governor of the Nation in the native court. 

Governor and Mrs. A. C. Turnbull attended the first conference meeting of the celebration where more than a thousand people sat on the floor on mats with their limbs curled up under them for two hours, yet at the end of that time they did not indicate that they were weary. First one group and then another from the various branches of the Church sang hymns, and the harmony and volume delighted everybody. The Governor said: "This is wonderful. Where do these people all come from ?" I think he had never seen anything like it, yet he had been Governor there for many years. 

FOR THE BLESSING OF MANKIND 

The work of the Lord goes forward in the South Pacific. The Polynesian people are all the children of our Heavenly Father. It is your privilege and mine to divide with them the Gospel of our Lord, and to carry the message of life and salvation to them not only for their benefit but to earn our own exaltation. 

We will attain our exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom only on the condition that we divide with our Father's other children the blessings of the Gospel of our Lord and observe the commandments that will enrich our lives here and hereafter. 

32 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 7 First Day 

I am grateful to be back with you again. I have never been more kindly treated or more courteously received as a servant of the Lord in any part of the wide world than I was down there in the South Seas among those fine descendants of Father Lehi. 

I pray that we will be loyal to the President of this Church and his associates and to our Heavenly Father. It is just such a group as this that will leaven the lump, and radiate such an influence among the children of men that they will be compelled to listen. With our sweet singers and our eloquent preachers and with our desire to bless mankind the time is not far distant when people everywhere will join in singing praises to the man who communed with Jehovah, — he who gave to us the Gospel of Jesus Christ, by direction of our Heavenly Father, in this latter day. 

I bear you my testimony that I know this is God's work; I know that Jesus is the Christ; I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the Lord; I know that the authority of the Priesthood is with this Church and knowing it I bear witness of it unto you in humility and in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We were very grateful for the splendid attendance at the Elijah oratorio last night. I was greatly disappointed at the attendance the night before. When I thought of the thousands and tens of thousands of hours that our good brethren and sisters of the choir have devoted without financial reward, I was humiliated with the first night's attendance. These tabernacle choir and organ broadcasts are the greatest advertisement for Utah that could possibly be given, and the Choir gives its services free. Every time the Choir gives a concert here we should come and support it, and if we would buy some additional tickets and give them away it would be a good thing. 

URGES CARE BE EXERCISED ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS 

I would like to warn each and all of you to be careful. To the utter disgrace of Utah we lead the whole nation in automobile accidents. It is a shame, we should be the most careful and the most considerate people. I hope that we will be very careful in crossing the streets. I have been traveling time and time again at twenty-five miles an hour, when that was the speed limit, and have had people pass me like I was hitched to a post. 

The Singing Mothers sang the anthem, "O Bread of Life." Elder H. Fred Egan, President of the South Summit Stake offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


