Outdoor
01 06 1919

An open air meeting was held at the Bureau of Information Building at 2 o'clock p. m., Sunday, June 1, 1919, Elder Melvin J. Ballard, of the Council of the Twelve presiding. 

Music was furnished by the BelCanto Ladies' Glee Club, Ivie Ensign conductor. 

The Glee Club and congregation sang: "We thank thee, O God, for / a prophet." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Henry H. Rolapp. 

The Glee Club sang:" "Perfect Prayer." 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

In harmony with the announcement of President Grant this ynofning, and in continuation of the spirit of this morning's meeting, the meetings this afternoon will be devoted in further tribute to the memory of our late de leader, President Joseph F. Smith. 

I take pleasure in introducing to you a man whom you all well know, Bishop Charles W. Nibley. Perhaps no man in the Church knew President Smith better, was more intimately acquainted with him, than was our worthy bishop, who will now address us. 

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

(Presiding Bishop of the Church.) 

I am asked to perform what to me is a rather difficult task, at this memorial service for the late President Joseph F. Smith. I knew him very intimately. Forty-two years ago, when I was a young man, he called me to go with him to Liverpool, England, there to take charge under his direction, of the business affairs of the European mission. From that day until the day of his death, I knew him well. I know his history, I know his family, I have lived in his home — been, indeed, as a member ot his family; and so I can speak of him as I know him. 

Joseph F. Smith was one man picked out of millions of men. There was none like him. In his particular .sphere, in his life and his life's work, I think that as an exemplar he has never been equalled. I know that is high praise, and I do not wish to make any comparisons with others, but to me he was the most God-like, the most God-fearing, and the least man-fearing of any man I ever knew in all my days. 

He had a perfect knowledge of the truth of this great Latter-day work. He had endured much for it, he had sacrificed much — losing  father when he was not yet six years of age, losing his mother when he was twelve or thirteen years of age, going alone, so to speak, in the world, with only friends who knew his father and mother to look after him. President Young took him under his care, or at least had a watchful eye over him; and in early days, as you know, sent him on a mission to the Sandwich Isfands, when the boy was but fifteen years of age. 

I have heard him tell how, journeying down through the southern country to Los Angeles, they were followed by a band of hungry Indians — this little missionary party, among whom were John T. Caine, who used to represent us in Congress, William W. Cluff, and some fifteen others. They were down, on the desert, this side of Los Vegas, and- these Indians became a little troublesome. Joseph F. Smith and one other of the party — I forget who, were a little slow in getting their horses saddled, and the others of the company rode off or drove off, leaving these two behind. The Indians became more bold when the larger part of the company went on, and as President Smith was saddling his horse, pulling up the strap, he looked into the barrel of his own gun. An Indian had grabbed his gun from the saddle and pointed it at him. The boy, who was strong and an athlete, smiled merely; but quickly getting under his horse's neck, he grabbed that Indian, who pretended at first to play, and in the tussle, wrenched the rifle from his hands. 

I mention this to show the fearlessness of the youth. I never knew as brave a man. No number of men could daunt him or disGENERAL CONFERENCE.  him or put him down. If he knew he was right he stood before the whole world and sustained and manfully contended for the right as he understood it. 

On this mission to the Sandwich Island, he encountered severe hardships. I remember on our first trip over to the Islands, and I was over there on four trips with him, that sailing among the different small islands, he would point out to me such and such a place : "There is where I lived so long in a little straw hut" — which burned down or which was destroyed by flood. Here was another place where he had lain sick and where the good Hawaiian people had ministered to him. This experience, and the other, he would tell as we journeyed along, all of which, if I had time to relate, are faith-promoting and inspiring, and would point out to you the manliness of the young boy — -for he was then, as I told you, fifteen or sixteen years of age. 

He remained there on the Islands until he was nineteen years of age, when he returned home at the call of President Brigham Young, at the time of the move south and when Johnston's army was marching here for the avowed purpose of disturbing the Latter-day Saints. 

On a later occasion, when we arrived at the harbor of Honolulu, we were met by the Royal Hawaiian Band. This band was instructed to come up to the "Mormon" meeting house — a quite prominent place in the city of Honolulu, and play for the people in honor of President Smith and his company. In the midst of the proceedings, after we were gathered in the meeting house and President Smith  conversing in the native tongue with this one and the other one, and shaking hands with all, there was led into the room an old Hawaiian lady, tottering, blind — led because she could not see. The moment he saw her he turned from everyone else and rushed to this dear old native lady. She was calling "Iosepa, Iosepa" — Joseph, Joseph, her Joseph. He rushed to her and gathered her in his arms, and with tears streaming down his cheeks, said : "My mamma, my mamma, my dear old mamma." And he turned to me, wiping his cheeks, and sai'rl. "Charlie, she tended me while I was sick, more than fifty years ago, and here she is now; should I not bless her and love her?" 

From courage to tenderness— for the bravest are the tenderest always — what nobleness- and grandeur of character may we not expect between these two angles. 

In the maintaining and rearing of a large family you all know what manner of a man he was. A man is known by the work he performs, by the labor he does. Give him the opportunity and we will see what he can do with it. If he does his best, well and good. Joseph F. Smith always did his be-t. He was just in his family. He was the kindest man I ever knew, and the tenderest, most loving and compassionate to little children. I have seen him when one of his little babies was sick, walk the floor at night for hours together with that babe in his arms, tenderly caring for it and nursing it — caring for it better, I think, than I ever saw any mother care for her child, so tender was he, so loving, so pitiful, so compassionate. 

He was a man, take him for a'l in . I do not know where yon will ever see his like again. You can imagine, from the association I was privileged to have with President Joseph F. Smith, especially during the later years of his life — and indeed for more than forty years of his life — what the loss of him means to me. I feel at times alone. 

As President Grant said this morning in the Tabernacle, no two preachers of righteousness like him and his son, Hyrum M., has this Church ever produced. I endorse that sentiment. 

He was a manly man, a man of God, a man whom it was an honor to know and a pleasure to be with, a man whose example has meant much to me — and indeed, had it not been for him, I know that I could not have accomplished what little I may have done in this world. In a way he was my guiding star. I did not worship him — I worship only God, and that I try to do faithfully — but he was more like unto God, the mo.st godlike man that I ever knew in all my life. 

Such is my testimony concerning Joseph F. Smith. I love his memory. I revere his name.- There is not anything I would not do for him or his, that I possibly could do. And loving him and his, so likewise I try to love my brethren and sisters, with the same spirit that he love'1 the brethren and sisters of this Church, and the people of the world as well — for he was not narrow. 

Some people have thought Joseph F. Smith was a narrowminded man. His comprehension and vision were the broadest, most extended, most glorious, of any man's I have ever known. He could grasp and comprehend futur-. . He finew what was in store for those who served God and kept his commandments. He knew the principles of the gospel. They were so thoroughly imbued and indoctrinated in him that they were a part of his very being. It was natural for him to be a Latter-day Saint, and he was willing to sacrifice for the work, and he did sacrifice. Without father, without mother, alone, he sacrificed as much as the Lord required of him. 

Let me beseech you, my brethren and sisters, that we get some of the spirit of sacrifice in our hearts, that we, too, may be willing, and may say before God : "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord; I'll work where you want me to work; I'll try to be what you want me to be." 

If we have this in our hearts, we will grow in some humble way, at least, in small degree, to be like this the noblest of men whom I have ever known, Joseph F. Smith. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Although we have lost our beloved leader, we rejoice that he has left with us an illustrious posterity. We feel grateful that the children of President Smith are following in his footsteps, and I take pleasure in introducing one of his worthy sons, Bishop David A. Smith, of the Presiding Bishopric, who will now address us. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric.) 

My brethren and sisters. — When I look over this assembly and think of the thousands of Latter-day Saints who are meeting in the Assembly Hall and in the Tabernacle, my heart ig filled with joy; yet I cannot approach this task at rib's time without a feeling of sadness. All my life, I have known President Joseph F. Smith. As a little fellow, I only saw him accasionally, and knew him best through the letters he wrote to me, as it was his custom to write personal letters to his children when absent from home And during my early childhood he was away from home on missions most of the time. Bui when at home, no father ever took more pleasure or greater delight in his children than he did. 

I remember when Bishop Nibley, as he has said, made it a custom to call at our home occasionally. He was almost as much a father to us as our own father, and we learned to call him Uncle Charlie. I did not know for many years that Charles W". Nibley was not my own uncle. 

For over eleven years it has been my privilege to be nearer, closer to President Joseph F. Smith, I believe, than any other man. Morning, noon, and night, I have been with him. Having been honored by him, having been trusted with many of his private affairs, being urged on by Bishop Nibley, who loved him and knew what work he was doing, I was finally given much of his private work to do. And when, today, in coming to this conference, I recall the fact that never before for over eleven years had he attended a general conference on this block that it was not my privilege to accompany him here and home again, you can, therefore, imagine to a small degree at least, the reason for that feeling of sorrow which comes to me at this time, for I loved him and miss him greatly. 

It is not because he loved me  than he did other of his boys that I was with him perhaps more than they, for President Smith haa no favorites. It could not honestly be said of him that he loved one boy more than he loved another, o r that he loved one of his girls more than he loved another, or that he loved one of his wives more than he loved another. As Bishop Nibley has said, President Smith was a just man, and he loved his wive? and he loved his children, and tried to treat them as wives should be treated and as children should be treated — no favorites among them, and they loved him and tried to honor him. I was greatly honored, and more so than some of the others, because of tne position I had been blessed with, which gave to me a greater degree of freedom, which permitted -me to associate with him more and to assume part of his responsibilities, which would gladly have been assumed by any one of his children had any one of the others been placed in the same position and given the same opportunity.  

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, today, in the fact that I had such a father. And O, I pray God that I shall prove worthy of such parentage. Think of the honor that has come to me : honored by you, my brethren and my sisters; honored of God, having been permitted to come through this lineage which has been so blessed of him. O, I am grateful for the blessings I have received, the blessings that I do receive from day to day, and I want to live worthy of the confidence that has been placed in me by you and by this people. I want to serve the Lord that I will be entitled to his blessings. 

When I look over the congrega of the Saints in their conferences, when I am permitted to meet with you in your homes and in your meetinghouses. I rejoice in that privilege, because there I always find the Spirit of the Lord. I feel it. * I come away filled with it; it is that same influence that has caused you to come here today and stand for two hours; that which has caused .others to crowd into the buildings, and what for? To hear the word of God, for we are seeking knowledge and strength that we may better serve the Lord. We know that just so far as we have in our hearts a desire to learn of his will, we are blessed and strengthened and are better able to carry on the work and the responsibility that rests upon us as Latter-day Saints, and I pray sincerely that 1 may have an interest in your prayers, in your faith, the sustaining influence of which will enable me to do that which is required of me, that I may better uphold and emulate the noble example which has been set me by my beloved father. 

May God bless us all is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

We have another long-time associate of President Smith with us in Bishop John Wells, of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church, who will, now address us. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric.) 

I hope I shall be able to make myself heard to this large circle of 'my brethren and sisters who have gathered about this building this afternoon. 

I am thankful to the Lord foi  gospel of Jesus Christ and ioi all that it has .done for me. I appreciate sincerely my membership in the Church as a Latter-day Saint. Many honors and privileges have come to me through my associations with my brethren and sisters. I am thankful, I am grateful, to be associated with the good men who preside -in this Church. They are men after God's own heart; men who are full of faith and integrity and who have set mt a splendid example; men who are willing to do everything within their power to serve God and to bring about his purposes on the earth. The Lord has establishea this great Latter-day work. It *3 a marvelous work and a wonder, wherein the wisdom of the worldly wise shall perish and the understanding of the prudent shall come l to naught. It is only upon this idea that we grasp or understand the magnitude of the work that the Lord has established in these latter days, so that he may bring about the gathering of the House of Israel and the establishment of his kingdom upon the earth. 

It has been my pleasure ano privilege, as an officer and an employee of the Church, to become personally acquainted with the late President Joseph F. Smith. I remember him well, from the year 1893, when I was an employee in the Presiding Bishop's Office. 1 called upon him for counsel, many of the leading brethren being away, and some of the duties of the Presiding Bishop's Office had at that time devolved upon me.. I waited upon President Smith and asked his counsel and advice concerning what to me was a very intricate problem, and my first impression of Presv dent Smith was that he was sound in judgment, and had a wonderful comprehension of human nature. It was my first interview with him, and we sat side by side talking on the problem I presented to him. I had looked upon him previous to this as a great man because of his exalted position as one of the First Presidency, but when I had concluded that interview, I had a more profound impression of his greatness than ever before. 

At one time I was coming across, the continent. I met President Smith and some of his family at Omaha. We traveled westward in the same car. I was sick with something akin to sea-sickness, caused through traveling several days on the train. I appreciated his kindly sympathy. He blessed me, and that blessing I will never forget, because it came from the Prophet of the Lord and his blessing gave me peace and rest for most of the night. That same night, as the train was moving across tilt, plains of Wyoming, President Smith stood at the back of the car taking a rest from a long, tedious clay's journey. Any of you who have traveled day after day in a railway train know what relief it is to stand up or move around for awhile. I tell you this incident to show you how President Smith was susceptible to the Still Small Voice. While standing at the back of the train he heard a voice telling him to go into the car, and he did so. Later he was walking up and down the corridor and was told by the same Voice to sit down. Pie did so. A few moments later the engine ran off the track and tilted the train on an angle which scared us all. Had President Smith been in the back of the train or walking in the corridor he might have been  seriously injured, but the Lord had regard for him and he was prompted by a Voice which he understood so well, and he acted accordingly. President Smith has always been susceptible to the influence of the Spirit of the Lord. He knew its promptings, and what they meant. As he heard the Still Small Voice directing him and inspiring him, he knew . that Voice and knew it well. 

President Smith was a kind man, kind to employees as well as to his friends and family. He frequently gathered the employees of the Bishop's Office at the Beehive House and other places, and mingled with them in social gatherings, showing that even with the dignity of his position and calling he was always the same unaffected and kindly-disposed man. 

I revere his memory. I revere him for many things. I will nevei forget as long as I live the blessing he gave to me when he ordained me a bishop. I never want to forget those sweet, kindly words, trie admonition and counsel that he gave to me before I assumed my duties as a counselor to Bishop Charles W. Nibley. 

I feel today that if he were here and could tell us what he would likt us to do, he would say, brethren and sisters, roll on thi.s great work, be prepared to carry the message of the gospel to the nations of the earth who are now being liberated , sustain the presiding brethren of this Church, whom the Lord has sent to preside in the various quorums and departments, sustain them with all your might, mind and strength, and help them to bring about and accomplish the purposes that God has designed to accomplish in these latter days. 

I sincerely pray, my brethren and sisters, that the spirit of this great latter day work may be in our hearts, that we may pray for the spirit of it; exercise our office and calling, that we may never be ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for it is the power of Goa unto salvation to those who receive it. 

May God add his blessings, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

An instrumental trio was given by Mae, Alice, and Rachel Andersen; Leone Amott, accompanist, 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

The choice of President Smith as leader of the Church a remarkable evidence of the truthfulness of the work — Testimony of his noble character and work — The tremendous influence of two mothers contrasted  — The mantle of President Smith has fallen upon President Grant. 

There is no task that I have been asked to perform which gives me greater pleasure and more real happiness than on this memorial day to speak of our late beloved prophet-leader, President Joseph F. Smith, whom, like my brethren who have preceded me, I love with thai same love and affection I had for my own father — for he was a father to .me and to every man and woman who became acquainted with him who loved the Lord and sought to keep his commandments. I bear witness that President Smith was a lover of such men and women. 

The .selection of President Smith to. preside over this Church, as in the case of his predecessors, is one of the remarkable evidences of the truthfulness of the work called "Mormonism," that God is in it,  his hand has been over this work and guiding the destinies of this Church, and he is indeed the source from which light and truth and knowledge have come to the men who- have directed the affairs of this Church. 

I recall many years ago being in the city of Nauvoo, attending a celebration of newspaper men of the state of Illinois, in that city. The representative of one of the leading newspapers of that stau was giving the history of the city of Nauvoo. He told of its growth until it became a city of twenty thousand people when Chicago was only a small village and St. Louis on the south was only a trading post. He told of the prejudice that inspired the hearts of those who drove the Latter-day Saints from Nauvoo, and how Nauvoo had gone down until it had but twelve hundred souls and not a railroad yet. He told of the vandalism that prompted the burning of the Nauvoo temple, and that even while the blackened walls of that temple stood, the steamboats stood half a day at the wharf to allow passengers to come and view its ruins. And then he told of the travels of the Latter-day Saints in their pilgrimage across the plains to these valleys of the mountains, how they had made the desert to blossom as the rose; and said, "Maybe God likes the 'Mormons' better than he does bigots and vandals, if not, why doesn't he give the inhabitants of Nauvoo better evidence that it was all right to drive the 'Mormons' out?" 

I felt as I listened to his utteiances, that any man who would follow this Church, and become acquainted with its leaders must be blind indeed if he cannot see that a power greater than man's has attended it and the men who have led and directed it. 

From the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith until this hour, I feel there are evidences of the wisdom of an allwise and overruling Providence in the selection of the men who have stood at the head of this Church, and it is manifest in the result of their administrations. Where could we have found a man like unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, who could have done the work- that the Prophet did in receiving the revelations of God — naturally a spiritually minded man, a prophet selected from beforehand, even as in ancient days. 

It might also be said of each one of these men down to the present prophet of, the Lord, Heber J. Grant, ordained prophets before they came into the world; God knew them; he selected them for their hour and for their time, took them through a schooling of experience, of trial and hardship and preparation, each to be his mouthpiece to reveal the truths of the everlasting gospel, the organization of the Church, the doctrines of the Church, as in the case of the Prophet Joseph; or his propheileader, Brigham Young, whom he had in schooling, as we heard this morning, and in training and preparation to accomplish the great pilgrimage of the Latter-day Saints into these valleys of the mountains; and likewise the men whom Goq raised up thereafter, each in his turn the man for the hour, and the Lord was with him, and the Lord has been with our late President Joseph F. Smith — we are all witnesses to that. 

I recall my early recollections of President Smith with a good deal  pleasure — because I admired him, he was to me my ideal, I tried in my life, as I became acquainted with him, to be as he was. I knew as a child, for the Lord revealed it unto me, that President Smith would some day preside over this Church; and in connection with that I saw many things that President Smith would do; and when, last October, he stood before the congregations of ,the Saints, feeble and weak as he was, my soul was filled with great sorrow, because I knew that all that the Lord had for President Smith to do had been done. That which I saw as a child was fulfilled, finished, completed. And yet there was a feeling of great regret that we should soon have to part with him and let him go on to the work which the Father has prepared him to do in that realm where he is now. 

It was my privilege, I presume, to deliver the last public address that President Smith ever listened to, being the last speaker of the last Conference of the Church. And I recall, as I had concluded, he grasped my hand and pressed it and gave me a blessing that I shall not forget, for my whole soul was thrilled with his blessing and with his love. / 

I bear witness that he was a man who loved the souls of the children of men in the world= — not only those who belong to the Church; for no man has done more, than he, looking toward the establishment of - the work of the Lord among the nations of the earth. He has builded more meeting houses in the mission field, and mission headquarters, than in the rest of the years of the Church put together. His heart was in the preaching of the gospel, and ,so he lent  to uphold and sustain those who were engaged in this work. 

His coming into the world was at a time when his own father and his own uncle the Prophet, were incarcerated in' a foul dungeon, with chains forged upon them by a blacksmith, condemned to be shot, confined in this condition for the gospel's sake, held as hostages for the Church, a ransom for the balance of the people that they would leave the state of Missouri; the father, Hyrum, was separated from his beloved companion, the mother of Joseph F. Smith; and under these conditions, Joseph F. Smith was born into the world, without a father's love and protection for the mother of the child; there was one occasion when the enemy ransacked, as they were accustomed to do, the homes of the Latter-day Saints, and invaded the home of Marv Fielding Smith, the mother of President Joseph F. Smith; and in their anxiety to fina treasure, tumbled bedclothes over and finally succeeded in almost exterminating the life of President Smith — for he was buried under bedclothing when rescued by his mother after the invader had left their home. The boy was so black that life was almost extinguished, but the hand of the Lord was over him; from that moment the Spirit of the Lord attended him in tlie midst of trials, in the midst of vicissitudes, and has preserved his life marvelously to complete that which the Lord had in .store for him to do. 

And I thought of him as a child. How few boys would have shown the courage, the manhood, that he did, while scarcely eight years of age, driving a yoke of oxen part way across the plains, and then  a little over nine years 01 age, in 1848, driving two yoke of oxen the entire distance from the Missouri river to these va'lleys of the mountains, taking a man's part. But as I have thought of ' it, I know what was in President Smith's heart. He did not take the credit unto himself. A very large part of that credit shall forever belong to his illustrious mother, Mary Fielding Smith. He often said it, and I know if he were here today he would be delighted to have these words of praise spoken of that good woman who was his inspiration in his childhood. 

I have thought of it in connec-. tion with the sorrowful experiences that came into the life of the descendants of the Prophet Joseph Smith — you remember that the catastrophe that took away the Prophet Joseph Smith also endea the career of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith, the father of President Joseph F. Smith; and the wives of these two men were shocked to be . thus bereaved of their support, their loving husbands, the fathers of their children; and then the persecutions did not end with the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, but centered on the Church , and in those perilous times, seeking to find an asylum, a home for the Saints in the place appointed by the Lord, and unto which the Prophet Joseph said they would go, President Young started to lead the Latter-day Saints to these valleys of the mountains. I remember listening to the testimonv of <>. daughter of Samuel H. Smith in the city of St. Louis, many years ago, to the effect that during those days President Young sent an invitation to Emma Smith, the wife of the Prophet Joseph, to furnish conveyance for herself and children, and provisions and means to take them to the mountains, but it was refused, and Emma would not come with the Latter-day Saints. But I never read in any of the histories where Mary Fielding' Smith received such an invitation; but rather on her own initiative this woman gathered up her children, made the trip .clown to St. Louis, purchased provisions and equipment, financing- herself, with the help of her brother and made the journey to these valleys of the mountains. Surely she had love and good fellowship and support of the brethren, but I contrast the action of these two women. I do not wish to say one disparaging word of Emma Smith, the wife of the Prophet, for she went through much affliction, and much did she do for the comfort of the Prophet and the building up of the work of God; but the blow that fell upon her in the death of her husband, and the weakness of the flesh exhibited in that hour, were more than she had the courage to endure, and so she faltered, she weakened, and fell by the wavside, and took her children off with her. 

I have thought of what a tremendous influence the example of these two mothers has had. On the one hand Emma has turned all the posterity of the Prophet through herself and the Prophet away from the Church — aliens to the truth that God has revealed and established; while Mary Fielding Smith turned at the very fountain of that stream the posterity of her illustrious husband, Hyrum Smith, into the channels of the Church, into the truth; and here they stand a mighty host, increas, and will continue to grow .as the generations come. 

When the President was taken away, in the imaginations of my own mind by the enlightenment of the Spirit of God that came to me, I saw President Joseph F. Smith received on the other side. Tongue cannot tell the joy that was in Hyrum Smith's heart when he received his beloved son, Joseph F. Smith. Joy beyond expression was in the heart of Hyrum Smith when his true, tried, noble, and God-fearing wife, the inspiration, the protection of her son Joseph Fielding — came to him. 

I thought of it in contrast to the feelings of the Prophet when his son and his wife Emma came. His must have been a sorrowful greeting. 

All honor to Mary Fielding Smith, the mother of the boy Joseph F., who, in his tender years turned him right, led him into the paths of truth, started him on the way. And then all honor, and credit to the sterling character of that noble man of God who did follow the footsteps of his father and his mother and wavered not. 

He was not privileged to obtain an education like others, nevertheless he was a student, and I do not think that a man ever preached the gospel of the Church of Jestu Christ of Latter-day Saints more eloquently, used better language, more perfect and choice and finished, than President Joseph F. Smith. I remember, following an address he delivered in Portland at the dedication of our church several years ago, a prominent lawyer in Portland, himself an orator, said, "I have never heard a finer utterance from a man than President Smith delivered." 

"Why," said he, "you must be a lawyer, for you arranged your argument — everything was done in such a logical way, most convincing." He was an all-round educated man. As a citizen in this city, he has left his mark, that will never be effaced. I am told that it was through his influence more than any other man's that Liberty Park belongs to this city. When he fought for that blessing to the people, he stood almost alone, but won out. 

There was a time, as President Grant iemarkedthis morning, when men doubted the financial ability of President Smith, schooled in poverty, knowing the burden of debt. Yet the Lord had prepared him to come into the Presidency of the Church during its most prosperous financial period, to take charge of the affairs when it would require men of great financial ability, looking at it from a human point of view, to succeed. But he had it — God-given financial ability came to the prophet; he had the inherent qualities and the willing spirit, listened to the voice that prompted and directed him, so that he had to do with the finances of the Church during its most prosperous period, and handled, I presume, more funds of this Church than all the other presidents put together; and the Lord at the same time blessed him, as has been remarked, to be the greatest preacher of righteousness of this dispensation. It does seem marvelous what the Lord has done. President Smith's wisdom in financial affairs excelled all his companio"f. f^r h a was guided by the light of the Lord. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I have no doubt but that President Smith is busy and active. How I  to live to go where he is! I do not care whether the streets are paved with gold, whether there are diamonds and jasper in the walls. I do not care what kind of place it is. If I can go where President Smith has gone and be with him land men like him, it will be heaven to me, I want to be there. 

I realize that I cannot come there by wishing, but that I must follow the example of men like President Smith if I shall ever come to be associated with them; and so his life is like an anchor sent out from that world to whichvhe has gone, to my soul, and I hope it shall be to all the Latter-day Saints, pulling us, beckoning us, calling us unto that realm to which he has gone, where he will be honored, as are those with whom he is associated. 

I want to say to you that this generation, who did not receive the Prophet Joseph Smith, who have not listened to the testimony of President Joseph F. Smith and the elders of this Church, shall yet hear them and honor their names and receive from them the message of the everlasting gospel in the spirit world, or they shall never be saved. God said in the beginning, that this generation should hear the message of this gospel through the men to whom he revealed himself. Men and women who die shall not see Peter, they shall not look upon the face of the Redeemer of the world, they shall not have . Paul to come and visit them; but they shall have the elders of this Church, whom the Lord sent to them in the earth; and they shall receive this gospel from none other, for the Lord will vindicate them, and he will have them honored. He will not discredit them. And when they go to the other side, we shall find standing in places of honor; representing the Lord Jesus Christ, men like President Joseph F. Smith, who will be given greater authority and greater power than they ever had upon the earth. He is not shorn of anything because he is gone from this world. The place and position which belongs to him is one of greater presidency, greater influence and power and authority than he has ever had in the earth; for over there are countless billions of our Father's children who are receiving this gospel and they shall come under the administration of the elders of the Church who have been faithful; and presidency and power and authority shall belong to President Smith forever and ever, among the redeemed and the sanctified in the eternal world. 

,1 bear witness to- you that the mantle of the Prophet has fallen upon his successor, President Heber J. Grant. I am a witness of this. I know that he is a prophet of the- living God, and the Lord has raised him up. The Lord has had him in schooling and in training, so that he will be a wise and prudent man, a true successor of President Joseph F. Smith; and in the heart of President Grant is the spirit of humility and of faithfulness and of devotion to the Lord; and the inspiration of- the Lord rests upon him, that is my witness; and the Lord will use him. He will not do just exactly what President Smith did — there was a day of material progress and of enlarging the boundaries of the Church, a time of material prosperity and growth for the Church and for the membership of the Church, all of which was right and splendid, and conducted successfully; but the time has come when the Church must also grow , and must return with greater- devotion to the standards of our fathers, to the true and livine God and the keening of the Word of Wisdom, in the pavment of our tithing, in savine our prayers, in seeking to discharge the great responsibility that rests uoon us to carry the gospel to the nations of the earth, and ceasing to excuse ourselves because we are financially involved or because we have been once — a nd sending our bovs in our stead. We must sro ourselves, even as President Smith did. He never stopped or hesitated or said that he would have to be excused because he was indebted, but went at each call: and we must get that soirit ?eain, for the hour of preaching the gospel once again to the nations of the earth has come, where thousands will be needed to cry, after this dav of chastisement, repentance to the nations of the earth. And it shall not surprise me if the chief characteristic of President Grant's administration shall be the spiritual awakening- and growth and progress of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints. 

As we followed President Smith, let us follow our leader today. He is the spokesman of the Lord. The Lord has his program to work out; and so far as I am concerned, and I hope It shall be true of every member of this Church, we shall be willing to listen to the voice of the leader today. All honor to the leaders of the past. They filled their niche, their place, their station, completed their work. But the work of God is not finished in the earth. It has only partly completed what God ordained it to do. And those of us who remain must seize the banner and carry this work off victorious, to glorify the  of those who have been identified with this work in the days that are past, and to receive honor and place and position with them in the eternal world, and ^vindicate the word of our Father in his blessings and promises to those who would enter into sacred covenants to keep the commandments of the Lord. 

I rejoice to be identified with this work. In my soul I am thankful for a standing in this Church. I feel my weakness in appearing before the Latter-day Saints m the responsibilities that have come to me. When President Grant informed me that it was the will of the Lord, and that the brethren had approved of that decision, that I should become a special witness for the Lord Jesus Christ, I was overwhelmed, because I did not feel that I was worthy of any such thing; and I answered him that if I believed that I could be worthy to be a special witness of the Lord Jesus Christ, an apostle, it would be the happiest hour of my life; for I look upon/ it as the highest honor that can come to a man on the earth; but my standard of what kind of men they ought to be was so great, so far above what Lam, that I did not know if I could measure up to that standard or not; but  the Lord wanted me, as I had sung, and as I had tried to live, — 

I'll go where he wants me to go,  I'll say what he wants me to say, I'll be what h,e wants me to be; 

and if the Lord was willing and the brethren would be patient with me, then with all my heart, mind and soul, .1 would try to be the kind of man that the Lord wanted me to be, and fulfil this calling, not as a master, but as a servant of the people; not that I am any better than thousands of my brethren, but just because the Lord sees something in me that he can use at this time, and I am willing that he shall use it- to the glory of his name. 

God bless and sanctify this conference and this gathering, that we shall keep in our minds the noble example of our illustrious leader who is gone, that we may to the close of our lives be as true as he was, to the truth, and find, as I am sure we shall, salvation in the kingdom of God with him and with all the faithful who have gone before, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Glee Club sang: "Hail to the Prince of Peace." 


