Afternoon
03 06 1919

Conference was called to order at 2 p. m., by President Heber J. Grant, who presided. 

The congregation sang: "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Stephen L. Chipman, president of the Alpine stake. 125 

The choir and congregation sang: "Redeemer of Israel." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANt! 

One of our great missions today is conducted on this block, by Elder Benjamin Goddard and his assistants in the Bureau of Information. We will now hear from Brother Goddard. ELDER BEN J. GODDARD 

(Of the Bureau of Information.) 

My brethren and sisters, I trust the Lord will aid me in perform " ing this duty, which comes to me very unexpectedly. I rejoice in the spirit of this conference; my soul has- rejoiced within me in listening to the testimonies of my brethren, and performing other duties assigned unto rre. 

In connection with our work upon this block, I have pleasure in, stating that our missionaries — from forty to fiftv brethren and sisters — labor most diligently, day after day, in meeting the strangers within our gates. It is our privilege to welcome them to Zion and to repre p---- our faith, telling them that which the Latter-day Saints stand for, directing their attention to the organization of our Church, and speaking of that which was revealed unto the Prophet Joseph Smith; describing also that wonderful vision in. the sacred grove, telling them of the authority posessed by our elders who are going to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. We bear testimony unto the strangers who know very little of "Mormonism" when they come within these gates, that God has indeed established his Church  the earth, and however feeble our young elders may be who are bearing their testimonies they art laboring in the authority of the holy priesthood. We testify that the Baptist has come again, restoring the Aaronic priesthood. We testify and read unto the enquirers the revelation', Section 27 of the Doctrine and 'Covenants, showing the great work that God has in store for us, and that the authority of the Melchizedek priesthood has come unto us through the ministrations of Peter, James and John.' When the strangers come here they listen most attentivelv to what we have to say. Our brethren and sisters occasionally have from thre<r hundred to four hundred in one group, who will listen, frequently,  « 'be testimonies that are borne, and will eagerly ask questions and desire to learn more. The spirit of the Latter-day work is on this block; we cannot stand under the shadow of the temple, which we have to do often every day, describing the building, pointing to the figure upon the central tower, representing Moroni who brought unto us the fulness of the gospel, and through whose ministrations we are blest with the Book of Mormon, without feeling the spirit of that sacred house. The people are coming to the tops of the mountains, they are gazing on the House of, the Lord, established through the faith and the fidelity ' of the Latter-day Saints, and are eager to learn just what the work in the temple means. We tcien explain the great work that you brethren and sisters are engaged in — the mission of Elijah the prophet, "turning the hearts oi the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers." This is GENERAL CONFERENCE.  new to the great majority of people who come here, and they eargerly desire to learn more. Women call at times, clad in dark drapery, indicating their breavement through loved ones being taken away, and they are always interested in the subject of salvation for the dead, and desire to know just how they*may meet their loved ones again. 

I testify unto you that the work of the Lord is growing in the earth; that a spirit of inquiry is amongst the people. They are anxious to know what "Mormonism" is. We are delighted to tell them what it means, and they go from our midst impressed with that which we have told them, and they are eager to meet our missionaries in other places. One lady missionary returning from the Northern States, last week, told me that in the city of Detroit on one street she had met nine families that had been represented amongst the visitors on this block. They had received of our hospitality and were delightea to receive the missionaries and to learn more with regard to our faith. Thus we endeavor to break down prejudice, to remove bigotry, to impress upon the strangers within our gates that which "Mormonis" stands for — fidelity to" God an 1 to all his laws, sustaining the priesthood which God has placed upon the earth. 

I rejoice in meeting you, my brethren and sisters, we shall be pleased to welcome and entertain you within the walls of the Bureau of Information. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may continue to rest upon us; that his work may continue to roll forth, until his purposes are fully established in the earth, and to that end with all my  I sustain the man whom you have sustained in this conference as prophet, seer and revelator. Goq bless the brethren who stand at the head of this Chtfrch. May the Lord soften our hearts, make them open to receive the instructions given unto us, and may we have a desire in our hearts continually to fulfil every obligation placed upon us, sustaining the priesthood and laboring for the good of Zion, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

(President of the Central States Mission.) 

In the mission field, I have often said to the missionaries that in. this Church things do not happen by chance but by appointment; and I add to that the statement that God rules and reigns; that this is his work;that he is at the helm and that his work, established here upon the earth, is for the purpose of bringing back to him his children who are away from home, out on missions in the world. I feel that we are away from home in this earth; that we have been sent, at an appointed time, into the world to prove unto the Lord what we will do under certain conditions and circumstances. I appreciate more fully every day of my life the fact that I have been so favored of the Lord as to come into the world when his gospel is here and his holy priesthood is in force among the children of men; when he has prophets and apostles and officers in the Church appointed by his divine command and under his direction, so that there could be no mistake, and that men who desire to 127  him might know the truth. 

The Priesthood of the Son of God is sacred, and that man who holds it has been entrusted with a charge that he cannot treat lightly and enjoy the blessings and the testimony of this gospel. This is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, revealed from heaven in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times in which we live. Men have received it by direct revelation; men have received a knowledge of it in the dreams of the night; men have been visited by angels until there can be no question as to the stand of this Church of our God here in the earth. 

A short time ago I received a letter from a young man, in one of the states in the mission over which I have had the privilege to preside for some time, asking me to send a missionary to baptize him. It was at a time when missionaries were very scarce. I think we had only four in that state. I wrote him a letter, stating : "We will send you the elders just as soon as they can go there.", I encouraged him in what he had said in his letter, telling him to continue to investigate, and in the own due time of the Lord the elders would baptize him. He was a stranger to me. I sent the letter to the president of that conference and I said to him: "When it is convenient for you to do so, either visit this gentleman or send one of the elders to baptize him." Shortly after that we had a conference in that state; I had forgotten the incident entirely, but the 'conference president had notified the young man that we were going to hold a conference and invited him to come to the city where we would hold our meetings. The young man attended our priesthood meeting,  his tears flowed freely. He enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord as the testimonies of the elders were given, until the last one had spoken, to a degree I presume that few men have had the privilege of witnessing. He told me that he had prayed earnestly to know which church was right. He said: "I made it a matter of prayer for weeks, and I desired to know which church was right, and the name of the Church. I awoke one night with these words before me, in my mind — the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I had never heard of the Church. I remembered having met some of the "Mormon" elders several years before, when they left some of their literature with us. I hunted it up, and I found the name of the Central States mission upon it. That is why I wrote you that letter." 

I know, my brethren and sisters, as I stand here, that he spoke the truth; that God had revealed unto him the truth. It was an answer to the prayers of a righteous man. He was away from home, out in the world, struggling for a living, in poverty, but he borrowed the means to come to conference. The Lord had revealed the truth unto him, and he was brave enough, notwithstanding the fact that his wife told him if he was baptized she would leave him — he was brave enough to stand for the right, to go down into the waters of baptism, and another witness of God's power was given unto the children of men in this dispensation. 

I have witnessed some remarkable manifestations of the Spirit and power of God in my calling as 'a mission president. I want to say to the young men who happen to be in this conference that when you are sent to a mission or to a conGENERAL CONFERENCE.  you must bear in mind that God rules and reigns and that he knows you; that you did not go into the mission field by chance, but under the inspiration and power of God you were called by the men who 'stand at the head of the Church. Some months ago four young men came into the Central States mission. We had received but very few elders for months past, on account of the influenza, and a certain portion of our mission was very much in need of elders, as we had only one or two in a great territory. I said to the secretary of the mission: "We will send these four men to such and such a place, away into the South, a thousand miles from Kansas City." He said : "I believe that is the place they ought to go. We need them there." But when I thought about it, I saw three of those boys sitting together and one apart, at one side. I could not get the vision of those boys out of my mind, and so I said to the secretary : "Elder Piatt, we will leave it until tomorrow. We can't send them out today anyway." In the morning when I met again with the young men, I was going to say we would send them all to this certain place; but in my mind again threeof them sat together and one was by himself. I said to the three : "We will send you to Texas." To this young man I said : 'We will keep you here, and you may labor in Kansas City." I did not know why I had come to this decision. I battled against it, because I wanted to send him away, but a month after that time, in a priesthood meeting, he bore his testirnpny and mentioned the fact that when he was a boy, ten years of age, he had been promised by a patriarch, in his patriarch blessing, that he would grow up and fill a mission, and that he would, be sent to the state of Missouri. Then I found out why I was impressed to keep that young man in the state of Missouri. 

At another conference I attended shortly after that, an elder bore his  testimony in a priesthood meeting, in which he related the following incident : He was put trading one day, and as he approached the home of a certain lady, she said to him: "Come in, you are the man I saw in my dream." She was a Turkish woman; her father was a Mohammedan. She had been in this country perhaps ten or fifteen years. She related unto him how she had been praying earnestly for the truth and the Lord had shown her in the dreams of the night this elder; so that when he walked up to her door, stood on the steps with that book in his hand, she recognized him and said : "Come in, for I have seen you in a dream." 

I want to say to you again, brethren and sisters, men and women have had blessings pronounced upon their heads before this world was, and they are being fulfilled here according to the faithfulness of those who have received them. I have lived in company with the best men and women upon this earth.' I have associated at home with the leaders of this Church since the days of my appointment in the ministry some years ago, and in the mission field I have associated with boys and men and women who have been appointed to preach the gospel, and who have lived lives that give such radiance and influence as testify that they are sent of God and that there cannot be anything better on this earth. The influence of missionaries is 129 . I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, we are living in a precious time, and enjoying blessings that the world at large will never know. Happy is the man or woman who receives a call to go into the ministry and who fulfils it honorably and honestly, and who works for the good of the children of men. Many times when I have held conferences all day with the people, having later to leave in a few hours, I have said to the elders : "We will go out into the park of this city, as the night is hot, and I will visit with you, brethren; we will sit down upon the seats, draw them together, and I will spend my time with you until we have to separate." I want to tell you here today that I have received undeniable manifestations of God's power. I believe the angels of heaven have been with us; there is no influence, no spirit' more sweet than that manifested when those bo^s sit down and talk to you as they would talk to each other, ask questions and say : "We are glad to be here. We love you. We love the work of the Lord." 

I have said to those elders: "When you go into the field there is only one thing to do, and that is to work and pray. If you will pray in the morning and pray at night and keep at work, God will inspire you so that, although you, may be alone, you will be able to withstand the attacks of the adversary, with the power of a prophet, and with a power that has never been witnessed by you in all your life, and you will go home again clean and honorably released. It will be not only a pleasure to you, not only a gift of God unto you, but you will be a blessing to the people, to the boys  girls with whom you associate when you return." 

In my closing remarks I wish to say: If you fathers and mothers can extend the time of a missionary from twenty-four  months to thirty months, and give that boy six months more training in the field, you can not make a better investment while you are here upon the earth. I pray the Lord to bless us in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER THEODORE TOBIASON 

(President of the Swedish Mission.) 

Beloved brethren and sisters, I am pleased to have this opportunity to stand before you and bear my testimony concerning the great work in which we are engaged. It is only a short time since I came back from Sweden, and I am pleased with the opportunity of returning again, inasmuch as the servants of the Lord have seen fit to call me into the mission field. I trust that I shall be able to do some good while I am away, in bearing testimony to the restoration of the gospel of Christ, as we Latter-day Saints have received it. I am thankful for the gospel and for the Church of which you and I are members. I am thankful for the testimony which the Lord has implanted in my soul, and I know this is the work of the Lord. I know these, my brethren, whom we have had the privilege of sustaining at this conference are servants of God, called by him to stand at the head to direct his work in this dispensation and at this time. I can especially bear testimony, my brethren and sisters, concerning our beloved president. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I wish to relate an incident of which I have spoken two or three times before; but I want to bear you my testimony that God has' shown me that President Heber J. Grant is the right man in the right place. Some four weeks ago, in the temple of our God, at a fast meeting, the President was speaking. I was sitting on my seat, looking very intently upon him, as I do upon all speakers, desiring to hear all they say. All of a sudden, President Grant had disappeared; I did not see him, but I saw our beloved president, Joseph F. Smith, who departed this life a few months ago. I saw the mantle of the Prophet resting upon our beloved brother, and I thought that this was another testimony unto me that he was the right man in the right place. I had never doubted but what this was the case — never in the world. I know the order of the Church too well for that; but God made manifest unto me that the mantle of the Prophet had fallen upon President Grant, and he was indeed his legal and lawful successor. Several of my brethren and sisters have come to me, after I had spoken of this matter and even today, saying that ' they saw the same thing. I knpw this is true. 1 have heard some of the Saints tell, who were in Nauvoo at the time, or shortly after, the Prophet was martyred, how, when the Prophet Brigham Young was speaking, they saw the mantle of the Prophet Joseph Smith fall upon him, and they knew that he was the right man to stand at the head and lead Israel. I bear you my testimony, concerning our beloved president, . that that is the case now : the mantle of the prophet has fallen upon him. The spirit of the prophet is in his soul  in the souls of those of my brethren whom we have sustained here. I can sustain them with all my heart. 

Some people say: "Why, you folks are foolish to spend so much of your time in the missionary field. You are imposed upon by those who preside over you." I will say this, that when the prophet of God speaks, I obey. I would not think for a moment of making any excuses or of trying to get out of any duty or work that may be placed upon me, when the Lord says so and so is the case; we desire you to do so and so. 

I know that the gospel is true and that it is the power of God unto salvation for all those who will live in harmony with it. I know that in the gospel is the -only true freedom that can be enjoyed here on the earth. The Savior said, when many were finding fault with him, when many tried to catch him in his words, that there were some who believed in him, and he said to them : "If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed. And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." There is nothing under the heavens, nothing on the earth or anywhere else, nothing but the truth that can make men and women free. If they are made free in the truth and by the truth, they are free men indeed, and they are not slaves. It is because of this testimony that is within our souls that we know that God speaks through his servants, and we obey, not because we are slaves; no, but we are truly free men, and we know the voice of the Good Shepherd when we hear it, and strive to order our lives accordingly. 131 

May the Lord bless us, and help us all to be true and faithful. Let us never find fault, my brethren and sisters, with those whom the Lord has appointed, but let us sustain them with all our souls. If we hear anyone finding fault, let us. take them to task and show them the way to go; and if we will sustain his chosen servants on earth, the Lord will sustain us; he will honor us. The Lord delights to honor those who serve him in righteousness and in truth unto the end. May this be our happy lot, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

(President of the Mexican Mission.) 

. I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able this afternoon to briefly express my feelings and bear unto you the testimony that abides in me concerning the truthfulness of the work in which we are engaged. To those of us who come from the mission field,' from our labors in the world, it is a special treat to meet at these conferences and to listen to the teachings of the brethren who preside over us in the priesthood. I have thought as I have listened to the inspired words that have fallen from the lips of the speakers throughout this conference, that the prayer uttered by J. G. Holland, and mentioned by Elder Ivins in his remarks, has truly been answered in the men who surround us and stand at the head of the Church today; and as for that matter, I do not remember a time in my life when the same could not have been said of the authorities and the leaders of the Church. I was born in the Church; I spent my boyhood days  Salt Lake City, and it has ever been a delight to me to sit and listen to the teachings of the brethren of the apostles and the presidency of the Church, the first seven presidents of seventy, and those who minister among the people. I cannot remember the time when I did not know President Grant, and perhaps he never has known it, but from my boyhood days he has been an ideal of mine, a man that I have 1ooke r1 vmn as one that I might follow with safety. I am thankful to the Lord to have been permitted in this conference to stand upon my feet and raise my hand and covenant with the Lord that I will sustain him as a prophet, a seer and a revelator unto the Church, and the President of the Church. I mean, brethren and sisters, that I will do that. I shall sustain him, and I shall sustain the brethren associated with him, and all the appointments that he makes. I am willing to recognize in him the mouthpiece of the Lord, and when I receive a call from him to go or to come, I shall consider it ?s coming directlv fro'-n the Lor*-'. I can answer that I will go where he wants me to go, and stav when he wants me to stay. 

I rejoice in the gospel; I know that it is true. My heart goes out today to the people who are not acauainted with these truths, to the people who are not acquainted with the gospel, to the great number of our Father's children in the world who have not yet received a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, who are, in a measure, in darkness. My great r'esire is to continue to labor faithr -- n " and humbly in the preaching of the gospel and to teach the people of the world the wav to live, teach them the truth bv which they might GENERAL CONFERENCE.  made free and the path which they might follow to find a way back into the kingdom of our Father in heaven. It seems to me, brethren and sisters, as I have noticed conditions in the world, that there never was a more opportune time than the present for the preaching of the gospel. It seems there never was a time when it was more needed than it is today; ana, I do not know whether I have felt just right about it or not, but n seems to me that the time is near at hand when the Church will be called upon to do, even more than it has done in the past in the preaching of the gospel unto the people of the earth. I find, in parts of the United States where I have traveled, where missionary work has been done off and on ever since the Church was organized, that there are many people who have no knowledge of the gospel, who hive "ever had its principles explained unto them. There is a lick of laborers in the vineyard; there '.s room for many, many more than those who are now engaged in the ministry. 

My particular work, brethren and sisters, has been to the Mexican people. I realize very well the odium and almost hatred under which the people of Mexico are laboring today, because of the conditions that exist in their country. But T want to tell you, brethren and sisters, that they are the Lord's children and the Lord loves them. Further than that, they are his covenant people. I wish to explain to -.0-1 this afternoon that the Mexican people along with the Indians of Vorth America and the people of Central and South America are the Lamanites. They are the people- who are the descendants of 

Lehi, through his disobedient sons, Laman and Lemuel. But they have the promise of the Lord extended to them. I would like to read to you this afternoon to explain our relationship as a people to this branch of the Lord's covenant people; for I sometimes feel that we forget that the gospel is unto all the world. We forget, some of us, at least, that the Lord is able to raise up even those who are downtrodden and down-cast, and who labor under a curse, as these people do. I wish to call your attention this afteroon to our responsibilities before that neople. We realize our responsibilities, pretty well, I take it, with reference to the people of other nations; but I find many people who say to me, in referring to the people among whom I have labored : "Would it not be a good thing for the Lord to wipe them off the earth and people their country with somebody else?" It touches my heart. I love the people among whom the Lord has called me to labor, and I desire to continue to labor for their uplift and for their redemption. I take hope in the fact that the Lorcl has promised that they should be redeemed from their fallen condition, and I feel a responsibility because he has also said that their redemption should come at the hands of the Gentiles, people among whom the fulness of the gospel should be restored. Nephi, in explaining to his brethren a vision received by his father, said : 

"Behold, I say unto you, that the house of Israel was compared unto an olive-tree, by the Spirit of the Lord which was in our fathers; and behold are we not broken off from the house of Israel? and are we not a branch of the house of Israel? 

"And now, the, thing which our 133  meaneth concerning the grafting in of the natural branches through the fulness of the Gentiles, is, that in the latter days, when our seed shall have dwindled in unbelief, yea, for the space of many years, and many generations after the Messiah shall be manifested in body unto the children of men, then shall the fulness of the gospel of the Messiah come unto the Gentiles, and from the Gentiles unto the remnant of our seed: 

"And at that day shall the remnant of our seed know that they are of the house of Israel, and that they are the covenant people of the Lord; and then shall they know and come to the knowledge of their forefathers, and also to the knowledge of the gospel of their Redeemer which was ministered unto their fathers by him; wherefore they shall come to the knowledge of their Redeemer and the very points of his doctrine, that they may know how to come unto him and be saved. 

"And then at that day will they not rejoice and give praise unto their everlasting God, their rock and their salvation? Yea, at that day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment from the true vine? Yea, will they not come unto the true fold of God? 

"Behold, I say unto you, Yea; they shall be remembered again among the house of Israel; they shall be grafted in, being a natural branch of the olive tree, into the true olive tree; 

"And this is what our father meaneth; and he meaneth that it will not come to pass until after they are scattered by the Gentiles; and he meaneth that it shall come by way of the Gentiles; that the Lord may shew his power unto the Gentiles, for the very cause that he shall be rejected of the Jews, or of the house of Israel." 

We see, then, by this, my brethren and sisters, that the mission of redeeming - that people is resting upon our shoulders; for I testify to you this afternoon that I know that the gospel of the Redeemer has been restored unto us, and that through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith the Church of' God has been organized and ex upon the earth. The gospel is here and with it the powers thereof. The power of the holy priesthood exists in the Church today, the right to call men to repentance, the right, the commission of God to man to call men to repentance and administer in all of the ordinances necessary for the salvation of men. I testify to you further, that I know that an angel of the Lord delivered to this same Prophet the golden record written by prophets of an ancient day, from which this book was translated, and I testify to you that I know that the Book of Mormon Is the word of God, it contains the gospel of the Redeemer, and it speaks of our duties towards the descendants of this people. Brethren and sisters, just one more word before I conclude: 

"And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews and the Gentiles. For after the book of which I have spoken shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up again unto the Lord there shall be many which shall believe, the words which are written, and they shall carry them forth unto the remnant of our seed. 

"And then shall the remnant of our seed know concerning us, how that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are descendants of the Jews. 

"And the gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them; wherefore, they shall be restored unto the knowledge of their fathers, and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ, which was had among their fathers." 

I sense the responsibility of this call, my brethren and sisters, and I trust that my ministry will bear out the testimony that I have giveri here today, that I do love them, and that I desire to serve them; for I know that in serving them and endeavoring to bring them to a knowledge of the Lord I am GENERAL CONFERENCE.  him and that I will get my reward. I am thankful to the Lord that young men are being called today to labor in the Mexican mission and among the Indians throughout the Southwest of tht United States, over whom I, perhaps, shall have the honor of presiding. I would like to say to the young men of Israel, do not deem it a misfortune to be called to labor among that people; it is a grand, a glorious privilege, and not a cross, that has come to you. 

O, boys, try to get the spirit of it, to live up to the hymn that has been sung during this conference, and believe it when you say, "I'll go where you want me to go, clear Lord, I'll do what you want me to do, I'll say what you want me to say." 

O, you mothers, let your boys go out with the spirit of service m their hearts, not with a desire to acquire polish, to get an education, and to come home and shine as bright lights, but encourage them through your letters to them, to go out and to feel after those who are out there who are in darkness, those who are hungering and thirsting after righteousness, those who need the spiritual food that can be administered unto them by none others than the members of this Church who have the priesthood of Almighty God, and the right to minister and call men to repentance, to baptize for the remission of sin. I want to tell you that the man who goes out in the spirit of true service will come back greater than the man who goes out expecting and aiming to get polish. We are told in the book of Doctrine and Covenants that we should not go out to be taught. I think sometimes we should not go out to learn. We  told distinctly we should go out to teach. We are supposed to know, we are supposed to have a knowledge of the truth, and we are supposed to have a testimony ana be able to teach the world that by which it may be saved. 

I want to testify that I know that God lives, that Jesus is his Son, that he came in the meridian of time, that he is the Redeemer of tht world; and I testify to you further that I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet and that through him the gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation, is established again in the world. I testify to you that I know that the men who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph Smith, as seers and revelators and prophets unto this Church, are indeed prophets, seers and revelaators. I testify further that I know that Heber J. Grant, who stands at the head of the Churcn today, is God's mouthpiece unto not only the Church, but the whole world, and whatever the Lord has to say to the world today, he will say through that instrumentality. May the Lord bless us and help us to thank him for a prophet, and to show our thankfulness by obedience to the words that shall come to us from him, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

(Presiding Bishop of the Church.) 

I have very much enjoyed this conference and the spirit of it, and I know that the Saints will return from these gatherings with a feeling in their souls that the Lord is with his people, the Latter-day Saints, and he is still at the helm. I believe the Lord is pleased witn 135  Church as a whole. I think that will be the opinion of the brethren and sisters who leave this conference, who have been attending faithfully at these meetings. 

There has run through the sermons, the addresses, the remarks of the brethren who have spoken, this thread of thought that there will' soon be a great spiritual awakening in the world and a great missionary movement in the Church, which will go out from the Church and accomplish more than has ever hitherto been accomplished in its history. I believe in that thought. I have felt that spirit and influence from the day that President Grant was made President of the Church. The world begins to see what wt hav€ to give. If I were asked to state what is the greatest need of the world today, I would answer in these words : "The knowledge ot God." There be lords many and gods many. Men have ideas of God and godliness in multitudinous forms; but to know the only true and living God — that is the greatest need of all the world today. It is he whom we worship; it is he whom we serve. Within this Chur&h of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — and only within this Church — is the key of the knowledge of God. Herein is salvation for you and me, and salvation for all the world. In this book, the Doctrine and Covenants, are covenants and commandments, doctrines and principles, which form the only league that will ever enforce peace in all the world. Herein we are told of the doctrine of obedience, and we try to follow it. We are told of the doctrine of community and social life, and we try to live according to those precepts. The government of the 

Church, the government of the people, the organization of the Church and of the priesthood quorums supplementing the work of the civil government, is far better and greater in every way than anything that man has ever yet known. There is salvation in it all. No man of himself can teach it. He must have the influence and the spirit of it, ana there goes with this work, with these quorums of the priesthood, with these organizations in the wards and branches and stakes and missions, a spirit, an influence and a power that are of God, that man cannot give, that man cannot take away, and of which the world does not know. Therein is the key, as we are told in this book of revelation — the key of knowledge of God whom to know is life eternal. 

Organized under this leag'ue, this covenant, you have the true organization from the Lord which will bring peace. Oh what peace! A peace that passeth understanding. It is good for my soul; it is gooci for you and for all mankind. When this is established, we will have a society extending and growing where there will be no I. W. W. or labor troubles. Why? Because in this league and covenant, the doctrine is laid down that the idler shall not eat the bread of the laborer. Everyone shall work and labor according to his strength and his ability. Therein is salvation, and no salvation outside of that. 'We are told in this league and covenant how we shall conduct ourselves in our homes, as we heard from Elder McKay yesterday; what we shall eat, that is good for us, and what we shall drink or abstain from drinking. We are told that we shall retire early and rise early, and how we GENERAL CONFERENCE.  live, in order to prolong- our lives and be strong and healthful. The Lord tells of this in this covenant; for, as the Lord says, it a man is faithful in receiving these priesthoods, and keeping the commandments of the Lord, his body shall be renewed; his strength will be renewed beyond his years, so that he shall live to be aged and strong like President Penrost? and President Lund and many others that we have in our community. We are told how to regulate our family life, how to govern and control our children, and teach them how to pray. In all the affairs of life, in all the activities with which we have to do, we may turn to this book, and here find instruction. Here is guidance, here is direction, here is complete salvation, and nowhere else than here. The authority of the Holy Priesthood of the Son of God is here. The Lord whom he has chosen, and as Brother Joseph Fielding Smith said yesterday, a truth that we ought to know and remember always — that no man will ever come to the presidency, of this Church unless the Lord wants him to be there. Don't forget that. 

Now there is a great work to do. I ask myself : am I doing m> share? In the olden times I know our parents went through great trials and made great sacrifices. In the days of the early apostles of this Church they made great sacrifices. Read of the time, in 1838 and '39, when the Lord told the Twelve to go over the great water, to go to England and establish missions. The conditions in which they left their families and the conditions under which they went, and stayed and returned, were all very . The sacrifice that our fathers and mothers made in the building up of this country were very great. But are you making any particular sacrifice now? Am I making any particular sacrifice? I do not know that I am. We go out to the conferences and preach here and there, we talk to the Saints; we are well cared for. We have good beds in which to sleep, and when we are hungry we are furnished the best that the land affords, for us to eat. I do not call that much of a sacrifice. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, let us ask ourselves the question, and members of this Church everywhere, how much of a sacrifice am I making for the work of the Lord today? Are vou? Not very much, as a rule. There is a sister here and there, a widow woman perhaps, here and there, with her son out on a mission. She is working hard to .sustain that son, she is making some sacrifice — a thousand times more than I am. Such as she are making sacrifices, but with you and me, and the rest of us, it is different, for we are not sacrificing very much. It is time that we should get it into our hearts that we, too, can make some .sacrifice, we, too, can help to do something to build up .the kingdom of God. There is a world to save, and herein I repeat, is the plan of salvation, and the only plan, the only salvation for the world is here in this league and covenant, which shall take in all the nations, in time. "For it shall come to pass," says one' of old, "that every knee .shall bow and every tongue shall confess" — confess what? "Confess that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of God the Father." O, I hear it said sometimes : "We have warned the 137 

' world." We have, have we? Why, 

since President W~~ out 

as a missionary, and since President Penrose started as a missionary, don't you know there have been two generations of men and women who have risen and fallen since then? There is a new generation now, and freedom has come to rule the world instead of force. That is the principle that has been fought out in the Great War that is now happily closing — that freedom shall rule, and that the rule of force shah never again assert itself for any length of time in this world. The great German poet Goethe saw this clearly, for in his play, "Faust," I think it is, he states it in these words, as I recall the translation. "This ancient truth" — very ancient truth, remember, older than the world itself — 

"This ancient truth still holds its course: 

If you adopt the rule of force, And boldly seek your chosen goal, You risk your own, your all, your soul." 

So the rule of force, by which the German emperor sought to dominate the world, has been vanquished, whipped, destroyed; ana freedom has come now to all the world. There are generations of men and women growing up who have never heard the sound of this gospel. Cannot you do something? Cannot I do something? Am I not willing to sacrifice something that they may hear" this message? They are the children of my Father, my God. They are my brothers and sisters. Just consider what out Father says he sacrificed for you and for me : "Gad so loved the world" — do you love the world? Your son has been sent out, not voluntarily perhaps, some may  volunteered, but generally they were conscripted, but they have g'one and they have offered their lives for their country. Wasn't it a sacrifice? It was, and a great one, even when they return with their lives; but God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son that mankind might not perish but have everlasting life. That is the sacrifice he made; that is the sacrifice his Son made. Are we willing, am I willing, are you and all of us willing to make any sacrifice further for this work, this great cause, this great missionary movement and effort that is upon the Church, or will be, whereby mankind may be saved and come to a knowledge of the Son of God? The key of that knowledge of God rests with you. Men may think they know him; men may try to understand him; but by and with the organizations of this Church and through the authority of the holy priesthood, the power of godliness is manifested to men in the flesh; but without this priesthood — so says this league and covenant — "without this priesthood and tne ordinances of the gospel, the power of godliness is not made manifest to men in the flesh." You have that knowledge. Shall we not share it, shall we not do something and say something to spread this truth abroad? We sing and repeat the song, that we are willing to do; but how much am I doing? Not much. Doing may be according to my years and* strength and ability, what I am called to do; but I am making no particular sacrifice, I don't count it so, for a moment. On the contrary, I have been greatly benefited because of my connection with the Church. The Church has helped me infinitely more than I GENERAL CONFERENCE.  ever be able to help it. And I see presidents of stakes and leaders of the people in this Church everywhere who likewise have been benefited greatly because of the positions they have been called to fill in this Church. Who among us has the Church not helped? Who among us all can say that the Church has not been a foster father and a blessing in every way. So the Church has made me. Cannot I do something for the Church? The Lord has made us, and not we ourselves. Cannot we do something for him ? We are not doing a great deal yet. The Lord help us to re anew in our hearts that by and with the help of his Spirit wc will be willing to sacrifice if need be and show him that for mankind we will do something. We love his children because he loves them, even all the children of men. They are my brothers; they are your brothers; they are his children. God help us to appreciate that great fact and to live by every word thai proceedeth forth from the mouth of God, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 

Arnold E. Blackner sang a solo : "O Lord, Remember Me." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. 

I have in my hand a little book entitled Abraham Lincoln's Don'ts. I wish to read just two or three selections : 

SAYINGS FROM PRESIDENT LINCOLN. 

"I feel that I cannot succeed without the Divine blessing, and on the Almighty Being I place my reliance for support." 

"Two principles have stood face to face from the beginning of time and will ever continue to struggle. The one is the common right of humanity: the other is the divine right of kings." 

The common right of humanity has come very near achieving a complete and perfect triumph in the great war that is now closed. 

"Teach men that what they cannot take by an election they cannot take by war." 

"Take all the Bible upon reason that you can, and the balance on faith, and you will live and die a better man." 

"Never send a wrathful letter — burn it, and write another." 

WORK FOR A SUNDAY LAW AT THE NEXT LEGISLATURE. 

I wish that I could impress this sentiment which I am about to read, upon the heart of every Latter-day Saint who shall hear it : 

"Let reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles%n her lap; let it be taught in schools, in seminaries and colleges; let it be written in primers, spelling books and almanacs; let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in legislative halls, and enforced in courts of justice. And, in short, let it become the political religion of the nafion; and let the old and the young, the rich and the poor, the grave and gay of all sexes and tongues and colors and conditions sacrifice unceasingly upon its altars." 

And remember that God Almighty has told us to reverence the Sabbath day and to keep it holy. We have tried for years to get a Sunday law, but up to date, we have failed. The good representatives from the 139  counties have said : "If you want a Sunday law, you Salt Lake people enact it." We cannot get the men in the legislature to give it to us. We appeal to the good sisters who have the vote, to try and see that no one shall be sent to the legislature from this county or any other county, at its next session, who is not in favor of a Sunday law. (Applause.) 

MORE SELECTIONS FROM LINCOLN. 

"What's the matter with my two boys? Just what's the matter with the whole world. I've got three walnuts and each wants two." 

"The prudent, penniless beginner in the world labors for wages for a while, saves a surplus with which to buy land or tools for himself, then labors for himself another while, and at length hires another new beginner, to help him. This is the just and generous and prosperous system which opens the way to all, gives hope to all, and consequent energy and progress and improvement of condition to all." 

I wish to the Lord that this could be burned into the very heart of the I. W. W. 

ANONYMOUS LETTERS. 

I have received a lot of anonymous letters, since I became President of the Church, telling me a great many things that people would like me to announce here, positions they would like me to take, etc., to all of which I shall pay no attention. Any person who wishes to write me a letter and give me pointers should not be afraid to sign his name. 

KIND WORDS FOR THE GERMANS. 

I did, however, receive one letter from a good sister who signed her name, asking me to say some kind words, if I could do so, regarding the German people. She said it was generally understood, among many of the German Latter-day Saints, that I had hatred in my heart for the German people. I suppose that came from the fact that a year ago last April I spoke of infamous German conceptions, and paid my respects to the Kaiser, with all the force and ability with which God has endowed me. I quoted from that same inspired poet, Goethe, to whom Brother Nibley has referred here today. I did not quote from Goethe's very wonderful play "Faust," but from a simple little poem of four verses which I will read again: 

"There are three lessons I would write, 

Three words as with a burning pen, In tracings of eternal light 

Upon the hearts of men. 

Have faith, though clouds environ round 

And gladness hides her face in scorn, Put off the darkness from thy brow; 

No night but hath its morn. 

Have hope, where'er thy bark is driven, 

The calm distorts the tempest's mirth. Know this, God rules the Hosts of Heaven, 

The inhabitants of earth." GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I said last year, that I hoped Kaiser William will live to have these words burned into" his very brain. I guess he has learned that lesson, by this time, over in Holland : "Know this, God rules the Hosts of Heaven, the inhabitants of earth." I hope he has learned that simple truth. But there was a time when he thought he had so much power that he was going to rule the earth. Goethe closes his poem with this supreme declaration of love — a declaration in keeping with the teachings of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. 

Every German who believes in these inspired teachings of Goethe has my love and confidence, but the Germans who believe in force, and who sustained the Kaiser, do not have my love and my support. My remarks were concluded in such a way that I am astonished any good German would imagine I had any ill will toward the German people. I will read what I said a year ago last April : 

"In my anxiety to get through with as many items as possible in twentyfive minutes I came near neglecting to say one thing which I desire to say:" 

Those of you who were here will remember that I sat down and afterwards asked permission, of President Smith, to add a few remarks, and this is what I said : 

"I have never traveled with a man who impressed me more as loving God, and more determined to give to this work of our- Redeemer his life's labor, than did the late Karl G. Maeser. I believe that the men and women whom the gospel found in Germany, and who in all honor embraced it, are as loyal, as true, and as patriotic as any other people who have joined the Church of Christ. The night following my call for a mission to Japan I lay awake until after three o'clock in the morning, and in thinking of those who were aged, and whom I hoped and prayed might live until I returned, I thought of my own dear mother, of John R. Winder, of George Romney, of Karl G. Maeser, and of others whom- I loved with all my heart. I feel that the Germans who have embraced the Truth and who have the love of God and the love of our Redeemer in their hearts are as willing to go forth to battle against wrong and error as the people of any other nation who have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

"May the Lord help us who know the Truth to go on proclaiming it, and bringing people to a knowledge of the Redeemer, and teaching them to love their fellow men instead of robbing and killing them, is my prayer and desire, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen." 

Now that is exactly how I felt a little over a year ago, and I have not changed my opinion. God bless tlje German Latter-day Saints. I love them. I love the honest, the world over. I expect a bountiful harvest of souls in Germany. I believe that there are millions of people in Germany who have never sustained, in their hearts, the course that was taken by the ruling classes; but it would have been as much as their lives were worth for them to have dared to assert themselves in opposition to the men who were in power. I hope the time is near at hand when liberty will prevail, when there will be peace, as far as we can get.it — and efforts to that end 

"Have love — not love alone for one, But man as man thy brother call, 

And scatter as a circling sun Thy charities on all." 141  be put forth by a League of Nations, and the people will strive to the best of their ability to bring about that condition. When that time comes, I expect a reign of liberty in Germany, and there will be a great harvest of souls in that land. 

FATHER AND SON— TRAINING CHILDREN. 

When Brother E. Wesley Smith was speaking here this morning about the necessity of parents being one with their children, giving them proper teachings and knowing where they are, holding up to us the example of his father, I thought of two splendid poems in a little book entitled A Heap o' Livin'. As they contain some excellent thoughts on father and son, I decided to read them to you today. 

ANSWERING HIM. 

"When shall I be a man?" he said, As' I was putting him to bed. "How many years will have to be Before Time makes a man of me? And will I be a man when I Am grown up big?" I heaved a sigh, Because it called for careful thought To give the answer that he sought. 

And so I sat him on my knee, And said to him: "A man you'll be When you have learned that honor brings More joy than all the crowns of kings; That it is better to be true To all who know and trust in you Than all the gold of earth to gain, If winning it shall leave a stain. 

"When you can fight for victory sweet, Yet bravely swallow down defeat, And cling to hope and keep the right, Nor use deceit instead of might; When you are kind and brave and clean, And fair to all and never mean; When there is good in all you plan, That day, my boy, you'll be a man. 

"Some of us learn this truth too late; That years alone can't make us great; That many who are three-score ten Have fallen short of being men, Because in selfishness they fought And toiled without refining thought; And whether wrong or whether right They lived but for their own delight. 

"When you have learned that you must hold 

Your honor dearer far than gold; 

That no ill-gotten wealth or fame 

Can pay you for your tarnished name; 

And when in all you say or do 

Of others you're considerate, too, . 

Content to do the best you can 

By such a creed, you'll be a man." 

Edgar A. Guest. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

FATHER AND SON. 

Be more than his dad, 

Be a chum to the lad; 

Be a part of his life 

Every hour of the day; 

Find time to talk with him, 

Take time to walk with him, 

Share in his studies 

And share in his play; 

Take him to places, 

To ball games and races, 

Teach him the things 

That you want him to know; 

Don't live apart from him, 

Don't keep your heart from him, 

Be his best comrade, 

He's needing you so! 

Never neglect him, 

Though young, still respect him, 

Hear his opinions 

With patience and pride; 

Show him his error, 

But be not a terror, 

Grim-visaged and fearful, 

When he's at your side. 

Know what his thoughts are, 

Know what his sports are, 

Know all his playmates, 

It's easy to learn to; 

Be such a father 

That when troubles gather 

You'll be the first one 

For counsel, he'll turn to. / 

You can inspire him 

With courage and fire him 

Hot with ambition 

For deeds that are good; 

He'll not betray you 

Nor illy repay you 

If you have taught him 

The things that you should. 

Father and son 

Must in all things be one — 

Partners in trouble 

And comrades in joy. 

More than a dad 

Was the best pal you had; 

Be such a chum 

As you knew, to your boy. 

Edgar A. Guest. 

MISCONSTRUCTION AND MISAPPLICATION OF PUBLIC UTTERANCES. 

Some years ago I preached a sermon in this Tabernacle. At the close of the service, on my way home, between here and the Eagle Gate, six or seven men complimented me for "spanking in public" Brother Abraham H. Cannon who had spoken just before I did. Two or three 143  later some seven or eight men were in the President's office, and I was summoned before them and taken to task for "spanking" Brother Cannon. They were very angry. They were all Republicans, and all those who had complimented me were Democrats. Brother Abraham and I were there at this meeting, and I asked him if he knew that he was spanked. He said, no, he did not; and I remarked, "If I spanked you in public, I must have done it in my sleep. I quite frequently sleep when other people are talking; but, up to date, I have not learned to sleep while / am talking. I am not aware of saying one single, solitary word that reflected on what you said." 

I requested that those two sermons be published in the Deseret News, one following the other; that neither Abraham nor I be permitted to read them before publication. When they were published I was to appear at the President's office and I would make any apology that was necessary for spanking Brother Abraham in public. Brother Cannon and I read them to ourselves and then read them aloud, and we could not find one single, solitary word wherein I had found any fault with what he had said, neither could the Presidency. So I did not have to apologize. Do you know, it is a very easy matter for us to misconstrue what people say, and make such an application that it may appear partisan or as if itwere intended for personal advantage, in some way, shape or manner. 

ENDORSEMENT OF THE SPEECHES OF THIS CONFERENCE. 

I believe, as I believe the gospel, that all the speakers in this conference have spoken the honest sentiments of their hearts. I feel sure that the same may be said of those who spoke in the Assembly Hall and in the other overflow meetings, although I did not hear their remarks. I am confident all that has been said was intended for your good and my good, and for the advancement of God's kingdom here on earth. I endorse all that has been said here, by every speaker. I thank every man to whom I have listened, for the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord that has come to him. I thank the Saints from the bottom of my heart for their vote of confidence. 

A PLEDGE AND DECLARATION. 

I can pledge to you the best that is in me to fulfil ,the high and holy calling that has come to me, to exercise in righteousness the power of the Priesthood of the living God, which centers in me, and to administer my office as the Trustee-in-Trust, holding your property, to expend it and use it to the very best of the ability with which God shall endow me. I expect to counsel with my counselors, with the Twelve Apostles and with the Presiding Bishopric of the Church — the men to whom the Lord refers in the revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, naming the men who are to expend the funds of this Church; although I realize and know that legally and technically. I have the right to handle your funds personally, because of your vote, just as my predecessors have had that right. Yet I know that in a multitude of counsel there is safety, and I expect to have that multitude of counsel. 

Again I pray God to bless all Israel, and to bless all men and all GENERAL CONFERENCE. , the world over, who are honest in heart, who are prayerful, who are virtuous and who desire to do good. I pray God to have mercy on the sinners and to inspire them to repent. God bless you all, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang : "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

In announcing the hymn President Grant said: President Charles W. Penrose wrote this hymn at the time Johnston's army was coming to Utah to destroy the "Mormons." Apparently the army did not make a very good job 'of it, because we are here. This hymn, by President Penrose, was sung in many places in England, creating considerable enthusiasm. In the London conference alone over $3,000 were raised to pay the return fares of elders who were in England; that they might return to Zion and be among those who were to be "destroyed." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Seymour B. Young, senior president of the Council of Seventy. 

Conference adjourned until October, 1919. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing in the Tabernacle. Professor John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the organ as by Edward P. Kimball, and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken in the Tabernacle by Elder Franklin W. Otterstrom, assisted by Clyde Rasmussen; and in the Assembly Hall and at the Bureau of Information, by Elder Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. k Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of Conference. I HISTORY OF [ 

| THE CHURCH \ 

I iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim m 

Compiled by the Church Historians and §j 

Published by the Church g 

IN SIX VOLUMES | COMPLETING THE FIRST PERIOD 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with g 

introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 1 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the 1 

History by the First Presidency to secure the widest g 

possible circulation. g 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and 1 

Private Library should have a set. p 

Cloth — Embossed, Per Vol. $1.50 postpaid j 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per Vol 2.50 

Half Calf— Gilt Top, per Vol 2.50 j 

Full Morocco — Full Gilt Edge, per Vol. 4.00 | 

IIMMI1MIIHUIIM | 

Write for 1919 Catalog Free 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 1 

No. 6 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah | Two NewBooks Issued 1919 

GOSPEL DOCTRINE 

Selections from Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith. 

The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums have adopted GOSPEL DOCTRINE as a text for class study for the next two years. 

It contains 700 pages, with a photogravure Frontispiece and autograph of President Smith. 

Handsomely bound in cloth, $1.50 postpaid. 

Get the "Guide" to go with it. Price 15c. 

THE VITALITY OF MORMONISM, By Dr. James. E. 

Talmage 

A book you should read. Price $1.50. 

Write for 1919 Catalog Free 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 







