Morning
03 06 1919

Tabernacle on Tuesday, June 3, 1919. President Heber J. Grant, presided and called the congregation to order at 10 o'clock a. m. 

The choir and congregation sang "High on the mountain top." 

Prayer was offered by President Joseph R. Shepherd, of the Logan Temple. 

Mrs. Francisca Parkinson sang a solo: "My heart ever faithful." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am sure that all "the presidents of our missions have had the perfect love, confidence and respect, and the daily faith and prayers of all the Church leaders, as they have had mine, morning and night, for their success in the mission field, each and all of them. 

CONCERNING THE MISSION PRESIDENTS 

I regret to learn that in some sections there is a feeling that there must be something wrong or releases would not be given to the men who have labored so long, so faithfully, with such energy and zeal and with the inspiration of the Lord in the mission field. I desire to correct any such impression on the part of any of the Latter-day Saints. 

Some years ago it was the unanimous opinion of the Council of the Twelve that it would be fair to the men who had been many years in the mission field, to be released and to have the opportunity of re to 4heir homes. The Council so unanimously recommended, but further action on the matter was deferred. Soon after the death ot President Smith the Twelve Apostles again recommended to the presidency the honorable release of some of the men who had spent long years in the mission field. It so happened that this recommendation was made at a meeting where President Anthon H. Lund presided, and it so happened that Brother Heber J. Grant and Brother Charles W. Penrose were members of the quorum when the original recommendation was made. So you can plainly see that it happened to be .strictly unanimous with the First Presidency and all of the Twelve that we should honorably release some of our mission presidents. 

I want to say that they have labored with untiring zeal and energy; that they have ,gained not only the love, the confidence and respect of the* general authorities of the Church, but I am sure from my experience in travejing in all of their missions that they have gained the love and confidence of the people with whom they have labored; and because of that intense love, which has grown up in the hearts of the people for those who preside over them in the mission field, some of the Saints have been broken-hearted over the releases that have been made. I felt that it was only fair to say this. I want to say s that all of these brethren will always have a seat here and he counted as mi:5GENERAL CONFERENCE.  presidents. They have our love and our confidence. When I called for one of the brethren yesterday, he had to come from the gallery. He perhaps felt that, as his successor had been installed, this was not his place. But we expect those men always to come here. We expect to look upon them as faithful, diligent mission presidents. Whenever an announcement is made, from this stand that there will be a .special priesthood meeting to which presidents of missions are invited, it will include all of those who have presided and who are now released. We want them to feel that they belong with the mission presidents and are invited. I wanted to say this much. 

OUR CHAPLAINS IN THE ARMY 

As was read here yesterday in the statistical report, we were entitled to twenty chaplains and we only have had three. Two of these chaplains — Calvin S. Smith and Herbert Maw saw active service on the firing line. I understand that Brother Smith was wounded three times, and has been decorated for bravery. He is a son of President Joseph F. Smith. 

In that wonderful charge of the marines, at Chateau-Thierry, which will go down in history, where six thousand, two hundred out of eight thousand men were killed or wounded, one of President Francis M. Lyman's sons, named after your humble servant, lost his life. 

I wish to say here that the general authorities- of the Church are very grateful to General Richard W. Young who volunteered, although beyond the age limit, to accept the position of colonel in the army. He had a very excellent oversight and care of the boys from  state of Utah, and was .subsequently advanced to the rank of brigadier general. Our hearts go out in gratitude to him for again offering his services to his country, as he .did in the # Spanish American war, when he served in the Philippines. 

We are grateful to Brother B. H. Roberts, who also volunteered, notwithstanding he was beyond the age limit, and did splendid service in looking after our boys, as chaplain. He gained their love and their confidence and had an excellent influence over them for good. I desire to say- this much with reference to the patriotic service of these men. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

(President of the Southern State* Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters: I know that the mission presidents art. grateful to President Grant for hi.s complimentary expressions of love and confidence with reference to the retiring mission, presidents. From my heart — and I speak also for my companions — I can 'truthfully say that we have the deepest and sincerest love and confidence for the President of the Church, because we know that he is affectionately disposed towards the missionaries, and to all the people of God, and to the children of men generally. 

God's truth is marching on m the world. Through his servants, our heavenly Father is opening many effectual doors for the preaching of the gospel. The articles being published in many of the newspapers of the country —  which articles are contributed by Flder James E. Talmage, of the Council of the Twelve — are being 111  read. They are being read by statesmen and business men who are not easily reached by the traveling elders. A short time ago a newspaper in the south published a sermon delivered in this building, by Elder Orson F. Whitney. The sermon was received with great favor by the non-members of the Church. It created much interest in the gospel, and the state historical society of the state in which the newspaper is published, requested that I forward to them the standard works of the Church and such other information as would enlighten the people of the state generally upon the doctrines of the Church. "The swift messengers are treading Thy high courts where princes dwell, 

And thy glorious light is spreading, Zion prospers, all is well." 

The Apostle Paul said : "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal." 

My brethren and sisters, the missionaries who go forth into the world are imbued with deep love for the children of men. This love mav be called the spirit of their mission, and when an elder chances by neglect to lose that spirit, he becomes indeed as sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal; but thank God the cases where this misfortune occurs are few and far between. 

The Psalmist David said: "It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes. The law of thv mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver." Why? Be :  as David said: "The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple." The souls of these missionaries who go forth to preach the gospel are converted, and the souls of the Latter-day Saints are converted. They stand on a secure and firm foundation. 

Someone has said that we are sons, not pets; that we are to be treated with kindness, but not spoiled. So, my brethren and sisters, the experiences through which the Lord permits us to pass, or those experiences through which he leads us, will ultimately > result in our good; for, as the Apostle Paul said, "The Lord will make all things work together for good, to those who love him." The Latterday Saints are a great people because they believe, as the Savior said, "It is more blessed to give than to receive." It is not that which we receive which makes us great, but it is that which we give; and the spirit of sacrifice manifested by the members of this Church, is the spirit that makes them great in' the sight of God, great in the sight of good men and good women, and a power — an evangelizing power of great good in all the world. 

The Apostle Paul was told by the Lord that he must go before Caesar, and he embarked on a ship to accomplish that perilous journey. Me counseled the captain of the ship to stay in a certain place that winter because, there was danger in leaving that place : but this man did not obey his counsel, and the way of the counsel-breaker is hard. A certain navigator was asked by a passenger on a ship if he knew where the rocks were, "No," said GENERAL CONFERENCE. , "But I know where they are not." That is the safe guide, — not to look for sin, not to look for those evils, but to tread the path of life, the path of counsel, where we know that these sins and evils are not. Well, they disobeyed Paul's counsel, but the Lord told him that his life and the life of the passengers of the ship would be saved. The .ship's crew became fearful for their safety and they were about to abandon the ship, and leave it with its precious cargo to its fate; but Paul said to the centurian, speaking of the officers and the crew. "Except these abide in the ship, we cannot be saved." There is the lesson : except the apostles and prophets abide in the ship of Zion, we cannot be saved; for God has placed these men in his Church for the edification of his people, for perfecting them in the doctrines of Jesus Christ, for bringing the people to the unity of the faith. These men have been endowed with powers to perform sacred ordinances for the living and for the dead — which the Latter-day Saints regard as essential to their salvation^and without these men we cannot be saved in the fulness of salvation, in the enjoyment of the great boon . of eternal life. The Church is built upon the foundation of prophets and apostles, Jesus Christ, himself, being the chief cornerstone. 

Once in a certain harbor a mighty tempest arose and the commander wanted to get his fleet out in the open sea, away from the rockv and barren shores so that he would not be destroyed. The tempest knocked those ships about, and sailors were washed overboard. While the storm was raging with great furv, the commander at the most critical moment ordered the  to play the Star Spangled Banner. As the strains of that immortal national anthem went over the storm-tossed sea, the sailors took heart, they fought with redoubled energy, they battled with the elements with renewed strength, and those sailors, drowning in the sea, with the last vestige of their strength, raised their hands cind voices in praise of the flag and the Star Spangled Banner, the music of which was comforting their souls. In this Church, where stand the First Presidency and the Twelve, there is solid ground. On ether grounds are sinking sands. There need be no doubt. These servants of God whom we love will always sound the true notes, they will always cause the music of the gospel to be sounded to the comforting -and the salvation of the children of God. The poet's prayer, "God give us men," has been answered. He gave this nation men who went to a foreign shore and palsied the strong arm of autocracy. He has placed in this Church men of counsel, men of God, true shepherds of the people. God bless these men that they may ever remain in the ship of Zion, in the Church, to our comfort and salvation; and may we sustain them, with loving and loyal hearts, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON 

(Retiring President of the California Mission.) 

"Now I know that the Lord is greater than all g'Ods, for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly, he was above them." These are # the words of the Midianite High Priest, Jethro, to his son-in-law, 113 

Moses, the. great law-giver of ancient Israel. Aaron's rod had' budded, evolved into a serpent, ana had devoured the sacred snake of the Egyptians, their symbol ot kingly power and priestcraft. The river Nile, which they worshiped as a cleanser of sin and a healer of diseases, had become a loathsome thing. Hathor and Isis, and the sacred beetle had been brought to naught by the thunder, the hail, andthe plague of lice and flies. The frog which was supposed to be a purifier of water and upon which no man could tread even inadvertently and escape the penalty of death — had befouled their bedrooms, their kneading troughs, and had become a loathsome detestable plague. The great god Apis whom they worshiped in the temple at Memphis had doubtless died when the common cattle of the Egyptians died by pestilence. The great god Ra, who painted the flowers and ripened their harvests, had been darkened, and then Osiris himself, the god of life, was put to shame when the first-born among the Egyptians had been brought to death. When these things were related by Moses to his father-in-law, he declared, as I have read to you : "Now I know that the Lord is greater than all gods."  I can say, after nineteen years in the mission field : "Now I know that God is greater than all gods." I have seen the sick healed, the paraletic to leap with joy, the lame to walk, the eyes of the blind to see and the ears of the deaf have been opened, and angels have ministered to the sons of men. The prisoner has been visited and, when worthy, set free. The sick have been comforted, the dead have been properly cared for. The froward and unto of our youth, and their elders, too, who have left the body of the Church and have drifted Sut to the Coast to get away from themselves, and people, have been felt after and constrained to follow again in the paths of virtue and truth, and God has wonderfully magnified the weak things of the 'earth, his servants, the brethren and sisters engaged in the ministry. 

I welcome the respite tendered me by my release. I have interests at heart that need my direction more than the affairs of the mission field. Therefore, I am glad to come home to my loved ones, to come home where the House of God is builded, that perhaps therein I may have the chance to labor for my sacred dead. I am glad to come here where I may sit under the droppings of the sanctuary and be chastened' in judgment and instructed in words of life and salvation "by those men whom God hath chosen, and set at our head to direct the activities of his people and to shape the destiny of his Church. 

I am grateful and thankful for him who has been appointed to succeed me in the mission field, a man whom I have loved so long, and unto whom God has given such a wondrous testimony that few ever stirred my soul as his testimony has moved it in times past. -I feel that he will be kind to my faults, and that he will magnify what virtues I may have possessed in my presidency. It is delightful, it is gracious, my brethren and sisters, to be freed of the great responsibility that rested upon me, and to be one with you again. When I went into the field — and I may be pardoned perhaps for speaking half personally for once, as I am not wont to do it — but when I went into the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  field there were less than six hundred souls, about four hundred whom we knew and who were of record. I have had the privilege of seeing the work of God grow until there are five thousand enrolled; and from a few meager possessions, through the magnanimous generosity of the Trustee-in-Trust and the brethren at our head, and by the help of the faithful tithe payers among the mission Saints, and by donations that have come from goodly friends who have visited us, it has increased in properties to more than the sum of one hundred thousand dollars value. Many beautiful buildings have been erected, in which the name of God is named, and ground has been reclaimed' for Zion, that the name of our Lord should be declared therein and the Saints be dealt the bread of life. So whilst there cannot help but be some heart pangs at parting with loved ones and a man's life work, still there is rich compensation in their love and confidence in their expressions of good will and blessing, as there is a recompense in the kindly words and deeds which have been shown to me and mine by those who preside over us. 

This is the Lord's work it does not depend on any one man. God is at the helm. He will direct our efforts^ He will take care of his own; and although the sons of this generation, who know him not, may be wiser than the children of light, as the scriptures have said, God will magnify his people and their light shall shine; the Gentiles shall be brought to the gladness of its rising; and the day will come when every knee shall bow and every  shall confess that Jesus is the Christ. 

I have not only matured my faith in God but in his children, mankind at large. I love my Father's children. I confide in them, I trust them, many of them who are aliens to our faith and creed, but I find that they are truly the children of God. I have seen them under such conditions that evidenced this fact, that when brought to some dread extremity they realize, just as well as did . Peter, when, some disciples left the Master, because of his saying of himself, that he was the bread of life, which had come down from heaven, and he turned to them and said: "Will ye also go away?" and Peter answered, "Lord, to whom shalh we go? thou hast the words of eternal life, and we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God." When earthquake and fire laid waste our great city of the Coast I saw not only the saint, the priest, and the nun, but the wanton with her paramour, bend on their knees and ask God to deliver them from that dread thing which they felt hung over them, which no other hand could stay. There was no comfort in the dram shop; there was no power in riches, there was no succor by the hand of man; and then for once, at least, they were all made to realize that God is over all and that aside from him there is no help and no salvation. He will speak by fire and earthquake, by pestilence and plague when necessary, and happy are they who, even when thus chastened, turn unto him and live. I admonish you, my brethren and sisters, to fight the good fight, to keep the faith, to finish the 115 , that henceforth for you and all those who love God's appearing, there shall be a crown of righteousness which he will bestow upon his faithful ones. I desire, above all else that I shall be found faithful and true with you; that my guerdon shall be the one of eternal life, in the presence of my Redeemer, my King, my Lord, and my Savior, Jesus Christ, and I ask it in his name. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

(Of the Council of Seventy, and President of the California 

Mission.) « 

I have had some reminiscent thoughts passing through my mind while sitting in the congregation, my brethren and sisters, listening to the splendid words that have been spoken by the presiding authorities of the Church and by the mission presidents who have been called to address these conference meetings. It seems to me but a very brief time since I said farewell to a girl-wife and a little baby and went abroad as a boy missionary. Of course, quite a term of years has passed away since that time, but as I look back it seems a very brief period indeed. I was somewhat impressed today in thinking that, brief as the time appears to me, so far as I know, I am the oldest man with one exception of all the mission presidents in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, and I am impressed with the thought that time is passing very swiftly. President Joseph F. Smith ofttimes in speaking with reference to the mission presidents spoke of them as "boys." I don't know whether the present presidency of the Church looked upon  as a boy, like the other mission presidents, when they called me to the responsibility that has recently been placed upon my shoulders. I feel in some respects quite a boy, and in other ways not as boyish by any means as I was when I went upon my first mission. 

My heart is filled with gratitude today that my Father in heaven, in his wonderful kindness, gave me the privilege, in the days of my boyhood, to go abroad as a representative of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The experiences gained in the mission field during my first mission, convinced me beyond any question of doubt that I was not upon the errand of man, but that in spite of my lack of experience, and lack of worthiness, I had actually been called of God to preach the gospel of his Son, and that I had been endowed with authority, even the authority of the holy priesthood, and actually had the right to legally call men to repentance, and to administer unto them the precious ordinances of the everlasting gospel. The experiences gained, away back at that period, filled my heart with a joy and gladness that passeth all Understanding, just as the Savior promised to those who would take up their cross and follow him. 

During the peroid from 1881 to 1896, it was my blessed privilege to be called, upon three separate occasions, to go to the European mission as an elder of the Church. I thank God today for those calls. In all of those missionary labors, I had many very happy experiences, and saw the hand of God in a marvelous manner upon many occasions. I have had a happy life, my brethren and sisters, because of the gospel of the Redeemer of the world. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I have not accumulated very much of the good things of the world, but I am thankful to say I have always been quite comfortable. At times, of course, like many others, I could have wished for more of the things of the world, but in spite of this, I say again, I have had a most joyful and happy life, happy in the knowledge that I was a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and that this Church is indeed the Church of the living God. This Church is not a church established by the wisdom of men, but a Church established by the revelation and commandment of God. The knowledge of this truth has been with me" during these years, and has filled me with very great joy. I expect to be happy in the labors that shall come to me in the California mission. 

I realize, as has been intimated by President Grant, that the hearts of the people of California have been wrenched by the release of President Robinson. He has been with the people of the California mission for the long period that has been named. He has been kind and attentive to the people, laboring early and late for their advantage and blessing, and their hearts have gone out to him. I haven't any doubt but what it will be quite a difficult matter for some of the people of the California mission to accept the new president, but I sincerely hope that through the blessing of God, and by the companionship and direction of his Spirit, I also may be led to pursue such a course as shall be for the blessing of the people. I hope I may be able to keep in mind that I am sent to preach the gospel, and that I must call repentance among the people. 

Responsibility is upon me to bear record to those with whom I come in contact that Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God; and that mankind, through his name; and through the ordinances and principles of his gospel, can regain the presence of God. My understanding is that I am under obligation to bear record to the human family, that there is but one gospel. God, himself, so declared at the opening of this great dispensation. He has so taught by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, through the mouths of his apostles in the meridian of time, and all men who have received commissions to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, from my point of understanding, are under obligation to bear record of the truth, and show to men the way of salvation, and invite and persuade men to receive the principles of the everlasting gospel. 

I have a very great comfort in my heart today, my brethren and sisters, in the thought that I have the confidence and the blessing of these splendid men who are the leaders of Israel, to whom reference has been made by President Callis, and many others during our conference. I hope that through their help, and through the help of the people generally, and through striving to keep my feet in the straight and narrow path, I may accomplish some good in the preaching of the gospel. I thank God for the gospel. I thank God for the companionship of good men. How my heart has swelled, again and again, in the missionary field; as I have looked into the faces of my missionary companions, I have praised the name of God most* fervently that in his providence I was 117  to associate with the class of men who represent the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, abroad in the world, as preachers of righteousness. They have all been good men, clean men, sweet men, men who in their countenances, and by their conduct, have attracted the attention of their fellows who were not of our faith, and they have been able to see that there indeed was something about the "Mormon" elders that was different from the general run of men. I thank God such men have been my companions, and that I have been greatly blessed in their association. 

God be praised for the accomplishment of the promises that have been made by holy prophets both ancient and modern in regard to the work of the latter times. It seems to me that any man who desires to know, can know that God has introduced this work, his hand has been over the leaders of this people, and he has sustained them up to the present hour. He has magnified them and he has fulfilled all that any reasonble being could expect of the promises made by holy prophets in relation to the work of latter times. I thank God that there is in my soul a disposition to uphold the authority of God. I love to honor that authority, and am thankful that at this moment I can say in all truth, before God, and this congregation, that my heart, my confidence, and my love go out to President Heber J. Grant today in just as full and complete measure as it went out to his great predecessor, President Joseph F. Smith. For I have in my soul an absolute assurance that God has brought President Grant to the presidency, and that the spirit and  of the great calling that has come to him will be upon him in just as full and rich measure as it has been upon those who have preceded him; it could not be otherwise, because it is the work of God, and God hath wrought this thing. God's blessing, and power, and inspiration, and wisdom, will be manifested today, just as it has been in the past, and so it will continue forever and ever. So hath God said, and he, the scriptures say, shall be true, and his word true, though all men may be liars. , God help us to love the truth, to magnify our callings, to keep the commandments of God, to preach the gospel, to win souls from the darkness that is in the world to the truth that has been revealed, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. 

It has been decided to open a new mission to be known as the "Canadian mission, being taken from part of the Eastern states and the Northern states missions. Elder Nephi Jensen- has been sustained by the presidency to preside over that mission. We will now hear from Elder Jensen. 

ELDER NEPHI JENSEN 

(President of the Canadian Mission.) 

I hope I shall be pardoned if I tell a semi-humorous story to take the strain off my mind. 

A certain man, charged with a crime, presented himself at the bar of justice, and the court asked him if he had a lawyer. He said, "No, your honor." The court then said, "You are entitled to counsel, and if GENERAL CONFERENCE.  cannot afford to employ an attorney, the court will appoint you one." The accused man said, "I don't think I shall need any lawyer, because I am going to tell the truth" (laughter). I think a great many of the men who have been my clients in the last ten years will have to tell the truth for a little while, or else employ other counsel. 

I am deeply grateful to my Heavenly Father for the confidence which the authorities of the Church have seen fit -to repose in me; and I want to tell you, in the depths of humility, that I feel altogether inadequate to the task that has been assigned me. Never in my life have I been so deeply humbled. I recall that a few days after President Grant first spoke to me about this labor, a near relative of mine called me on the 'phone, and I asked her how she felt. "Well," she said, "I have got the grumbles." I told her :  "I have a burden on my shoulders now, so big, that it has crushed the grumbles all out of me. 

Today I feel like saying in my heart, as Elder Ballard has so frequently sung: 

"I'll go where you want me to go, 

dear Lord, I'll say what you want me to say, I'll do what you want me to do." 

I know that the gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation. I have not obtained this knowledge from books. And yet I have lived with books for a quarter of a century. I stand here today and say with all candor that if I had to choose between forgetting the witnesses of the truth which have come to my heart through the Spirit of God, and what I have  from books, I should gladly choose to remember that God has told my heart that this is the work of God, and forget what I have read in all the books. 

I was deeply impressed with the thought expressed by President Callis this morning, concerning the fact that the elders who go out to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ have been converted. I am an ardent believer in the doctrine of the conversion of the soul. A short time ago, out of curiosity, I read Ernest Haeckel's Riddle of the Universe, and I noted that in one of the closing chapters of that famous — I was about to say infamous — book the statement that one of the Greek philosophers, years before Christ ministered among the children of men, taught the Golden Rule. The skeptic, Ernest Haeckel, gave out the inference that this Greek philosopher was greater than Jesus Ghrist. I thought about it at the time, and have thought about it more since reading the book, and I have figured it out this way: The Greek philosopher, whom Ernest Haeckel mentioned, taught men how to think; Jesus Christ taught men how to pray. Thoughts may bring to us information, but prayer can lift the human heart so close to God that its evil and carnal nature will be destroyed. What this world today needs is men who fight less and pray more. What this world needs is not so much a political revolution as a heart revolution, and I believe with all my heart that there is only one thing that can put the pieces of this distracted world together, and that is the power of God. 

We need, in this world, what the Prophet Joseph Smith found in the 119  ninety-nine years ago. On that memorable day that flaxenhaired boy stood in the presence of God and his son Jesus Christ; and when his prayer was answered, he stood forth among men a veritable king. He knew what the kings of the earth did not know. He knew what the philosophers did not know. He knew what the scientists did not know. He knew God, whom to know is life eternal! 

The faith that boy discovered that day is the only power that will heal this bruised world. The faith that he discovered that day is the power that will transform the human heart. The faith that he discovered that day will take out of a human heart its hatred, and put into the human heart the love of God, the one thing which will ennoble the human race and bring lasting civilization among the children of men. 

My brothers and my sisters, I rejoice with all my heart in the knowledge I have that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. Every time I think about the subject I am reminded of a conversation I had with one of the grandest men who ever lived. I refer to the late Jesse N. Smith, who happens to be my father-in-law. He was at my home a short time before he passed to the other side. One evening he became reminiscent. He talked about the things in this world that had made his heart glad. He spoke of Joseph Smith; and as he referred to that great man, tears came into his eyes. 

I said to him : "You become eloquent when you talk of the Prophet Joseph Smith." With a grandeur in his soul that I shall never forget, he said: "Why shouldn't I? It is the darling theme of my heart." 

God grant that it may be the darling theme of my heart and your hearts. For our greatest heritage is the faith and the truth that has come down to us from that prophet of God. God help us to appreciate this heritage — "lest we forget, lest we forget." 

God help us to bear the burdens which have been placed upon our shoulders. God make our hearts humble that we may have communion with his Spirit, in the name of. Jesus Christ. Amen. 

David Rees sang a tenor solo : "Hosannah." 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I would like to endorse what was said here by Brother Jensen about his father-in-law. One of the grandest men I have ever known in my life was Jesse N. Smith. He has left one of the largest and most splendid families that I know of in any of the stakes of Zion. It is just such a family as that of President Joseph F. Smith. I have walked more miles and conversed more with Jesse N. Smith than with any other president of a stake of Zion. He was a regular encyclopedia of knowledge. He read Bancroft's History of the Native Races as the volumes came from the press the way I used to read the New York Weekly Ledger, when a boy. Jesse N. Smith I believe was the best read man of all the men with whom I have been acquainted; yet, thank the Lord, he felt, as Brother Jensen has expressed himself, that his reading was of no value to him in comparison to the testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Really I could never quite understand, when GENERAL CONFERENCE: 

I was a young man, and the junior apostle and used to travel hour after hour, walking through the sands of, Arizona with Jesse N. Smith, why in the world the Lord did not choose him for an apostle instead of me. He told me one thing that I endorsed and that was this: he said that from his reading and studying he believed that ''America has produced two wonderfully great and grand statesmen, far above all others, and they both came from Illinois; one was Abraham Lincoln, and the other was Daniel H. Wells. I remember having heard Brigham Young say that Heber C. Kimball was his prophet, and Daniel H. Wells was his statesman. 

ELDER E. WESLEY SMITH. 

(President of the Hawaiian Mission.) 

The .desire of my heart is that I may have an interest in your faith and prayers while occupying this position. When President Grant informed me that I had been chosen to preside over the Hawaiian mission I was almost paralyzed; for. I know my weakness, but I have faith in God, and I have a testimony that this is the work of God. I have faith' and confidence in my brethren. I know that they have been called to these " positions through revelation from God, and my faith tells me that God will not call any man to a position in his service and not sustain and assist him, if the man will put himself in a position to receive assitance from the Lord. I love the Lord and I love the work of the Lord. I delight in doing those things that may bring my fellow men, associates, and friends, to a knowledge of the . It is my heart's purpose and desire to go into the mission field and accomplish all that is in my power to accomplish. 

In going out to that land, I go to a field of labor where I commenced this life. During the time when this Church was persecuted, when the leaders were under great distress on account of polygamy, my father was- advised to depart from Zion together with my mother, and they went to the Hawaiian Islands. There they served in the work of the Lord with that people. They were there in distress, and it was well, under those circumstances, that I was sent to them. I appreciate the fact that I had been detained on the other side until that day when, during a time of grief and sorrow and distress, I could come into the world and gladden my father's heart. It so happened that when I came into the world I had red hair. This was something new to the Hawaiian people. As you know, they are a dark race, and when they viewed the little red head upon the pillow, they called that baby Kananiolaiekaweheweheolanihuli, which means that I was born in the home of Lanihuli at Laie on the island of Oahu; and they called me Kaweheweheolanihuli, which means the opening up or ushering in of the glory of Kananiolaie. 

My father was called as a missionary to the. Hawaiian Islands when he was an orphan boy, fifteen years of age, with little brothers and sisters. He departed for thai journey in a company of nineteen others, riding his little pony from this valley as far as San Bernardino, California. There he labored in a mill, making shingles, sold his horse and obtained enough means 121  take him, with the other elders, as far as San Francisco. There they entered into an enterprise buying a boat, thinking they could rig out the same and depart for their field of labor. After they had worked for some time, and spent their means in preparing this boat, it was condemned as unseaworthy. They lost their means, they lost their time, and again they had to set about earning means to go ovei to the mission field. 

I have heard father relate many times how he labored as a carpenter in San Francisco, building homes on the sand hills there, and finally purchased passage in the hold of an old sailing vessel. The elders took straw from the manger, bedding from the mules that were being conveved on the ship, and spread this forage upon the barrels and cargo, and that was their bed. When he arrived in the Hawaiian Islands, the natives there took kindly to him, and they adopted him. There was Napela, one of the great leaders among that nation. He called this boy to him and said : "Iosepa, my home is your home. This horse is your horse; use it." For four years he labored in that mission. He was humble and submissive. In one hundred days from the day he landed there, he commenced his mission work in earnest. He was able to converse in the Hawaiian tongue. Three months practically of this time was spent on a sick bed, suffering from break-bone fever. He learned to love that good people and they loved him. This love that was established in his heart, as a youth, continued to grow and develop until he was released from this life. It was his desire and ambition to live until he could .see the comple of the temple there, and perhaps take part in its dedication, but it was not to be. Therefore, I feel honored in being called to that land, perhaps to represent him 

As the brethren have expressed themselves, I also feel to join in the sentiment of the song that Brother Ballard sings so well : "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, I'll do what you want me to do, and I'D say what what you want me to say." 

I might tell you a little concerning the Hawaiian people, among whom I expect soon to labor. Then you may understand why it was that father loved them so much. We read in John 10:16, that the Savior was preaching to the Jews, soon after he had performed a miracle in opening the eyes of the blind. They ridiculed him, made light of his teachings, and would n,ot listen to them. He l/ikened them unto his sheep. He told them that his sheep knew his voice; that he was the gate; that he was their shepherd. And when he saw that they hardened their hearts against him, and would not listen, for they thought they were the only chosen people in the world, the Savior tokl the" 1 - 'A«d other sheep I have, which are not of this fold : them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd." Then he said : "Therefore doth my Father love me because I lay down my life, that I might take it up again." "No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it up again." When he told them: "This commandment I have received of my Father," they knew not what he meant. They had supposed that he meant the Gentiles when he said: "other sheep;" but he did not meant this. For after he had been crucified and risen and ascended to God on high,- he appeared to the othei sheep, whom he had mentioned —  the Nephites on this continent. He displayed unto them the wounds in his hands, the wound in his side, and revealed unto them what he had said to the people in Jerusalem. He repeated unto them the words, and said : "Ye are the sheep. When I said, other sheep I have which are not of this fold, thy brothers at Jerusalem knew not what I meant." 

The Savior went on to relate incidents to them after the organization of the Church, after choosing' his apostles in that land. Then he said : "Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; they also should hear my voice." In the 38th reign of the Judges, during the time that Zebulon was the historian, it is recorded there of a man named Hagoth, who was a curious and venturesome man, that he builded many boats, and these boats departed off into the mighty deep, and he said the people "heard not of them again." They supposed that they had been swallowed up in the deep. 

The Hawaiian people relate m their history a tradition that they came from Kaaina ka hiki, which means an eastern land, endeavoring evidently, as they did, to sail along the northern coast, having the ships embarked on the western coast of South America near the narrow neck of land, the isthmus of Panama. They were evidently carried by the trade winds and shipwrecked, so that thev landed on the islard of Hawaii. There they lived and grew and developed into a.  people; but they dare not venture to go back again to their native land, for fear of destruction. In later years, however, they became more courageous; the Spirit of the Lord was poured out upon them, and they endeavored to return. But instead of finding themselves back upon the promised land, they again sailed westward ana multiplied and populated the Pacific isles from Hawaii as far as New Zealand. The old tradition relates how the Savior appeared and ministered unto them; how he taught them righteousness and noble principles; how they saw the wounds in his hands and in his feet; that when he departed from them, it was with a promise that he would return again to rule and reign in righteousness upon the earth, to be their King and their God. They look forward to the coming of tnt Son of God, earnestly praying for the time when he shall rale and reign. 

We learn that Captain Cook, in his travels, came upon that land. He found a noble people. Though they had departed from Christianity, still they believed in God; they believed in the great God, Lono, and they thought that he, with his boat had sailed to them. They thought Captain Cook was that great God. They worshiped him and looked on him as a God, but he was guilty of wickedness and his people had the plan that had been handeo down through tradition to them. His works were evil. He broke and desecrated their laws. When they saw that, they concluded that he was not the great God, Jesus, but that he was the being from the other world, the world of evil .smirks. Thev thought he was Satan. Finally, during a parade on 123  isle of Hawaii, on the west coast, Captain Cook was accidentally injured, and as he uttered a shriek of pain, and they saw the. blood from his arm, they knew that he could be hurt, that he was not God, and so fell upon him and slew him. We are told that they cut his heart from his body and offered it as a sacrifice. 

Later on, the gospel message was taken to that people. They accepted it because they knew it was true. The Lord had said : "M> sheep know mv voice, and when they hear my voice, they shall rejoice;" and when the Hawaiian people heard the voice of the true shepherd, sent there with the holy priesthood and the power of God, to preach unto them, they knew by that voire that it was the voice of the Shepherd, It sank into their hearts and .they believed. Today you can travel over the Pacific isles from Hawaii to New Zealand, and you will find that they are all Crktians, they all believe in God. O.tr work now is to convert them to the true form of Christianity, and make them Latter-day Saints, that they might have a fulness of the gospel; that they might go on, learning day by dav the principles of the gospel, until they shall be exalted in the kingdom of heaven. 

I rejoice in, the fact that a temple has been erected there, and I trust that the Lord will bless and magnify the elders laboring in that field so that they may be inspired to teach the people, to trace their genealogy, that they may be able to find their lineage, because it will be a difficult matter to do. But this work can be accomplished in the house of the Lord, and many shall rejoice and rise up and call the name of the Lord blessed. 

I have a testimony that thi's is the work of the Lord, and I rejoice to be in his service. I have labored three years in the Hawaiian Islands as a missionary. The past five years I have spent in the California mission, serving there under the direction of President Robinson. I love him; he has been a power and a strength to me. He has encouraged and blessed me. He has been to me as a father. I have been in his home and have been as welcome as if I belonged there. He has treated me as well as if I was his own flesh and blood, and he has blessed me. During time of sickness and sorrow, he has always been at my side, and I know that the Lord will bless him and honor and respect him now that he has been released, for he has made a splendid record in that field. 

Yesterday, in listening to the remarks of Brother McKay, when he upheld father's family as an example in the Church, I thought 1 would like to add a little to what he said for the benefit of parents in Zion. Sometimes I think it is a good thing for children to give counsel, for T have had good teachings all my life. I have had a father and a mother who would not permit me to go out at night, unless I would inform them where I was going and when I would return. I was not permitted to come into my home at will, at any hour of the night, but I had to give an account of myself. When I repaired to mv bed, it was always after receiving- a kiss from my father or my mother, and being tucked in mv bed. "^hi* was a safeguard over me and a protection. But I dare sav there are many parents in Zion who fail to do this. Their children are a law unto themselves. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

They go here and there at will. They take automobiles, and go "joy" riding during half of the night, into the wee hours of the morning. They come in any time they desire, go to bed, and the parents never question them to ask where they have been, with whom they have been associating or what they have been doing. My father exercised a supervision over his children, and I think that is the reason why he attained the success that he did in rearing a family that respected him and loved him. It has been my privilege to associate with my father a great deal of my life. During the time I was in California I stayed with him, and was by his side. Since I was married he requested that I remain at the home, and be by his side, where 1 could assist him, and I have grown to love him not only because he was my father, but because I know that he was a prophet of God. I know that he was inspired of God, and I looked upon him as a prophet, and as my father. This is a little word of counsel from a boy who has had the experience of giving an accounting of himself. 

When this life's mission is completed, I expect to be able to meet my Father in heaven and there give an accounting of my labors in the flesh. I desire my Father in heaven to know where I am at night, and where I am in the daytime. I want him to know the company I choose. I want him to know my associates. I want him to watch me when I go to my sleep at night, and have his Holy Spirit to guide me that I may ever be found faithful, walking in the narrow path, seeking to know his will and  for strength to do his wilt. 

May the Lord bless everyone of us in Zion that we may realize that the youth of Zion, our boys and girls who are growing up, will become the leaders of this Church, men and women upon whom the sponsibility will rest. Therefore, it is your duty to guide your children, to know where they are. Do not give them too much liberty. Make them give an . accounting; kiss them when they go to bed at night. If your boy comes in to you with his mouth saturated with Honor or tobacco ,or with the stench of smoke upon his clothes, find out why, and cure the evil. This is my prayer in' the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen, j 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

T will ask Brother Ballard to sing the song that we have heard about this morning: 

Brother Ballard then sang: "I'll go where you want me to go, dear 

The choir and congregation sang: "Come, let as anew our journey pursue." 

Prayer for closing was offered by Elder Edward H. Anderson. 


