Afternoon
02 06 1919

The conference was called to ord€r at 2 o'clock by President Heber J. Grant who presided. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : "Do what is right." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Lemuel H. Redd, Jr., president oi the San Juan stake. 

A quartette composed of Brothers Neilsen, Christensen, Plumeyer, and Holdaway sang : "Lead, kindly light." 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Changes in life must come — Convinced of the divinity of the. mission of Joseph Smith — The Solemn Assembly an inspiring sight — Order of the Church in choosing a President — Testimony. 

My brethren and sisters, I have feelings of mingled sadness and joy in standing before you this afternoon. This conference, and the remarks that have been made by the various speakers, have brought to my memory many scenes of the past and I feel rather tender in my spirit. I realize perfectly that time is passing, that man's probation here, or, his days upon the earth, are limited, and when his work is finished, in the natural course of things it is to be expected that he will be taken home. J accept the changes that come, rejoicing in the fact that the gospel which we have received is true. Changes of necessity must come, conditions vary, from day to day, and new scenes are bound to present themselves as time rolls on. 

All my life, from my earliest recollection, I have accepted the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, believed- in him, and accepted him as the servant of the Lord who was called and appointed to usher in this dispensation, known as the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. Clothed with power from on high, he was sent forth to declare the principles of the everlasting gospel to a perverse -world that they might, through repentance, come unto God and receive salvation in his kingdom. This great truth has, I say, always, from my earliest recollection, found an abiding place in my heart, and I have accepted every change that has come unto the Church until this time; and now I find myself still in harmony with the work, with the sentiments of the Latter-day Saints, with my brethren who preside, because I am convinced in my heart that this is the work of God. 

It was an inspiring sight that we beheld yesterday forenoon in this building when the brethren holding the priesthood in the various orders thereof were called upon to stand and express themselves by vote, either in favor of or against the presiding officers. I voted with full purpose of heart and with the determination, with the rest of you, to uphold and sustain the constituted authorities, to stand by them, because I realize that they hold the power and the priesthood which has descended from the day of the Prophet Joseph Smith,  the Lord has said will continue upon the face of the earth until the end of time, and even then it shall not be taken away, for this priesthood is eternal. 

No man can preside in this Church in any capacity, without the consent of the people. The Lord has placed upon us the responsibility of sustaining by vote those who are called, to various positions of responsibility. No man, should the people decide to the contrary, could preside over any body of Latter-day Saints in this Church, and yet it is not the right of the people to nominate, to choose, for that is the right of the priesthood. The priesthood selects, under the inspiration of our Father in heaven, and then it is the duty of the Latter-day Saints, as they are assembled in conference, or other capacity, by the uplifted hand, to sustain or to reject; and I take it that no man has the right to raise his hand in opposition, or with contrary vote, unless he has a reason for doing so that would be valid if presented before those who stand at the head. In other words, I have no right to raise my hand in opposition to a man who is appointed to any position in this Church, simply because I may not like him, or because of some personal disagreement or feeling I may have, but only on the grounds that he is guilty of wrong doing, of transgression of the laws of the Church which would disqualify him for the position which he is called to hold. That is my understanding of it. 

I am glad to say that in raising my hand to sustain the authorities of the Church I can do that consistently and with pleasure, because I know that the men who are >  to preside in the name of the Lord are qualified, and are chosen by divine revelation. There was a time in the history of the Church when doubts arose in the minds of many of the people at the time of the disorganization of the presidency of the Church. Such a thing as the disorganization of the First Presidency had never occurred before, and many of the people were in doubt as to just what action should be taken. They wondered what the result would be. They were not acquainted, as perhaps they should have been, and as we are today, with the revelations which the Lord had given in regard to matters of that kind. Therefore, doubts arose in their minds. Men assumed authority and stood forth before the people demanding their attention and claiming the right of presidency. The matter, however, was properly .settled by the vote of the people, and President Brigham Young, whose right it was, was sustained by the vote of the Latter-day Saints to stand at the head of the Church upon the earth. And yet it became necessary on that occasion, while President Young was speaking to the people, before the vote was taken, for the Lord to make it known by a manifestation that he was indeed the successor of the Prophet Joseph and that the mantle of his predecessor had fallen upon his shoulders. Such a thing as that is not required today because now we have learned the order of the Church; we know what the revelations declare. We know just what will follow in case of the disorganization of any quorum of the priesthood, and the people are not in doubt. There is no reason now  u,s to be at cross purposes, to have a misunderstanding, to let doubts arise in our minds in reigard to these matters, because everything is clear and everything will be followed in the order which the Lord has appointed. Now we move smoothly in the path of duty and accept the word of the Lord as it has been made known and as the understanding has been impressed upon our minds, due very largely to the experience of the past. 

I am grateful and thankful for a testimony of the truth, notwithstanding the fact that the presence of this vast congregation in conference assembled and the remarks that have been made, bring to me 'thoughts and reflections that touch iny heart, I have feelings of pleasure and of joy beyond expression in the knowledge that I have that the Lord has established this work and that it will endure upon the face of the earth and shall not be destroyed, it shall not be given to another people. It is here permanently and shall remain until the Lord has finished his work among the children of men; and then it will continue, for it is everlasting and shall never be destroyed. I know just as well as.it is possible for me, I believe, to know in this life, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. There is no doubt in my mind/ in the least that Brigham Young was called and appointed to be his successor and that he presided over this people by the 'will of God and was filled with the spirit of inspiration and prophecy. So likewise it was with President John Taylor, President Wilford Woodruff, President Lorenzo Snow, and all others who have presided, and so it must be unto the end. The Lord will not permit any man to reach he presidency in this Church who is not prepared, who is not worthy, and whom he does not want. We may be assured of that. 'And, therefore, I find myself, I say, in absolute harmony with you in the order of the priesthood, in the doctrines of the Church, the revelations as they have been given unto us from the beginning, and I trust and pray that always I may have that spirit and be found faithfully laboring in the discharge of my duty as an officer and member in the Church in the salvation of souls, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH 

(Retiring President of the Northern States Mission.) 

I am deeply grateful, my breth' ren and sisters, for the privilege of bearing my testimony to you concerning the work of the Latter-day Saints. It is my testimony that this work has been established by our Father in heaven, that he has selected men on the earth to fulfil certain positions, and they have been acknowledged of him inasmuch as they have done their duty. I have now had the pleasure of filling two missions. I remember well when called to go upon my first mission, how I looked forward with great joy to my labors in that field. 

I remember from that field of labor I was shown in vision that I would not be home very long until called upon another mission, and despite, perhaps, my own efforts toward another line, that call came, and when one of the prophets of the Lord said to me that I was wanted  a missionary in the Northern -States mission, I told him I would go, and I can feel now the joy and happiness that filled my heart. Before going upon that mission, in fast meeting, one of the good members of the ward manifested in tongues: "My servant German E. Ellsworth has been called by my authority, and acknowledged of me, as a missionary to the Northern States." That much was given to the congregation in the interpretation, but there was a part of that manifestation that was never given to the congregation, that has always been a source of joy and happiness to me during the past sixteen years. It has been a great help to me in talking to young missionaries, who sometimes had the idea that they had been called just by some bishop, to go on a mission. I have without hesitation told them that every single one of us has been called by men, bishops, stake presidents, apostles and others in the Church, but our call had come finally from the president of the Church of Jesus Christ, who was God's mouthpiece in the earth, and that all who are called would be acknowledged by the Lord wherever they went, if they would go and do their duty. 

As I stand before you now there comes to my mind a dream of my boyhood, wherein I might have desired many things and planned many things, but I can remember that my prayers always ended : "Father, above all thy blessings, grant me the privilege of being a teacher of righteousness and a preacher of the gospel of Jesus Christ." That desire and prayer has largely been fulfilled, having had already eighteen years of pleasure and happiness in preaching and teaching the gospel in company 

ELDER GERMAN 

with hundreds of the best men and women of the earth. I remember one time standing in the dusty road of California alone, hungry and weary, having almost gone to the limit of my strength, when my eyes opened, and standing by my side was a messenger of our Father, and if the influence of his presence had not been strength enough for me to lean upon — I was close enough to have put my hand upon his shoulder. I have known other missionaries in the field who have been weary and discouraged who have likewise had their eyes opened to see the fulfilment of our Father's promise that he will send his messengers before our face and lead us to the doors of those who are prepared to receive us. I bear witness, my brethren and sisters, that our Father has fulfilled this promise in my life and in the lives of the missionaries who have labored with me. There have been one or two special lines of missionary work that have been sources of great joy and happiness to me in my labors. 

Shortly after going to the Northern States Mission I received an impression of the Lord concerning the Book of Mormon, of which I would like to bear testimony before the Latter-day Saints. It came to me as strong as if someone of my fellow missionaries had told it to me, that the Book of Mormon had been given of the Lord as a witness to this generation and that if we would remember it, that we would come out from under the condemnation that, as we are told, rested upon Zion; and then I recalled reading in the Doctrine and Covenants in the 84th section, beginning with the 54th verse, whereE. ELLSWORTH 95 

in the Church and some of the early leaders of the Church, because of their unbelief in the Book of Mormon, I take it, were under condemnation and would needs remain so until they repented and remembered the new covenant, even the Book of Mormon. It was not long after that until, with the co-operation of two other missions, we published 10,000 Books of Mormon in Chicago, followed the next year by 12,000, and the following year by 27,000. The interest had so grown that bids were secured from New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Boston, London and Japan for a 100,000 edition, with Chicago the lowest bidder. This perhaps is the largest number of that sacred, record to be printed at one time. In all, 250,000 Books of Mormon were printed in Chicago before it was taken over by Zion's Printing & Publishing Co. We have distributed 130,000 Books of Mormon in the Northern States mission, 90,000 of which have been sold, and it is my testimony that every man and woman who has taken to heart the distribution of the Book of Mormon, taken to heart the teaching of . the Book of Mormon, and the pointing out of the gems in that record to the people of the earth, have made a more wonderful growth than any other missionaries in the field. I can look back now over the mission and call to mind the young men who have taken hold of it with a vim and gone before the people, bearing witness of it, that the Lord was with and blessed them above all other missionaries. 

I remember while standing on the Hill Cumorah, of hearing these words, "Push the distribution of the record that was taken from this hill, for it will help bring the world to Christ;" and as the Bible has "Christianized," as we term it today, many nations, so also will the Book of Mormon bring the world another long step towards membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I went immediately to Palmyra and secured postcard pictures of the hill and sent one to each of my missionaries, writing on each one the words suggested to my mind and the missionaries caught the real spirit of it and made that year one of the largest in Book of Mormon distribution we made in the Northern States. 

One other feature of missionary work in the Northern States from which we have drawn a great deal of joy and satisfaction has been the genealogical work among the Saints. Seventy per cent of the families in the mission have been induced to make and keep a family record, and many families have contributed in the last four years, through the Relief Society, under the direction of Sister Ellsworth, about ten thousand names for temple ordinances. This work has brought a wonderful spirit of unity and good feeling one toward another, and has drawn the hearts of the Saints nearer towards the gospel than anything that has been done. 

I am happy to have had the privilege of associating, so closely, with the men whom God has honored in the earth to be the leaders of his people. I can feel now the hand of President Smith upon my back and hear his words when I 'was going away upon this mission. When I told him that I had desired from a boy to become a physician he said : "Never mind, my boy, you  on this mission, and we will make you a minister of righteous ness and a savior of the souls of men, instead of the body." And his "The Lord bless you, my boy," which was repeated last October, has been worth more to me than the treasures of the earth. 

I now bear witness to you, my brethren and sisters, that President Heber J. Grant is the prophet of the Lord; for my Father in heaven bore witness to that fact in my soul; so that my heart could easily follow my hand from President Smith to President Grant, as the man to stand at the head of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and all those who will follow the counsel of those who are called now to preside over them shall be acknowledged of the Lord in their labor. 

It has been a source of happiness beyond my language to describe to labor with 1500 young rnen and young women who have been appointed to labor in that mission. Out of that number only three have stumbled in the path, and even they have been reclaimed to lives of honor and integrity in' the Church. We have had sorrow in the death and burial of five : two in the last year, from this dreadful malady, influenza, the other three over the remainder of our time there. 

I rejoice in my testimony of the gospel. I rejoice in the power and influence of my Father, that I have felt in times of need. I rejoice for the measure of success that has attended us in our labors, and for the privilege of laboring so closely in connection with the brethren who have been honored of God to preside over the Church of Jesus Christ  Latter-day Saints. I know that God lives, I know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, beyond all shadow of doubt. I have known that from my boyhood, and there ?s no witness in my soul so great as that Christ is the Son of God, and that this is his work. My testimony is that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, called by our Father to be the instrument in his hands in establishing the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is my testimony to you that the sweetest thing in all the world is to be a witness of the truth or an instrument in the hands of God in' bringing men and women to the light that has been restored to the earth for the salvation of the souls of men. God bless Zion. Help us, in this hour of darkness and distress to arise and magnify our callings, and be a light set upon a hill that all the world will rejoice in this dark hour. God bless those who preside over the Church. Give them power and influence, and may they feel our sustaining influence and our uplifted hands supporting them, until the glory of God rests upon Zion, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. . 

ELDER WINSLOW F. SMITH 

(President of the Northern States Mission.) 

In listening to the testimonies that have been borne during this conference, I feel that I have been beneHted and I feel more than ever before the responsibility of the calling that has. come to me. I have never doubted the - divinity of "Mormonism," so-called. I have never doubted the standing of the men called to preside. I have never hesitated to give unto them the  support that I have had, and I feel, in standing here today, to bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters and friends, that 1 do so with the support of these men that I have supported. 

Today in coming to this meeting I met a friend on the car who said : "How do you like to tear up home and go away?" I said: "I don't like it from the idea of tearing up home, but I do like it when it is in the line of my duty." I have always felt, my brethren and sisters, that the mission work of our Church is a source of its great strength. I have felt, ever since my experience in the mission field, fourteen years ago, that I was a better man for having gone and for having labored, and have said, time and time again, if no soul under heaven was benefited by my missionary experience, I, myself, was benefited, for I had joy, comfort and happiness and I had brought unto me an appreciation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints that could have come to me in no other manner. 

I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that ours is essentially a missionary Church; that unto us, a little handful of people, compared with the inhabitants of the earth, has been given the responsibility and the calling of preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ unto the whole world; and I tell you, my brethren and sisters, and I say it in earnestness and in candor, that the members here at home who are not doing their duty, who are not striving to teach by precept, by example, to those with whom they come in contact, are not measuring up to the full measure of their calling, and they are not getting the joy out of life that they are entitled to. My work in life, since coming home from the mission field, has taken "me into many of the stakes of Zion, and I have always made it a rule to attend service wherever I have been, and have found in the services where I have gone that the Spirit, the same that I knew in the mission field, was to be found. I have felt when called upon to speak to the Saints that I have spoken with the same freedom and the same help that I enjoyed while in the mission field, and I say this now, and in all candor, that I have enjoyed' it. I have met many people not of our faith and have rejoiced that I had the knowledge to talk to them fairly intelligently on the principles which we believe in. 

I say, my brethren and sisters, there are too many of us inclined to stand back. I love to say with Paul: "I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ; for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth." I feel this in my very being, I rejoice in it, and I take pleasure in every opportunity, regardless of who the person may be, of talking on the principles of the gospel, as I believe them. It brings me joy, and I see it gives them light, it opens their eyes, and I know of occasions where people have been turned toward us and our people through my weak effort. I don't mean by this, brethren and sisters,that every time we meet with a person accidentally we must immediately burden him with the principles of the gospel, but I do mean that every time the opportunity presents itself by some person putting "that little question that comes," that we should be ready, and not only ready, but willing to let that person know what "Mor" is and where we stand in regard to the Church. 

If we will cultivate faith, if we will humiliate ourselves, if we will strive to do our duty, if we will study and prepare our minds, when that opportunity does come we will be ready, and our readiness and our 'doing will surprise us and, as I 'have said before, give us far greater joy than we have ever dreamed of. Only a month or two ago I stayed in a hotel in a neighboring state until one o'clock in the morning talking our religion with a man who had neyer heard it, and I tell you, brethren and sisters, it was a pleasure, it was a joy, when that man said to me: "I am mighty glad that the things that I had heard of your Church are not true. I like you, I like your way, and I am going down into your state when I get nearer to it sometime and see what you have really done there." Now, that is only one opportunity. We have them every day or two and the opportunity is here right in our own state. Those of our associates whom we meet would be glad and willing to learn if we would put the question up to them in such a manner that they could not resist it. As we are walking along the street, one can say: "Why, there is that building, one of the oldest buildings in our town, that was built by so and so," and immediately the opportunity is there for a little explanation. 

Brethren and sisters, it is the greatest work in the world. There is absolutely no sacrifice that we can make that we should consider too great, in working in the vineyard of the Lord. It is the greatest thing on earth, and right now, today, is our time, the opportunity  ours, and' not only the opportunity but the responsibility is ours to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ to the nations of the earth. I thank the Lord that I have been called again to go into the mission field, and I pray that I may be worthy, that I may measure up to the standard, that I may go forth in humility and with prayerful heart, that I may study and learn, and that I may follow brother Ellsworth in the work and carry it on as well as he has done in the mission field. 

I support the brethren who have been called and whom we have sustained. I am back of them in their every act. I do not question them. I am confident that they are servants of the living God, and the little help that I may give will be as nothing, but it is there, and it is theirs. I want to do my share, and I believe in doing this, that they will support -me, that they will help me; and, though I will be some distance from here, from the center stake, that their spirit and their prayers will be with me and help me. And, so, my brethren and sisters, I pray God to help us' to appreciate our calling and our responsibility. I pray that he may give us his. Spirit, that through it we may work and never tire, that our efforts shall never cease until the gospel of Jesus Christ shall be proclaimed to every man and woman and child on the earth; and, brethren and sisters, if we will do our share God will bless us and make us happy. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. 

They say "Mormonism" dies out in the third and fourth generation. You have just been listening to one of the fifth generation. 

President Grant referring to the old saying that the third generation would apostatize from the Church remarked that the people had just been listening to the fifth generation — Winslow Smith. His line runs as follows : ( 1 ) Asahel Smith; (2) John Smith; (3) George A. Smith; (4) John Henry Smith; (5) Winslow F. Smith. 

The President then referred to the fact that the present Presiding Patriarch of the Church is the sixth generation. His line runs as follows: (1) Asahel Smith; (2) Joseph Smith; (3) Hyrum Smith; (4) John Smith; (5) Hyrum F. Smith; (6) Hyrum G. Smith. 

ELDER GEORGE W. McCUNE 

(President of the Eastern States Mission.) 

My dear brethren and sisters. It is indeed an honor to stand before such a vast congregation of Latter-day Saints, and I earnestly desire your faith and prayers that the few words I utter in your presence may be acceptable to the Lord. As our colored brother would say: I feel "powerful weak" in standing before you. I feel weak in myself, but I realize that my strength is in the Lord. I have not been called to this position of my own seeking, but, having been called by the servants of the Lord, I have put my trust in God and feel determined to go forth and do the very best I can. I know that if I do this all will be well; for, as expressed by our beloved president yesterday morning, surely the Lord God will make no requirements at the hands of his se'rvants except he provide a way for the fulfilment or accomplishment of that thing; and so, with GENERAL CONFERENCE.  help of the Lord, I am going out to preach the gospel in the Eastern States mission. I feel that the paramount thing for us as Latter-day Saints today is the preaching of the gospel to the nations of the earth; and, as explained by elder Ballard here this morning, the chastening hand of God has been outstretched in the world, the Lord has been speaking to us through these terrible afflictions of war, famine, pestilence and diseases, and surely the Lord will expect his servants to be the^e crying repentance unto these people when they are humbled in their spirits, when they are ready to turn to him. The Lord will expect us to be there crying repentance unto them, giving them the opportunity to go in at the gateway. I urge upon you to be ready to make the sacrifices that are necessary to take this great message to the nations of the earth. 

I was very much gratified the day before I left New York, when one of the elders who is to accompany elder Smith to Europe came to me and said that his brother, who has been a prosperous farmer in Wyoming, sent word to me that he had leased his farm out and was coming to the Eastern States mission, bringing his wife and daughter and two sons, all of whom would be engaged in the missionary work. I honestly believe that this man is investing his earnings, his profits, his time, and his talents, in the most judicious manner possible. It may be that his associates, in the town where he resides, will make more money within the next few years, but still I believe that this good brother has acted wisely and that his investment will bring him greater dividends, they will bring him greater returns from every , except that of mere money. I believe he will so establish his family in the Church and kingdom of God that great blessings will come unto them for generations to come, through this mission he is taking. 

My brethren and sisters, I know that this is the work of the Lord that we are engaged in. God has revealed this unto me. The Spirit of the Lord has testified to every fibre of my being, and to my soul, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and those who have succeeded him in the presidency of our Church are his rightful successors, that Heber J. Grant today is the mouthpiece of God on earth. He having called me to this position, I gladly respond, and though it seemed like a great sacrifice at first, I feel, as expressed by Elder Smith, to rejoice that the Lord has called me; and now that the first step has been taken, and I have broken loose from the influence of the world and have partaken of the spirit and the joy of missionary work, I feel grateful to my father in heaven that I have been considered worthy to take this mission. I am very glad indeed that I am going. I want to assure my brethren of the First Presidency and the Twelve, and all of the presiding brethren, that they have my.' hearty support, that they have my love and my friendship. The same is true of you, my brethren and sisters, and all mankind. Toward you I have nothing in my heart but love and good fellowship. I pray that God will bless you and that he will bless me and give me the spirit of my calling; that when your sons and your daughters shall come to the Eastern States mission, that I may have wisdom to give them in101  that will make them strong in the fight for truth and righteousness. Brethren and sisters, support me to this end, and I know that this thing will be accomplished. 

May God add his blessings to all that has been said today, that our hearts may be made to rejoice, that the young and the old may be able to stand up and say, as one of old has said, "I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth : And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see. God." I pray that this may be our happy lot, that we may be firm in the fight for truth and righteousness, and I pray for these things in Jesus' name.. Amen. 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON 

(Retiring President of the Eastern States Mission.) 

While walking down Broadway, one day, a newsboy ran into me. I asked him . if he could not see me, and he said: "I can see you with my naked eye." I am inclined to think that President Grant also can see me, though I get in the back end of the gallery. 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that this is a very pleasurable opportunity, afforded, me this afternoon to mingle my humble testimony with the testimonies that have already been borne during this conference. I uphold and sustain the work of the Lord with all my heart. The Spirit of the Lord bears witness to my spirit that what was done in our forenoon meeting yesterday is of the Lord. I have always taken great pleasure in standing before the public committing myself to my public utterances. Therein, I believe, lies  of the strength of the .Church in the developing of integrity of heart and character which stand's for right. I, too, have spent a number of years in the ministry, years that have been the happiest of my life. In the year 1898, I was called, not by receiving a Box "B" letter, but called by President George Q. Cannon in a conference that was being held in Franklin, Idaho. I was set apart within a few minutes after the call, and was told that my place was in the Northwestern states. One month after the call I was pursuing my labors. After completing my mission there, to the satisfaction of those who presided over me, I returned to my home, entered into pursuits of life which I had chosen, and was allowed 'to remain home nine years, when the call came for me to go to England. I labored there upward of two years and found increasing joy with the increasing time spent in the service of the master. After completing that mission I was at home twenty-eight months, when the call came again to break up home and go to the Eastern States. My brethren and sisters, I can not tell you the humility which I felt, and the timidity with which I entered upon my labors. It seemed to me that if there was ever an attempt to fit a square peg in a round hole, the attempt was being made on that occasion. Yet, I have endeavored to perform my labors to the best of my ability, and if I have made mistakes it should be accredited to the human weakness which we all have. In my last missionary labors I have felt even greater joy than I felt on my two preceding missions. I want to be one with the Latter-day Saints at home or abroad, wherever I am. I GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in the testimony of the gospel which the Lord has instilled into my heart, and which I feel has influenced my life for good, that has awakened within me the consciousness of right and wrong. I have observed, in my past life, in fact, it was one of my earliest observations, that when the Lord called any one to any position in his work him he. qualified. How many of us have seen bishops and stake presidents called in their young manhood and who, upon assuming their duties, have stood solidly and equal to the task that has been imposed upon them. They have been able to counsel in righteousness those who, from a standpoint of years, are old enough to be their fathers and their grandfathers. 

I bespeak for Brother McCune in his appointment as mission president the support of the Saints and the missiona'ries of the Eastern states mission, which is now upon the verge, I believe, of a tremendous and beautiful growth. We have had nothing to do with the publication of the literature of the missions of the United States, such as has been the experience of and as reported by President Ellsworth, but we have opened up a number of branches. We have worked diligently, though our reports may not show what other mission reports might show.' It must be understood that the intolerance of the United States seems to have been crowded into the northeastern part, and I do not know where it can go unless it sinks into the ocean after a few more years' efficient work there. We have met with a great deal of opposition. The Lord has sustained us. Our young men, many of them, say they have come to the mission field to gain a  — I can not believe this, my brethren and sisters, though that is the method of their expressing themselves — I believe every son and daughter of the Lord who has been born under the covenant, with the promises of the covenant upon their heads, that they come into this world with nobility of spirit and' with a testimony which requires only development. That development can come by the service which we devote to the blessing of our fellow men and the establishing of the work of the Lord among our heavenly Father's children. My heart is filled with joy and gladness in knowing that I have kept close enough, at least, to the prescribed rule of the Church, to retain my testimony. I know that God lives, that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. I know that his hand is over this people; even though trials may come which might seem difficult to surmount, . he will bear us off triumphant in the dedree that we will place our whole-souled dependence upon him. I bear testimony that Jesus Christ is the savior of the world, the only begotten of the Father in the flesh; that he died for mankind and that he has given unto us a plan of life and salvation, which plan is being advocated in the world today by those whom the Lord calls as missionaries, as well as those who preside and preach at home. I also bear witness that the powers of the Holy Spirit have not been abridged or abrogated, that they are as manifest in the Church today ly the healing of the sick and the raising of those who are downcast in spirit, restoring their souls, leading them in the ways of peace and happiness, as it was ever its mission to do 103  any former generation. I bear witness to you and solemnly testify that if I know anything whatsoever in this world, I do positively know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, raised up in our day and time for the ushering in of the dispensation of the fulness of times, when all dispensations of the past shall be brought in with their especial and peculiar blessings. I bear witness to you that those who have succeeded the prophet Joseph Smith were also prophets, seers and revelators, upheld and sustained by the power of Almighty God. I bear witness to you today that Heber J. Grant, whom we have voted to sustain, as the leader of this Church, is the prophet, seer and revelator of the Church, and that the mantle of authority has fallen upon him, and, that he, too, is qualified in full measure to lead and direct the work of the Lord that is being performed by this people. This Church has its peculiar mission, two-fold as it is, in not only carrying the gospel to the ends of the earth to those who have not the gospel, but also in perfecting those who are members of the Church. Now may the peace of our heavenly Father rest upon all Israel, at home and abroad, that they may see more clearly the plans and purposes that he has wrought for the salvation of the human family. May we keep our covenants sacred and always live worthy of the approbation of our heavenly Father, that we may claim his blessings, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Miss Shipp sang a solo: accompanied by Tracy Y. Cannon at the organ, and Mae Anderson, violin. 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK 

(Retiring President of the Western States Mission.) 

If it were possible, I feel more today the need of your faith than I did when I occupied this stand in a like capacity a little over ten years ago. In many ways we have realized the truth of the words of our Lord and Master in saying: "And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters or father, or mother, or "wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life." What we failed to receive, I have faith that we will receive, anc" the blessings of the Lord will come to us in such measure as we deserve. Not in a material sense have we increased an hundredfold — for I have been connected with no business during that time, other than mission work, but in divers ways, we have been the recipients of such blessings that it is beyond my power to describe. I entered upon the duties of a mission, under a blessing from President Anthon H. Lund, and I acknowledge to you today that I have received the blessings that he promised at that time. I acknowledge also to you that the blessings that were promised to my wife have been more than realized upon her head; and next to tht inspiration that has come to me, through the ministration of Christ, the efforts of my wife have been one of the greatest sources of support and helpfulness. "Life will give us back whatever we put into it," said a prominent writer. "In many ways, it is like a bank. Put joy into the world and it will come back to you with compound interest; but you cannot check out either money GENERAL CONFERENCE.  happiness unless you have made deposits. If you put in joy and love, unselfishness and a little laughter and faith, they'll all come back some day." 

I need hardly go into details at this time, to tell you what we have accomplished in the Western States mission, and I think it is not looked for. Suffice it to say that we have increased the population nearly four times, and the receipts about ten times. In turning over the mission to our sucsessor, President John M. Knight, we' can only hope that he will find there a responsive chord in the hearts and the minds of the people. I believe he will find the going comparatively easy, although I am sure that from now on we may look for greater success in the mission fields, than ever before. I confidently look for it. I believe the time is at hand when men of understanding and men of power and influence will go forth in full purpose of heart, and in the authority of God will bring untold thousands to a knowledge of the truth. 

I acknowledge with deep gratitude my connection with by brethren, the mission presidents. It has ever been a source of joy and of satisfaction to labor with them. They are -men of God and whether they remain in the field or go elsewhere, my prayer and my good wishes shall always be with them. 

I regard highly and am deeply grateful for the association that I ha' 1 with the late President Joseph F. Smith and his associates, his counselors, and T am no less grateful for even a brief association with those who have been chosen to succeed him. This work will go on. The man who stands at the head of the Church today is the appointed  the Lord, and he will lead this Church with just as much wisdom as the first prophet in the last dispensation, according to its needs. These men who have been selected for the Council of the Twelve are all wonderful characters, and I feel it a compliment to the missions that one of their number has been chosen to be an apostle in this day. 

I bear you my witness to the knowledge that has come to me of the divinity of this work. It is truly the Lord's work. His servant, Joseph Smith, was divinely called, divinely inspired, and he was led in all his acts by the wisdom of the Almighty. My testimony has grown with the months and years of service, and I do not regret one moment of tb" tivre that we have put in the service of the Church. 

If I may be permitted to say it; I want to refer to the overpowering thought that came to me in the last few months of our mission work, and I have not hesitated to speak of it among our people in the world; and that is that we should stand as a bulwark in defense of this nation. We should stand bv him who is at the head of it at this critical period, just as we should support Our , leader who sits upon this stand today, and believe me I do not say it in any partisan spirit. I say it because I firmly believe that jn the culmination of this great world peaee conference; a League of Nations is to come and it will be a step forward in the interest of humanity — a step forward in the interest of religion. In It we can realize in a sense that we are approaching the day that we have long dreamed of and hoped for, when there should be a universal peace. God hasten the day, and let 105  realize the importance of this unique work. Let us resolve, if the time comes, that it needs our support, that we* should cast our vote and use- our influence in order that the world may be made better and safer to live in, better to live in than ever before. 

Grant, O Lord, blessings to this people, to thine appointed servants, and hasten the advancement of thy great work established in the world, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

(President of the Western States Mission.) 

The testimonies that have been borne during the sessions of this conference have impressed me as X have never been impressed before. I am grateful for the fellowship that I have with you, my brethren and sisters. 

As I witnessed the magnificent assembly on Sunday morning, and realized that assembled on that occasion was the best body of men that could be brought together under heaven, I thanked God for my fellowship and association with you. I was grateful in my heart for the testimony of the truth that has been borne in upon my life. I was grateful unto my Father for the belief that I had in the mission of his Son, the Redeemer of mankind, and 1 thanked the Lord that the opportunity had come again to me to go forth to the nations of the earth and bear witness of the restored gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

It was my good fortune, in 1895, to be called upon a mission. I had desired, like the other brethren, from my early childhood to preach  gospel of repentance to the nations of the earth. My grandfather and many of my relatives had been active in the mission field. My grandfather had filled four missions abroad. I had listened to the testimony that he bore concerning the gospel, concerning the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the other men who were instruments in establishing this work in the earth. I believed it, with all my heart, and it was my desire to proclaim that truth to the nations of the earth. I found joy unspeakable, when I first went into, the mission field, in testifying to the world that there was need of a new revelation from God, that there was need of a new prophet in this dispensation, and that Joseph Smith was that prophet. I never felt to apologize for the faith that I had in "Mormonism." It was a pleasure to testify that it came to the forefront without any apology whatsoever for its existence. It was a pleasure to invite all men to make the fullest and freest investigation of all its principles, its doctrines, its precepts and commandments, and to declare unto them that if they would have faith in God and repent of their sins, they might know the truth, and the truth would make them free. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the gospel that has come into my life. I know that it is true. I know that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was his prophet. I have faith and confidence in the presiding brethren of the Church. I uphold and sustain them with all my heart. I have not only rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, in laboring in the ministry abroad but I have had satisfaction in laboring at home. I have had just as much joy come into my life GENERAL CONFERENCE.  giving service to the cause in the Stakes of Zion where I have lived, as I received in the mission field, and I have felt that we should give service to the Church. I have fully felt compensated for all the efforts and service I have ever given to the Church. What we call sacrifice to me was no sacrifice at all, because I have been repaid for every effort that I have put forth. 

I shall go into the mission field in the humility of my neart, and endeavor in my weak way to accomplish the mission that is laid upon me I testify to you, my brethren and sicters, that I have full faith in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and that it is my desire io preach the gospel of repentance to the people of this generation. May the blessings of heaven attend you in all of your undertakings, and may God's choicest blessings attend the presiding authorities of the Church; may they have power and influence with the Latter-day Saints, and may we have a disposition to put into practice in our daily lives the instructions that we receive from them. God bless you, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER C. IVERSON 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission.) 

I share the feeling expressed by the worthy man whom I am succeeding, in his splendid address to us this morning, when he said : "Standing in the presence of my new responsibility I feel truly weak, insignificant and almost helpless." Once before in my life have I felt almost, if not wholly, as I do today. That was when, twenty years ago, I was called to preside over  ward in which I was born and have lived all my life, called as a boy to preside over one of the largest wards in Salf Lake City, and three men who had formerly been my bishops. I sincerely trust that as the Lord was good to me in that ministry, and that those over whom I presided were patient and loving and kind, that he. will again be good to me and that those among whom I labor will bear with me in my weakness, with my many imperfections, and that I may find in the ministry now before me the same joy that I had in the ministry that ,1 have just completed. I am conscious of the fact that I am following in the footsteps of a mighty man in Israel. He enjoyed, to a very marked degree, the love and the confidence of the people among whom he labored, and I do not wonder at this, for my association with him, during a few days, has endeared him to me. They love him no more than I do; my belief is that to the cause I have consecrated, m the same measure that he did, my humble ability and every sentiment of my being, and sincerely trust thai God will recognize that consecration, and that he will give to me the ability and strength to do what is in my heart — my duty to rw fellow men, whom I love as God's children. 

I have been overwhelmed, my dear brethren and sisters, with the magnitude of the wortc and the possibilities that lie before us. This is the hour, and we have the message for which the sorrow-stricken world is crying. Unfortunately it bears an unpopular label. If known by some other name, it might be more acceptable. An illustration of this fact was in evidence when a lady 107  Seattle, approached by one of our elders, in conversation, the articles appearing in the paper published there, written by Brother Talmage, were under discussion and she expressed her admiration for tho.se splendid articles — which, by the way, I want to say to you, are doing an immense amount of good — and when told that they were written by a member of the "Mormon" Church she absolutely refused to believe it. For she could not think that any- such good could come out of "Mormondom." Like those of old, "can any good come out of Nazareth?" But conditions have very greatly changed. The sentiment toward our people has changed since my last mission in the state of Tennessee, in connection with my dear associate and friend, Elder George Albert Smith. When there, we found that objections to our message, and ridicule, was the rule. Now we find such to be the exception, when our elders approach those to whom they desire to deliver the message, and I am thankful for the changed sentiment. I am thankful for my association with Elder George Albert Smith in the mission field in Tennessee, and I cannot forebear this opportunity of invoking the blessings of the Lord upon him, indicating my feeling for him. Since laboring in Tennessee together we have been very close friends. Now we separate — he to go to the East and I to the West, and I sincerely pray that God will bless him, strengthen him in body, renew him in spirit, and return him to us to live many years, to continue his labors as a pillar and tower of strength in this 'work and an inspiration to all Israel, as he has been these many years, a most worthy son of a most noble sire — 

John Henry Smith. I know I voice your sentiments when I thus speak, though feebly. 

I am convinced, my brethren and sisters, from the articles that appear from time to time, written by eminent thinkers, that as Elder McKay expressed it this morning, all institutions of human construction have been shaken from center to circumference, during the past few years, and the so-called Christian churches — for they belong to 'this class, being of human origin,formed by human wisdom — are not an exception to the rule; and as one has expressed it; "Modern Christianityhas been tried in the trenches and found wanting, and the experiences of the past vear have proved the death of mystic Christianity." "Let us hope and pray that it may be the birth of an ethical, practical Christianity which men really believe and live." It is for this reality the world is crying — not for a religion founded upon a God that is immaterial, invisible, incomprehensible — no, but upon a God who is a reality, and with the message which the children of men need; knowing that in the language of the poet, 

"Life is real, life is earnest, And the grave is not its goal. 

Dust thou art, to dust returnest, Was not spoken of the soul;" 

And, as Carlyle has said : "Remember that thy life is not an idle dream, it is a sacred reality, all thine own, and the only thing thou hast with which to face eternity." So, we believe in a real God, who is really our Father, as Paul has declared — "We have had fathers of the flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence" — they were real beings; there was nothGENERAL CONFERENCE.  mystical about them — "should we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of our spirits and live?" He is the Father of our spirits, and he is just as real a being as was the one whom we knew and called father in the flesh. That is our message to the world. We have been criticised because we are "too materialistic." If by that our critics mean consecrated to and devoted to the pursuit of wealth and material things, primarily, we say, Not guilty. We do believe in the reality of life, in the reality of God, whose Son was the Redeemer of the world,- was the Babe of Bethlehem, was the carpenter of Nazareth, was the crucified One, on Calvary's cross, and the body risen from the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea — the disciples being told to behold the prints of the nails in his hands and feet, and the wounds of the spear in his side; "Handle me and see, for a spirit hath not flesh  bones, as ye see me have" — thus indicating realities in which we believe and which we know to be true; knowing that real beings, Peter, James and. John conferred upon Joseph Smith the Melchizedek priesthood; that John the Baptist, a real being, conferred upon him the Aaronic priesthood. We know that these things are true; and this is our message to _ the world. God help us to bear it, ana may the Lord bless you, my bretnren and sisters. These -brethren know my sentiments toward them. Every sentiment of my soul, with all its love and affection, belongs to those who lead Israel. God help them and us, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the Doxology, and the closing prayer was offered by Elder Clar'ence Gardner, president oif the Star Valley stake of Zion. 
