Morning
01 06 1919

The Eighty-ninth Annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints convened in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, at 10 o'clock a. m., Sunday, June 1, 1919, the conference having been postponed from April 6, 1919, owing to the health conditions of the communities. President Heber J. Grant presided. 

AUTHORITIES PRESENT. 

Of the First Presidency: Heber J. Grant, Anthon H. Lund, and Charles W. Penrose; of the Council of the Twelve Apostles: Rudger Clawson * George Albert Smith,* Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph Fielding Smith, James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman and Melvin J. Ballard. Presiding Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith; of the First Council of Seventy, 'Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, J. Golden Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, Levi Edgar Young; of the Presiding Bishopric, Charles W. Nibley, David A. Smith and John Wells; Assistant Historians, Andrew Jenson and A. Wil*Reed Smoot was absent in Washington, and Geo. F. Richards presiding over the British Mission.  Lund. There were also a large number of presidents of stakes, with their counselors, Patriarchs, Bishops of wards, and numerous other prominent men and women representing the various quorums and organizations of the Church. 

The following presidents of missions, and their successors, where appointed, were in attendance Walter P. Monson and his newly appointed successor, George W. McCune, Eastern States; Samuel O. Bennion, Central States; German E. Ellsworth, and his successor Winslow Farr Smith, Northern States; John L. Herrick, and his successor, John M. Knight, Western States; Joseph E. Robinson, and his successor Joseph W. McMurrin, California; Charles A. Callis, Southern States; Heber C. Iverson, Northwestern States; Ray L. Pratt, Mexican; E. Wesley Smith, Hawaiian; Nephi Jensen, Canadian; Theodore Tobiason, Swedish; Benj. Goddard, Bureau of Information Temple Block; and President George Albert Smith, of the British Mission, who is to release Elder George F. Richards. 

President Heber J. Grant called the great congregation to order. 

The choir and congregation sang : "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." Prayer was offered by Elder Hyrum G. Smith, presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The choir and congregation sang : "Come, come, ye Saints." 

THE SOLEMN ASSEMBLY. 

The quorums of the Priesthood and officers were present, in solemn assembly, for the purpose of voting, in that capacity, for General Authorities of the Church. The quorums and officers in nine divisions voted in the following order: First Presidency; Apostles; Patriarchs; Presidents 'of st&kgs, Counselors and High Councilors; High Priests; Seventies; Elders; Bishops and Counselors, and the Lesser Priesthood. 

They were arranged as follows : First Presidency and Apostles, in their respective places on the stand; Patriarchs, south wing of the stand; Presidents of stakes, Counselors and High Counselors, lower stands and left front; High Priests, left center of main hall; Seventies, right center of main hall; Elders back left of main hall; Bishops and counselors, left wing of the stand, Lesser Priesthood back of the north left isle. The remaining portions of the building, including the galleries, were occupied by members at large. 

ORDER OF VOTING. 

President Heber J. Grant stated 

that in voting, each quorum of the Priesthood would rise, and' the members voting would raise their right handsy and then be quickly seated so that the process of voting might be done as quickly as possible. Those wishing to vote in the negative would vote in like manner. 

The order of voting was as follows : 

First. — The First Presidency. 

Second. — The Apostles. 

Third. — Patriarchs. 

Fourth. — The Presidents of stakes, their Counselors, and High Councilors. . 

Fifth.— High Priests. 

Sixth. — Seventies. 

Seventh. — Elders. 

Eighth. — Bishops and their Counselors. 

Ninth. — The Lesser Priesthood (Priests, Teachers and Deacons.) 

Tenth. — All the members of the Church present. 

Practically the whole body of the hall was occupied completely by the Priesthood, and the scene from the stand, as the many thousands of men stood up, quorum by quorum, to vote, their right hands raised to the square, was the most impressive stately, and dignified religious solemnity that the eyes of man ever beheld, not to speak of the scene, when the whole audience ten thousand in number, covenanted unanimously in like manner to sustain their chosen leaders. 

OFFICERS VOTED FOR. 

Following are the officers voted upon, and the introductory remarks by: 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. 

We will now present to the congregation the General Authorities of the Church, those holding the Priesthood only. Inasmuch as there will be ten votes called, comprising the different orders of the Priesthood, and the assembly as a whole, and it will take so much time, only the General Authorities will be presented at this conference. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES. 

It was proposed that we sustain : 

Heber J. Grant, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Rudger Clawson, as acting President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Rudger Clawson Reed Smoot George Albert Smith George F. Richards Orson F. Whitney David O. McKay Anthony W. Ivins Joseph Fielding Smith James E. Talmage Stephen L. Richards Richard R. Lyman Melvin J. Ballard 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham 

H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with David A. Smith and John Wells as his First and Second Counselors. 

Fleber J. Grant, as Trustee-inTrust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

In each instance President Grant announced the motion to sustain the authority voted upon and called for the affirmative vote. Following the response, the negative of the question was presented, and should there be any who favored it, they were requested to make known their will. 

The voting throughout, which was completed at 10:37 o'clock, was unanimous without exception in favor of the affirmative. 

A soprano solo, "A Voice in the Wilderness," was sung by Mrs. Brewerton. 

President Grant gave notice that an overflow meeting would now be opened in the Assembly Hall, and he appointed the First Council of Seventy to take charge, and devote the 'time and their remarks to the memory of President Joseph F. Smith. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We regret that all of the Saints cannot be present in one building to hear the remarks that may be made upon this occasion. We also regret that the men who stand at the head of this great body of Seventies could not remain here to partake of the spirit of this occasion. But we feel that those who have met in the Assembly Hall are entitled to hear some of the general authorities of the Church speak upon the life and labors, and bear witness of their love and reverence for, and their faith in, our beloved prophet, the late President Joseph F. Smith, who has departed this life since we last met in general conference. 

 THE SPIRIT GIVETH LIFE. 

Inasmuch as all that is said here today will be reported, and as our brethren of the Seventy can read what is said, they will miss only the spirit of this occasion, which I feel in my heart — if the Lord will only bless us abundantly — will be considerable of a loss; because, after all is said and done, in all the labors of the Latter-day Saints, it is the spirit that counts, for the spirit giveth life, and the dead letter killeth; but we shall hope and pray that the spirit of this occasion will find echo in the hearts of our brethren who have just left us, when they read today's proceedings. 

A PLEDGE OF FAITHFUL SERVICE. 

I feel humble, beyond any language with which God has endowed me to express it, in standing before you here this morning, occupying the position in which you have just voted to sustain me. I recall standing before an audience in Tooele, after having been sustained as president of that stake, when I was a young man twenty-three years of age, pledging to that audience the best that was in me. I stand here today in all humility, acknowledging my own weakness, my own lack of wisdom and information, and my lack of the ability to occupy the exalted position in which you have voted to sustain me. But as I said as a boy in Tooele, I say here today: that by and with the help of the Lord, I shall do the best that I can to fulfil every obligation that shall rest upon me as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to the full extent of my ability. 

I will ask no man to be more liberal with his means, than I am with mine, in proportion to what he possesses, for the advancement of God's Kingdom. I will ask no man to observe the Word of Wisdom any more closely than I will observe it. I will ask no man to be more conscientious and prompt in the payment of his tithes and his offerings than I will be. I will ask no man to be more ready and willing to come early and to go late, and to labor with full power of mind and body, than I will labor, always in humility. I hope and pray for the blessings of the Lord, acknowledging freely and frankly, that without the Lord's blessings it will be an impossibility for me to make a success of the high calling whereunto I have been called. But, like Nephi of old, I know that the Lord makes no requirements of the children of men, save he will prepare a way for them, whereby they can accomplish the thing which he has required. With this knowledge in my heart, I accept the great responsibility, without fear of the consequences, knowing that God will sustain me as he has sustained all of my predecessors who have occupied this position, provided always, that I shall labor in humility and in diligence, ever seeking for the guidance of his Holy Spirit : and this I shall endeavor to do. 

THE STANDARD OF ACTION. 

I shall not occupy your time by reading Section 121 of the Doctrine jnd Covenants. I will leave that for each and every one of those before me, and those to the right and the left, holding the priesthood', and as many of the audience as may feel so disposed, to read it when they go home. With the help of the Lord, I shall endeavor, standing at the head of the Priesthood of God upon the earth, to exercise the authority that has come to me in keeping with that wonderful revelation: "No power or  can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and by love unfeigned." God being my helper, the priesthood that I hold, the position that I occupy, shall be exercised in accordance with these words that I have quoted to you. We can do nothing, as recorded in that revelation, only as we exercise love and charity and kindness — love unfeigned. With the help of the Lord that is exactly how I shall administer, to the best of my ability, the priesthood of God that has come to me. 

I could stand here and occupy all of the remaining time, with the hundred and one thoughts that have come into my mind, in connection with the duties that devolve upon me; but I am anxious that my counselors should speak to you here this morning, and I am anxious to pay my tribute of respect to those men who have preceded me. I take no credit to myself for occupying the position that has come to, me. I realize that failure will be the result if I do not give the Lord the credit for calling me to, this position, and seek for the light of his Spirit to guide me in all that I shall do. 

PRESIDENT SNOW'S TESTIMONY CONCERNING THE PROPHET JOSEPH. 

I desire to read to you a testimony regarding the first man who occupied the position as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — the Prophet Joseph Smith, Jr. This testimony was given a short time before the death of the late beloved President of the Church, Lorenzo Snow, and will be found in the current June number of the Improvement Era, in an article written by his son, Elder LeRoi C. Snow. He said, referring to his father 

"His work on earth was nearly done, his mission was almost finished; he was about to return to his Maker, and with all the remaining strength of his soul he testified concerning the divinity of the work in which he and the Prophet Joseph Smith commenced their life's work when young men: 

" 'A word or two about Joseph Smith. Perhaps there are very few men now living who were so well acquainted with Joseph Smith, the Prophet as T was. I was, with him often-times. I visited him in his family, ate at his table, associated with him under various circumstances, and had private interviews with him for counsel. I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God; I know that he was an honorable man, a moral man, and that he had the respect of those who were acquainted with him. The Lord has shown me most clearly and completely that he was a Prophet of God, and that he held the holy priesthood and the authority to baptize people for the remission of their sins, and to lay hands upon them for the reception of the Holy Ghost, that they might receive a knowledge themselves in relation to these things. I am one who has received from the Lord the strongest revelation concerning the truth of this work. That manifestation was with me powerfully, for hours and hours, and whatever circumstance may occur in my life, as long as memory lasts this perfect knowledge wlil remain with me. 

As to the testimony that Lorenzo Snow, the Prophet of the Lord, in later years had, in this same article his testimony is recorded. 

"About, three weeks after his baptism, Lorenzo Snow received a wonderful vision which he tells in his own language, in his journal, as follows: 

" 'I had no sooner opened my lips in an effort to pray than I heard a sound, just above my head, like the rustling of silken robes, and immediately the Spirit of God descended upon me, completely enveloping my whole person, filling me, from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet, and O, the joy and happiness I felt! No language can describe the almost instantaneous transition from a dense cloud of mental and spiritual darkness into a refulgence of light and knowledge, as it was at that time imparted to my understanding. I then received a perfect knowledge that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and of the restoration of the Holy Priesthood, and the fulness of the Gospel. It was a complete baptism — a tangible immersion in the heavenly principle or element (the gift of) the Holy Ghost; and even more real and physical in its effects upon every part of my system than the immersion by water; dispelling forever, so long as reason and memory lasts, all possibility of doubt or fear in relation to the fact handed down to us historically, that the 'Babe of Bethlehem' is truly the Son of God; also the fact that he is now being revealed to the children of men, and communicating knowledge, the same as in the apostolic times. I was perfectly satisfied, as well as I might be, for my expectations were more than realized, I think I may safely say in an infinite degree. . . . That night as I retired to rest the same wonderful manifestations were repeated, and continued to be for several successive nights. The sweet remembrance of those glorious experiences from that time to the present, bring them fresh before me, imparting an inspiring influence which pervades my whole being, and I trust will to the close of my earthly existence. 

CONFIRMING TESTIMONY OF MANY OTHERS. 

I have listened to the testimony of all of the apostles who have lived, in these valleys of the mountains from Brigham Young to Josenh F. Smith, and have heard them tell of their personal acrmaintance with the Prophet Joseph Smith. The testimony of Joseph F. Smith was the testimony of one who as a child knew the Prophet and loved him. The testimony of Brigham Young, Jr., was in the same class; but all the other testimonies were those of men of experience, men of oower, men of individual determination, men who had wills and minds of their own, men who could not be led bv a man who did not teach the truth. 

The testimony of Brigham Young, of John Taylor, of Lorenzo Snow, Wilford Woodruff, Erastus Snow, George A. Smith, Heber C. Kimball, and of others who have held the apostleship, who have held the priesthood of God and who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith intimately; of every true Latter-day Saint, man and woman, including the testimony of my own dear departed' mother, than whom no sweeter, purer, nobler soul ever lived; the testimony of Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, "Aunt Em." Wells, and others too numerous to mention. — was of their individual knowledge regarding the uprightness of the life of Joseph Smith, regarding the integrity of the man, regarding the inspiration of the living God that attended him in all of his labors. 

THE TRANSFIGURATION OF BRIGHAM YOUNG. 

I have the testimonies from George Romney, from my mother, from other relatives of mine and from scores of people, that, upon the day when Sidney Rigdon endeavored to steal the Church of Christ and to become the leader, God manifested to the people upon that occasion, by the transfiguration of Brigham Young — so that he appeared as Joseph Smith, so that he spoke as Joseph Smith — and thereby the testimony came to the Saints that Brigham Young was the man to succeed Joseph Smith the Prophet of God. 

PERSONAL TESTIMONY CONCERNING PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG. 

I became acquainted with Brigham Young when I was a little child six years of age; from that time until the day of his death I was. intimate with him. I was as intimate with one of his boys — the late Feramorz L. Young — from the time that we were little children until he left to go to Mexico — as any two boys ever could be. Perhaps no three young men were ever more intimate than Heber J. Grant, Feramorz L. Young and General Richard W. Young. We grew up together. We slept together. We played together. We attended Sunday school together. We attended day school together. 

I was almost as familiar in the homes of President Brigham Young as I was in the home of my own mother. In one home, that of Aunt Emily Partridge Young, if I was hungry I felt as free to go in and' ask for something to eat there as in ray own home. I have spent hours and hours, as a child, in the rooms of Eliza R. Snow, listening to her counsel and advice, and hearing her relate incidents in the life of Joseph Smith the Prophet, and bearing witness of the wonderful blessings of God to Brigham Young. As I say, I was familiar with the Prophet Brigham Young. I knelt down time and time again in his home in the Lion House at family pravers, as a child and as a young man : and I bear witness that as a little child, upon more than one occasion, because of the inspiration of the Lord to Brigham Young while he was supplicating God for guidance, I have lifted my head, turned and looked at the place where Brigham Young was praying, to see if the Lord was not there. It seemed to me that he talked to the Lord as one man would talk to another. I can bear witness of his kindness, of his love to me as an individual, of his love of God and of the inspiration of the Lord that came to him as he stood where I am standing, when I had the privilege of being in the audience and listening to his inspiring words. 

REVELATION TO PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR. 

I was called into the Council of the Twelve Aoostles bv a revelation of, the Lord to President Tohn Taylor, and from the time that I entered the Council of the Twelve, two years after Tohn Taylor was made President of the Church, until the day of his death, I met with him, week after week, in the Endowment house, and I know that he was a servant of the living God; I know that the inspiration of the Lord came to him : and I know that upon all occasions, whenever he said : "This is what the Lord desires," and his associates in the council of the apostles sustained his position, that upon every occasion he was vindicated and the inspiration of the Lord to him showed that his wisdom bv the power of God, had been superior to the wisdom of other men. Several times I have gone to meetings in the old Endowment house, knowing that a certain matter was to be discussed and mv mind was as perfectly set upon a certain position on that question as it is possible for a man to have his mind set. I believe I am as decided in my opinions as the majority of neople-. I have heard it said that there is nobodv as stubborn as a Scotchman except a Dutchman : and I am Scotch on my father's side and Dutch on my mother's (laughter). While I have gone to meetings in the old Endowment house determined' in favor of a certain line of policy, I have willingly and freely voted for the exact opposite of that policy, because of the inspiration of the Lord that came to John , Taylor. Upon every such occasion the servant of the Lord, President Taylor, was vindicated, and his superior judgment, by the inspiration of the Lord, asserted itself in favor of those things that were for the best good of the people. 

I could relate circumstance after circumstance when the apostles have been sent out to accomplish certain labors under the inspiration of the Lord to John Taylor, when they thought they could not accomplish the labors, they have returned and been able to bear testimony that by and with the help of the Lord they had been able to accomplish the labor placed upon them by President Taylor, the Prophet of the Lord. If time would permit, I would like to relate some of these incidents, because they are faith-promoting, but I have not the time. 

PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF A TRUE PROPHET OF GOD. 

I can bear witness that Wilford Woodruff was in very deed a servant of the living God and a true Prophet of God. Wilford Woodruff, a humble man, converted and baptized hundreds of people in a few months in Herefordshire, England. In eight months, as I now remember it, he baptized between fifteen hundred and two thousand souls. I believe that no other man who ever walked the face of the earth was a greater converter of souls to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He was a man of the most wonderful and marvelous humility; a man who had never been engaged in any great business affairs; a man who had devoted himself to farming, who had been engaged in raising fruits and cultivating the soil; a humble man, of whom I had heard many people say that he lacked the ability to preside over the Church of Christ. But I want to bear witness to you that, under the inspiration of the Lord, and because of the humility of the man, because of his godlike life and because God loved him, he was blessed upon more than one occasion with wisdom that was superior to all the wisdom of the bright financial minds in the Church. 

BEGINNING OF THE SUGAR INDUSTRY IN UTAH. 

President Woodruff announced that the Lord would like the great business of manufacturing sugar established in our midst, and a committee w?' appointed from the directorate of two of the largest Church institutions, two of the most substantial in all Israel, to look into the matter. Thev investigated the advisability of establishing the beet sugar industry in this State and unanimously reported adversely. President Woodruff was not satisfied. Another committee was appointed. I was on the first committee and he appointed me on the second committee. I begged to be excused, because I had already formed mv opinion, had already signed mv name to a report, but he would not listen to my request to be excused. We went into the matter again, thoroughly and carefullv, and the second committee reported adversely. President Woodruff said : "Never mind the report. The inspiration to rne is to establish the sugar industry." 

I was called upon a mission, and a letter was given to me in connection with other members of the Council of the Apostles, and we were ?,ent  to ask men to subscribe for stock in the Utah Sugar Company. I took individual letters to different men asking them to subscribe. I delivered a letter to the late David Eccles, than whom I never met a clearer-headed business man in my life, and I have met men who draw their hundred thousand dollars and more every year in salary. He had a comprehensive grasp on business affairs which to me was superior to that of any man I ever met. David smiled when the letter was presented to him, signed by President Woodruff and his counselors, asking him to invest five thousand dollars, or seven thousand five hundred dollars. He said : "Well, I would like to get off at the lowest figure. You can put me down for five thousand dollars." Then he added: "I hope they will buy lumber from me, so I may make a profit on a part of the five thousand dollars; and after I get the stock, if you can find someone who would like to buy it for twenty-five hundred dollars, I will be much obliged to you if you will come and get the stock." Years later, when he put hundreds of thousands of dollars into the sugar business, I don't know whether or not he felt to give credit to that humble man, Wilford Woodruff, for the inspiration of the Lord, whereby this great industry was established. 

But for the inspiration of the Lord to Wilford Woodruff I doubt if we would have any sugar business in this state or in Idaho, today, that would amount to very much. I am inclined to think that the Great Western or some other company would have established the business in Utah and Idaho, and that the people of these states would simply have been working for them instead of owning the majority of the stock in our great inter-mountain factories. 

After we had let the contract for the building of the sugar factory at Lehi, the panic of 1891 came on. There was a provision in the contract that before the machinery was shipped by the Dyer Company, if we would pay a forfeit of fifty thousand dollars the contract could be cancelled. I had been sent to New York, Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia. San Francisco and other places, by the Presidency, to try to raise the money necessary to build this factory, but it looked like an impossibility to get the money. It was the opinion of business men and others that we should pay the fifty thousand dollars forfeit and abandon the enterprise; but when the recommendation was presented, Wilford Woodruff's answer was this: "From the day I received a knowledge of the divinity of the gospel of Jesus Christ revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, from the day that I went out as a humble priest to proclaim that gospel, although it looked like death in front of me, if the path of duty that the gospel required me to tread called me to face death, I have never turned to the right nor turned to the left; and now the inspiration of the Lord to me is to build this factory. Every time I think of abandoning it, there is darkness; and every time I think of building it, there is light. We will build the factory if it bursts the Church." 

We did built it and it did not burst the Church (laughter); and it and subsequent factories have made for our people and for the Church millions of dollars. 

PRESIDENT SNOW'S WORK OF THREE YEARS. 

I know that Lorenzo Snow was a Prophet of God. By his testimony, which I have read to you, and by the testimony of my mother and hundreds of , others who knew the Prophet Joseph, as well as by the revelations of the Spirit of God to me, I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I know of my own knowledge that Brigham Young, and John Taylor and Wilford Woodruff were Prophets of God. It is stated that men do not amount to much after they pass fifty, and that when they are sixty you ought to get some kind of a drug and put them to sleep, and that when they are seventy they are simply useless. But Lorenzo Snow came to the presidency of the Church when he was eightyfive years of age, and what he accomplished during the next three years of his life is simply marvelous to contemplate. He lifted the Church from the financial slough of despond, so to speak, from almost financial bankruptcy — when its credit was hardly good for a thousand dollars without security, when it was paying ten per cent for money — he lifted the Church out of that condition and made its credit A No. 1, so that people solicited and asked for the privilege of buying the bonds of this Church at six per cent. Ten per cent is sixty-six and two-thirds per cent more than six per cent, and in three short years this man, beyond the age of ability in the estimation of the world, this man who had not been engaged in financial affairs, who had been devoting his life for years to laboring in the Temple, took hold of the finances of the Church of Christ, under the inspiration of the living God, and in those three years changed everything, financially, from darkness to light. 

I know that Lorenzo Snow was God's mouthpiece upon the earth, that he was the representative of the Lord and that he was in very deed a Prophet of God. Read the wonderful testimony that he received a few weeks after his baptism, as recorded in the Improvement Era, concerning the knowledge that he received that God lived, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and that the priesthood of the living God has been restored to the earth. I know that that knowledge guided his life from that day to the day that he became God's representative upon the earth. 

THE COURAGE OF PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Lorenzo Snow was drowned in the harbor of Honolulu, in the Hawaiian Islands, and it took some hours to bring him to life again. At that particular time the Lord revealed to him the fact that the young man Joseph F. Smith, who had refused to get off the vessel that had carried them from San Francisco to Honolulu, and get into a small boat, would some day be the Prophet of God. Answering Lorenzo Snow who was in charge of the company, he said: "If you by the authority of the Priesthood of God, which you hold, tell me to get into that boat and attempt to land, I will do so, but unless you command me in the authority of the Priesthood, I wil not do so, because it is not safe to attempt to land in a small boat while this typhoon is raging." They laughed at the young man Joseph F. Smith, but he said, "The boat will capsize." The others got into the boat, and it did capsize; and but for the blessings of the Lord in resuscitating Lorenzo Snow he would not have lived, because he was drowned upon that occasion. It was revealed to him, then and there, that the boy, with the courage of his convictions, with the iron  to be laughed at and scorned as lacking courage ro go m mat. ooai, and who stayed on that vessel, would yet be the Prophet of God. Lorenzo Snow told me this upon more than one occasion, long years before Joseph F. Smith came to the presidency of the Church. 

EULOGY AND LETTER OF SYMPATHY IN MEMORY OF PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I said I wanted my counselors to say something, but I am afraid they are not going to have the chance. I now come to Joseph F. Smith. I apologize to his family for reading a personal letter of sympathy. 1 had no idea as I sat down and picked up my pen and poured out my heart in love and sympathy to the family, that I would ever read in public that letter; but I had failed to get my mind upon anything that I particularly desired to say upon this occasion, and last night I borrowed from one of his sons a copy of the letter; and although it may not be good ethics, I wish to read it, because therein are the sentiments of my heart, poured out in love to his family. 

' At Home, November 20, 1918. To the family of President Joseph F. Smith, 

My dearly beloved friends: Language fails me to express to you my love for your dear departed father and husband. In dear Aunt Eliza R. Snow's words I can truthfully say, "He was beloved, beloved by all." 

For thirty-six years I have labored under his Presidency, while he was counselor to or the President of the Church. During all this time no man could possibly have inspired one over whom he presided with more love or confidence for him than President Smith did me. I have said many times that no man who ever lived, with whom I have been associated, had been beloved by me as much as your dear departed husband and father. 

I could not and did not in my heart bring myself to feel that he was going to leave us until the afternoon of the 18th, when I called and David said he wanted to see me. The President took my hand and pressed it with a power and strength that was far from what one could expect from a dying man, and he blessed me with power and the Spirit of the living God, and there was love in his eyes and a strong pressure of his hand, and with nearly every word he spoke his pressure of my hand thrilled my being, and tears of gratitude to God and love for His mouthpiece upon the earth filled my heart. His blessing was all that I could ask or expect had he been my own dear father. . 

Sister Bowman entered and kissed and wept over her father, and I walked into the little front office and wept, feeling that the last words I would ever hear from his beloved lips had been spoken when he said to me, "The Lord bless you, my boy, the Lord bless you, you have a great responsibility. Always remember this is the Lord's work and not man's. The Lord is greater than any man. He knows whom He wants to lead His Church and never makes any mistakes. The Lord bless you." 

I 'returned to my office, but I did not even have the heart to mail some letters which I had written earlier in the day. I went home and after eating supper I again visited the President, whom I found in great pain, and he asked President Lund who was there to bless him and supplicate the Lord to release him, and call him home. We placed our hands upon his head and President Lund told the Lord how much we loved our President and of our gratitude for the joy and happiness we had had in laboring with him, but asked that he be called home if his life could not be spared to us. 

The next morning I awoke at one o'clock and was not able to get to sleep until after six-thirty, as my mind was with the President. I got the November Era and reread the President's talk at the October conference, and after doing so I wrote in my Era at the close of his talk: 

"Nov. 19/18. Re-read twice and wept as I think of how near death's door the President is. 

"It is 3:45 and I have been awake since one a. m." — Heber J .Grant. The President lived but one hour and five minutes after I had written that he was near death's door. 

The Lord has been very good to me in times of sorrow, and I hops, and pray with all my heart that He will bless and comfort your sorrowing hearts, as you read of his goodness to me. I am enclosing a copy of a letter telling of the blessings given to me in .times of affliction. There are two poems among those published with my letter to Brother and Sister Winters which have comforted and blessed me. "The Changed Cross," and "Providence is Over All."* Especially have I been blessed while reading Sister Woodmansee's inspiring words. I knew her from my earliest recollection until the day of her death, and my love of her poem was no doubt increased from the fact that she lived in perfect harmony with its teachings. 

I was once talking of the favorite poems of our Church leaders and I turned to President Smith and asked him which of our hymns was his favorite and he said he hardly knew, but he thought that perhaps his favorite was the splendid hymn, "Uphold the Right, Though Fierce the Fight,' by that heroic little soul, Sister Emily Hill Woodmansee."t I enclose a copy of this hymn with this letter. 

I have never known the joy and comfort of a father's love, but Presidents Joseph F. Smith, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, and others of my near and dear associates have given me a father's love and filled the place in my affections as completely as men not one's father could possibly do. 

Never in my life have I listened to more inspiring words than those at the funeral of my dear departed mother and at the funeral of my dear brother, Joseph Hyrum, which were spoken by President Smith. 

1 am thankful beyond any power to tell for the inspiration to do my full duty in the battle of life which has come to me from the example and loving teachings of your beloved father and husband. 

Flowers fade in a day, and so I shall send each of you for Gusta and myself in loving remembrance of your dear departed husband and father the book "Their Yesterdays." * * I send this book for the reason 

*See this Conference Report, p. 14. tSee this Conference Report, p. 14. **See this Conference Report, p. 15.  when I read it, March 20th, 1914, I marked one of the passages which seemed to me at the time I read the book to be inspirational. It is on pages 228-9. I wrote in my book the sentiments of my heart at the time regarding President Smith in connection with the words on those pages. What I wrote was as follows : "More than any man I have ever known, President Joseph F. Smith has done this. God bless him forever, and his posterity after him. The fact that he is the Prophet of \ God today is a great testimony to me of the divinity of 'Mormonism' so called." 

Little did I think when I wrote these words that he would have departed this life by now. 

One of the most sincere and earnest prayers of my heart has been that President Smith should live to celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of the Church. I prayed for this some months ago at the close of a Temple fast meeting, and the Lord so abundantly blessed me that I felt my prayer would be answered, and I sat down weeping for joy. 

I could go on writing for hours, but I will close by sending my assurance and that of Sister Grant of our profound sympathy, and our most earnest prayer for God to comfort and bless your sorrowing hearts. President Smith sealed us as husband and wife for time and all eternity, and Gusta shares in all the expressions of love for him and admiration of his character in this letter. Again, may God bless you and your loved ones now and forever. 

Your affectionate brother, 

(Signed) Heber J. Grant. 

At the grave of President Joseph F. Smith I read a poem entitled '"A Real Man"* and I expressed there the hope that I misrht live to be like Joseph F. Smith. I read at the grave the poem by Eliza R. Snow, written for the Prophet Joseph Smith. "He was beloved, beloved by all."t The prayer that I had in my heart, the desire that I had to follow in the footsteps of this man of God, who presided over us with so much inspiration, with so much devotion, with so much integrity to God and to his fellowmen, the desire that I might be like him, is still in my heart. I pray God to bless his memory. I pray God to bless his wives and his children, that they may emulate his most wonderful and splendid example. I bear witness to you that from my early childhood days, when I could not thoroughly understand and comprehend the teachings of the gospel, that I have had my very being thrilled, and tears have rolled down my cheeks, under the inspiration of the living God, as I have listened to Toseuh F. Smith when preaching the gospel. I believe that Joseph F. Smith and his son Hyrum M. Smith, more than anv other men to whom I have listened, who were born in the Church of Christ in our day, were the greatest preachers of righteousness. I know that whenever I heard that Joseph F. Smith was going to speak in one of the wards, that time and time again a.s a young man I have left my own ward and gone to listen 

*See this Conference Reoort, p. IS. tSee ibid, hymn 303, p. 16. to him, because he always filled my being and lifted me up as I listened to him proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. I bear witness that he was one of the greatest prophets of God that has ever lived; that God was with him from the day that he went forth as a little boy of fifteen years of age, to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ in the Hawaiian Islands, until the day when, after giving sixty-five years of his life to the work of God, he closed his earthly career. 

May God bless each and all of us who have a knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged, and may we be faithful to the end as our prophet was, our beloved leader who has left us, Joseph F. Smith, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PROVIDENCE IS OVER ALL. 

When dark and drear the skies appear, 

And doubt and dread would thee enthrall, Look up, nor fear, the day is near, 

And Providence is over all. From heaven above, His light and love, 

God. giveth freely when we call. Our utmost need is oft decreed, 

And Providence is over all. 

With jealous zeal God guards our weal, 

And lifts our wayward thoughts above; When storms assail life's bark so frail, 

We seek the haven of His love. And when our eyes transcend the skies 

His gracious purpose is complete, No more the night distracts our sight — 

The clouds are all beneath our feet. 

The direst woe that mortals know 

Can ne'er the honest heart appall Who holds the trust — that God is just, 

And Providence is over all. Should foes increase to mar our peace, 

Frustrated all their plans shall fall. Our utmost need is oft decreed, 

And Providence is over all. 

— Emily Hill Woodmansee. 

UPHOLD THE RIGHT 

Uphold the right, though fierce the fight, 

And powerful the foe. And freedom's friend, her cause defend, 

Nor fear nor favor show. No coward can be called a man, 

No friend will friends betray; Who will be free, alert must be; 

Indifference will not pay. 

Note how they toil whose aim is spoil, . 

Who plundering plots devise; Yet time will teach that fools o'erreach 

The mark and lose the prize. Can justice deign to wrong maintain, 

Whoever wills it so? Can honor mate with treacherous hate? 

Can figs on thistles grow? 

Dare to be true, and hopeful, too; 

Be watchful, brave and shrewd. Weigh every act; be wise, in fact, 

To serve the general good. Nor basely yield, nor quit the field — 

Important is the fray; Scorn to recede, there is no need 

To give our rights away. 

Left-handed fraud let those applaud 

Who would by fraud prevail: In freedom's name, contest their claim, 

Use no such word as fail; Honor we must each sacred trust, 

And rightful zeal display; Our part fulfill, then come what will, 

High heaven will clear the way. 

— Emily Hill Woodmansee. 

FROM "THEIR YESTERDAYS." 

''If the men of a race will perfect the manhood strength of the race; if they will exalt their manhood power; if they will fulfill the mission of life by perfecting and producing ever more perfect lives; if they will endeavor to contribute to the ages to come stronger, better, men than themselves; why, the work of the world will be done even as the plant produces its flowers and fruit, the work of the world will be done. In the exaltation of Life is the remedy for the evils that threaten the race. The reformations that men are always attempting in the social, religious, political, and industrial world are bu-t attempts to change the flavor or quality of the fruit when it is ripening on the tree. The true remedy lies in the life of the tree; in the soil from which it springs; in the source from which the fruit derives its quality and flavor. In the appreciation of Life, in the passion of Life, in the production of Life, in the perfection of Life, in the exaltation of Life, is the salvation of human kind. For this, and this alone, man has right to live — has right to his place and part in Life."— Harold Bell Wright. 

A REAL MAN. 

Men are of two kinds, and he Was of the kind I'd like to be. Some preach their virtues, and a few Express their lives by what they do. That sort was he. No flowery phrase Or glibly spoken words of praise Won friends for him. He wasn't cheap Or shallow, but his course ran deep, And it was pure. You know the kind. Not many in a life you find, Whose deeds outrun their words so far That more than what they seem they arc. 

There are two kinds of lies as well:The kind you live, the ones you tell. 

Back through his years from age to youth 

He never acted one untruth. 

Out in the open light he fought 

And didn't care what others thought 

Nor what they said about his fight 

If he believed that he was right. 

The only deeds he ever hid 

Were acts of kindness that he did. i What speech he had was plain and blunt. His was an unembellished front. Yet children loved him; babe and boy Played with the strength he could employ, Without one fear, and they are fleet To sense injustice and deceit. No back door gossio linked his name t With any shady tale of shame. He did not have to compromise With evil-doers, shrewd and wise, And let them ply their vicious trade Because of some past escapade. 

Men are of two kinds, and he 

Was of the kind I'd like to be. 

No door at which he ever knocked 

Against his manly form was locked; 

If ever man on earth was free 

And independent, it was he. 

No broken pledge lost him respect, 

He met all men with head erect; 

And when he passed I think there went 

A soul to yonder firmament 

So white, so splendid and so fine 

It came complete to God's design. 

Edgar A. Guest. 

HYMN NO. 303. 

Thou dost not weep to weep alone; 

The broad bereavement seems to fall Unheeded and unfelt by none, 

He was beloved, beloved by all. 

But lo! what joy salutes our grief! 

Bright rainbows crown the tearful gloom, Hope, hope eternal, brings relief; 

Faith sounds a triumph o'er the tomb. 

It soothes our sorrow, says to thee, The Lord in chastening comes to bless: 

God is thy God, and He will be A father to the fatherless. 

'Tis well with the departed one; 

His heaven-lit lamp was shining bright, And when his mortal day went down, 

His spirit fled where reigns no night. 

'Tis meet to die as he has died, 

He smiled amid death's conquered gloom, 

While angels waited by his side, To bear a kindred spirit home. 

Vain are the trophies. wealth can give! 

His memory needs no sculptor's art; He's left a name — his virtues live, 

'Graved on the tablets of the heart. — Eliza R. Snow. 

The choir and congregation sang : 

"How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, Is laid for your faith in his excellent word." 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND 

I rejoice this morning in seeing this great assemblage of Latterday Saints and so many of the priesthood represented as are before me and around me here. What a marvelous work this is! Seeing the voting by quorums of the priesthood, I thought of the wonderful organization of the priesthood. 

god's marvelous work and a wonder. 

It brought to my mind the revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, long before there was any one in the Church, in section four of the Doctrine and Covenants, in which the Lord said he was about to bring forth a marvelous and wonderful work. This has indeed been accomplished. The Prophet Joseph was indeed a man and prophet of God, and proved this both by his prophecies, by his teachings and by his life, and his successors followed him with great devotion to this great work. 

THE COURAGE OF BRIGHAM YOUNG. 

Today, the first of June, is the anniversary of the birth of President Brigham Young. The Lord had a great work for him. He was indeed a Moses to lead his people away from persecution and oppression, into the wilderness. What sublime faith those men, the pioneers, showed in following him! They did not know where they were going. They did not know what was before them, but they had confidence in their leader, and knowing he was appointed of God to lead them, they followed him. 

When they entered these valleys the prospect was not very encouraging, and several of them thought it was better to go on to Oregon or California, or to places where there were already cultivated lands and an assurance that people were able to make a living. But their misgivings did not influence President Young, for he knew that this was the place; he said so, and on the spot where the temple stands today, he said, "Here we will erect a temple to our God." President Brigham Young proved to be a courageous man. He was not afraid of the outlook. The Lord had pointed out to him that this would be the gathering place of the Saints. 

TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

We have heard President Grant speak about Brother John Taylor, about Brother Woodruff, and Brother Lorenzo Snow, and we have for some time looked forward to a day on which speeches should be made in memory of the prophet Joseph F. Smith. He was indeed loved by all. He was a great man. He was a great preacher of righteousness. How often have I sat listening to his voice and rejoiced in the truths that he put forth, the encouraging words he spoke* and the words of warning he gave unto the people! Take a view of his life. God had given him a strong and abiding faith. He never wavered. As early as fifteen years he was called to go to a land where much of the blood of Israel was found. The four years he spent there were not years perhaps like many of us would have liked, but he looked upon them with joy and thankfulness, for he loved the people among whom he labored. They loved him, and though they were poor and he was poor also, still those years were blessed years to him and to that people. 

President Smith was a dutiful child to his mother. He loved her with the greatest love. He often alluded to her and to the inestimable blessing that she had been to him. She taught him to read, she helped him in his studies, and her memory was ever kept by him in the deepest reverence. He liked to talk about her, and as he was a dutiful and loving child himself, when he had children he was a loving father and a loving husband. He loved the little ones, even those not belonging to his family, and I have noticed how little children would be drawn to him even if they were perfect .strangers. There was an atmosphere about him that gave them confidence, so that they were not afraid to ccme and have him take them up in his arms. 

I have walked with him in the street and nearly every few steps he would meet acquaintances and have to stop and shake hands with them. He was loved by those who knew him. He never forgot his friends, even if he had not seen them for many years. His life was an exemplar)" one. 

Ever since I remember anything about him he was to me the type of a true Latter-day Saint; and when I got more intimately connected with him I saw, every day, more and more evidence of his being just what I had imagined him to be. He was a true Latter-day Saint. He loved the gospel. He lover! to bear his testimony that Jesus was the Redeemer and Savior of the world. He bore testimony to the truth of the gospel, and to the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith, and his testimony always strengthened the faith of those who listened to him. 

THE CHURCH FREED OF DEBT. 

President Smith was a good manager of the affairs of the Church. When his administration began, the Church was owing nearly a million dollars of bonds. President Smith was a man that did not like to be in debt, and as he felt in this regard himself, so he felt for the Church, and he put forth all his energy that the Church might get out of the bondage of debt. It took about five years to do this, because so many other responsibilities had to be met, but I remember one day in the old office building how he rejoiced when we made a bon-fire of bonds that called for a million of dollars, for we felt, now is the Church free from debt. 

AN EPOCH OF CHURCH BUILDINGS. 

During the administration of President Smith there was an epoch of building meetinghouses and stake houses, ward tithing offices, academies and temples. More has been done during these years in this regard than ever before, not only at home, but abroad; meeting houses have been erected in the missions of the United States, England, Scandinavia, and on the islands of the sea, and the people rejoice in having places of their own where they can go and worship God. When we  here, at home, we are pleased to see these beautiful meetinghouses that have been erected, and very few have been built without help by the Trustee-in-Trust. And the work of building meetinghouses continues. 

A FAITH-PROMOTING PREACHER OF RIGHTEOUSNESS. 

President Smith was a spiritual-minded man, and he was well versed in all things pertaining to the priesthood, to temple work and to the different activities of the Church. Before I came into the presidency I have often gone to him and asked for his advice and counsel, and I always found it to be the very best that could be given; and when I was called to be his counselor I felt indeed humble, and wondered how I could perform such an office to a man like him. During the seventeen years that we sat at the council table together, I admired the man more and more. I saw how true he was to his professions, how true he was to the interests of the Church, how true to his brethren and the Saints in general. 

When a case came before him to judge, he and his counselors would talk it over and give it their careful consideration until they came to the same conclusion. We felt indeed that he was a man of God, a man raised up to perform a wonderful work. We all miss Brother Joseph F. Smith. We loved him. We knew that he was a fearless man. When it came to anything pertaining to the Church, whatever he thought was for the best good of the work, he was not afraid to undertake it. In reflecting upon his life, we see many things that are faith-promoting, and showing that the Lord's hand was with him, protecting him and giving him success in his labors. 

May the Lord bless his families and his children, that they may emulate the noble example that he has set them, and may we all, brethren and sisters, remember what he has done, may his memory remain green in bur minds, and may we carry out that which he worked for so earnestly all his life. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT WILL KEEP HIS PLEDGES. 

President Grant has spoken to us this morning. He has told us what he intends to do, and I know he will carry it out, because he has always kept the pledges he has made; so I do not think that now, as president of the Church, he will go back upon such conduct. The Lord will bless him. There is a great work for him to do, to which the Lord has called him, and God will give him wisdom and strength to accom*. plish it and enable him to carry the great responsibility that the office imposes upon him. 

May the Lord bless President Grant, that he may have joy in his labor, that his administration may be a prosperous one for the Latterday Saints, I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang: "Come Unto Me." 

The benediction was pronounced  Patriarch George L. Farrell, of the Cache Stake of Zion. 


