Second Overflow
01 06 1919

A second overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 o'clock p. m., Sunday, June 1, 1919, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, presiding. 

Music was furnished by the Latter-day Saints University students choir, directed by B. Cecil Gates. 

The choir and congregation sang: "Now let us rejoice." 

The opening prayer was by Elder Harden Bennion. 

The choir sang: "Remember, O Lord." 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

(Presiding Patriarch of the Church). 

As was announced this morning in our general conference, the program for this afternoon is to .remember both in spirit and in word the life, mission and works of our late president, Joseph F. Smith, and I am very grateful for ^another privilege of raising my voice in testimony concerning his life and mission. 

It has been said by a number of older men, that they knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that they have known all of the presidents in their succession since him. It seems to me as if I knew him, because 1 have seen and heard those who did see; hear, and know him, ancHp my faith is just as firm and just as well founded, perhaps, as if I had known him and seen him with  own eyes. I believe in his mission, and know that he was a prophet of God. Neither did I see his successor, President Brigham Young, because his mission was finished two years before mine began here upon the earth. So.like unto the Prophet Joseph in my life, the life of President Brigham Young is that of memory and history to me. But I have heard the voice of those who were in that meeting which was referred to by President Grant where the mantle of the Prophet Joseph fell upon President Brigham Young, when some of the people were in doubt as to who was going to lead the Church, after the martyrdom. 

So I feel that I have really partaken of the gathering upon that occasion, and I testify here that I think that the lives of men and women have been spared to us, to me for instance, to hear their voices in this great testimony which established the fact in my mind, as it did in the minds of hundreds of Latter-day Saints, that it was President Brigham Young who was to lead the Church instead of Sidney Rigdon or any other man. . I am grateful that «the lives of these men and women have been spared that I might hear their testimony, since I did not live in the time when it was possible for me to have attended that meeting or to get that testimony first hand. I have faith in the testimonies of these men and women whom I have mentioned. I mention particularly the life of Aunt Emmeline B. Wells. I think her life has been spared by the power of the Lord, for at least one purpose — that the youth of Zion might hear her testimony, that she was in that meeting and heard 'the voice of the Prophet Joseph from the mouth of President Brigham Young. e T have also heard the testimony of Patriarch George Romney, whose life has been spared, I believe, that his testimony may go forth among ithe young people concerning that same fact, and circumstance. 

I do not remember President Taylor; although as a small boy, I may have seen him. but. during his presidency of the Church, his personal mission did not come into my life, because I did not live in Salt Lake City, and so I did not get acquainted with him. But I do have a distinct remembrance of President Wilford Woodruff. I think my first memory of him was when the Salt Lake temple was dedicated. 

I have also a very distinct memory of President Lorenzo Snow. When I was a member of the Church school at Provo, he came to the school, and 1 remember tha«t a number of small children marched up to the stand and presented him with flowers; and as they passed by he gave each one a blessing by placing his hand upon their heads. That was a very impressive memory in my life. 

I also have a very distinct memory of the life of my dear uncle, President Joseph F. Smith, and I learned to love him, although we were separated about three generations. There are many people in the Church who, perhaps, due to their ' lack of acquaintance of the family history, have taken me to be a member of his family. But had I been an actual son of his, he could ndt have treated me better. His latest words to me were to the effect that I was not a real member of his family, but that he felt towards me as though I were a member of his immediate family; also in ten expressing his love for me. His kindness ftoward me was so manifest, I could not help but love him. I was always happy while in his presence, and I never had that feeling of timidity or desire to withdraw from him. There seemed to be power in his spirit that drew me toward him rather than repelled me from him. I love his memory, and look upon his testimony and his works as those of a prophet of the Lord, as those of one who was among the leading prophets and presidents of the Church in all the world. 

I have often contrasted the events of history, when he took rthe office of president and when he left it. Outsiders, as we speak of nonmembers, looked upon him, how they hated him. Many of them said violent words about him; and they not only said words but they drew hideous pictures about him, caricatured him, and maligned his name and family. 

Although I was not present upon either of the occasions to which I shall refer, I have heard that when Prest. Joseph F. Smith was taken as a witness before the United States Senate that people in the gallery, many of them influential persons and officers of the government with their friends, actually hissed at him when he was brought in before <them as a witness; but before the close of that great case, these very persons, sought an opportunity to pay respect to him. 

Upon another occasion, the genealogists of Utah were gathered in a great meeting in California, where Kthere were many friends gathered, many influential men and women gathered in an outdoor mating. Many of them were wearing their hats, and when President Joseph F, 

Smith arose and declared that he wished to speak to them as a servant^of the Lord Jesus Christ, fthose men took off their hats and paid him due reverence, not as just an ordinary man, but as a servant of the Lord who was to speak to them in the name of Jesus Christ. And they gave reverence fto him, by uncovering their heads. 

Little by little these changes took place until, as you remember, the hour of his funeral, by the proclamation of the Governor of this State, every house of business, every piece of machinery, almost, I'hat was run by the state was closed and stopped for one hour; and. not only the places of business throughout the state, but all men who knew him, whether they once hated him or not, once slighted the work that_ he did, or fthe cause which he represented, gave reverence to him and his name, and the work that he represented, the work of God. I am also told that in the distant and remote towns of this stette the stores were closed. All business was closed. Street cars here in this busy city stopped for one hour, no matter where they were, at the given time. Other tokens of respecft also were shown to him. This was a wonderful contrast to show that the people of the world, not only our friends, but our very enemies, have given honor to this man "whom God hath chosen." 

So I love and bless his memory. I join with my fellows in praying God to bless his memory, and those who shall live after him, that his teachings may live in our hearts, that we may honor them, and through them honor God, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

During President Joseph F. Smith's administration all but three of the members have come into their present positions — Other great changes that have taken place — Persecution turned to admiration — The barren places into a veritable garden of roses — President Smith's rise from a lowly station to the highest among his people — His character and life. 

My feelings were greatly touched, as no doubt yours were also, when, in the Tabernacle this morning, President Heber J. Grant took the place as presiding officer, which for some seventeen years had been occupied by President Joseph F. Smith. 

Last Thursday at the regular weekly meeting of the First Presiidency and the Council of the Twelve, President Grant explained that all but three of the members of the Council have come into their places during the administration of President Smith. "Therefore," he said, "it will be very fitting for all of us to speak briefly in honor of this wise and now immortal man and prophet, President Joseph F. Smith, at the memorial services which will be held for him as a portion of the general conference next Sunday." 

Not only are the members of the First Presidency and of the Council of the Twelve assembled here today to do honor to his memory, but the presidents of nearly all the stakes, and the bishops of nearly all the wards, and the counselors to all of these, are also present. Of these I say what a traveling sister recently said of the presidents of the stakes : "I think no finer band of men can be found in all the world." The heart of President Smith must be glad and gratified at this hour if he knows that all of these worthy officials are assembled, and so many other thousands of the members of the Church, that three great services are being held simultaneously in order to accommodate the multitude that is here for the purpose of paying respect to his dear memory. 

During the administration of President Smith great changes have come. The intense prejudice that existed in the beginning has disappeared. The Patriarch, in his remarks has just referred to conditions that existed at the time of the Smoot investigation. Well do I remember those conditions. I was a graduate student at Cornell University. The Ithaca papers printed glaring headlines drawing; attention to the testimony and published grotesque cartoons of those who, as witnesses, were being examined. These were trying davs for me. They must have been much more trying for those of our neoole who were in Washington. The public jeered at the president. Thev sooke to him and of him disrespect full v. His keen sensibilities were deeoly cut when in derision they called him "Prophet Smith." But truth will prevail. Rie:ht is might. When right and riehteousncss really come to the attention, then are people convinced. 

It was but a few vears after this investigation that President Smith went again to the city of Washington. Instead of being addressed as "Prophet Smith." he was greeted on every hand with "Mr. President, I am delighted to see you." The Vice-president of the United States said to him : "Mr. President, may I have the pleasure of your com at the great foot-ball contest this afternoon?" 

Fairy tales hardly draw pictures more thrilling than that of the life of President Joseph F. Smith. When, as a boy at the age of nine, he dr.ove an ox team into Salt Lake Valley, there was here, I have heard him say, but one green spot. If I remember correctly, he said there- was in sight but one green tree and that tree grew on City Creek. This was then a prairie — a desert. During the seventy years since his coming, barrenness has been changed to beauty. This is today a veritable garden of roses. We are surrounded with every luxury and convenience of modern times. 

The story of the life of President Smith is not unlike the story of David, Kin? of Israel. The Lord said unto the Proohet Samuel : "How Ion? wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing- I have rejected him from reignine over Israel? Fill th>ne horn with oil a"d pt>. I will send thee to Jesse, the Bethlehemite : for I hnve provided me a king among his .sons. 

"Samuel did that which the Lord spake, and came to Bethlehem." 

When Jesse brought before him one of his handsome sons, tall and erect, the Prophet Samuel said : "Surely the Lord's anointed is before him." 

"But the Lord said unto Samuel, look not on his countenance or on the heieht of his stature; because I have refused him; for the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." And Jesse brought another son, and another, and another, rntil seven had passed by. 

Then Samuel said_ unto Jes-e : "The Lord hath not chosen these. 

Are here all thy children?" Jesse said : "There remaineth yet the youngest and behold he keepeth the sheep." 

Who was he? The carpenter's son? Was he the widow's boy that drove the ox team across the prairie in 1848? Was it the little fellow who herded cows bare-footed in this great valley long years ago? "Yes," said Jesse, "There remaineth yet the youngest and behold he keepeth the sheep." 

And Samuel said unto Jesse: "Send and fetch him: for we will not sit down till he come hither." 

When the shepherd boy with the ruddy, handsome countenance appeared, the Lord said: "Arise, anoint him, for this is he." 

As it was with the shepherd David, so was it. with the carpenter's son; and so was it with the widow's son who drove the ox team into the valley, in 1848. "The Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." All honor to the memory of President Joseph F. Smith, the widow's son. Under his leadership and the blessings of God, we find ourselves today a united, happy and prosperous people. 

The sterling strength and nature of Joseph F. Smith would permit him to make no compromise with sin. On one occasion, he was approached, by an attractive young woman, a member of the Church, who said : "My profession brings me on the stage where short sleeves and low necks are a positive necessity. Is it not possible in my case to have the regulations of the Church slightly modified ? Are you going to require me to live in the same strict conformity with the  of the gospel in this respect as you do others?" 

Some might ask the president: "In my case, may I not take just a little tea?" Or another in poor health might say: "May I not be permitted to take just a little coffee?" Still another might ask: "In this one case, will you not permit me to take just a little liquor?" Still others : "Is it necessary for me in my condition to remember the Lord every night and morning in my family and secret prayers?" 

To all such questions as these, President Joseph F. Smith would reply, as he did to the charming little lady : "My dear little girl, if you do any of these things, you must do lb em on your own responsibility." 

One of the great lecturers speaking before the Bonneville Club, at the Hotel Utah recently, said : "After the names in your city directory or telephone book you frequently find such words as doctor, merchant, dentist, lawyer, engineer, etc., etc. These words do not indicate the main business of those whose names they follow. They only indicate their sidelines. The main business of every man and the main business of every woman is the rearing of a family." 

There is no part of the excellent life and labor of President Joseph F. Smith that he did with more pro nounced success than he performed this, the main business of his life, the rearing of his family. History, ancient or modern, does not record a more perfect example of man's first and highest duty well done than that of President Joseph F. Smith in the rearing of his large and worthy and wonderful posterity. 

For this good man and for his good life and wise leadership our hearts are full of gratitude. May we put forth successful efforts to follow hfs teachings and his worthyexample. Every feature of his life, is an inspiration. 

The L. D. S. U. Glee Club sang: "I waited before the Lord." 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

Faith emphasized and made plain in the life of President Joseph F. Smith — His life and words forceful and powerful — An erecter of standards and respecter of law — Few could equal his record of service — As a father and husband, he had few, if any equals — He was a home-builder — As a preacher of righteousness, he held first place among us — His was the strength of being clean and he abhorejj impurity and evil habits — His main influence for good upon the thousands who heard and loved him. 

I can hope, at best, to make but little contribution to the splendid eulogies that have been paid to our late President. I do not hesitate, however, to respond with some little feeling of satisfaction as well as trepidation to the call which gives me the opportunity of acknowledging, in some measure at least, my obligation to President Joseph F. Smith, a debt of gratitude to him that I feel I cannot express, and I can scarcely ever hope to repay. 

I believe that every man and every woman requires an ideal. President Smith was my ideal in so many respects that I have a very large obligation to him for the leading of my life and for the inculcation of the principles which have controlled it. He was my ideal in nearly every respect. He so embodied in his life the great principles which I hold dear that he gave them a significance and a meaning and a tangibility that they could  had in no other way. I believe that he was the greatest living exponent of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that we have known, at least in our day and generation. So perfectly, indeed, did he incorporate into his life the great principles to which he dedicated himself and his effort, that those principles were vitalized and made plain and sacred in his living, to an extent seldom achieved in the life of any man. When I think of the great principle of faith, I immediately think of the manner in which that principle was made plain and tangible in the life of President Joseph F. Smith. He was the very incarnation of faith. He made faith a plain, livable principle of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That great principle which is at the foundation of all religious life radiated from his very person. When you heard him bear testimony of the truth and give expression to the faith that was in his soul, you never doubted, not for a moment, the truth of that which he felt and that which he spoke. It seemed so perfectly plain to him that he in turn could make it plain to others. 

When you think of the other great principles of the gospel — repentance, the Word of Wisdom, and prayer, and other fundamental truths, you cannot dis-associate those principles from the life and attributes of Joseph F. Smith. He taught them in the one great way that all great principles of truth must be taught, in order to be effective in the lives of men, by living them. Great as were his words, potential as was the great message that he always had to bear' to the people, his words and his message were never so forceful or so powerful as was the sermon' of his life  his works. Above all other men that I have ever known he adhered to the very letter of the law of the gospel. With him there was no deviation from truth. As has been well said, he could never compromise with sin in the least degree, and yet he was possessed of that marvelous faculty of being kind and considerate and compassionate with the sinner, but uncompromising and intolerant with and of the sin. He would never deviate from the strict path of righteousness. And yet to those who had sinned, he held out more of hope and mercy, of encouragement in repentance, more of kindness, more of sympathy and true love than most any other man I have ever known. 

President Smith possessed that rare combination of upholding all the laws and standards of the Church and of the gospel, and at the same time extending the hand of helpfulness to those who needed help. Such were his remarkable traits of character that he was indeed a friend to every man, and a truer, a juster, a kinder man, and more considerate friend, has never graced this earth than our late President. His friendship was of that fine quality that always led his friends up, and never under any circumstances encouraged them to do that which was not in accordance with the truth and the law of the Church and the gospel. Every man who really knew him, loved him. Those who did not know him came \o love him as they became more intimate with his real motives, and as they understood better the high principles for which he constantly stood. I believe that Goa so mixed up the elements in him that he was able to stand all of the , all of the distresses, all of the sorrows and joys of life in a manner that has no parallel among our generation. 

Bishop Nibley, I think it wa«, standing at his grave, said he was the greatest man in the world. I believe that he was. I believe that from every standpoint he came more nearly measuring up to the stature of a man made in the image of God than any other man on God's footstool. It means a great deal to us. I recognize the fact that in our admiration and love we are apt to be extravagant in our praise and in our tribute, but 1 think that it is only the truth to say that there are no greater men than our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith. 

I care not from what angle you view his life. If you will consider his life and his public career, as a public teacher of the people, as a servant in the cause of humanity, there are but few who could equal the record of service that he has made. Indeed, so devotedly did he work for the welfare of the state, for the welfare and the uplift of his people that during the greater poition.of his life he gave his whole effort to the good of the common cause. 

I think it was President Grant who said the other day that not until long after he had been made the President of the Church did he ever occupy any business positions that brought personal emolument to him. All that he had and all that he was he gave to the people. He believed in service. He believed in that devoted service which gives one's whole life to the people and so he gave his life. He was the greatest of all public servants in this, that he served the souls of men. He  sought to raise the standard of living. He sought to impress the glorious principles of the gospel of truth on the lives of men and women, to raise their standards of life and to enable them to conform their lives with the principles of the gospel; and all that he could do for this cause he did do. No man could do more. 

As a father and a husband, as Brother Lyman has just remarked, he had but few if any equals in the history of all time. I have had the opportunity of being somewhat intimate in his homes, and know something of the love which he ha' 1 ior his wives and his children. I have seen the expression of that love!n his homes, and have seen the love that he gave reciprocated in tht hearts and the actions of those who loved him. Indeed, I never knew a man who had a stronger love tor his home than did the President, and I never knew a man whose family loved him more than did his wives and his children. I have seen him go about among his homes, and he had a large family as you know, when at the close of a day his powers were well nigh exhausted, when he had worked from early morning until late at night, go from home to home to plant the loving kiss of a father upon his children and his wives in recognition of the great love that he bore them. And this love was the bond that bouna them to him and to each other; ana I think it may well be said in trutn and with propriety that there are no finer families in all the land than the large, splendid family of Joseph F. Smith. 

He was a home builder. In this respect as in other respects he has set a glorious example to the world. He has taught that good homes are  the foundation of all that is best in life; that the nation itself can never hope to accomplish and achieve its great destiny unless the homes of the people are right; that the home is the foundation of society; and he set the example by making a home from which gooa citizens came, from which Latterday Saints came, where could be found always the spirit of the gospel, and wherein are taught the things of God, and wherein are oracticed deeds of righteousness. So that in his public life and in his private life he was the great exemplar of the truth of the principles of the o"osrel of Jesus Christ. He vitalized those principles, by living them. He made it plain for men and for women, that they can live the principles of the gospel individually. He taught them that the beauties and the glories of the kingdom of God are to be ha'l by those who will conform their lives to the commandments. 

As an advocate of truth, it has been well said President Joseph .F. Smith was well nigh without an equal. As a preacher of righteousness he held first place among us. His burning words have entered the hearts of those who have saf under his voice and have stimulated them to higher deeds and to better Ihes. Why, -I have heard his voice ring out under the inspiration' ol God, in those majestic tones of his, in such a manner as to fairly raise the audience from their seats. You could well imagine men and women rising to their feet as he expounded the glories of the kingdom and cry, "Glory to God" for the way in which he expounded the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

He was not a learned man in the ordinary acceptation of that term. 

He had not attended schools and colleges and universities, but he was learned in the great school of experience. He was truly educated. All the latent faculties that God had given to him had been developed and had been augmented until they had reached the very full measure of their power, and that is real education. That is real training. He was truly cultured, truly refined, a gentleman of the hiehest type and order. All his thoughts and his s.oeech and his life were clean and wholesome and u pi if tine. 

I think perhaps one of the predominant traits of his life was his absolute cleanliness. He was clean 

bpflv. he was clean in mind, and he was clean and pure in his soul. The strength of being clean was his. 

vielded obedience to the laws of the g-osnel which require men to ^e clean and pure. He never took 

i"to his bpdv pnvthin " thflt would 

pollute it, anything that would desecrate it. He was the most forceful of all the teachers of the Worn of Wisdom, because he lived the law a)] his life to the verv lettd, and his family lived it. He taught it. He abhored things that were impure and obnoxious to the body. He believed that the tabernacles which Go r ' has given us in which to house these God-given spirits of ours were sacred . in the ' sight of God, and he would no more have desecrated his body than he would have desecrated the temple of the Most High. "Such was his faith, and such his belief in this divinely given body of ours. I remember how he abhored the filthy habits of drinking and of smoking, or any of the habits which did not conform to the laws of the gospel. I remember how he inveighed against them,  yet he loved men and women. And while at times he may have seemed harsh in. the condemnation of^hese practices and in the condemnation of those, too, who persisted in the practice of these things, he loved men and women with his whole soul. He would strive for them. He would pray for them. He would recall them from their sins and their troubles if he could. I know of no man who would have gone farther than he to have reclaimed one who had fallen. Such were his remarkable characteristics that he seemed friend to everybody at all times. I know that throughout his whole lile he was pure and immaculate from sin, a"d iust as freely yielded obedience to all the laws of the gospel, just so freely did God give to him ""wer. Just so did God magnify hi"i and make him great and miehtv, giving him a power that has scarcelv been known among our own people as among any other people, to draw men to him and to impress them with the greatness ot the principles and doctrines of the ~ocn e ] which he so perfectly lived. 

I want to say, my brethren and sisters, that T am indebted to President Toseph F. Smith for the best ideals in mv life. I am indebted to him in large measure for my "equine love of the truth. I have taken the best course, that is, the best course that I have taken, in large measure because of the splendid example that he set. Never did he meet me and shake my hand without thrilling me with his own goodness and with the desire to try to emulate, .in small measure at least, the splendid example that he set. Never have I seen his venerable face without being encouraged in the work of God. Never have I heard him announce the great truths of the gospel without being built up in my most holy faith. I don't know how I* can hope to pay the debt that I owe to him, unless it be, perchance, to try to do the work that he loved so well and to which he gave his life and his all. I don't know how I can ever in any measure repay him for the influence which he has had upon my life, unless it be by doing the things that he called me to do, and by attempting to serve in my weak way in the same manner in which he served in his most efficient way. 

I loved him as a son loves a father. I was present at his home the day that he died, or at least the night before. I remember shaking hands with him, and saying what I felt must be my last goodbye to him. As I shook his hand he drew me to him, and he planted upon my lips a kiss that I can never forget. I shall try as long as the memory of that embrace remains with me to live true to the great principles which he so loved, ana while I cannot do one single thing to help him, while I cannot do one single thing to add to his ' greatness or to the love which you bore for him, all that I can do is to dedicate and consecrate my life, my service, whatever talent God has given me, it> the great cause which he loved and for which he gave his noble life. 

If he has helped you, my brethren and sisters, as he has helped me, will you not join with me in the very high resolve to dedicate our lives and our services to the gospel of Jesus Christ, to uphold the high" standards that he upheld, and to the very close of our days to love God as he loved God, to be parents such as was he, and to love humanity with that same tender devotion  love that he exhibited toward all men? To this end, my brethren and sisters, may we devote ourselves, lending all our might, our strength and the best that is within us, I humbly pray God, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

No chance in the call of President Joseph F. Smith — One of the real apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ — The living embodiment of the truth that schools and colleges 'do not make the scholar — A missionary from boyhood and a missionary today. 

"Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was,-and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones. And God saw these souls, that they were good; and he stood in the midst of them, and he said, These I will make my rulers. For he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me, Abraham, thou art one of them, thou wast chosen before thou wast born." 

If you will substitute the name of our modern prophet for the ancient patriarch, you will nave a conception of my firm belief as to the primeval state and the ante-mortal existence of President Joseph F. Smith. There was no chance in his call. The barefoot boy, the 15 year old missionary on the islands of the sea, the more experienced and mature proclaimer of the gospel in this and in distant lands, each was the prophet in the making, the leader school, the ruler in preparation.  

We do but honor ourselves in thus assembling to pay tribute to his memory. Do you think that our feeble words can alter his status? 

Do you think that this memorial service is held for him? I pray you consider. He could withstand such inexcusable forgetfulness on our part as would have been manifest in letting the occasion pass unmarked; but we cannot do it, for our own self-respect; nor could we quell the desire in our heart, springing from the well of living water and genuine love for our dear departed brother and leader, to permit the time to pass without some expression from us as to the lessons he has taught, fie was a man such as the prophets foresaw and whom they foretold. 

In the inspired writing of the Scripture of these days, days of fulness, days of relative finality, the days immediately preceding the coming of Christ the Lord, tell of the spirit of hatred that would be abroad. ' They tell of the confusion that would be rife; thev tell of the blessings that God would give unto the world; and chief among these was the blessing of real men. Don't you remember His promise. "Behold I will make a man more precious than fine gold, even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir." Such gift found a realization in the nerson and ministry of Presi\ dent Joseph F. Smith. No man can ever take his place. Thece is a uniqueness about the real prophet, the prophet of God. He has no successor, and by the same rule he had no predecessor. True, other men may have filled the office that this one filled, as other men shall fill the place after he departs; but there is a distinctiveness about each of God's leaders that makes his place sacred. And yet shall there be other crochets in Zion as there have been miehtv ones in the past; but no one has filled the place of  other. Without the special ministry of President Joseph F. Smith, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints could not be, and therefore would not be, what- it is today. He was foreappointed and foreordained for the particular work of his epoch, of the work and ministry. 

I shall not repeat the many things in the way of personal experiences with President Joseph F. Smith that make me sure he was the great man we have had portrayed before us; but I do bear witness to you that Joseph F. Smith was one of the real apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. I have listened to his ringing words of testimony and warning before the assemblies of thousands, and I have sat with him, on very rare occasions, alone; and on occasions less rare, but still not common, with my brethren and associates, I have heard him preach in conversation, and I have never seen his face so enlightened nor his frame so thrilled with power as when he was bearing testimony , of the Christ. He seemed to me to know Jesus Christ as a man knows his friend. 

President Joseph F. Smith has been referred to on many an -occasion as one of the last links connecting the present generation with that of the early days of the Church. But though that speaks of the long ago when measured in terms of years, did you ever think of the marvellous fact that President Joseph F. Smith was always fully abreast of the times ? He was never behind, but always up to date, and down to date, in everything that was good. There was no clinging to old fashioned methods when better means had been evolved and proved practical with him. Scores of times before he passed away I said, as now I shall venture to say again, he was the living embodiment of the truth that schools and colleges do not make the scholar To me he was one of the best read men with whom I have had <to do and deal. Did you ever hear him use faulty language, poor English? He was no orator, and I am glad of it, for to him oratory and all associated with the name bore the tinge of bombast and verbal display, and he did not know how to talk in painted color pictures; burt he possessed that gift which is as far above oratory as prophecy is above necromancy, the gift of eloquence. He did not speak to the ears, but right straight to the hearts of men. 

Well, where is he now? He was permitted shortly before his passing to have a glimpse into the hereafter, and to learn where he would soon be at work. He was a preacher of righteousness on earth, he is a preacher of righfteousness today. He was a missionary from his boyhood up, and he is a missionary today amongst those who have not yet heard the gospel, though they have passed from mortality into the spirit world. I cannot conceive of him as otherwise than busily engaged in the work of 'the Master. And had any one tried, or should any one now try to distract his attention and lead him into other paths, he could answer without sac' rilege in the very words of the Master: Wis<t ye not that I must be about my Father's business, who is in heaven. 

The Lord enable Us to be in a measure like unto him, fit to take his hand and deserving of a smile from his countenance when we shall meet him again, I pray, in the  of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

My brethren and sisters, it is not my purpose to detain you. Matters this afternoon come home to me with such force that I feel that I vvtould not dare to undertake to express myself, nor could I do it, I think, if I .should try. All that I desire to say is, amen to that which has been spoken by the brethren who have occupied the time. 

The choir and congregation sang: "Do what is right." 

Benediction by Elder Arthur F. Barnes. 


