First Overflow
05 10 1919


An over-flow meeting of the conference was held at the Assembly Hall adjoining the Tabernacle at 10 a. m. presided over by Joseph Fielding Smith, of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. The singing was by the Richards ward Choir, Lon Fisher director, Tracy Y. Cannon, organist. 

Choir sang: "Awake and Arise." 

Prayer was offered by Edward W. Croft, president of the Big Horn stake of Zion. 

The choir sang: "Christ has risen," solos by Myrtle Doelle and J. E. Carr. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON 

(Assistant Church Historian) 

I am pleased, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you. on this occasion, and to have the opportunity to address, for a few minutes, this overflow meeting; and being called upon to be the first speaker, I shall consider it my privilege to choose my subject. While I shall be able to reach the ears of only a few of the great multitudes who attend this conference, there will perhaps be an opportunity of reaching many more through that which may be published. 

I have in my mind to refer very briefly to the work which is being done in the Historian's Office, particularly the history of the Church pertaining to the 19th century. The present, I trust, will be well taken care of, and I hope that better historical work will be done from now on than has ever been done before. This Church having grown from the time of its first organization with six members until it now numbers at least half a million has become a most important factor in the affairs of the world. In- the beginning, when there were only a few members and only a few branches of the Church, the Latter day Saints were almost unknown, but as the work spread to nearly all 127  of the United States an dlater to Canada, Great Britain, and many other countries, most of the civilized world became acquainted to a greater or less extent with the assertion made by the missionary elders of the Church that the Lord had opened the heavens anew and had restored to earth the gospel of Jesus Christ. As the Church grew, many events, which seemed small and insignificant in the beginning, began to tower high as something of great importance, owing to the great results that followed from apparently small and humble beginnings. This fact has caused the historians of the Church, at the present time, to turn their attention to the earlier days, and wander back over the old ground covered only in part by the early historians, and reconstruct and add new items to the history of the Church, without, however, changing- that which had formerly been written, only adding and enlarging- and giving details which were overlooked at the time that the Church was small. With that object in view we have been very busy at the Historian's Office during the past thirty-two years writing a detailed history of the Church from the beginning, in journal form, commencing with the 6th of April, 1830, and continuing to the present time. In our extensive labors we have contributed to this history of the Church from many sources which were untouched by the early historians who were satisfied to make up their history mainly from the current reports and the data sent in to the headquarters of the Church from adjacent settlements and branches, of which there were then only a few, compared with the present time. 

But many years ago our attention was drawn to the fact that much of the Church history, at the Historian's Office, was fragmentary — that the historical thread was not complete, but in many cases disconnected and unsatisfactory. This was especially the case when we looked into the history of any particular stake, mission, branch -or settlement of the Saints, for we discovered that there were, in many cases, no connecting links between the events that had happened in these different localities. In order to make the story complete, so as to make a consecutive history, we found it necessary to go into the fields ourselves; that is, visit the different stakes and missions for the purpose of obtaining additional information which should enable us to make unbroken or continuous histories of the various organizations in the Church. Hence, about thirty-two years ago we commenced extensive travels in which we visited all the stakes of Zion in this great inter-mountain region in the interest of Church history. Our travels extended from our settlements, in Canada on the north to those in Mexico in the south, including, of course, all within the confines of the United States. On these historical tours we usually called special meetings in the different settlements of the Saints, in which we frequently delivered lectures on Church history and drew attention to the importance of record keeping. Not only did we encourage the stake and ward clerks and the secretaries of quorums and auxiliary associations to keep records, but we also advised the keeping of family and personal records by the individual members of the Church. After a GENERAL CONFERENCE.  meeting, usually held in the evening, to which the public was invited, we made appointments for the following day to meet with all the record keepers in the ward, and as many of the old settlers as we could possibly get together, always having everybody bring such records with them to the meeting as they might possess. We then divided into groups, directing the different secretaries to cull from their records such items as we might need for history. Thus we obtained not only a general history of the ward, but a history of the quorums of the Priesthood, the Relief Society, the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Associations, Primary Associations, Religion Classes, etc. We also had the old settlers relate to us their experiences, in the states of Missouri, Ohio, Illinois, and other places, and then have them tell us of incidents that happened to them in crossing the ocean with sailing vessels, and on the plains with ox teams and handcarts, ending up with what they had experienced after their arrival in Utah, or after becoming settlers in any of the western towns, founded by Latter-day Saints. The notes made in these meetings were brought to the Historian's Office and there deposited carefully in boxes, ordered for the purpose, awaiting the transcribing and editing into the history of the" Church. These visits we continued for at least five or six years in the different stakes of Zion, until all the settlements of the Saints in the great west had been visited, some of them several times. 

After that we were sent abroad to all the Latter-day Saints missionary fields throughout the world, and in the travels in foreign lands thus planned and carried out we visited nearly all the conferences and branches of the Church in all the world, and did to a certain extent the same kind of labor which we had accomplished, in the several Stakes of Zion, with the exception that in the missionary fields we consulted old members of the Church instead of old settlers. On our arrival in Great Britain we found that a great many of the old records originally kept in the various conferences and branches of the Church had been lost, but those that could be found we gathered together with great care and sent them home to the Historian's Office, where hundreds of these records (many of them of very great value) arc now safely housed. In Scandinavia we found nearly all the old records preserved, and they were gathered and shipped to Church headquarters the same as the records from Great Britain. The records from the Swiss and German mission and from the missions on the islands of the sea, were also gathered in and sent home. 

This much being accomplished we next commenced a most extensive labor at the Historian's Office by compiling Church history from the records gathered, and from the extensive notes which we had made on our travels. We were successful in obtaining the services of expert typists who could write on their machines nearly as fast as we could formulate sentences in our minds for dictation, and thus we dictated from the notes collected histories of the different stakes of Zion with all their wards and settlements, and also histories ' of the various missions abroad, with their conferences and branches. 129 

This work went on, as a side issue, for several years,' the general, or journal history of the Church, being kept up at the same time. We continued this dictating work until a recent date or until nearly 'all the notes gathered on our travels had been converted into readable matter, and then we found that, in order to be absolutely accurate and correct in our statements, it would be necessary to make a final visit to all the wards and settlements of the Saints, for the purpose of reading to the old settlers and others the histories which we had prepared. I would like all the Saints to understand that this work is one of a considerable magnitude. It represents, so far as I know, historical work of a nature which never before has been attempted in writing histories of any community in this or any other country. I do not believe that a better effort has ever been put forth anywhere to get accurate and truthful history. On some of my travels I have carefully examined the histories of other states and countries, and especially on two of my trips to the states I examined many county histories in Ohio, Missouri, Illin'ois, Iowa and Nebraska, for the purpose of learning how such histories were generally prepared. I soon discovered that most of the historians who had prepared and' written such histories, to a greater or less extent, had been the servants of individuals who would pay them for their labors, and thus they were under the necessity or obligation of coloring facts and events in favor of their patrons, and people who happened to be poor, but perhaps had done very much more than some others, were left out of consideration and were given no credit because they could not pay. That which drew my special attention was some of the narratives in which the Latter-day Saints were associated historically. In almost every instance I found that the Latter-day Saints had been wickedly and maliciously misrepresented, and that, in many cases, riots and acts of mobs were palliated, condoned and interpreted as being justifiable in cases where the Latterday Saints were the victims of terrible outrages. I am sure that the ' history that we, as Church historians, are preparing, from a truthful standpoint will in many, many instances conflict with that which has been written by our enetnies. 

In preparing and writing history, your historians, backed as they have been by the Church, have been under no particular obligation to anyone as to what we should write and to whom we should give credit. We have been in a position to do justice to everybody, to the rich and the poor and to the living and to the dead alike, endeavoring to tell the truth in every instance. 

I take great pleasure, on this occasion, to inform the Latter-day Saints that such a work as that to which I have alluded has been done, and I give it as my opinion that the time is not far distant when the achievements of the Latter-day Saints as preachers of practical Christianity and as founders of real Christian settlements in the United "States will be appreciated and acknowledged by mankind generally. We have not only figured prominently as pioneers in Utah, but our people were also the first Anglo-Saxon settlers in what are now the GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

States of Nebraska, Colorado, Wyoming, Idaho, Nevada, and Arizona. The "Mormons" also turned the little Spanish village of Yerba Buena, in California, into the present San Francisco, and founded other settlements of importance on, or near, the Pacific coast, including the famous town of San Bernardino and a pioneer settlement in the San Joaquin Valley. Some very pretty things could also be told about the Mormon Battalion and the "Mormon" pioneers generally who became empire 'founders in western America. Your historians have tried to the best of their ability to get at the facts in all cases and to write up the events so truthfully that our children will know what has been done by their fathers and mothers, who were pioneers in Utah and the other states which have been mentioned. Sooner or later the people of the United States and all the world will know that the Latter-day Saints, persecuted and misrepresented as they have been, were the pioneers of true Christian civilization in the various localities in this western country where they settled', and that they, as a God-fearing people, turned the wilderness and deserts into fruitful fields. 

At the present time we are engaged in making a final tour to the existing seventy-nine stakes of Zion, and we shall continue this labor until we have made a final visit to all the stakes and wards, and cities and towns, where Latter-day Saints reside. We realize that this labor cannot be delayed, as the early settlers are fast passing away, and if the history, as we have prepared it, is not read now it would be useless to attempt to read it for correction later, as there would perhaps be none of the old pioneers left to listen to it, or to help us in making corrections. About half the stakes have been visited already, and we shall not be satisfied until all have been similarly visited, and the histories prepared of the different stakes and wards have been presented to the people and accepted by them. On this, our final visit, in the interest of Nineteenth Century Church history, we are also gathering new material, although our main aim at present is to complete the history of the Church, and of its various units, from the beginning to the close of the last century. 

We desire to make a 'final and earnest appeal to all parties interested in this history of the Church to render us aid in completing our labors. We desire to borrow from the old pioneers or their children such private record's as may have been kept by them, and we would plead with the present generation that they keep records and preserve them, as- the time will come when the doings of our own day will be as important and interesting to those who live after us as the experiences and narratives of the early pioneers of Utah now are to us. 

We have been intrusted with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we have been intrusted also with the privilege of preaching that gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. It is the true and original gospel of Jesus Christ, and we have a right to hand down to future generations a true history of how that gospel message was intrusted to the Latter-day Saints and how we have filled our mission. We desire that our children and' children's children should 131  what it means to them to be descendants of the God-fearing pioneers of Utah and the great west. I feel certain that the time will come, if it has not already arrived, that the children of the Latterday Saints will be as proud to trace their origin back to the Mormon, pioneers as early members of the Church, as many now are in tracing their descent from the Pilgrim Fathers or the early settlers of Virginia in the beginning of the Seventeenth Century. The Latter-day Saints have made a history which, in most of its details, will be entirely unlike the histories made by any other people who have settled in this western land. They have always been a God-fearing people, and a people who fear God and keep his commandments and conform their daily habits to the gospel of Jesus Christ will, in all cases, make different history from those who, either through carelessness or wickedness, disobey the mandates of heaven during their sojourn on this mundane sphere. 

May we, as the children of the early Latter-day Saints and the pioneers of Utah and the great west, be worthy descendants of our noble predecessors, may we continue the work which they so faithfully commenced and endeavor by our acts to make as commendable a history as they did. May we, as representatives of the true Church of Jesus Christ, be the means of bringing the knowledge of that gospel to all people for the benefit of our own as well as future generations, and may we, finally, together with our forefathers and our descendants, be saved in the celestial kingdom of our God, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang: "Glory to God in the Highest." 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church.) 

I am deeply impressed with the responsibility of addressing this large congregation this morning, and I hope that I shall be able to make myself heard. I have frequently sat in congregations where the voice of the speaker has not reached me, and I know how trying and tedious it is not to hear the person who is speaking. 

I see before me Latter-day Saints who have felt in their hearts , the power and influence of the gospel and who, in their daily lives, are- striving with all their human weaknesses to serve the Lord and to keep his commandments. We ane here to be fed with the bread of life — ihe gospel of Jesus Christ. Many of you have come long distances and some of you may be disappointed at your inability to get into the great Tabernacle to partake of the spirit of that meeting. The Lord has said that where two or throe are gathered together in his name, there he will be with them, and that to bless. I have long since learned that numbers do not make a meeting, although there is an inspiration GENERAL CONFERENCE.  numbers. I have been in meeting where a few latter-day Saints have met and have felt the power of the Lord just as much as in any large meeting. So I feel this morning in looking at your upturned faces that I am speaking to my brethren and sisters who have felt the power of God. 

We come to these great semi-annual conferences in order that we may be edified; that the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ may be taught to us, that it may appeal to our feelings and emotions. We also come that we may be taught doctrine and principle, and, if necessary, to be reproved for our weaknesses, our failings and our imperfections. When we come to a meeting like this, willing to be taught the principles of the gospel, and reproved, if necessary, then we will have the Spirit of the Lord in our midst. 

I have been at meetings where men and women have borne their testimonies who could scarcely express themselves, yet I have been thrilled in my very being with their testimonies. 

I desire, during the few minutes I may address you, to call attention to the subject that has been very prominently before the Latterday Saints during the last two or three years, and that is, the spirit of worship upon the Sabbath day. I feel sincerely that in many of our Sabbath gatherings and sacramental meetings we lack the spirit of worship. Some of us go to meeting because it is a habit (and it is an excellent habit too). I would not decry nor speak against any habit that is a good one. Do we "enter the sacrament meeting as if it were a commonplace affair? Do we go to be entertained? I sometimes feel that we are drifting into the idea that we must be entertained at our sacrament meetings to induce us to attend. I have heard it expressed more than once : "I don't think I will go to meeting tonight; it will be just an ordinary meeting." In consequence of this feeling being developed among the Latter-day Saints, our bishops are going outside of their wards inviting brethren to go and address their congregations in order to increase the attendance at their sacrament meetings. The Lord has told his people, "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day." 

There is something more important in this sacrament meeting than going to listen to speaking. The Lord has commanded us that as often as we shall meet together and partake of the sacrament in remembrance of his sufferings that we shall worship him in spirit and in truth. We should enter our meetinghouses with a spirit of reverence to God and to his servants, reverence for the house of worship and for the sacrifice made by our Lord and Savior, for he has promised'" us that if we will partake of the sacrament worthily and renew our covenants before him, he will grant unto us his holy Spirit. We should, therefore, enter the house of worship with the Spirit of the Lord in our hearts. Peace and order should prevail in that building and throughout the whole of the service. 

A short time ago I was in a stake of Zion, and after the confer133  gatherings I was asked to attend a ward meeting on the Sunday evening. While the sacrament was being administered two boys entered the building and ran up the aisle. They were immediately stopped by older persons. This building was used for a playground, basket ball, dances and every other kind of local entertainment. These boys entered the house in the manner they did, because they could not separate it from a house of worship, it having been used for a basket ball game on the previous evening. 

We should set the example and teach our young people that when we enter the house of the Lord, we should do so with the spirit of devotion in our hearts, and partake of the sacrament of the Lord's supper, remembering his death and sufferings. Whatever we do should be done in the spirit of devotion and worship. We should not partake ,of the sacrament mechanically, we should repeat mentally the sacramental prayer. Our eyes should be closed and our thoughts concentrated on the sacred duty we are performing when we partake of the sacrament of the Lord's supper. 

I appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, to go home determined that hereafter when you enter a house of worship you shall do so quietly and orderly, and that gossiping shall be discontinued, that peace and order shall prevail as far as our influence will permit; for if we will enter the house of worship in this manner, the Spirit of the Lord will be with us, our worship will be acceptable unto him, our faith will increase, and, whether those who may address us speak fluently or not, we shall feel the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, if we already have it in our hearts, and doctrine and knowledge will be imparted unto us. It cannot be otherwise where a congregation is seeking, under the influence of the Lord, to be edified and instructed in the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with his people, that Zion may grow and prosper, that the Sabbath day may be observed as the Lord has commanded, and that the spirit of worship and devotion to our Father in heaven may be in our hearts, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric of the Church.) 

My brethren and sisters. I do not like to speak before a congregation when so many are standing. I feel more at home when we are all comfortable, for it is seldom I am uncomfortable when occupying this position. 

I believe that if there is ever a time when one needs the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord more than any other time, it is when trying to address a congregation of Latter-day Saints. I do sincerely pray that I may have the guidance of that Spirit, for I know you have GENERAL CONFERENCE.  with a hope that you will receive the word of the Lord, and I have in my heart only a desire to say to you that which will have his approval and be for our uplifting and good. 

I was wondering, when Brother Jenson was speaking, how many of us fully realize the importance of the work he and his associates are doing. And when I think of the difficulty with which they have gathered information to enable them to write a history, compared with the methods of today, I sometimes marvel at the success they are obtaining. Conditions have changed now, and our records are being kept in such a way that it will not be necessary for Brother Jenson, in the future, to go from stake to stake and from ward to ward to gather details necessary to an accurate history of this Church. I wonder how many of us, as Latter-day Saints, realize the importance of this work, and the importance of keeping this record for ourselves, for our families. It is important that this be done. 

One thought came to my mind while Bishop Wells was speaking, and I am sure he will not be offended if I interpret what he said from my point of view, for we have worked together now eleven years and have had no difficulty or misunderstanding during that time. Bishop Wells said that he was sorry that it was necessary to hold basket ball games and dances in our meeting houses, and I agree with him fully on that point, but while he regretted that it is necessary to use our meetinghouses for such purposes, I believe he did not intend to leave the impression that we should not have these amusements. He intended to impress upon us the importance of having these amusements when occasion requires, directed by the proper influence; so that, after a dance or after a basket ball game, the young people would enter the house having in their hearts a'desire to serve God and a reverence for the building. We may have our dances in our meetinghouses when occasion requires, and I believe dances are good when conducted properly, but bad when left without supervision. I think that is what he said, in different words. Basket ball games are necessary, and I would dislike to deprive the boys of the privilege of playing when the meetinghouse is the only place where they can go to" play. I would say, let them go there, but let us have that place so guarded that during the whole play those boys have in their hearts a spirit of reverence and of brotherly love, and not a spirit of contention, which breeds hatred in their hearts. Now, I think we agree to that extent, and I would like to see in all the wards and stakes of Zion, as Brother Wells said, a spirit of reverence and worship, a spirit of brotherly love, in our dances, and in our games, and have it continue with us and go with us on the Sabbath day and other days when we enter the Church for the purpose of worship or otherwise. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, there is one subject tnat has weighed more heavily upon me, I believe, than anything else. I touched upon it briefly in our priesthood meeting, last night; and since that time I have tried to think of some topic I might speak upon, if I should be called upon to address another gathering at this conference. And each time 

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH. 135 

I have tried to concentrate on some other subject, my mind has reverted to that one thought, the priesthood, and I am satisfied in my heart that many of us do not realize the responsibility that rests upon us as parents and as men holding the holy Priesthood. Do we read the scripture ? Do we read it in our homes ? Do we read it to our children ? I think the answer is, many of us do not. As ward authorities do we provide work for the young men in our wards? Do we as mothers and fathers see to it that our boys and our girls are reared properly, and that we are rendering every assistance possible in helping the ward authorities to so train our children that they will grow up to be of benefit to the Church ? I am satisfied, through the observation I have been able to make, that the cause of men and women becoming indifferent to this work, in their later years, is due to the fact that their training in their childhood has not been sufficient to give them a strong foundation upon which the remainder of their lives might be built. 

I was thinking this morning of the difference in the condition of today and of a few years ago. I remember the time when it was my duty, with others, to clean and oil the lamps on Saturdays, and put them in place ready for the Sabbath meeting. I remember getting up on Sunday morning, going to the meeting house, helping build the fires, then returning home and changing clothes, and getting ready to go to Sunday school. I believe I enjoyed the Sunday school far more than the boys do today, who go to a building which has been cleaned and heated by a janitor who is paid for the service. As one of the speakers said yesterday, wouldn't it be a good thing for us in this day if the boys could have something- to do, some responsibility, something to make them feel that there is a place for them in the Church, and a work for them to do — a condition we are growing from? 

And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, the Son of the living God, and of baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents; for this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized; and their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands, and they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord. And the inhabitants of Zion shall, also, observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. And the inhabitants of Zion shall, also, remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. Now, I the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. (Doc. and Cov. 68:25-31.) Let us look into our own lives, my brethren and sisters, and see if these conditions exist to a certain extent right in our midst, and perhaps in our own homes! If they do, what are we doing to overcome them? What are we doing to build up this Church ? What are we doing to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in our homes and in our meeting houses that spirit of reverence and of worship spoken of by rBishop Wells? Many of us remain at home on the Sabbath day.to do things we choose to do rather than doing the things we know in our hearts the Lord desires us to do. The most important work we can engage in as Latter-day Saints, is the proper training of our children, by precept and example- Let us see to it that they have work to do, and that they are doing that work. 

I think that in many of our wards we are permitting the boy scouts to usurp, or assume to do, the duty that should be done by the deacons in the Church . I deplore this fact. Not that I have anything to say against the splendid work of the boy scouts. It is a noble work, and it will make of them better boys, if they follow its teachings. At the same time, I do not care to see them, as scouts, doing the work required of those holding the Priesthood, because the Priesthood is Godgiven. It is God's power conferred upon them through the Holy Ghost by those having authority from God, and it comes to them as their commission, and nothing else can take its place, or ishould assume to do it's work. And O, I do pray, my brethren and sisters, that we will, with all our might, work to the end that our boys will have work to do in the Priesthood. 

I remember when I was ordained a teacher, a little fellow fifteen years of age, I was assigned to labor with an elderly brother, a man of experience, a man of judgment and training, who took me with him and taught me things I should know. I accompanied him into the homes of the Saints. I had very little to do except to learn, and O, that experience has been one of the grandest experiences of my life; and I thank God, and I hope I will continue to thank him as long as I live, for the opportunity that I had of laboring with that good man. He was not afraid or ashamed to take a little boy with him into the homes of the Saints where he was going to perform his duty as a teacher. 

Just a short time ago my attention was called to a case where a young man had just been ordained a teacher, and was assigned to go with another man of mature years to visit homes of the Saints. This man refused to have the boy accompany him. He said, "I am not going teaching with kids. If you can't give me someone who is worthy, as a companion, I will not go out teaching." I thought, O, my brother, if only you could have had the experience as a boy that I had, you wouldn't have spoken that way; think of the opportunity you have lost.  Where in all the world can we find any one more suited to be a companion than a young man who is "clean, energetic, willing to serve God, and to learn, though he be young in years? 

Let us not neglect the youth of Zion. Let us not neglect the boy who has been ordained to the office of a deacon. Let us find work for him to do. The duties of the elder, the priest, the teacher and the deacon, I want to impress them upon you. , The duty, not the privilege — this may be done or it may not be done. You can do it. if you please; you may fail or neglect it if you don't want to do it- Not that, but the duty. O, how many of us have .forgotten that word, the duty under 137  Priesthood. I am not going to take time to read what these duties are. We all know (at least those who have received the Priesthood know) what our duties are; and if we don't know, then we have been ordained unworthily; for no man should be ordained to the Priesthood until he knows what the duties of the Priesthood are. No man is worthy of the Priesthood unless he knows what its duties are, and unless he is willing to work with all his might under that responsibility. Many of us elders, seventies, priests, are failing to do our duty, because we are neglecting those who are teachers and deacons in this Church. 

I stood upon the street the day President Wilson was here, and saw troops of boy scouts come up the street. As they passed their scout masters, in every case their hands came to salute, and what respect! These boys in uniform, the scouts : why do they do this ? Who has taught them to look upon their scout master with such deserved respect? And I thought, what a glorious thing it would be for the boy, a deacon, if he could be taught to offer the president of his deacons' quorums and his counselors such respect. What a glorious thing it would be if, when passing along the street, our deacons, teachers and priests would tip their hats as they pass their bishop or his counselors. How many of them have proper respect for their bishop ? How many of them look upon their bishop as being a man who should have their respect? *I am afraid too few of us have in our hearts this feeling and this spirit; but I do hope and pray that the day will soon come when every young man in this Church, who has been called to the lesser Priesthood, and honored with that sacred and holy calling, will honor that Priesthood, and will honor the men who bear that Priesthood, and who are called to positions of authority in the wards and stakes. 

I would like to see the day come, as Brother Wells said, when boys will have in their hearts at all times, a feeling of reverence for the meeting house and grounds. I would like to see boys taught that it is their duty, when upon the street, or whenever they pass their bishop, out of respect for the Priesthood he bears, to raise their hats to him- Wouldn't it make better boys of them, and wouldn't it make a better "man of their bishop? I believe it would. 

O, let us feel the responsibility of the Priesthood that rests upon us, my brethren. Let us feel the responsibility that rests upon us of building .upon the foundation that has been laid; for if we fail in training the youth of Zion, that failure will be charged against us, which I pray God, will not be, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: " We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

ELDER GEORGE W. McCUNE 

(President of the Eastern States Mission.) 

My dear brethren and sisters. I have enjoyed very much being with you this morning, and while I realize it is indeed an honor to be GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to stand before a congregation of the Latter-day Saints to address them, I must confess I cannot fully appreciate that honor. I assure my brethren and sisters who have stood throughout this meeting, they are just as comfortable at the present time as I am. I desire that you will help me by your faith and prayers while I stand before you. 

I indorse without reservation all that my brethren have said. T 1, have given us so many good thoughts that we cannot go from here feeling that we have not been fed with the bread of life. I have learned to realize, my brethren and sisters, that when we come together to worship the Lord, the responsibility is not all upon those who preside at the meeting, nor is all the responsibility upon those who address us. There is a responsibility upon each and every one of us. For if we come together with a real desire in our hearts to worship the Lord, our God, he will do his part and he will feed us with the bread of life though it may be through a stammering tongue. 

I desire to emphasize one thought that Brother Wells spoke of. He suggested that we put spirit into our worship. Oh, what an important thing this is, my brethren and sisters. I suggest that we put spirit into our lives, into our very existence, that we do not go through life in a listless way, but that we have spirit in all that we do. This is the thing the world is crying for. You go to the manufacturer, the business man; leaders everywhere are calling for spirit. They do not call it spirit; of course, not; they call it in the modern slang "pep." They have called it enthusiasm, and ginger, and push, and now they call it "pep." It is spirit, my brethren and sisters, and it is one of the most important things in life. Someone has said that eighty per cent of success is enthusiasm, and I believe it. And I believe that eighty per cent of our success is spirit, the spirit with which we do things, the spirit with which we endeavor to do the things that Brother Smith has been advising us to do as parents, for parenthood is indeed a responsibility, and if we strive to teach our sons and daughters the principles of the gospel of Christ, with spirit, I believe the Lord will bless us and we will be successful in a great measure. 

If when we come together, we will put spirit into all features of our worship, as we did into the song we have just sung, what a wonderful thing it would be! If I had received nothing else than that one hymn we have just sung, with spirit, I would have been fed 'with the bread of life. Brethren and sisters, take part In all the features of our worship. When we come together, let us strive to cast out from our hearts everything that is contrary to sincere worship of God. Let us seek earnestly to be truly humble, have a desire to have our souls fed. If we do this, I know that the Lord will bless us. When we are in this attitude, there is no room in our hearts for hatred or for jealousy or anything of that kind; there is true love in our hearts. And when we get true love in our hearts we are being fed with the bread of life. 

There is so much of the spirit of criticism, destructive criticism, in the world today, that, as Latter-day Saints we' cannot afford' to give 139  to this spirit, not for one minute. When we get this spirit in our hearts — that spirit of hatred and malice, we are crowding out that beautiful spirit of which I have spoken, that spirit of brotherly love, which is the Spirit of God. So, brethren and sisters, when we come together let us put spirit into our worship in every feature of it; when an elder is called upon to pray, let us follow him very closely in every word he repeats, for remember, he is but the mouthpiece for each and every one of us, and if we do not take part in the' prayer, we are not doing our duty, and we are not entitled to the blessing of that prayer. 

It is a wonderful thing to know how to pray. I do not mean to say I can tell you how it is done but I have lived, lo these forty years and upwards, and am just beginning to learn how to pray. And oh, my brethren and sisters 1 , I exhort you and myself to learn how to pray. As I said, I am just beginning to learn the beauty of prayer, and it is a wonderful blessing to be alone and strive with all your heart to pray. "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire," and it is a wonderful thing to express that desire to our Father in heaven and feel to a slight degree that we are approaching our Father in heaven in such a way that he desires to come near unto us. It is a wonderful thing; and we should not think of praying without spirit — in a listless way, but think of it with spirit, and put our hearts and souls into it, and it will bring blessings to us. 

And when anyone is addressing us, let us put spirit into the thought with which we follow him, and we will be blessed in doing it. We will not go to sleep, not at all; we will be interested in what they say. 

And then, when we have the privilege of joining with our brethren and sisters in congregational singing, put spirit into it. It is a wonderful thing to put spirit into our music; it means so much. A hymn sung without spirit does not mean anything at all. Like everything else, it means nothing unless this spirit is in it, and then it is wonderful. It would thrill" our very souls if all this congregation would put spirit to the fullest extent into our hymns; these very walls would vibrate. 

And so, in all our worship and in all we do, my brethren and sisters, put spirit into it. As I said in the beginning, that is what the world desires, that is what they are starving for. There is so much indifference in the world and listlessness; and we cannot develop like unto our Father in heaven, while in listlessness. We are created in the image of our Father in heaven; therefore, we have a wonderful thing to do. The Savior said, "Be ye perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect." We are destined to become like unto our heav J enly Father; and we cannot do this mighty work in indifference and indolence, we must put spirit into it, into every part of our life's work. 

These words of exhortation, my brethren and sisters, I wish to apply to myself, even more than to any one of you. You will pardon me if I seem to speak hurriedly; this congregation is so much better than I am accustomed to speaking to on the street corners in the big GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of the East where we talk loud and fast with a desire to stop the passers by. It is the most successful way for me to reach them. If I talk fast for a few minutes, and earnestly, I get a few hearers, and when I get a few, others will come to listen. Then I can slow up and be a little more deliberate. I suppose I will never learn to be deliberate when I stand before the Latter-day Saints, for I do get very much excited. 

Now, I desire to say to my brethren and sisters, that your sons and daughters who have been sent into the Eastern States Mission, with very few exceptions, are doing a very splendid work. I love them every one; and I would like to meet their fathers and mothers and their wives and sons and daughters; as many as are here today, I desire to assure you of their well being, and they send to you a message of love and good cheer. Their only anxiety is for their loved ones at home, and if you will send them a cheerful message, I am sure they will continue to develop and progress satisfactorily in the ministry. 

You know, my brethren and sisters, we have but few experienced missionaries in the field today. A great majority of our workers are new and young and inexperienced in ,the ministry. I think we should speak of our weaknesses as well as our strength; therefore I am going to mention one of our weaknesses — and I do it in sweet humility, for I may be as guilty of it as any of you; but I desire to point it out, with the earnest desire in my heart that it may lead to an improvement along this line. It is a reproach to us as a people to find so many of these splendid young men and women coming out into the world as messengers for the Lord Jesus Christ without a knowledge of the gospel. That is a sad reproach upon us. I do not mean to say that I can tell you how it can be remedied, except by carrying out the instructions Brother Smith has read to us; but I believe if we will do this, we will be blessed to a certain degree in getting our young people to learn something about the gospel of Christ. It is indeed a sad spectacle to see a splendid young man or young woman come out into the mission field and after they have been given instructions as to what they are expected to do, to have them come to their conference president or the president of the mission, and, with tears in their eyes, confess that they know very little about the gospel of Christ, and yet they have been sent out as teachers. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, let us see if. we cannot improve this condition. It is a fact that many in the world know a great deal more about the gospel than do these teachers whom we have sent out. We know that the Lord makes no requirements at the hands of any servant except he provides a way for the accomplishment of that thing, and it is very gratifying to see how the Lord does bless and magnify these young men and women when they apply themselves to learning the gospel and teaching it, and I am glad to report they are developing wonderfully well. Even some of these young men and women who come out and confess that they know nothing about the gospel, after they have been there two or three months studying the gospel — without a feeling of boasting at all, I would not be afraid to have them meet any of the ministers of religion. Our cause is not suffering; the Lord does bless them; they are in the school of the Lord, not in 'the school of man, and they are being taught by the Lord 7 in the school of the prophets, as it were, and the Lord is with them and does bless them; the work is progressing as satisfactorily as we could expect. 

I am glad to note a wonderful improvement in the sentiment prevailing among mankind compared with twenty years ago when I was upon my former mission. It seems the little leaven is gradually leavening the lump. 

The brethren have spoken of amusements in our Church. We believe, of course, in all rightful, legitimate, and helpful amusements. They are necessary for our well-being and good. It was only a few years ago when certain religious denominations looked upon the thought of dancing and such other things with horror. I 'say the little leaven is beginning to leaven the lump: the staid old Methodists in a national or international assembly of their representatives have decided to introduce dancing among their young people as a means of drawing them into and holding them in the church. I do not mention this to encourage dancing in our midst, in fact I think some .of it needs curtailing, but it is all right when conducted under the proper influence and spirit. 

My heart is full of good cheer and good wishes for the Latterday Saints, and I«know that the Spirit of the Lord is in our overflow meeting today. We can all find consolation in the fact that when the vessel is filled with milk, the cream comes to the top, and so it is the cream that overflows; and we are in the overflow meeting. The Spirit of the Lord is here, and the brethren who have preceded me have spoken under the inspiration of the Lord, and if we each do our duty, we will be just as well fed with the bread of life as if we were in the Tabernacle with the rest of our brethren and sisters. 

Let us seek for the Soirit of the Lord, that the spirit of malice and criticism may not gfet hold of us, that it may not crowd out the good things from our lives that we are entitled to. 

May the Lord bless you, that his peace and blessings may continue to be with and upon these good men who lead us, that we may uphold and sustain them bv our faith and pravers and good works. In doing this, we are honoring our Father in heaven and helping each other. May the Lord help us to this end, I earnestly "ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I know we have all been very much interested in the remarks of the brethren who have spoken. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

AN IMPORTANT COMMANDMENT ON PRAYER. 

I desire to begin the remarks that I shall make, where Bishop Smith left off, in his reading of Sec. 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

And a commandment I give unto them (that is, unto the parents in Zion), that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people. I do not suppose that we have read that verse in this section any too much, and I wonder sometimes if we realize how important this command really is. No man can retain the Spirit of the Lord, unless he prays. No man can have the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, unless in his heart is found this spirit of prayer. We are commanded in the scriptures to seek the Lord, to praise his holy name, to labor diligently, that his spirit may abide with us. The disciples came to the Master, and said unto him, "Lord, teach us to pray." And he did so, and there are some good people in the world, who, because the Lord gave that prayer, feel that on all occasions and at all times when they pray, they should use that prayer and nothing else. But that prayer was given only to teach, and not with the idea that no other words should be used, no other thoughts should be expressed, but to impress upon the disciples that they should make their prayers concise and to the point, and ask for those things which they most desired in righteousness, at all times thanking the Lord for his mercies and goodness unto them. 

Now I want to dwell upon this passage for a moment or two. It states here that "he that observes not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof" is to be had in remembrance. What is the season of prayer? 

ALL SEASONS ARE FOR PRAYER. 

Some of us may have the idea that the season of prayer is when we arise in the morning, and when we are about to retire at night when our work is done, and that there is no other season for prayer. But I say unto you, and I have good backing for it, that the season for prayer is always. Let me read it to you. You know I like to prove what I say; I like to bring witnesses to bear on that which I express, and I do not ask the people to accept that which I say unless it is. in harmony, absolutely, with what the Lord has said either directly or through his prophets. We read in the Book of Mormon the word of Alma to the poor Zoramites who had departed from the truth, and having been cast out of their synagogues, because they were poor, and feeling that they could only pray one at a time as they ascended in the rameumptom, as it is called, they knew not what to do. Alma taught them as follows : 

Yea, cry unto him for mercy, for he is mighty to save; yea, humble yourselves and continue in prayer unto him; cry unto him when ye are in 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH. 143 

your fields, yea, over all your flocks; cry unto him in your houses, yea, over all your household, both morning, mid-day, and evening; yea, cry unto him against the power of your enemies; yea, cry unto him against the devil, who is an enemy to all righteousness. Cry unto him over the crops of your fields, that ye may prosper in them; cry over the flocks of your fields, that they may increase. But this is not all; ye must pour out your souls in your closets and your secret places and in your wilderness; yea, and when you do not cry unto the Lord, let your hearts be full, drawn out in prayer unto him continually for your welfare, and also for the welfare of those who are around you. And now, behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, do not suppose this is all, for after ye have done all these things, if ye turn away the needy and the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need;. I say unto you, if ye do not anything of these things, behold, your prayer is vain and availeth you nothing, and ye are as hypocrites who deny the faith. 

I think that is very excellent doctrine, and I read it to impress upon your minds the season of prayer. The season of prayer is in the morning before the family separates. A good time for prayer is when you assemble at the table before you partake of the morning meal, and let the members of the family take turn in the praying. That is the season of prayer. The season of prayer for the merchant is in the morning when he goes to his place of business and before he begins his day's work, over his merchandise. The time of prayer for the shepherd, is when he is out with his flocks watching over them. The time for the farmer to pray is when he goes with his plow into the field, when he goes to sow his grain, and when he goes to gather his harvest. And if a man will pray as he is commanded to do in this passage of scripture which I have read, then he more than likely will be found in all things righteously keeping the commandments of the Lord. He will not be found scheming to take advantage of his neighbor in some trade or bargain, but in all things dealing justly, because he has prayed in the morning and has in his heart the spirit of prayer throughout the day, that the Lord will bless him in the increase of his goods, of his fields, of his flocks, or whatever it may be he is engaged in. So that is the season of prayer. 

WHO DOES NOT PRAY IS TO BE HELD IN REMEMBRANCE BEFORE THE JUDGE 

But there is something more in this. It says, that the person in Zion or any of her stakes, for that is the way it' reads further up in this revelation, who does not pray before the Lord in the season thereof, is to be held in remembrance< before the judge of the people. 

THE TEACHERS TO SEE THAT THE PEOPLE PRAY. 

Now who is the judge of the people? It is your bishop. It is the duty of the teachers who come into your home to teach you and see that you pray. If you are not a praying man or a praying woman, then they have the right according to the law to take that message to the bishop of the ward, and tell him that you are not praying in your 



144 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

homes, and he can hold you in remembrance, and if you refuse to pray when you are taught; if you will not hearken to the counsels of the teachers or of the common judge, then he has the right according to the law to take action against you for your fellowship in the Church, if he deems it wise. That is within his rights. The Lord has said it, and he said it because he wanted to impress upon our minds the importance of prayer. 

It would be a wonderful thing, of course, if all our brethren holding the lesser Priesthood would magnify their callings, and if the bishops in the wards would see that they do, and give them some labor to perform.- That ought to be done. 

What is the duty of the teacher? As we read here in section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants, which was given the day the Church was organized, it is the duty of the teacher to visit the homes of the people, to teach them, to see that there is no iniquity in the Church; that there is no fault-finding one with another, no backbiting, no false speaking one against another, and, more than that, to see that the members, of the Church perform their duty. That great responsibility rests upon the teacher. He is to see that the members pray, that they fast upon -the fast day, that they are paying their tithing in the season thereof, that they are attending their fast meeting in the ward,* week by week, and all these things are required of the teacher as he visits in the homes of the people. And if the teacher does not see . to these things; then the sin lieth at his door. 

DUTIES OF THE PRIESTS. 

What are the duties of the priest? The duty of the priest is to preach, teach, expound, exhort, baptize, and administer the sacrament. He is to visit the house of each member and exhort all to pray, vocally and in secret, and attend to all family duties. That is the duty of the priest. 

Now the good bishops in the wards should see that their priests go into the homes of the people, and do this very thing, teaching the members in the spirit of prayer. When they find an individual member of the Church who fails in any one of these particulars, it is the right of these teachers or priests to make the report to the bishop, the common judge. However, they are to labor diligently, and with long suffering, in faith and humility, with these members who do not see the necessity of keeping the commandments of the Lord, and after they have done all in their power, and can do nothing further to ibring the non-praying members to repentance, the common judge may cite them before him, and he has the right to take action against them for their fellowship. Of course, our duty is to save souls. We must, not be hasty in casting any out. So, I say, after the teachers or the priests have done all that can be done, then the drastic measures may be meted out. 145 

ALL AMUSEMENTS SHOULD BE OPENED BY PRAYER. 

Another scripture, I will read from II Nephi 32, wherein it says : 1 i 

And now, my beloved brethren, I perceive that ye ponder still in your hearts, and it grieveth me that I must speak concerning this thing. For if ye would hearken unto the spirit which teacheth a man to pray, ye would know that ye must pray; for the evil spirit teacheth not a man to pray, but teacheth him that he must not pray. But behold, I say unto, you, that ye must pray always, and not faint; that ye must not perform any thing unto the Lord, save in the first place ye shall pray unto the Father in the name of Christ, that he will consecrate the performance unto thee, that thy performance may be for the welfare of thy soul. 

Have we any right as Latter-day Saints who profess to keep the commandments of the Lord, to open our dances without prayer, or other amusements, and to close them in improper hours and without prayer? Have we that right, professing to be Latter-day Saints, keeping the commandments of the Lord? I say unto you, No. It makes no difference whether it is pleasure, whether it is our daily labor, whether it is the service of the Lord in teaching the gospel and trying to save mankind. Whatever it may be, that thing should be consecrated by prayer, and every \ performance, for the welfare of our souls. 

CONSEQUENCES OF FAILURE TO PRAY. 

Now what were the consequences of not praying, as they are recorded in this book regarding the Nephite people? Let me tell 'you. In the very same chapter, and in the verse preceding where I read, Nephi says this : 

Behold, this is the doctrine of Christ, and there will -be no more doctrine given until after he shall manifest himself unto you in the flesh. When he shall manifest himself unto you in the flesh, the things which he shall say unto you ye shall observe to do. And now I, Nephi, cannot say more. 

Why not? Because the people had refused to pray. Because they had hardened their hearts, even in his day. Therefore the Lord closed his mouth, and said, there shall be no more doctrine till Christ comes, so far as you are concerned, and I cannot say more, because the Lord won't permit it. 

"The spirit stoppeth mine utterance, and I am left to mourn because of the unbelief and the ignorance and the stiffneckedness of men, for they will not search knowledge nor understand great knowledge when it is given unto them in plainness, even as plain as word can be." Now that applies in our day. We have members of the Church to whom this ought to be read. They are not here; they do not come to conference. But men who have hardened their hearts, men who will not pray, men who will not search knowledge, who are not acquainted GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the revelations of God as they have been made known unto us in these books and given unto us in this dispensation, notwithstanding the fact that the knowledge which has been given unto us is plain and easily to be understood. They shut their hearts against it, and refuse to search and to find that which the Lord has declared, which is for their eternal salvation and the salvation of all the world. Naturally such people are in darkness. We cannot afford to do that. 

THE- DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS IS FOR ALL THE WORLD. 

The Lord has given so many revelations, in our own day. We have this Doctrine and Covenants full of them, all pertaining unto the Latter-day Saints and to the world. . For this is not our book alone. This Doctrine and Covenants is my book and your book; but more than that, it belongs to all the world, to the Catholics, to the Presbyterians, to the Methodists, to the infidel, to the non-believer. It is his book if he will accept it, if he will receive it. The Lord has given it unto the world for their salvation. If you do not believe it, you read the first section in this book, the preface, and you will find that the Lord has sent this book and the things which it contains unto the people afar off, on the islands of the sea, in foreign lands, and his voice is unto all people, that all may hear. And so 1 say it belongs to all the world, not only to the Latter-day Saints, and they will be judged by it, and you will be judged by it. We will all be judged by it, by the things which this book contains and by the things which the other books contain which are holy scripture, which the Lord has given unto us; and if we fail to comprehend these things, if we will not search, if we will not study, if we will not take hold on the things which the Lord has revealed unto us, then his condemnation shall rest upon us, and we^hall be removed from his presence and from his kingdom. And I say that in all soberness, because it is true. 

Now there is no time to say more. I have said all, perhaps, I should; but still there is a great deal more that could be said. 

Now, brethren and sisters, let us go home feeling a determination in our hearts to serve the Lord. Remember that we are living in a critical period of the world's history. Great events are before us. The Lord in his mercy, and with justice and judgment, is going to cut short his work in righteousness. The decrees have gone forth, and it behooves us as members of the Church to be united and to serve him and keep all his commandments. This I pray we will do, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem : "Send out the Light." Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph A. West. 147 


