Morning
05 10 1919

Conference adjourned until 10 o'clock Sunday morning. Conference continued in the Tabernacle, Sunday, October 5, 1919, 10 o'clock a. m., President Heber J. Grant, presiding. 

Every available sitting and standing space was filled in the great building, the main floor being almost entirely occupied by presiding officers assembled from all parts of the Church. 

President Heber J. Grant called the congregation to order. 

The Tabernacle choir, led by Elder George Careless, former director, now over eighty years of age, sang the hymn : 

Arise, O glorious Zion, 

Thou joy of latter days. Whom countless Saints rely on, 

To gain a resting place; Arise, 'and shine in splendor, 

Amid the .world's deep night; For God, thy sure defender, 

Is now thy life and light. 

Let faithful Saints be rearing 

The city of our Lord, On mountain tops appearing, 

According to His word — A sought-out habitation, 

By men of truth and faith — A covert of salvation 

From ignorance and death. 

The Temple long expected , 

Shall stand on Zion's hill, By willing hearts erected, 

Who love Jehovah's will; Let earth, her wealth bestowing, 

Adorn His holy seat, For nations great shall flow in, 

To worship at His feet. 

What though the world in malice 

Despise these mighty things, We'll build the Royal Palace, 

To serve the King of kings; Where holy men anointed 

To know His sovereign will, Each ordinance appointed 

To save us, will reveal. 

From Zion's favored dwelling The Gospel issues forth, 

The covenant revealing To gather all the earth; 107 

And Saints, the message bringing 

To all the sons of men, With the redeemed, shall, sing ng, 

To Zion come again. 

O hear the proclamation, 

And fly as on the wind! For righteous indignation 

Shall desolate mankind! Then, Zion, men shall prize thee, 

And bow before thy shrine; And they who now despise thee 

Shall own thy light divine. Through painful tribulation 

We walk the narrow road, And battle with temptation, 

To gain that blest abode; But patient, firm endurance, 

With glory in our view — The Spirit's bright assurance — 

Will bring us conq'rors through. 

O grant, Eternal Father, 

That we may faithful be, With all the just to gather, 

And Thy salvation see! Then, with the hosts of heaven, 

We'll sing the immortal theme — To Him be glory given. 

Whose blood did us redeem. 

Prayer was offered by Elder James H. Robinson, president of the South Davis Stake of Zion. 

The Tabernacle choir sang the first hymn, words by Parley P. Pratt and music by Evan Stephens. President Grant first read the whole hymn : 

The morning breaks, the shadows flee; 

Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day 

Majestic rises on the world. 

The clouds of error disappear 

Before the rays of truth divine; The glory, bursting from afar, 

Wide o'er the nations soon will shine. 

The Gentile fullness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand; 

Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin, Shall in their promised Canaan stand. 

Jehovah speaks! let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live; 

His mighty arm is making bare, His covenant people to receive. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Angels from heaven, and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne; 

Thus Zion's light is bursting forth. To bring her ransomed children home. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

I have never desired more to have my words inspired than I do now. I am fond of the Latter-day Saints. My heart is full of love for the people among whom I was born and with whom I have been raised. In the years in which I have been separated from the Church, largely in attendance at eastern universities, I have thought of my people here with very great fondness, and have confidently felt that all the good ideas there learned, if properly presented to my own people here, would be accepted promptly by them. AN APPEAL FOR PURE WATER. 

At Cornell University I devoted a great deal of time to the study of sanitary engineering. As I listened to the teachings of college professors I was amazed that the lives of our people have been so well preserved under unsanitary conditions. When I came from that institution the sun had not gone down on the first day of my arrival until I had called together, in one of our "Mormon" villages, the officials of the city and appealed to them that they provide the people with pure water. I am pleased to be able to say the appeal was not made in vain. Nor have I since in religious services, before meetings of commercial clubs or other organizations, appealed to any of our people along these lines without success. 

WE ACCEPT TRUTH FROM EVERY SOURCE. 

This is one reason among many why I have great confidence in you, my own people. We believe in accepting truth, from whatever source it comes. If there is anything virtuous, honest, upright, holy, good, and true, we, in accordance with the fundamental principles of the gospel, seek after these things. 

A GENUINE LOVE OF AND INTEREST IN AMERICA. 

I regard myself as a pretty good American. My ancestors have been Americans. I met a man from Canada a few days ago, an engineer, whose name is Lyman. I received a letter from him only yesterday in which he sent me a long list of ancestors. He points with pride to their record. Since 1630, the Lymans have been active in „ their support of this great country. It has had no important war in which Lymans have not fought, in which Lymans have not bled, in which Lymans have not died for their country. 109 

I see before me now, especially in these front seats, many stake presidents with whom I have had very intimate, friendly, affectionate association. I wonder if at this hour I may properly attribute to them what I attribute to myself, that is, a genuine love of and interest in America ? 

Some men who are here talked with me months ago upon the subject concerning which I desire to make a few remarks today. Upon this subject, their views and mine differ. Iextend to them the liberty of thinking as their consciences direct, and I desire to be accorded the same privilege. I have greater respect for the man who expresses his honest convictions when he is with the minority than I have for the man whose desire, it seems, is primarily to be with the majority. American freedom, American liberty and American institutions can only endure indefinitely, if I understand the fundamentals of American government, if every man, in the language of Abraham Lincoln, dares to the end to do his duty as he understands it. These men before me who conscientiously are opposed to the League of Nations, I admire. I respect them for their true Americanism. Such as these will make the republic of America endure indefinitely, if indefinitely it is to endure. 

POSITION ON THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS. 

Some may say I speak here with an unfair advantage, since others have no opportunity to reply. But I say, as a leader in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I cannot, at this conference, do my duty, as I understand it, if I keep my lips closed upon a subject that, to my mind, has more to do with the welfare of all the nations of the world than any other subject that has come before the American people since the Constitution was adopted. So I say frankly, brethren, come, let us for a moment reason together. I now speak upon this subject, in public, for the first time. I have hesitated to do this because my views do not agree with those of my life-long friend, the Honorable Reed Smoot, whom I have admired since childhood. But I know this broad-minded statesman well enough to realize that he will have greater respect for me if I speak than he could have if, with my convictions, I were to remain silent. 

I have studied the covenant of the League of Nations with considerable care. One objection raised against it is that the people of Europe, not familiar with our ideals, and not concerned in the welfare of our country, are given authority to say when we shall and when we shall not go to war. I am not able to read this meaning into the proposed covenant of the League. The covenant provides for two bodies of representatives, one is called the assembly and the other the council. In the council there will be but nine countries represented. Each country in that council is to have one vote. Action can be taken by the council only with a unanimous vote. Suppose the proposition GENERAL CONFERENCE.  presented of declaring war. The man who represents the United States of America in the council, if asked to vote, must say in substance : "Gentlemen, under the Constitution of my country, only the Congress of the United States has the authority to declare war. I must, therefore, be instructed by the Congress of the United States before I can cast my vote." Thus will this cherished provision of our inspired Constitution remain inviolate. 

SUCCESS OF THE PAN-AMERICAN UNION. 

I was in Kansas City a week ago yesterday. I listened to an address by John Barrett, the Director General of the Pan-American Union. I believe this gentleman is a Republican. If I remember correctly, he came into political life when he was a comparatively young man by receiving from President Roosevelt the appointment of Ambassador to Siam. 

Before the International Farm Congress, Mr. Barrett said: "I desire to make it clear at the outset, that while I represent the government of the United States, by appointment from the President, I also stand before you as a representative of the same sort for all of the other American countries that belong to this Union." 

All the countries in the Western Hemisphere, south of Canada, twenty-one in number, belong to the Pan-American Union. The Canadians were practically in readiness, so this representative said, to join the Pan-Arnerican Union when war was declared and the  plans for so doing were temporarily upset. 

Mr. Barrett continued to speak in words like these : "We have regular meetings of the representatives of these twenty-one countries. When these representatives come together, they become acquainted, and thus they learn to understand one another. They present the views, the ideals, the desires, the ambitions, the trade and other interests of their respective countries. Getting thus close together, they arrive at a mutual understanding." 

He continued, "The significant fact I desire to draw to your attention is that, since the organization of the Pan-American Union, no country in the Western Hemisphere has been at war with another country in this hemisphere and on not fewer han six different occasions has actual war between these countries been averted." 

"Here in our own hemisphere," he continued, "we have a League of Nations in actual operation and I'm not sure but what this PanAmerican Union is itself a league strong enough to maintain the peace of the world." If one so well informed sees such hope for peace because of the successful operation of this comparatively little league of the Pan-American Union, how much greater — really how well founded — is the hope, the expectation, that permanent peace may come to the world if the proposed covenant of the League of Nations embracing, as it does, the great nations of the other hemisphere, is adopted. Ill 

FIRM FOR THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS. 

I would be untrue to the blood that flows in my veins, I would be untrue to that father of mine, Francis M. Lyman, who was 1 a lover of liberty, who, in all his lifetime hoped and prayed earnestly for the nations of the world to so organize that bloodshed might be averted, — I say I would be untrue to all of these, if I were to refrain from speaking in the interest of this proposed covenant. Francis M. Lyman was not a coward. He was never afraid, and in his public hopes, desires, and works, I defy any one to find an element of personal selfishness. Were I to stand before this audience today, his son, and keep my lips closed, I would be an unworthy son of a brave and courageous sire, who lived and worked and hoped for the liberty of all the people of the world. 

After war was declared, in 1914, he said repeatedly, "We must do one of two things, either put on the Kaiser's yoke or bring him beaten to his knees, however long it takes and however much it costs." If Francis M. Lyman were here today to speak as he has spoken many times, on occasions like this, he would say as I say now: "I am prepared to do my duty as I understand it and I accord to others the same privilege. Let me make it clear that I stand firmly for the League of Nations. In the days to come I expect to see no time in which I shall regret having taken this stand." 

AN APPEAL TO ABANDON THE USE OF TOBACCO. 

One other word and I will stop. We have had, this morning, a thrilling meeting of Mutual Improvement officers. I should like, if I had the time, to say a few words upon the slogan of our organization, namely, "We stand for spiritual growth through attendance at sacrament meetings," but time will permit me to do no more than repeat it. 

During the war the habit of smoking has been tremendously increased. We are aiming to have a survey made in every stake, and ward, for the purpose of finding out how many smokers there are, and we propose to use our organization for the purpose of reducing this habit to the least possible minimum. I think I can do nothing that will emphasize the importance of this subject more than to deliver here and now a message that was sent to you by me some' years ago from Cornell University. 

The message is from Andrew D. White. This man for years was a professor in the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor, he was for a long period President of Cornell University, and he served our country as ambassador to Germany. His name is among the names of the great historians of our country. Andrew D. White, standing before a body of teachers, said : GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I cannot refrain, ladies and gentlemen, from making a few preliminary remarks before beginning my address proper. I understand that there are before me teachers from every state in the Union and from almost all the countries of the world and, therefore, I cannot let this opportunity go 'by to say that I want to go back into your communities and take to the people with whom you are associated a message from Andrew D. White. That message is this: In my fifty years of experience with college students, with college n>en, I have yet to find the first young man who was a smoker of cigarettes that ever amounted to anything. 

His view and my view or your view of what it means to amount to something may be different, but those were his words. He continued : As I walk across this campus, this wonderful Cornell University campus, and see young men puffing at their cigarettes, I don't care how much money they have, I don't care what their prospects are, I don't care what their social standing is, I don't care who their parents are, I say to myself, they will not amount to more than .that — and he snapped his fingers. 

As I have already stated, I came from Cornell University, filled with enthusiasm and confidence in my own people. I appealed to the people of Utah and nearby states, to provide themselves with pure water. They responded promptly with the improvements. I was the Stake Supervisor of parents classes in the Ensign stake when this matter of individual sacrament service sets was proposed. The appeal was made to the people to provide themselves with these sets, and today they are found practically everywhere in the Church. 

Now, as one of the General Superintendency of the Young Men's, Mutual Improvement Associations, I appeal to you, fathers and raoers, leaders in the Church, to join the Mutual Improvement workers in an effort to reduce to the least possible minimum, the use of the cigarette. The laws of the state are against it. It is a misdemeanor for any individual to sell or to give any kind of tobacco to any boy under twenty-one years of age. 

I have before me the Word of Wisdom. If, standing, as I am before this audience, I were to say: "I have a method to present by which all the young men in the Church may become rich in money," every ear would be turned my way to learn the method. But, is it not better to have the .ability to make the money than it is to have the money itself ? Who would not rather have a fortune he himself has acquired than to possess one that has been accumulated by another? This Word of Wisdom tells us how to become rich. Rich in money? Yes; rich in money. It says: no liquor, no tobacco, little meat, no hot drinks, and then it concludes : "All Saints who remember to keep and to do these things, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall find" — what? Wealth- No, but three things that mean more than wealth alone. They shall receive first, health, they shall find, next, v/isdom; and they shall find, third, great treasures of knowledge, yea hidden treasures. They shall run and' not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. This, my brethren and sisters, is a subject upon which we have no division of opinion. Let us refrain from the use of these things forbidden that we may have health, wisdom, and knowledge, the three blessings promised, these together being equal to much more than wealth alone. By keeping these commandments, we shall deserve the closing blessing in the revelation, namely, "I, the Lord, give unto them a promise that the destroying angel shall pass, them by as the children of Israel and shall not slay them." 

May our Father in heaven enable us to so teach, so lead, so guide, and so direct our boys and girls that all the great and wonderful promises made concerning the pure in heart may be theirs and ours. I pray earnestly for these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 

The choir sang : "Hymn to Liberty," words and music by Arthur Farwell. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

"O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people; 

"Yea, I would declare unto every soul, as with the voice of thunder, repentance, and the plan of redemption, that they should repent and come unto our God, that there might not be more sorrow upon all the face of the earth. 

"But behold I am a man, and do sin in my wish; for I ought to be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me. 

"I ought not to harrow uo in my desires, the firm decree of a just God, for I know that he granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that he allotteth unto men, according to their will; whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction. 

"Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men; or he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his desires; whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of conscience. 

"Now seeing that I know these things, why should I desire more than to perform the work to which Lhave been called? ' 

"Why should I desire that I was an angel, that I could speak unto all the ends of the earth? 

"For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his word; yea, in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true." 

IN ACCORD WITH THE BRETHREN. 

These words from Alma, 29th chapter, express my feelings this morning, my brethren and sisters, and I am happy to say that I find myself in complete accord and harmsny with my brethren, each and every one who have spoken at the various sessions of this conference. And I desire to emphasize the fact that those of you who have had the gift of discernment have distinguished no difference of opinion among GENERAL CONFERENCE.  who have addressed you. While they have emphasized various features of the great gospel message and of the questions of the hour, yet we stand in accord with each other on these subjects, for which I am thankful. I believe, brethren and sisters, that the Lord saw our clay and that we have been preparing for this day for more than a generation past, that the Lord knew the various circumstances and conditions that would confront us in this hour, and he has been trying to fortify us and qualify us to meet the emergency, to endure the test that now lies before us. The Church has been subject to criticism, in the past, because of its unity, because of the willingness on the part of the membership of the Church to listen to the counsels of its leaders. I remember upon one occasion listening to a very severe criticism of the Church on the part of an eminent divine who charged that while we were the most perfect religious organization in the world, he feared the consequence because he said the membership of the Church is absolutely under the control and the domination of its leaders. I recall also that another one expressed it that the two most efficient organizations in the world were the German army and the "Mormon" Church, and he hoped that he would see the day when we would have equal efficiency and still retain individual liberty. 

OBTAINING . EFFICIENCY AND OBEDIENCE. 

There are two ways of obtaining obedience and efficiency. The Germany army had one, and the "Mormon" Church has quite another. The Lord Jesus Christ had a plan, to bring all men to obedience; and Constantine, the great Roman Emperor had quite another plan. There are two means by which obedience may be obtained on the part of parents over their children. One is by force and compulsion. You may compel them to yield obedience. That method will work until your child becomes a man or a woman, and then your spell is broken, your power is gone. The other method is slower to obtain results, but it endures longer, and obedience is obtained through the exercise of love and patience and gentleness and kindness. By and through that means parents may have power over their children, not only until they become men and women, but when they become grand-sires and in the eternal world the spell that we cast ovevr those who come under our charge, when it is actuated by the spirit of love and gentleness and mercy, shall never be broken. These are the two methods. The German army did obtain obedience and efficiency by force, by fear, by power, until men felt themselves but slaves- Do you recall the utterance of their mastertyrant who upon one occasion, — about the time, as I recall it, of the breaking forth of the great world war, said to his soldiers : "Body and soul, you belong to me, and if, I should command you to slay your own fathers and mothers you should do it without a murmur." This power he held until those whom he controlled discovered their own power and their own strength. Then they resented that autocratic power that had ruled unjustly over them and in the finality of the 115  struggle, when Germany sought to drive her soldiers on to France, they were under the necessity of forcing their own men into the trenches at the point of the bayonet, and many were shot down by their own guns because they refused the mandate of the tyrant. But when they broke the spell the tyrant's power departed and he, like a whipped coward, fled from his own land, and there is apparently no respect now for that power which he once had. Unlike that .stands the spirit that actuated the Christ. He did have power, if he had desired to use that power — he might have through fear, he might have through miracle, converted all the world and had all men at his feet, but he would not compel men. He did, as we sing: "Call, persuade, direct aright, in numerous ways be good and kind, but never force the human mind." He did teach the truth, in striking contrast to his envious, coveteous brother who sought by force to compel all men to be saved. Jesus stood for those same principles while upon the earth, but he did not succeed in getting many to follow him. Contrast his ministry with the efforts of the great Roman emperor Constantine, who years later was seized with the desire to compel the nations of the world to become Christians and who pursued a method of force. When the Roman soldiers conquered a nation, the priests of the Church accompanied them, and when the conquered and subdued sued for peace they were granted peace on condition that they would renounce their paganism and become Christians, and so out of fear they gave lip service to their professions of Christianity, but their hearts never were in it. And no .wonder the Lord Jesus Christ said of their descendants, many generatons afterwards, "they draw near me with their lips, but their hearts are .far removed from me." Their fathers were thus converted, and traditionally they have adopted that form of Christianity which gives only lip service. The Lord Jesus knew them well. In contrast with that method, I rejoice to say that the leadership of this Church is in absolute harmony with the method of the Christ. 

THE LEADERSHIP OF THE CHURCH DIRECTED BY LOVE 

NOT FORCE NOR FEAR. 

President Grant read to us in the opening session of this conference that wonderful revelation, the 121st Section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, showing the spirit that should be manifest by the priesthood of this Church, and he has pledged us his word, as he did when in the last conference in June he also referred to this subject, that so far as his presidency was concerned it would be characterized by that spirit. I want to ask you, my brethren and sisters, if you have ever felt in all the administrations that you can remember that the membership of this Church bowed their will to the leadership of this Church out of fear. I haven't felt that way. I know you have not. There have been times, undoubtedly, when it has not been easy for us to submit our will to the will and the judgment of those who have presided over us. We have found it sometimes difficult to subGENERAL CONFERENCE.  our proud will. I am grateful to say before you, my brethren and sisters, that while there have been such periods in my life I am very happy to say that I have always been able to make my proud will submit itself to the influences of the mellowing processes of the Spirit of the living God, so that I have found myself, up until this time, in harmony with those who have been leading and directing the policy of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I remember that the editor of a newspaper up in Vancouver, British Columbia, a few years ago, urged the "Mormon" missionaries to leave that community and go to European countries as the missionaries of the Church had done in former times and "engage in converting the poor, taking them out to Utah and Idaho, putting them on the farms, compelling them to till the soil and then extract from them ten per cent of their earnings for tithing from which the Church has become rich. Don't come to this country and think you can fool us." That was the advice given; and in the answer that was made,^which the editor was broad enough to publish, — we said it was true that in times past many people had been emigrated from the lands of their nativity and brought out from bondage — conditions almost amounting to serfdom, and had been assisted to come to the land of America, and the Church had helped them to found and establish themselves in homes where they became independent; that the Church had helped them to get the lands, had helped them to till the soil, had builded irrigation ditches, had assisted in building reservoirs, manufacturing enterprises, and educational institutions, until Utah stood, as I think it still stands, second _in the matter of its high standing in education among the states and far ahead of British Columbia. We also said that the people had so prospered and been so blessed that, at that time, something like ninety per cent of them owned their own homes. A like condition could not be found anywhere in the world; and while it is true that they did pay their tithing, they did it cheerfully, not out of fear, but out of love and gratitude to God that they had been alleviated from their former conditions where in old age they would have had to go to the poor house, never had their ancestors before them enjoyed homes of their own; and so, because of what had been done in a material way for their improvement and betterment, they cheerfully paid their tithing. But there was one point that the editor overlooked. If ten per cent of their earnings had made "the Church rich," what had the 90 per cent, that was left done for the poor fellows? It left them in this favored condition. 

Now, brethren and sisters, the leadership of this Church from the beginning until this day has been maintained, not by fear or by force. It was presumed that the prophet Joseph Smith had some magical power over his brethren and sisters; that if he could only be disposed of, then the "Mormon" Church would go to pieces, but his death did not result in the disintegration of the Church. And when I think of him, O, there are no people in the world that ever thought so much of their leader! Not even the Master himself had a people who loved 117  better than the Latter-day Saints loved their Prophet Joseph Smith. But with all the love the people had for him, he never abused their confidence, he never took advantage of them like others have done who enriched themselves because of their opportunity. He died, one of the poorest in the flock, and always was on the front ready to defend them, standing between them and danger. Chained in a dungeon, as a ransom for his people, he did not waver; but through all their vicissitudes he was their hope, their inspiration, their prophet; and when in the Jast moments of his earthly career he stepped to that open window, knowing that outside there were many willing to take his life, he, unafraid offered his life— the very last act — in saving two of his brethren. So that spirit of service and self-sacrifice and devotion to the people won the obedience that was manifest in that day towards the Prophet Joseph Smith. - The same thing was true with President Young. Do you remember when the Prophet Joseph was condemned to death, and the order had been issued that he was to be executed, that the one who came with the information harangued the Latter-day Saints and advised them to disband and godlike other people, without an organization and scatter through the world. The answer that President Brigham Young gave was : "We shall not disband;" and he entered into covenant with his brethren and sisters that they would not desert the poorest Latter-day Saints and leave them in Missouri. So he always had at heart the welfare of the common people, and that has been true of every leader until this day. 

COUNSEL IN REGARD TO LABOR AND UNIONS. 

No wonder the Latter-day Saints love their leaders. No wonder they can trust them. They have always been the true shepherds of the flock. They have never deceived their people, nor led them astray; and when the leaders of this Church counsel our brethren and sisters not to be built up with the hope that outside of this Church they shall solve the problems between capital and labor by joining unions, by joining the non-partisan league, by joining socialism, it is not that they desire to curtail the liberties of the people. It is because they love all the people. This Church has had an interest in those who have possessed means, that they should have justice and their rights. Sometimes it has been charged that the Church rather favors capitalism. I have never discovered it. If you will search the records, you will discover that more means has been spent for the farmers, for the common people in the Church than for any other class in the days of President Young. We, today, recognize, as they did, that the very foundation of the Church depends upon the success of the tillers of the soil, the workers, and our interest is for them, and yet we do not become, selfish nor sordid to join with one group of laborers against the interests of all others. They must stand on a broader platform. The solution of the questions that we have been discussing shall never be accomGENERAL CONFERENCE. , and the difficulties removed between the workers, until every worker becomes his brother's keeper, interested in his brother's welfare. Until men shall recognize the rights and the privileges and' the liberties and the welfare of all classes we shall not find a solution of our troubles; and I testify to you that to this Church the Lord has given the means of accomplishing this thing. I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that the day will come when out of this Church shall come the men and the women who will solve these problems — for let me say to you that the most valuable asset of this Church is its trained body of men and women who are fortified for this day of disrespect of law and of order. We have been schooled and drilled to have confidence in our leadership, and they have never deceived ,us, and now, shall we abandon the old standards, shall we depart from that method that has united us together and held us as one people, a mighty power because we are one? I trust the leadership of this Church, my brethren and sisters. I want to speak for them that you shall pay heed unto their words, unto their counsel, unto their advice. 

GOD IS WORKING AMONG THE NATIONS. 

One of the questions discussed at this conference is not a political question. I protest against its being a political question. There is no election that this would affect at all in the future. It is a statesman's question, and I say that I thank the Lord that we have a prophet in our midst who can speak, not only for the Latter-day Saints but for the whole world on this great problem. I would be mortified if we had no word for the world or for the Latter-day Saints on this great momentous question in which God is taking a conspicuous part. Brethren and sisters, the Lord is working among the nations of the earth, as the 'brethren have expressed it. This work is the hub, but out from it go the spokes, and the wheel is moving. God is working among the nations. He gave the victory to the Allies. He intended from the very beginning to give it to them, but it was only a question — when are they worthy of it, when can it be entrusted to them? He did deliver us one year earlier than we might have expected the victory, looking upon it from all human standpoints. God gave it. He delivered us from the loss of perhaps a million of our boys; and I presume if we had been afflicted, if we had been touched like France and England, and even as Germany; if every home was 'mourning the loss of a son, then I think we, too, would be stirred in our hearts to give more than we have been asked to give in the hope that we might save a future trouble of this kind. We have not been touched like they have. God in his mercy hath saved us. O I pray that we shall learn their lessons, without having to take the same affliction and sorrow and punishment they did to yield to the accomplishment of God's purposes in the earth. The scripture that I have just read admonishes us that the Lord will raise up among all nations men who will teach his word according to 119  needs of that particular nation. I call attention also to the word of the Lord found in the Book of Abraham as follows : 

Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these were many of the great and noble ones; and God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham: Thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before you wast born. 

So I believe that God loves the world, and he desires their deliverance. My heart and my soul thrills now, when I think that Germany herself has already signed the pact that will prevent her from ever imprisoning a "Mormon" missionary again, or banishing them from her country; and if this shall triumph, it will open every nation under heaven for the freedom that we long for, so that the elders of this Church may carry the gospel message to all the peoples of the world. That appeals to me above everything else; for I love the souls of the children of men. But I recognize the battle that is on. From the very beginning, it has been a contest between the powers of evil and the powers of God. When Jesus stood, in that hour of his temptation, when the adversary presented before him, in panoramic vision, the kingdoms of this world, in all their splendor, and offered them to Jesus on easy terms, namely: Only bow down and worship me, and I will give them all to thee. He knew that it was that for which Jesus came into the world, namely, to have right of rulership' and governorship over the kingdoms of the world. Jesus might have answered : "Satan, though you rule from the rivers to the end of the earth, you have no right nor title that is valid to the kingdoms of this world. Yours is only a 'squatter's' right. If I should accept it on these terms,' it would be valueless. It was for this purpose that I did come to the world, but I can not obtain it on your terms. I must die for it;" and he died to earn the right to rule over the nations of the earth. While, temporarily, the adversary who waged this war, to prevent the rule of right and of Christ in the earth, has been defeated in that way, he now tries another means to defy law and order and to stir up the hearts of men to rebellion against the forms of government to destroy the very foundations thereof. If he can not rule it, then he will wreck it. That is his spirit and the contest is on and my soul rejoices in every and all measures that look to the winning of the world for otir Christ. I recognize that he hath raised up inspired men in many nations. I do feel and always have felt grateful to the Lord for the .testimony that I received that he has had his hand over this land. He was with Washington. He gave him the vision "of the future, in Valley Forge, that stirred the hearts of the drooping soldiers and set on fire the spirit of liberty, crossed the Delaware in a most unseasonable time and struck terror into the hearts of the enemy. I have found in my study of the past that He hath manifested himself, again and again. Who doubts 

120 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

the inspiration that was resting upon that great servant of the Lord, — Abraham Lincoln, the man of his hour and his time? 

The Lord said to President Wilford Woodruff, as I am told, when he, in the closing years of his ministry feared lest there should not be found men in the Church to uphold the standards of the Church and lead it off triumphantly: "There have already been born in the Church those who will lead it off triumphantly, until the Lord Jesus shall come." I have that confidence also for our country. I have felt in my soul that God has held the balance of power. He_can turn a state from small things. He can bring great results to pass, and I have always found it possible to bow my will to the will that has obtained — recognizing that God is in it — and to support and uphold those whom the Lord calls for the hour and for the time. 

I recognized, long before the death of Theodore Roosevelt, that the Lord raised him up to stir the hearts of men to civic righteousness, as perhaps no man could have stirred them; and I now recognize that. God has raised up the man who stands as the President of this Nation, even as he has said he would, and God is using him. God will use men for the accomplishment of his purposes, whether they know it or not. That is my faith. 

AUTHORITY, PLACE AND POSITION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I ask you to remember the station and the position which the Lord has given to the president of this Church. I am deeply desirous that the place which the Lord gave to the president of this Church shall not be altered nor changed. I will read to you two or three verses from the 21st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, given on the very day the Church was organized : 

Behold there shall be a record kept 1 among you, and in it thou shalt be called a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the Church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ. 

Being inspired of the Holy Ghost to lay the foundation thereof, and to build it up unto the most holy faith. 

.'Which church was organized and established in the year of your Lord eighteen hundred and thirty, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month, which is called April. 

Wherefore, meaning the Church, thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; 

For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith; 

For by doing these things the gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name's glory. 

That is the right, the power, and the authority that God has vested in the leader of his Church, in all the Administrations, until 121  moment, and we must not fail to remember that, while we followed the leaders of the past with full reverence and confidence, the Lord hath called the man for the hour, even as he has done in the past, now to lead this Church, and that above him stands our Father and the Redeemer of the world, directing him, and I bear witness to you that we have never had a president who has presided over this Church who has been more susceptible, more anxious to receive the inspiration and the revelation of God for the blessing of this peopleWhile he is a man like most men of strong will, we, his closest associates, have nevertheless, seen him yield his strong opinions ,to the influences of the power of God. So that he has but one thought, to get the word and the will of the Lord and give it to the Latter-day Saints, and I ask. for him — which is his right under the appointment of the Lord — all the respect, all the honor, all the confidence that have ever been enjoyed by those who have led this Church heretofore;because God hath not changed, though presidents may come and go. Jesus hath not changed. These are his servants. I bear witness of it. Let no small difference of opinion become the parting of the ways to any of us, my brethren and sisters. Let us be willing to submit ourselves to counsel and to advice and leadership that our God has appointed, remembering that though there have been strong men who have even stood in the presence of the Redeemer of the world, yet they have failed and have separated themselves and parted from this Church. But in almost every instance, from that day until this, it has been by reason of. the fact that they have not been willing to follow the leadership of the living prophets and leaders of the Church. They have wanted to follow, or have felt they were following, the leadership of the dead prophets, and they were their own interpreters as to what the dead prophets would say on this or that occasion. The Lord used the dead prophets in their time, to do their work, but they have gone — and all honor and credit to them and their ministry. But here is another situation : My duty and your duty is to submit now, in confidence — and I bespeak for my brethren, your confidence. T know they are entitled to it — to the living leadership of this Church, for God is with them; I know it; and may he be with us, that we may go grandly forward to meet the troubles that now confront the labor world and that come in various forms, for the Lord hath equipped us and drilled us and schooled us, if we shall only follow in the way he has appointed, to avert all the troubles, to remain a united people and to go forward to the accomplishment of the grand mission and purpose which the Lord has given this Church, the greatest of which lies before us. God help us to stay with the good shepherds, to go on and perform our duty and be among those who shall assist in completing the Lord's glorious work in the earth, I humbly pray in trie name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A trio, "God be Merciful Unto Us," was sung by Arthur Evan, James Neilsen, and Minnie Eckhardt. GENERAL CONFERENCE. Read the following information : Burley stake, formerly a part of the Cassia stake : David R. Langlois, President; Myron Marlow, First Counselor; George H. Lewis, Second Counselor; Henry W. Tucker, stake clerk. Wards comprising the stake : Burley First, Burley Second, Declo, Pella, Unity, SpringdaTe, and View. 

Blaine stake, formerly a part of the Boise stake": William Lennox Adamson, President; Joseph S. Cooper, First Counselor; G. Wallace Mecham, Second Counselor; D. Edwin Adamson, stake clerk. Wards comprising the stake : Acequia, Carey, Gannett Branch, Hazelton Branch, Heyburn, Jerome, Manard, Paul, Rupert, Wendell Branch, and Gooding Branch. 

Twin Falls stake, formerly a part of the Cassia stake : Laurence G. Kirkham, President; Edward M. Guest, First Counselor; Raymond McClelland, Second Counselor; Lewis L. Allen, stake clerk. Wards comprising stake: Buhl, Kimberly, Mutaugh, and Twin Falls. 

Lost River stake, formerly a part of the Blackfoot stake : William N. Patten, President; William T. Tew, First Counselor; Second Counselor not appointed to. date. John L. Bills stake clerk. Wards comprising stake : Moore, Arco, Darlington, Ballard, Leslie. . Wards. Dehlin 

Afton South 

Buhl 

Wells 

Hamer Br. 

Orion Br. 

Onidah Br. 

Hawthorne 

Clarion, Br. 

Mt. Sherman Br. 

Gannett Br. 

Darlington 

Ballard ' 

Leslie 

Bingham Star Valley Twin Falls Granite Bingham Tavlor Millard GraniteSouth Sanpete Idaho Blaine Lost River Lost River Lost River San Luis stake, William O. Crowther succeeded Hyrum S. Harris. 123 

BISHOPS DIED. 

Ririe ward, Rigby stake, David Ririe. Sixth ward, Pioneer stake, Arnold G. Giauque. Thistle Branch, Utah stake, Benjamin F. Smith. 

STAKE CLERK DIED. ' 

Hyrum stake, John W. Jensen. 

NUMBER OF WARDS AND STAKES. 

There are 871 wards and branches, 79 stakes, and 21 missions, in the Church. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I have been delighted with the blessings of the Lord that have been poured out upon us during this conference. 

I had no intention to speak but have decided to make a few remarks to this very wonderful congregation of Latter-day Saints, occupying the short time which remains. 

OVERWHELMING RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PRESIDENCY. 

As I stated, I rejoice in the rich outpourings of the Spirit of the Lord. When I first came to the Presidency the thought of the responsibility that rested upon me was overwhelming and for several weeks it was impossible for me' to obtain my needed rest. It became absolutely necessary for me to go to the coast to get the needed amount of sleep; because men cannot live very long who do not get rest at night. 

A WONDERFUL MANIFESTATION AND TESTIMONY. 

When I was chosen one of the apostles — -as I stated this morning in a little meeting of the Religion Classes — from; October until February, I was very unhappy, notwithstanding the fact that my call had come by direct revelation; and the reason was because of my having had such a wonderful reverence and respect, almost adoration for the men who held the apostleship. If there was one thing that my dear departed mother impressed upon my very soul it was reverence and respect for the Priesthood of the living God, and for the men who stood at the head of the Church of Jesus Christ of" Latter-day Saints. When the call came to trie to be an apostle, the spirit of the adversary pursued me day 'and night, from October until February, telling me that I was- unfit to occupy that exalted office- Every time that I bore witness of my knowledge that Jesus was the Christ, the words would fly back in my face : "You lie; you have not seen him." I would wake up in the night feeling that I should resign, that I was unworthy. A 

relative of mine said to me one day : "Do you know that Brother 

declared that no man was fit to be an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ GENERAL CONFERENCE.  had not seen the Lamb of God?" He had first asked me the question, "Have you ever seen the Lamb of God," I said, "No." Then he referred to this man's declaration. I said: "Yes, I know that." "Well then, how is it that you stand as an apostle?" I answered: 

"Which would you rather believe — the Lord Almighty or Elder ?" 

He said : "The Lord." I said : "So would I; and he sent a revelation calling* me, and I will take his word for it that I am fit to occupy the position." But, just the same, I did not confess that, day and night, there was a feeling upon me, calling upon me to resign. I took a trip, in January, 1883, with Brigham Young, Jr., to San Luis Valley, Colorado, to San Juan, to .the Arizona stakes, to Mexico, where we visited the Yaqui Indians. In Arizona we visited the Navajos and also the Moquis. Speaking of the Navajos, I regret very much that I did not have a shorthand reporter with me when we held a meeting with Manulita, the war chief of the Navajo Indians. I could not understand a word he said, but I knew that he spoke with a fire and a force and fervor that I had seldom heard in all my life, and the interpreter, Brother Ernest Titjen, said that it was the most wonderful speech he had ever heard. The Indian chief was speaking about the wrongs of the Indians and the diseases that had come among the Indians from the whites; and he spoke of the failure of the whites, ex-, cept only the "Mormons" to treat the Indians rightly. He announced that the women of the Indian nation were safe in the hands of the "Mormons." There was trouble, at that time, in that section of the Navajo Indian Reservation, but he said : "You are absolutely safe to travel among the Navajos, because I will send word ahead that you are 'Mormons,' and they know- that 'Mormons' are the friends of the red men." While in the Navajo Indian Reservation, traveling in a company of perhaps half a dozen wagons and eight or ten horsemen, we would alternate riding in the wagons and on horseback. I was riding at the rear of the company with the late President Lot Smith of the Little Colorado stake, and as we were traveling in a southeasterly direction, suddenly the road turned and went northeast. But continuing from where the road changed was a well-beaten path, I said : "Wait a minute, Lot, where does that trail lead?" He said, "O it reaches down there three or four miles and swings back into the road. We will make a regular mule-shoe with the road, and then join the trail. There is a deep gully that a team cannot cross, therefore we have to go around." I said : "Can a horseman cross it ?" He said, "Yes." "Well," L said, "Lot, I want to be alone. Go ahead, follow the crowd. I will go over here all alone and meet you when the trail joins the road." First I asked him, "Is there any danger from the Navajos?" He said, "None whatever." I undoubtedly asked this question because only a few days before I had visited the spot where George A." Smith, Jr., — I believe the only son of that beloved and saintly woman, Bathsheba W. Smith, had been killed by the Navajo Indians, and I was naturally a little nervous, going off alone in that section ot the country. The reason that I wanted to be alone was that I was 125 , as I had never been before, even from October until that moment, with that awful feeling of dread and doubt and with the suggestion hammering away at my brain that I ought to resign as an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, that I had never done anything that entitled me to that distinction, that I had never performed any special labor, that I was not posted on the gospel, as an apostle ought to be; that my mind had been given to the ordinary affairs of life, and that I should step aside and let some other man be called who, I believed, was better qualified for the position than myself. 

With this awful depression upon me, I desired to be alone, and I rode across there, tortured, so to speak, by the devil. After riding about a mile, I suddenly stopped the mule on which I was riding, and I communed with High Heaven. It was revealed to me there, sitting alone in the Navajo Indian Reservation, that I had done nothing to entitle me to the great honor of being an 'apostle, except that I had kept my life pure and sweet. It was revealed to me there that a council was held in heaven, exactly the same as we hold councils here. Matters were discussed, and there was presented the question of filling the two vacancies existing in the quorum of the Twelve Apostles; that the conference had adjourned, and those two vacancies remained and ought to be filled. The question was : "Whom shall we call, in sending a revelation to fill those vacancies?" My father, Jedediah M. Grant, who died when I was a baby, only nine days old, asked God, our heavenly Father, that his son, Heber J. Grant, be called as an apostle, and Joseph Smith, the Prophet of this last dispensation, the man who, as a child, communed with God, our Father— who had communed with Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, and was told by the Savior of the world to join none of the churches then extant, as they had all gone astray, and that he should be the instrument in the hands of God to restore the gospel again to the earth — that great Latter-day Prophet joined in the request made by my father, and the revelation was sent calling me to be an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

JOY IN PROCLAIMING THE GOSPEL. No man, I believe ever had less happiness or less joy than I had in proclaiming the gospel from October, 1882, when I was called to be an apostle, until February, 1883, when the Lord Almighty gave to me this manifestation. But I believe that no man lives who has ever had sweeter joy, who has ever had greater happiness than I have had in testifying to the divinity of this work, in Japan, in the Hawaiian Islands, from Canada to Mexico, in nearly every State of the Union, in England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Belgium, Holland, Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, — testifying that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is his prophet. There is no joy, there is no happiness in all the world, that can compare with that which comes into the heart of a Latter-day Saint when, under the inspiration of the living God, he is able to bear GENERAL CONFERENCE. : "I know that God lives, I know that Jesus is the Christ, \ know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the true and the living God, and that this work called 'Mormonism' is in very deed the plan of life and salvation;" and I bear that witness before you here today, for I have the knowledge from God, and I lie not. God bless you all. Amen. 

The Tabernacle choir sang: "The Inflammatus," Mrs. Laurinda Brewerton, singing the solo. 

The Conference adjourned unp\ 2 o'clock p. m. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Hyrum G. Smith, Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 


