Second Overflow
05 10 1919

The second overflow meeting was held at the Assembly Hall Sunday, at 2 p. m. October 5, 1919. Elder George F. Richards, of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, presided. Music was furnished by the Richards ward choir of the Granite Stake of Zion. 

The choir sang: "As the Dew from Heaven Distilling," with solo by Ruby Child. 

As the dew, from heaven distilling, 

Gently on the grass descends, And revives it, thus fulfilling 

What Thy providence intends, 

Let Thy doctrine, Lord, so gracious, 

Thus decending from above, Blest by Thee, prove efficacious 

To fulfil Thy work of love. 

Lord, behold this congregation; 

Precious promises fulfil; From Thy holy habitation, 

Let' the dews of life distil. 

Let our cry come up before Thee; 

Thy sweet Spirit shed around: So the people shall adore Thee, 

And confess the joyful sound. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Levi M. Savage, of Woodruff, Ariz. 

The choir sang: "Grant us Peace, O Lord." 

The General Authorities of the Church were presented by Elder George F. Richards, as in the Tabernacle, and unanimously sustained. 

ELDER RICHARD W. YOUNG 

(President of the Ensign Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters. I remember once to have heard an anecdote concerning what we usually term a sectarian minister, who stated that he was very sorry to disappoint the congregation, for he had not had time to prepare a sermon, and therefore would have to rely upon the Spirit of the Lord, an anecdote that illustrates, in part at least, the distinction between the churches of the day and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In practically all Christian churches it is the practice that sermons should be prepared beforehand, whereas in bur Church we are told that aside from general preparation we should give no thought, generally speaking, as to what we should say, and should rely upon the spirit of the occasion, the Spirit of the Lord. I very humbly desire that to my own meagre abilities GENERAL CONFERENCE.  may be added the influence and the inspiration of that Spirit during the time alotted to me. 

The Saints, as we all believe, know the voice of the shepherd. You cannot fool the Latter-day Saints by talking glittering generalities. A man may speak with the oratorical gifts of a Webster, and if he have not the Spirit of the Lord, the Saints know it, they feel it, and are not fed or satisfied. 

I am very happy to be here this afternoon, not to occupy this position (because I approach the performance of the responsibilities thereof with a sense of trepidation amounting almost to fear), but I am happy that I am counted among the membership of the Church and worthy of occupying some sort of a position in that Church. 

I was just looking over that wonderful poem, the Seer, written by President John Taylor, that remarkable, splendid father of President Frank Y. Taylor who is here today. I find written there, concerning the Prophet Joseph, that 

He shared their joys, their sorrows too, He loved the Saints, he loved Nauvoo. 

I have been away from this people long enough to develop a strong love for the Saints of God; the good- people who. make up the congregations of the Church are the dearest people in all the world to you and to me. There is no experience that touches my heart more deeply than the sight of the face of a good old brother or sister whom T have known, and known to be faithful, for many vears. I share their iovs and their sorrows, too/ I deeply love the Saints and their association, and am proud of being a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day SaintsI was thinking: during the noon hour how much reason we all have to be proud of the record of the Church. When you stop to think about it, you must conclude that this Church has been right throughout its whole history upon all of the. important moral questions that have affected our welfare. In the nature of things there is not within the United States a people more patriotic than the Latterday Saints. I know of no other sect that assumes the position that the constitution of the United States was written as it were hv the very finger of God. Surely that belief is an inspiration to the highest patriotism. You remember reading in the history of the Church that this people were accused in Missouri of being opposed to slavery. In that slave-holding state such an attitude became one of the reasons of our persecution and drivings. You remember that the first message that flashed across the completed telegraph line from here to the Atlantic coast was a message of congratulation from Brig-ham Young to Abraham Lincoln, that the Union was preserved or was in the wav of preservation. 

President Grant spoke this morning of the attitude of the Nwaio Indians toward the "Mormons." They had confidence in the "Mormon" people because the "Mormon" people never had abused their 149 . Books have been written, one book that I remember in particular, called A Century of Dishonor, an indictment covering hundreds of pages against the American people for treatment of the American Indians. But no indictment has ever been framed, or could be formulated against the "Mormon" people for their attitude or treatment of the aborigines of this continent. We have always treated them fairly and squarely, as of course th'ey should have been treated. 

We have stpod square upon women's suffrage. We were among the very first — the second as I now recall it — of the states to give what should have been given years before, the right of equal suffrage to the women, now recognized not only in this country but throughout the world as a long delayed measure of justice. 

We have stood fairly and squarely upon the prohibition question throughout the Church. 

We occupy an enviable position so far as the great subject of education is concerned. The Latter-day Saints are not afraid -of education; they do not fear that by the education of their children, at least by true education, they are going to educate them out of "Mormonism." The Church has always stood, from the days of Kirtland to the present time, for universities, for colleges, for development, for a high state oL education; and our record, I say, in that respect is a very enviable one. 

We stand in what I think is a very commendable attitude with reference to labor, to laboring men, to what might be called the meek and the humble and the poor of the world. This Church has never been, and is not, any respecter of persons. Our congregations are made up in this city and everywhere of not merely those who are ,rich in the good's of this world, but those who are in moderate circumstances and those who are poor, all worshiping God at the same shrine — a brotherhood of men and women worshiping under the auspices of a Church that welcomes' all men and treats all equally and fairly. The Church has not only a splendid record in that regard, but we have done much, very much, indeed, to help, to assist the poor and those who are not as fortunate as some of their brethren and sisters. And we look forward — and it is written down in our books here — to the time when there shall be community of interest among all the people of the Church. 

Indeed there are no more advanced conceptions of social justice anywhere extant in the world. And so I say and' repeat that we have reason to be proud of the record of the Church to which we belong. 

And now, if I may be pardoned for saying something upon a subject which has received a great deal of attention at this conference, I think we may congratulate ourselves (and I speak with due deference for the opinions of others), that we stand true; if I understand the sentiments of the brethren who preside over this Church and of the whole people of the Church, we stand true upon that great moral question designated as the League of Nations. Possibly enough has been said upon that subject. I have thought, however, that perhaps by GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of the peculiar experiences that have been mine during the last two or three years, it might not be held to be improper for me to add a little to what has been said upon that subject. I desire first to say that nothing within recent years has astonished me quite so much as that opinions on this subject have been divided along lines of political cleavage. What is there in the controversy respecting the league of nations that calls for political division? It is beyond my comprehension. Down through the decades of our history the Democratic party has stood for a strict construction of the constitution; it has stood, generally speaking, for states rights; and, in a way, for a large measure of free trade. While on the other hand the Republican party has stood for writing the word "Nation" as it is sometimes expressed with a big N. It has stood for broad' construction of the constitution and the protection of American industries. These have been the lines of demarkation between the parties. But what is there in this league of nations that appeals to the historical differences that have separated these two great parties ? Nothing, so far as I have been able to discover. 

My justification for speaking a few words upon this subject this afternoon comes not only from the fact that it is the the key note of this conference, I may say, sounded by those who are my superiors in ecclesiastical authority, but from the fact also that my own conceptions and attitude in respect of that subject were taken long before I dreamed that this would or could be a matter of political controversy between the great parties. Now we find ourselves confronted with the fact that in the United States Senate there are a few Democrats who are against the league, while the great bulk of them are for it- On the other hand, there are a few Republican Senators who stand for the league, with the great bulk of them against. I must confess that this condition leads me to the conclusion, which seems to me to be inevitable, that so far as the senate of the United States is concerned, the question in some way has become political, which it should not be, and which it is not in very truth and reason. I think we ought to approach our conclusions on this subject free from political affiliations, free from any political prejudices. 

It seems to me, as was stated this morning in the Tabernacle, that it would be a matter of chagrin to the Latter-day Saints to stand opposed to that which, as I conceive it, will bring about or contribute very largely to the bringing about of a reign of peace on the earth. We are the followers of him whose mission was announced as Peace on earth and good will to men. That is the spirit of ChristianI take it that there can be no question of the rejection of the treaty of peace of which the proposed constitution of the League of Nations forms a part. That certainly is not going to be done. The senate of the 'United States will not reject this peace pact outright. The consequences of such action are terrible to contemplate. Think what has been provided, within this treaty of peace. Think of the nations that have been erected along racial lines. Think of the right 151  has been extended to the nations of the world to determine, themselves, their own forms of government. There is Poland, what would become of Poland if this treaty were not approved? There is Jugo-Slavia — what would become of the Jugo-Slavs? What would become of Palestine, and what would become of the Armenians ? What would become of Alsace-Lorraine, and what of that part of Denmark which Germany stole some forty or fifty years ago? 

If this peace pact is not approved, then it must go back to Ger' many. Can it be believed that Germany will approve now what she felt constrained to approve at the end of the war? Germany would demand more than she demanded at the first. The world will surely be in an indescribable condition of disorder. The German people and some who sympathize with them believe that the terms of peace were unduly harsh and hard. I do not believe it, and you do not believe it. Germany has not property enough, has not resources enough, nor the possibility of earning money enough, to compensate, nor indeed is there any possibility after suffering enough in any respect, to equal the wrongs that she has done in this great war. The terms that have been imposed upon her as a matter of fact are the very minimum of what could in justice have been imposed upon her. But if this thing is not to be approved, what will become of a world which has been framed anew under the American idea of the right of people to determine their own form of government? It is inconceivable that the treaty of peace should be rejected. Will it be amended so that it will have to go back for reconsideration? To amend it would bring about the same result as to reject it — the document would have to be considered again — and can there be any doubt as to what would be the result of that ? I can not believe that the Senate of the United States will make a single amendment. I certainly believe that the Senate of the United States should not approve an amendment to the treaty. Will they make any interpretations or reservations equivalent to an amendment? If they do, then the treaty must go back to the Peace Congress for reconsideration, for of course such interpretation, or reservation will have the effect o'f amendment and to that extent therefore will be ,a rejection of the treaty. It seems clear and incontestable that the great bulk of the people of the United States demand that the treaty shall be approved in the form and substance in which it is written, rather than to undo that which has been done and revert to the sorry conditions that existed before that treaty was made. 

What were those conditions? Why, there was no authority to curb the ambitions of any nation that had the desire to build up a great army, and construct great plants wherein guns and armor be made, nor to prevent a robber nation, when the time came, when the hour struck, attacking a weak neighbor, and stealing by main force a portion of its territory, as has been done many a time and oft by the great nation whose ambitions we have been fighting. Do we want that done? Do we not rather want a restraint placed upon all the nations of the earth? Look what is now happening. We are told GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the press dispatches this morning that war between Italy and the Jugo-Slavic nation is probable. That would not be possible, nor probable, if this league of peace were now in force — there would be the combined influence of the world to prevent that sort of thing. It is said that there are some 15 or 20 other wars now waging, waging because the league is not in force. 

Gentlemen talk about our yielding up some of the sovereignty of the United States. I do not think that the objection is sound or well taken. But if so, then let us yield up so much of our sovereignty as may be necessary to the realization of a world peace. I yield up some of my sovereignity to the city government, to the police, under ordinances and laws that prevent me from treading on the toes of my neighbor, from taking his property, or intruding in his home. To that extent I yield up my sovereignty. The law says that I may not infringe upon the rights of my neighbor. There is a league, there is a treaty between you arid me, and between all the citizens of every law abiding country, under which each of us gives up some of his God-given sovereignty in order to preserve the weak from being overpowered by the strong. It is so in the government of the United States — the states are protected against foreign invasions. Nobody can violate the soverignty of this state or any state in the union but what the United States will come to its aid, so, in our municipal and state relations we are shielded by a sort of Article ten from outside interference. Why should not that principle be extended to the nations, so that when some big nation sees fit to rob one of the little nations of its territory of its liberties, there should be a world policeman who shall say, Thus far shalt thou go and no further? Shall we return to that unhappy, irrational, and unChristian condition where there was no restraint upon any nation, where force prevailed and might made right? 

Gentlemen say that the Shantung business is wrong. Suppose it is. Germany created it, France and England found it necessary to recognize it, and we and the world have inherited it. I believe the wrong has been largely righted, because the subject has been brought within the consideration and determination of the' Council of the League of Nations. 

Did you ever stop to think what was done when the constitution of the United States was formed? Why, slavery, which was bitterly opposed by the people of the Northern states when the constitution was formed, was perpetuated in the government of the United States, and for 20 years the people were peamitted to bring slaves from Africa into this country. It was a compromise, it was a moral compromise. The North gave up what they believed to be a very great moral principle in order to secure the constitution of the United States and its blessings. The Constitution was a league of free and independent colonies and is filled with compromise from one end to another, including the right for the smallest of states to have an equal vote with the largest in the United States Senate. 

People say that we ought to be true to Washington in his declara153  that we should not make any entangling alliances. There are a great many things that Washington and the patriot forefathers did not foresee, or provide against, wise as they undoubtedly were. There have been eighteen amendments to the constitution of the United States since it was first adopted. These provide for religious freedom, trial by jury, etc., etc., and now providing for women's suffrage. Somebody stated humorously in the state senate the other day that it was Washington's idea and the idea of the fathers that only men should vote, and asked, why then extend the vote to women, or why extend it to negroes ? Washington's idea was that senators should be elected by the legislatures, then why now permit the people to elect senators by direct vote? There was no thought of prohibition in Washington's day, yet it is now written down in the constitution of the United States. The fact is that as time goes on new necessities arise, which should and must be met by the law and by the constitution. 

I believe there are a good many men who think that we would be giving up something of our Americanism if we approved of this league, who are perfectly honest and sincere in their opposition. But at the same time I must confess that I believe that the great bulk of those who oppose it are doing so for political reasons and considerations1 am not authorized to speak on the subject for the men who served in the United States army: I do not know what their sentiments may be, on the whole. I know only 'this that so far as I have talked with men who wore the uniform in the late great war, they stand solidly for the league of nations. I do not of course pretend to have talked with all or very many of them. I made a little speech of welcome to the returning soldiers down here in one of the southern towns a few weeks ago, and when I got through a returned soldier got up to respond'. I did not know what he was going to say, 'but he made a very impassioned appeal for the League, and considerably amused the audience by stating: "If you people do not approve this League, and we have another big war, why you fellows be consistent and go to the war and let us stay at home." 

These are, very hurriedly and incompletely, some of my sentiments, and I give them to you for what they are worth. It seems to me that this is the greatest crisis of decades. It seems to me that here is the opportunity, the first great chance, for the Christian people of the world to write Christianity into the Slipreme government of all the nations, and that to reject this opportunity and go back to the old order of things, where lawless force and unrestrained aggression held swav, to sro back to that condition of things, would be a crime. May the Lord have mercy on the souls of those who oppose it, not honestly but through political considerations. 

I cannot see why we should not try this thing out- If the event should demonstrate that the league needs amendment, like the constitution of the United States, let us amend it. If it needs amendment twice, let us twice amend it. If it needs amendment eighteen times, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  did the constitution of the United States in order to make a more perfect and desirable government, let us amend it eighteen times, but don't reject it now. In conclusion, if you will permit something which sounds like profanity, but which is uttered reverently and with a profound sense of what I conceive to be our duty, for God's sake let us stand behind this league of nations. Amen. 

ELDER FRANK Y. TAYLOR 

(President of the Granite Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters, I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may direct my remarks to you this afternoon. I am in hearty accord with what has been presented to us in our conference, during the last three days. My heart has been filled with gratitude in witnessing the Spirit of the Lord that accompanied the speakers, and to feel the good spirit abiding in the congregations of the people. 

When Brother Young spoke this afternoon of what wonderful accomplishments had been made by us as a people, how we had been' in the fore-front in establishing the affirmative organizations before us in the past years, and of the wonderful opportunities that are before us as a people, I could not help but wonder if in the future we are going to be equal to every occasion that shall present itself to us; and if we are really prepared to assume the responsibility that is upon the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to see to it that the message of Christ, the peace of salvation, shall be carried to the children of the earth; and whether we are prepared to stand as an ensign to the nations of the earth and the peoples thereof, and show, by the fruits of our labors and the truth that is in us, that we ane indeed the children of the Lord our God, worthy of being his servants in proclaiming the word of the Lord to the children of men, and offering unto mankind that peace which comes from God, the eternal Father, and which means exaltation to his children in the earth! Thinking of this in my own personal life, I wonder if I have measured up to the standard our heavenly Father expects of me, considering the opportunities that the gospel of Christ has presented to me! I am concerned when I speak about it, wondering if I have lived the proper kind of a life. If I were to go out into the world to proclaim this work of God, and show before the children of men that I am a fruit of the gospel of Jesus Christ, I wonder whether they could see in me a light and an ensign; and that I could say, I have the truth, follow me. I hesitate, and I am in doubt concerning my own personal life, that I would be equal and measure up to that occasion. And yet, as a people we have accepted this mission and this calling in the earth, to see that the people of the earth are evangelized and warned to accept the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

What are we doing to bring about that splendid result ? We have 155  praying and looking forward for years and years, to the time when the doors of the world should be opened to our missionaries. We have only had a scant opportunity to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ to the nations of the earth. They would not receive our elders, in many parts of the earth. They have shut their 1 doors against us. But now, it appears, with the freedom that is being extended to the people, brought about by this terrible war, an opportunity is being presented to us to proclaim the gospel to the nations of the earth. I believe our boys and girls will be called out by the thousands in the near future, to stand before the world as an ensign to its peoples. Now, the thought that stirs me is, am I ready for that mission? Are we ready for that call? Are you prepared? Are you in a condition to go out before the children of men, and hold up your head and hands unafraid, unashamed, to declare : "I belong to the body of people known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; I have kept the commandments of the Lord my God, and I am here to aid in bringing about the gospel mission of peace!" Are you prepared in your own life? Are you preparing your boys and your girls honestly to proclaim that indeed we are an ensign before all the children of men, and are keeping the commandments of the Lord our God? It seems to me that some of us are more anxious about the loaves and fishes — to get rich. We are more anxious to be seen of men in high places, rather than using our ability and strength and power to further the work of the Lord that it may spread in the nations of the earth, that other peoples in the world may have the chance to breathe this freedom, to see this light, to comprehend this understanding, which we enjoy through the fruits of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

When I think of these things, I feel in my own soul that I am going to try to do better, to repent of the wrong I have done, so order my life that I shall keep the commandments of the Lord my God, so that whenever, or wherever I go the peoples of the world may see in me some good, and behold, in the great message which I proclaim, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that it bears good fruit. 

We owe much, my brethren and sisters, to the mission we have espoused. It behooves us to do right, to seek first the kingdom of God, and to do these things of which I have spoken. We should set our houses in order, put our affairs in shape so that at home, or wherever the Lord shall see fit to call us to go, we may be ready and able to proclaim in doctrine, precept and example this gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I believe our boys and girls are going to have a wonderful opportunity in the world. A great responsibility is going to devolve upon them, such as has never devolved upon any of us before; hence, all of us ought to set our lives in order, and see to it that we ourselves are keeping the commandments of God; that we are clean and sweet and pure; that we are living such lives that our boys may see within us the principles of rihteousness and truth, and that they may have an example to follow that shall be worthy, if they follow in our footsteps. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

You will pardon my being personal; but when I look back on my father's life, in relation to these matters, it is a wonderful inspiration to me, as the lives of your fathers^ and mothers undoubtedly have been to you. But when I think of the careful training that I had, of the wonderful example that was set before me, in my youth, I feel that it would be inexcusable fof me to do that which was not right in my life, because I feel that I had a perfect example to follow. As a boy, however, I have been tempted like other boys; but my father's life was so free and pure and clean that whenever temptation was presented to me, it seemed like my father rose up before me in majesty, like a monument, and I could not do the wrong which I was tempted to do. I felt that I would bring displeasure upon him, and I know there was nothing in his life that would warrant me in taking a course that would not be acceptable before our Father in heaven. I felt, as I thought of his life, O, I would like to live that kind of a life myself, so that I would be a light in the darkness to my boys and girls; that I might take a' course that my boys might have a straight and 'perfect path to follow, and never go in devious and crooked ways, and so grow up as clean, sweet Latter-day Saints. 

I tell you it is a noble calling to be known as a true, clean, sweet Latter-day Saint. It will mean salvation and exaltation to any soul who will live that kind of a life, and endure. As a father I feel, and you as fathers feel, how important it is that we set before our boys and girls a perfect example, that they may lead such lives as will guide them to life and salvation, and never be ashamed, at any time, of what they are doing. Every father owes it to the manhood within his boy, that he shall so live that when that boy sees his example, and walks in his footsteps, the boy can hold up his head and hands and say, Thank God, that is my father!  Any man who lives short of that is not living up to the expectancy of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and to the furtherance of the strength and manhood of the boys and girls we are rearing. 

I think, too, that as a priesthood, and as men, we owe more of our spirit and strength and ability and power to our boys and girls than we are giving to them. It does not make much difference to you and to me whether we have much in our barns, or have flocks, or herds, or of the world's material things around us, or what the honors of the world may be to us, whether we live in a big house or a little one. It does not mean much to us; but it does matter much what our boys and girls are doing, and whether they are taking the course that will bring joy and happiness to us all the days of our lives. 

What a wonderful happiness comes to a father who sees his boy grow up from infancy to manhood, clean and sweet and pure, with virtue written upon his forehead, and manly acts engraved upon everything that he does upon the earth. Isn't that worth the best efforts we can put forth in this world? 

The Lord expects that we shall bring our boys up in the fear, the favor, and the faith of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I 157  think that we are more concerned about our flocks and our herds and our riches, and to be seen and honored of men, than we are of the welfare of our children, and that we may have around us boys and girls who are keeping the commandments of the Lord our God. 

Sitting in a business house one day, a man passed the store. I was talking with the proprietor of the business, and the man passed the window; and this passing man was rather "down at the heel," as we say. His trousers were frayed, his hat was a little torn, and his head was bowed down. He looked rather discouraged. As he passed, th« business man pointed to him and said, "Brother Taylor, there goes a failure in life." 

The remark hurt me a little, and I said, "I don't know; it depends upon what you call a failure. I think I know the man, perhaps, better than you do. It is true he has not worldly goods about him, and he has, perhaps, lost about all he had of earthly things, as far as wealth goes; but he has done a wonderful thing in our community.' I know him well. He has been out in the waste places, and subdued them, made them blossom as the rose. He has become a pioneer in this way, and has done all this where he has gone. As soon as a place became so that the people could prosper there, he moved on and tried again; until he has made many places blossom as the rose. In this community, too, I know he has been a thinker, he has been a reader, he has been a progressive fellow; and wherever he has lived he has encouraged boys and girls to go to schools and to universities. He has awakened ambition within the hearts of boys and girls. He is a goad Latter-day Saint, too, arid he has taught men the word of the Lord our God. Not only that, but better than all that, he has gathered around him his boys and girls; he knows the heart of every one of them, and' they know him. They are companions to him, and he is a companion to them. They love him, they honor him, respect him, and he has a splendid, large family. It is true he has not given them much wealth, but every boy and girl that he has is a Latter-day Saint, — a credit to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are clean and sweet boys and girls! He loves his fellow men; and, you will pardon me, I know you are my friend, but if I were, 'right up against it,' as we say, not knowing where to go for something to eat, and needed a little help, and I just had two friends to go to, that man that you call a failure in life, as between you and him, I would go to that man!" 

Said he, "Why, he couldn't help you; he has nothing to help you with." 

"But," said I, "he would divide with me that which he had. I feel that he has been a success and not a failure, he has gained eternal riches, he has stored where moth and rust do not corrupt, nor thieves break through and steal." 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, we owe to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that we do the right, that we live lives that will reflect credit upon it, and that we teach our boys and girls the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, arid that we teach them to be clean and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and pure, in the sight of all men, because unless they are clean, all these other things will not amount to much in their lives. 

I love the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I love the Latter-day Saints. I love our boys and our girls; and O, how I would like to see them measure up in purity, faith, and righteousness, and I am sure they will, because the Lord will so order it that they will meet any requirement, and as they grow older and bigger and stronger they will stand up just like our leaders have done, and become an ensign for the salvation of the children of men, — which I pray may be their lot, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang: "Tell Ye the Daughters of Zion," William R. Worley, soloist. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY 

(President of the Deseret Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters. I sincerely pray that the Lord will calm my spirit, and give me his Holy Spirit, so that I shall not say anything that will detract in any way from the splendid influence and' spirit of this conference gathering. I am able to say that I am in perfect accord with the spirit and teachings of this conference. I am very grateful to the Lord that I have been permitted to meet with you and have again a birth of the spirit, and be renewed in my desires and determination to serve the Lord and keep his commandments, and enjoy his blessings. I feel full of thanksgiving and appreciation unto the Lord upon this occasion. 

It has been my blessed privilege to come with eight members of my family to enjoy this splendid occasion. Four years ago, this October, the mother and father and the children that are here upon this occasion were here to bid farewell to the oldest son of the family and wish him God speed upon his journey to New Zealand. We are here today to bid him welcome home from that field of labor. I hope you will pardon me for indulging in this kind of personal or family talk, but I stand before you as a father in Israel, one whose heart is full of thanksgiving, and I take it that it is fitting and proper that I should offer thanksgiving, even at this time, unto the Lord. The other night when that missionary boy crawled in bed with his father, the first time for four years and more, he said : 

"Father, it has been a long time, hasn't it?" 

"Yes," said I, "It has been a long time, son; but, oh, how rapidly that time has gone and how grateful to the Lord, I have been every day, that he has permitted you to be out in his service. When I awoke in the morning I discovered that boy's head on my arm while he still slept, and thought if he could but know what a warm pulsation of this father's heart that is his, and how I lie here offering thanks159  unto God for him, how anxious he would be that he should never falter, never fall back, never lose that spirit and that sweetness which characterize him now. I have witnessed the return of our young ' men, whom we followed with faith and prayer to the field of battle, or wherever they have been during these past years of trouble and sorrow, war and bloodshed. I have seen some of them return, in many cases, thank God', pure and sweet and clean as they were when they left, having been so protected that they have not forgotten the teaching of the Church, of their fathers and mothers, and the influence that has sustained them. They have been mindful of their dependence upon the God of war as well as the God of peace, and the God of righteousness. When I have seen that kind of men come, back, and I have met many of them, O how my heart has rejoiced! 

But now, permit me to speak for a moment for some of them who, surrounded with temptations, were not able to stand. Perhaps,  when I speak of the conditions that obtain in the Deseret stake of Zion, it will be somewhat like the conditions that obtain in other stakes of Zion. Some of these boys have come back with the stain of tobacco upon their fingers. Some of them have come back regretting that they are not just as clean and sweet as they were when they went away. It is for this class that I would speak. O, what a lesson the Savior taught when he told us of the ninety-nine that were safely gathered and the one that was astray; how he would go out and hunt for him who was astray, and when he found him, what rejoicing there would be! I plead for leniency for the boy, and bespeak for him the kind and tender care of the authorities of the Church. I say that it is the Lord that reaches out for men, and does not allow them to go back discouraged and feel that all is lost. I feel that it is from the devil when any spirit comes to a boy or a man, a girl or a woman, and they feel that they are lost, and that they cannot climb back into full recognition. 

How my heart did thrill this morning, in that Mutual Improvement meeting, when Brother B. F. Grant stated that he was the son of a prophet, a man who stood beside Brigham Young as a counselor, and his mother was one of the choice souls in the early days of the Church; that for thirty-nine years of his life he got off wrong, and he continued to go wrong, believing that there was nothing in this gospel which the Lord God has restored in these the last days, until, stricken with sorrow, he looked upon the lifeless form of his little girl, his own flesh and blood, and then he said, "O God, can it be possible that this is the end, and that I shall see her no more?" To which the Spirit made reply, "It cannot be, this is not the end!" And then came into his life the day of repentance, the day of cleansing himself, purifying himself, the hours and the days of prayer. The Lord brought him back, until he stands now and bears a testimony of the Lord's wonderful goodness unto him! 

So I say, I plead for those boys. I like the spirit that is exemplified in the parable of the prodigal son. I think when I read that parable sometimes that I can almost see and feel what it must have meant GENERAL CONFERENCE.  that father to' have his son stand up before him and say, "O father." Perhaps he did not like everything that was going on in that family. Perhaps it was too slow, the boy thought, for him. Perhaps the boy was self-wise, and thought, "If you will but let me go and cut loose from the family, I would soon make good. If you will, father, divide unto me the portion that belongeth to me." I imagine that I can feel it. I feel that if such a circumstance should arise in my own family, I can imagine what sort of spirit and feelings would be in my own heart, when I would look upon my own flesh and blood, and I would be forced to say, "O son, after we have given all that we had unto our family, are you yet dissatisfied? Do you want to take the meagre portion that is yours and leave us and go ?" If he should say, "Yes, give it to me, father, and let me go." How would I feel if he would not repent, and he should go ? But I imagine that father watching, waiting, praying. Doesn't the Savior give us to understand in that parable outlining the very nature of things as they exist? Does he not say that the father saw the son approaching from afar? He was looking for the son that was away. He could not rest while there was one link of that family chain away. So he saw him as he approached from the distance, and he called them to go and kill the fatted calf, and he placed a mantle upon him, and a ring upon his finger, and he rejoiced. I think I can imagine in this world of selfishness, perhaps a little, what might be the feelings of a dutiful son who had witnessed that boy go off, who had witnessed the anguish of the father and the mother and the family. Now when he comes back that dutiful son hears the sound of rejoicing in the home. Calling to a servant, he asks, "What is this?" "O, your brother has returned, and your father and all are happy, and they are making merry." I think I can imagine what principle dominated the boy when he ""should say: "Is that so? And here I have been at home with father and mother, have toiled and labored this long time, and they have not so much as killed a kid for me! And now when he comes home, after having wasted his money and all that he had in riotous living, here they are feasting with him!" 

Oh, but that father's heart burned, a true father's heart, and, he answered: "Son, thou hast been with me always; all that I have is thine; but this boy who was dead to us, this boy who was lost, he is back again." That is the spirit; that is the lesson that I think we should have in our hearts now. Not one boy should be lost! I cannot conceive of the father that can say, he is gone! I don't believe that such a mother exists- who feels that they are gone, and that she will not get them back. 

The other day in your city, I walked up to an old man whom I saw out on the street^ and I tapped him on the back and said, "Brother Crackles, how are you ?" And he looked up and said, "Brother Hinckley, would you come out here in the street and speak to me?" "Why not, Brother Crackles ? Don't I know you ?" "Oh, yes, you know me, and I am working for an honest living." Then he said to me, "I have a message for you : Richard has come back to the Church, clean, pure, sweet and repentant." Then I recalled that I had heard him stand up in fast meeting, in his home ward, and bear a testimony something like this: After testifying of the goodness of the Lord unto him and his family, he broke down and said, "But one is gone, but he will come back! Mother and I never retire but what we bend the knee, and ask the Father of all to bring Richard back to us, and he will come back!" I tell you that faith did not go unrewarded; Richard has come back! 

Let us take it to heart, my brethren and sisters, that the boy that would go and offer his life for you and for me and for the cause of liberty and right will not be lost, if you and I do our full part, for the Lord will reach out after him, and he will bring him back. 

Let us stand for that M. I. A. slogan. Let the fathers and the mothers be at the sacramental table of the Lord. Let them renew their covenants before the Lord; and let us remember, every one of us, the lessons of this conference that have beeh repeated over and over, that there is a law irrevocably decreed in the heavens, before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated, and whenever we receive any blessing from God it is by obedience unto the law upon which that blessing is predicated. Let us then so live that if we want the blessings of life, health and strength, as Elder Richard R. Lyman outlined to us this morning, we may be able to say unto the Lord, we have obeyed the law upon which this blessing is predicated. Let us upon the sacred Sabbath day be able to say to the Lord when we think of the blessings that are promised, predicated upon proper observance of the Sabbath day, and say it in humility, we have obeyed the law upon which these blessings are predicated. When we know what we get from prayer, let us be able to say unto the Lord, we have obeyed the law of prayer upon which the blessings that come from prayer are predicated. 

Do not count any boy or girl lost. They are not. Brother Talmage stated at our conference, a week ago today, as a servant of the Lord, and I wrote it down, and read it to him after the meeting was over and he said I had it recorded correctly: "I promise the Saints in the Deseret stake of Zion that if their lives are such that they can look their sons and daughters in the face, arid if any of them have gone astray, that the parents are able to say, Tt is contrary to my instruction and my life's example; it is against every effort of love, long suffering, faith, prayer and devotion that that boy or that girl has gone,' — I promise you, fathers and mothers, that not one of them shall be lost unless they have sinned away the power to repent." I don't believe any of our boys are in that lamentable condition. 

My brethren and sisters, I stand before you as one having a knowledge, a testimony, of the divinity of this great work of God. I stand before you like Brother Taylor, offering thanks unto God for the sainted and good father which I had, and mother also. I trust that when I have finished my work upon the earth I can reach out and grasp the hand of my father and can say unto him honestly: "Father, I have walked in the path that thou didst walk in, and the Lord has brought me home to thee." May it be thus with us, for our fathers and for GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and for our children and our children's children, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNE Y. 

THE MISTAKE OF SAYING TOO MUCH.  

When General Young related the anecdote of the sectarian minister who said, "I have not had time to prepare a sermon, and shall therefore have to depend upon the Spirit of the Lord," I thought, what a oity that minister did not know where to stop. Had he been content with saying, "I have not prepared a sermon," he would have escaped the ludicrous situation resulting from his having said a little too much. It reminded me of the woman who composed an epitaph for her dead husband. First, she wrote : "Rest in peace," and then added, "until we meet again." (Laughter.) 

.WHY AMERICA WAS DISCOVERED AND THIS NATION FOUNDED. 

If there is one thing I am proud of, it is that I am a Latter-day Saint, or one who professes the principles of a Latter-day Saint; and, next to that, I am proud of being an American. I love my country, I love its institutions, and desire with my whole heart that our glorious nation shall go on to the fiulfilment of its God-given destiny. 

I believe God inspired Columbus to discover this land, that a nation might rise and flourish here — a nation dedicated to freedom and equal rights, including the right to worship God in obedience to the dictates of conscience; and I believe that this nation was founded that the great work of God might come forth and not be crushed out by the tyranny of men. 

I believe, also, that what God has committed to us, both as a Church and as a Nation, we owe to the rest of mankind, so far as they can be induced by peaceful persuasion to accept our principles. This Church has a mission to evangelize the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ, "the perfect law of liberty;" and I have always dreamed that our Nation has a mission not merely to receive into its bosom the outcast, the refugee, the oppressed of other nations, but also to leaven with American principles the rest of the world. 

"LIBERTY ENLIGHTENING THE WORLD." 

At the mouth of New York harbor there stands a mammoth statue — a woman holding aloft a torch. This statue, the gift of the French republic to the American republic, is entitled "Liberty Enlightening the World." I regard that as a prophecy of the mission of America; and I desire that the prophecy shall be fulfilled. 163 

THE UNITED STATES TYPICAL OF A UNITED WORLD. 

In the Constitutional Convention, when the fundamental law was framed upon which the State of Utah now stands, I stood for Woman Suffrage, because I believe it to be a principle of freedom and justice, and I there voiced the conviction that the union of these states was a type arid a foreshadowing of the union of the nations of the world. Somehow I drank in this idea from my boyhood. I cannot see it in any other light. 

LOWELL ON FREEDOM. 

I am heart and soul in sympathy with those beautiful lines of Lowell's, entitled "Stanzas on Freedom," inspired by an incident that happened during the Civil War. A poor negro woman had escaped from bondage, and had made her way into the State of Massachusetts, "the cradle of freedom-" The law provided for the return of a fugitive slave, and she was pursued, apprehended, and dragged back into slavery. This incident so fired the soul of James Russell Lowell that he poured forth this indignant and eloquent protest : 

Men! whose boast it is that ye Come of fathers brave and free, If there breathe on earth a slave, Are ye truly free and brave? If ye do not feel the chain, When it works a brother's pain, Are ye not base slaves indeed, Slaves unworthy to be freed? 

Women! who shall one day bear Sons to breathe New England air, If ye hear, without a blush, Deeds to make the roused blood rush v Like red lava through your veins, 

For your sisters now in chains, — Answer! are ye fit to be Mothers of the brave and free? 

Is true Freedom but to break Fetters for our own dear sake, And, with leathern hearts, forget That we owe mankind a debt? No! true freedom is to- share All the chains rour brothers wear, And, with heart and hand, to be Earnest to make others free! 

They are slaves who fear to speak For the fallen and the weak; They are slaves who will not choose Hatred, scoffing, and abuse, Rather than in silence shrink From the truth they needs must think; They are slaves who dare not be In the right with two or three." 

Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

I was somewhat ' startled, my brethren and sisters, with the sudden conclusion of Elder Whitney's remarks, and told him that they were short and sweet. 

It is good, on reading or hearing the truth, to be able to assent unto it, to feel it, and to be able to present it to others so that they also can feel it. This meeting has been, to me, one of both pleasure and profit. The words spoken have been actuated by the Spirit of the Lord. My heart has been touched and I have been moved to tears by the impressive manner in which some of the truths of the gospel were presented this afternoon. We have heard how peace may be brought into our lives and into our homes, to the Nations and to the world. Permit me to add a few words in conclusion of the meetingWe should be sympathetic for one another and especially for those who have great sorrows to bear. While riding on a railway train in England on my way to attend a conference, I overheard a conversation between two young women, in which one was heard to say that she had lost three brothers in the war. The other, after expressing deep sympathy, said four in her family had been killed. The European countries suffered very much more from the war than did our own country, and it does not suit my feelings to hear Americans speak of England, France, and their allies who fought side by side with us and suffered more than we, as rogues who can not be trusted in . a League to prevent a repetition of such terrible experiences. 

I am thankful that the victory came with no more loss of life among our own boys. It might easily have been otherwise. Had my family and I been living in England at the outbreak of the war, my three married sons and at least four of my sons-in-law would most likely have been at the front and possibly all of them would have been wounded or killed. I acknowledge the hand of the Lord in our preservation and praise and thank him for his blessing to me and mine and to you and yours who were spared. I trust that the righteous blood shed during that awful conflict may have a sanctifying influence upon the countries involved and make precious to them the principles of freedom and liberty for which that blood was shed. The Lord told Joseph Smith that He had redeemed this land by the shedding of blood. Is it not possible that by the blood shed in Europe during the war, the countries there affected will be redeemed, and as the United States was prepared by the establishment of principles of freedom and justice as a place in which to receive Christ's Church and Kingdom and his gospel, so the nations of Europe may be prepared to receive the King of all and a reign of universal peace? I think the war was not necessary, however, and that it ought never to have been. I believe that it would have been averted had there been 165  existence a League of Nations, such as is proposed in connection with the peace treatyI am sure that had the energies of all the men and money employed in waging the war been directed towards bettering conditions for humanity in ways indicated by the gospel of Jesus Christ, instead of war and all its attendant sorrows, sufferings, and losses, we would have had universal peace and good will throughout the world. The gospel teaches us to love the Lord with all our hearts "and our neighbors as ourselves; to serve the Lord and our fellowmen, being willing to deny ourselves and sacrifice for others even to the laying down of our lives if need be. If the world would obey the gospel and adopt these principles and live by them it would mean peace to individuals, peace to the world, and would bring to men glory, exaltation and eternal life. This is my testimony which T bear to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang : "Our Valley Home," Myrtle Doelle, soloist. The closing prayer was offered by Elder Rodney C. Badger, of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion. 


