Afternoon
04 10 1919

 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I shall follow the custom that has prevailed throughout the conference and read to you a few words from one of the revelations: 

These things we know that there is a God in heaven, who is infinite and eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God, the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them; 

And that he created man, male and female, after his own image and in his own likeness, created he them, 

And he gave unto them commandments that they should love and serve him, the only living and true God, and that he should be the only being whom they should worship. 

But by the transgression of these holy laws, man became sensual and devilish, and became fallen man. 

Wherefore the Almighty God gave his Only Begotten Son, as it is written in those scriptures which have been given of him. 

He suffered temptations but gave no heed unto 1 them; 

He-was crucified, died, and rose again the third day; 

And ascended into heaven, to sit down on the right hand of the Father, to reign with almighty power according to the will of the Father, 

That as many as would believe and be baptized in his holy name, and endure in faith to the end, should be saved; 

Not only those who believed after he came in the meridian of time, in the flesh, but all those from the beginning, even as many as were before he came, who believed in the words of the holy prophets, who spake as they were inspired by the gift of the Holy Ghost, who truly testified of him in all things, should have eternal life. 

As well as those who should come after, who should believe in the gifts and callings of God by the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of the Father, and of the. Son; 

Which Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are one God, infinite and eternal, without end. Amen. 

And we know that all men must repent and believe on the name of Jesus Christ, and worship the Father in his name, and endure in faith on his name to the end, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. 

And we know that justification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, is just and true; 

And we know also, that sanctification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, is just and true to all those who love and serve God with all their mights, minds, and strength. 

But there is a possibility that man may fall from grace and depart from the living God; 

Therefore let the Church take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation; 

Yea, and even let those who are sanctified take heed also. 

And we know that these things are true and according to the revela- ' tions of John, neither adding to, nor diminishing from the prophecy of his book, the Holy Scriptures, or the revelations of God, which shall come hereafter by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, the voice of God, or the ministering of angels. 

And the Lord God has spoken it; and honor, power, and glory, be rendered to his holy name, both now and ever. Amen. 

TESTIMONY OF THE TRUTH OF THE QUOTED WORDS. 

When the brethren were speaking this morning my mind dwelt upon these verses which I have read and I have been greatly impressed by them and I trust that I may be led for a short time in bearing testimony and speaking, by the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. I know that the words that I have read are true. I believe absolutely in the mission of the Lord and Savior of this world and as it is here expressed, I know that he came into the world, the only begotten Son of the Father, to fulfil this very mission which is here declared THE CHURCH TO PRAY ALWAYS A DAY OF WARNING. 

Now, the word that I desire to impress on your minds is this: "Therefore, let the Church take heed and pray always lest they fall into temptation." I have considered that it has been my mission, having been so impressed; I think, by the Spirit of the Lord in my travels in the stakes of Zion, to say unto the people that now is the day of repentance and to call upon the Latter-day Saints to remember their covenants, the promises they have made with the Lord, to keep his commandments, and follow the teachings and the instructions of the elders of Israel — the prophets of God — as they have been recorded in these holy scriptures. In all things we should walk humbly and circumspectly before the Lord that we might be blessed and guided by his Holy Spirit. I think this is the day of warning. It has been a time of warning from the day when the prophet first received the manifestation from the heavens that the gospel was to be restored. Great events are about to take place among the saints of -God and likewise throughout the world. We are living in a very important day and the predictions of the prophets are being fulfilled. As it was expressed yesterday Zion has been established, an ensign has been raised in these mountains, and the call has gone forth unto all lands and unto all peoples, at least so far as we have had the opportunity to declare that word, calling upon them to repent, to turn unto the Lord, to come unto Zion where this standard is set up and serve him in righteousness. Israel has been gathered, and is being gathered, from among the nations, even all who will repent and hearken unto the commandments of the Lord, as they are set forth in these revelations. The Lord will save all who will hearken unto him. His arm is stretched out and he is willing to aid and to help and to lead all in righteousness and bring all to Zion who will come. Our mission in all the world, and also in the stakes of Zion, is, Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. It is necessary, even among the people who havefbeen gathered out of Babylon, to cry repentance, to call upon them to remember the Lord, to keep his covenants and commandments, and in all things endeavor to get possession of his Holy Spirit that they may walk in the light. 

THERE IS NEED OF REPENTANCE IN ZION. 

Let me not be misunderstood, when I say that there is need for repentance in Zion. I do not mean to say that the Latter-day Saints have gone "astray, that they have departed from the teachings which the Lord has given them, not that; but that we are surrounded by the evils of the world, by temptations, by the sins of mankind, those things which prevail among the ungodly. There is constant need of warning, teaching and calling upon the people to remember the promises the Lord has made unto them; urging them, to be true and faithful in all things, to his holy word that none may go astray, nor falter, or 



' ' EELDR JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH. 89 

be overcome and trodden down and be cast back again into the world, to partake of the sins of the world from whence they came. And so I feel that it is my mission to cry repentance and to call upon the people to serve the Lord. 

THE-MOST POTENT FACTOR FOR PERMANENT PEACE. 

We have heard during- this conference a great deal in regard to the establishment of peace. We long for the day when Christ shall come and his kingdom shall be established in all the earth, when he shall set up his government upon the face of the earth. All of these things we hope and pray for, as we sang here this afternoon. The hymn that we sang this afternoon expresses my sentiment : 

Come, O thou King of kings — 

We've waited long for thee— With healing in thy wings, 

To set thy people free. Come, thou desire of nations, come, Let Israel now be gathered home. 

Come, make an end of sin, 

And cleanse the earth by fire, And righteousness bring in, 

That Saints may tune the lyre, With songs of joy, a happier strain, To welcome in thy peaceful reign. 

And this I pray for and this I hope for, and so do you. Now, may I ask you a question? Do you know what is the greatest power, the most potent factor in all the world, for the permanent establishment of peace in the earth? Having asked the question I will answer it, at least I will express my view jn regard to it — not saying anything about other movements. The greatest factor in all the world is the power of the Holy Priesthood, and that is in the possession of the Latter-day Saints. Right from the beginning the Lord sent out the elders into the world, commanding them to call upon the people, saying, Repent, come unto Zion. Believe in my gospel and you shall have peace. Peace will come, of course, through righteousness, through justice, through the mercy of God, through the power which he will grant unto us by which our hearts will be touched and we will have l©ve one for another. Now our duty is to declare these things amon'g all people, call upon them to come unto Zion where the standard is set up — the standard of peace — and to receive of the blessings of the house of the Lord and the influence of his Holy Spirit which is here manifest. And I want to tell you that we ourselves, if we will serve the Lord, have wonderful power in regard to the establishment of peace in the world. Now we are willing that other movements in this direction should go on. We are in favor of all that will bring peace unto the world; but let us not lose sight of the fact that we, Latter-day 



90 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Saints, if we will band together, and stand as one serving the Lord and will send forth the word of eternal life among the nations, will have greater power, in my judgment, for the establishment of peace in the world than any other force. I am in full accord with the idea that has been expressed that the Lord is using many agencies; his work is not confined to the Latter-day Saints, for he has called many to his service outside of the Church and has endowed them with power, has inspired them to do his work. All the great discoveries, the inventions, the great things that have taken place during the last three or four decades have all been in the direction of bringing to pass this reign of peace and righteousness in the earth. Do these men give credit to the Lord, these great discoverers — men who invent and bring to pass the Lord's work in this regard, do they give him credit ? Not in many instances; and yet the Lord is using all of these agencies. However, my brethren and sisters, do not let us lose sight of the fact that we are a power in the earth for good and for the spread of the truth and the establishment of peface among all nations, kindreds, tongues and peoples, that must be considered. It has been upwards of eighty years that this gospel has been preached. It has gone into many lands. The people have been warned, not as fully, I grant you, as the Lord desires that they should be warned. Do the best that we can, we haven't the power in ourselves, of course, without the help of the Lord, to carry this word to every soul and to establish the truth as we would like to do it and as the Lord desires it to be done. He must call other agencies and put them to use to bring to pass his purposes, but our mission has been and is, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of God is at hand." 

We must continue until all the righteous are gathered out, until all men are warned, until those who will hear shall hear, and those who will not hear also shall hear, for the Lord has declared that there shall not be a.soul that shall not hear, not a heart that shall not be penetrated, for his word will go forth, whether it be the word of his elders or by some other means, it mattereth not, but in his due time he shall cut short his work in righteousness; he shall establish his truth and he shall come and reign upon the earth. But woe unto the wicked, woe unto the ungodly, woe unto those who have heard the word and rebel against it, for in the due time of the Lord he shall come out of his hiding place and take vengeance upon all those who turn away and refuse to hearken, and after the testimony of the elders shall come the testimony of earthquakes, the testimony of famine, the testimony of pestilence and plague which shall spread forth. Of course, that does not prevent us from attempting to do all we can to lessen these evils, but the people will bring these things upon their heads, themselves, if they fail to hearken unto the words of the elders of Israel. I will read to you another passage of scripture: 

Again I say, hearken ye elders of my Church, whom I have appointed; ye are not sent forth to be taught, but to teach' the children of men the things which I have put into your hands by the power of my Spirit; 

And ye are to be taught from on high. Sanctify yourselves and ye shall be endowed with power, that ye may give even as I have spoken. 

Hearken ye, for, behold, the great day of the Lord is nigh at hand. 

For the day cometh that the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven; the heavens shall shake and the earth shall tremible, and the trump of God shall sound both long and loud, and shall say to the sleeping nations, Ye saints arise and live; ye sinners stay and sleep until I shall call again; 

Wherefore, gird up your loins lest ye be found among the wicked. 

Lift up your voices and spare not. Call upon the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying, prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord; 

For if I, who am a man, do lift up my voice and call upon you to repent, arid ye hate me, what will ye say when the day cometh when the thunders shall titter their voices from the ends of the earth, speaking to the ears of all that live, saying, Repent, and prepare for the great day of the Lord; 

Yea, and again, when the lightnings shall streak forth from the east unto the west, and shall utter forth their voices unto all that live, and make the ears of all tingle that hear, saying these words, Repent ye, for the great day of the Lord is come. 

And again, the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven, saying, Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear the words of that God who made you. 

O, ye nations of the earth, how often would I have gathered you together as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye would not? 

How oft have I called upon you by the mouth of my servants, and by the ministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of thunderings, and by the voice of lightnings, . and by the voice of tempests, and by the voice of earthquakes, and great hailstorms, and by the voice of famines and pestilences of every kind, and by the great sound of a trump, and by the voice of judgment, and by the voice of mercy all the day long, and by the voice of glory, and honor, and the riches of eternal life, and would have saved you with everlasting salvation, but ye would not? 

Behold the day has come, when the cup of the wrath of mine indignation is full. 

Behold, verily I say unto you, that these are the words of the Lord your God. Now these things are bound to come if the nations of the earth reject the counsel of God against themselves and turn against the Jruths which have 'been uttered from the heavens'. The word has gone forth and is being carried forth among them by the elders of Israel. Woe unto those who reject it. 

As it was stated by one of the speakers this morning, I am satisfied in my mind that peace could come right now if the people wanted it. Certainly. And I pray that they will want it. I want them to have it, because I love peace, and you want them to have it because you want peace, and we, as Latter-day Saints should pray for peace and we should live in peace and in harmony one with another and stand united together in all things serving the Lord. 

A PROMISE TO THE REPENTANT. 

I want to read just one more verse from another scripture. I would like to have the Latter-day Saints read this whole chapter. This is the 22nd Chapter of 1st Nephi. and there are a number of other chapters connected with this that are of great import, but I want to read this one verse, the 28th: "But, behold, all nations, kindreds, tongues and people shall dwell safely in the Holy One of Israel, if it so be that they will repent." And I pray that they will repent. I want them to dwell safely. I want them to believe in the Holy One of Israel, who came into the world and atoned for our sins, for the sins of all mankind, who gave unto us redemption from death, who has promised unto us salvation and the remission of our sins on the condition of our repentance. 

O, I wish all mankind would believe in him, would worship him and his Father, and would serve the Lord our God in the name of the Son, and then peace would come, then righteousness would prevail, then the Lord could establish his kingdom upon the earth. He could do it now if all would repent, but when he gets ready to do it and should the people not repent, should they not turn unto him, then shall he come forth in his power and his might, as he has declared through his holy prophets; he shall take vengeance upon the ungodly and they shall be swept off from' the face of the earth. He has decreed that unrighteousness shall not reign, that the wicked shall not slay the righteous, but that peace shall come, that his kingdom shall be established, that this earth shall be made fit as an abiding place for all who are just and true, for those who love righteousness. That day is coming and I say to you, my brethren and sisters, it is even now at the door, but I do not know what may take place before the door is opened; but I know this' that it is timely for us to repent, if we need repentance, and turn unto the Lord. Remember him, forsake the things of Babylon and leave them unto those who love unrighteousness, and let us cleanse ourselves and set our houses in order. That is the will of the Lord. That has been his will from the beginning since his kingdom was set up, and he desires it now, and woe unto him who will not repent who _ is in Zion, for the Lord says that he will cleanse Zion and all things that offend shall be removed. When the time comes, when it is time for Zion to be cleansed, then that which offends, that which is unjust, that which is untrue, that which is false, that which breathes the spirit of contention and strife shall be removed, and Zion shall be redeemed, and the Lord shall watch over her, shall guide her, shall direct her and shall establish her and she shall never again be destroyed and her power shall not be given to other people. That I rejoice in. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, let us serve the Lord, let us keep his comandments, let us be true, remember the things which the prophets have said. Follow the instructions they have given unto us. Heed the warning that has been declared by revelation through the servants of the Lord, both now and in times past and all will be well with us. Let us not sit down and feel in our hearts that all is well, that we can take our ease in Zion, that peace is here, that there is to be no more trouble, no more contention, no more strife no more war in the world. That we can not do in justice, but we must serve the Lord and  must keep his commandments, we must walk righteously before him as we have never done it before, and if we do not, then we shall be cut off from among the people and that would be a calamity. O, I pray that we will hearken, and that we will be true and faithful and stand in holy places, as we have been commanded to do, while the wrath of the Lord our God passes over the nations of the earth, and this- I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

August Glismeyer sang a sacred solo: "O Lord, What is man?" 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

To obviate unnecessary repetition I venture to say at the outset that I find myself in hearty accord with the utterances made by the First Presidency and by my brethren and associates in the Council of the Twelve, — and this without reservations. I commend to you for remembrance, frequent recollection, practice and application, all that has been said, all that has been set forth before you as the rule and the law of God and of the Church in regard to obedience to law, the instructions and counsel that have been given us concerning our specific duties as individuals, as members of families, as members of the Church, and as citizens of this great nation of promise and destiny. 

— TEMPORARY ISOLATION OF PEOPLES. 

As my mind runs back over the dealings of God with his people in different ages, I am struck with the thought that at times he has wisely separated and isolated a part of his family in the flesh for specific purposes. Abraham's migration. 

You will remember that the word came to Abram, before he had been honored with that title of majesty among men, Abraham, by way of command specific and imperative : Get thee out, get thee out from the land of thy fathers, get thee out from these idolaters, and go into the land that I will show thee. And the Lord made covenant with Abraham that his posterity, should be numerous and withal blessed, that they should constitute a chosen and a covenant people. Blessings unnumbered and indescribable in their fulness, so far as man's powers of description go, were listed, if not depicted, all con--ditioned upon compliance with the terms of their covenant or contract, and, like all other blessings promised of God, strictly predicated upon obedience on their part. 

Permit a moment's digression. The test of obedience c.onstitutes the very purpose of our being upon earth — the object in view in the creation of the earth as an abode for man, the great object that the Lord had in peopling the earth. Do you remember his words to Abraham after the decree had been made plain that there should be formed an earth upon which those then unembodied spirits should dwell? The explanation was in part given: "And we will prove them herewith to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them." That is the sum total of the test of the examination under which every mortal has to pass in this great university of life. The Israel of old were" required to pass thatfiest, and promises were made unto them provided they passed it successfully. 

Israel's isolation in egypt. 

After a while the descendants of Abraham were carried down into Egypt, for the Lord turned and over-turned even the unfilial and unbrotherly conduct of Joseph's brethren to that end, and there the people remained segregated and isolated in large part, dwelling in a part of the land by themselves and kept from any widespread intermingling by marriage with the Egyptians because of the caste prejudice against them. They came to be slaves and bondsmen, and when the time came that was found to be right in the unerring mind of God, Israel was led out of the land of Egypt and out from the house of bondage by the outstretched hand of power. But they were even more completely isolated for four decades after that there in the wilderness, wandering back and forth, until the generation that had imbibed the paganism of Egypt had passed away and, with the exception of two individuals, a new generation had arisen and these were led into the land of promise, and .specific laws and commandments were given them that they should keep .themselves apart from the abominations of the other nations who were idolaters and pagans. 

In certain specific respects Israel was distinguished from all other nations of that time. In one matter for example, they were Sabbath observers, and they were the only nation under heaven that recognized the Sabbath; and that observance was a sign of distinction by which they were known. In the next place they were Jehovah worshipers, the only people known who worshiped other than idols. They worshiped the true and the living God and the Lord kept them, I was about to say so far as he was able, for they frustrated his designs and his plans in many respects, but he, kept them in a measure apart, isolated, separate from the rest of the nations in order that they might be more fully trained in the ways of God. But mark you, that isolation had an end so far as physical segregation was concerned- As was predicted and foretold, the time of dispersion came when those people were scattered as the dust that is blown before the wind, sifted as corn is sifted in a sieve. It was not the plan of God that they should remain forever isolated, for it was his intent that through them should the name of the living God be made known throughout the world. 

LEHl's COLONY SEQUESTERED ON THE WESTERN CONTINENT. 

Come down a little later in history, si*c hundred years before the meridian of time, in the reign of Zedekiah, a body of Israelites was led away by the power of God and by direct intervention of divine agency brought across the great waters and established upon this then unknown continent, isolated from the rest of the world. The purpose of that separation, segregation, isolation and hiding was made plain. It provided a means whereby that part of the House of Israel should serve the Lord their God with purity and sincerity, so long as they would -remain obedient. They were to be uncontaminated by the fallacies of Scribes and Pharisees, their minds unpoisoned by the false doctrine of academical rabbis; they were led away so that they could be taught by the Teacher of teachers. Here they were kept and their history was a checkered one, but they were held together long enough to become a distinct unit, even as the Jews had been. For in spite of the separation of the Jews, notwithstanding their world-wide dispersion, they do constitute a distinct unit in the family of mankind and they have preserved that segregation, which is other than physical isolation. It is true that the Nephi'tes were exterminated as a nation, but part of the posterity of Lehi has continued down to the present day. 

What was the purpose of it all — of that segregation of Lehi and his family and the establishment of those people upon this the western continent? The prime purpose was to provide an independent witness of the Christ. The Father would have more than the testimony of Judea and Galilee and the lands round about concerning his Well Beloved Son, the Savior and Redeemer of the race. Therefore Lehi and his people were brought here, were taught in the ways of the Lord by direct revelation through the mouths of holy prophets. Part of the Lord's dealings has been written, and in a miraculous manner the record has been brought forth and given to the world. A new witness of the Christ! People who knew nothing except as they did read what was then to them ancient history, that of Judea, of Galilee, of Jerusalem, knew nothing, except as they were taught by revelation; and the revelation to them was specific and direct. Through their prophets they learned of the earthly life of Christ, his birth, his ministry during the three short years, and his crucifixion. Later they were blessed by his personal visitation among them, and they have borne witness to him as the Savior, as the Redeemer; and we have an entirely independent body of Scripture .which in no respects is at variance with the true part of the record that we find in the Holy Bible. 

THE SEPARATISTS. 

Prior to a great event, which had been foretold by ancient prophets —the coming of a man from among the Gentiles across the great waters and discovering this continent — there was another segregation upon a smaller scale, and this on the Eastern Continent.' Many who had suffered because of their religious beliefs separated themselves; some of them fled  from England . to Holland. They came to be known specifically as Separatists. Then, following that man of God — Columbus — for he was carrying out a divine purpose, the discoverer of the western world, came those other Gentiles of whom we read; and they were brought to this land and here they found the remnant of Lehi's posterity who had formerly been established upon this continent. 

AMERICAN NATION ONCE ISOLATED NOW THE CHIEF OF MANY NATIONS. 

Now, hastening over centuries, we come to the time when an important segregation took place upon this continent. After the Church had been established through the instrumentality of the prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord led his people out, and others came from beyond the seas to join them. Because of persecution they were driven, literally driven, beyond the frontiers of what was then the United States. They came here as a body, settled in this part of the desert, their inspired leader utterly putting aside every suggestion that they should go on to the green pastures and the fat fields about the coast. Can you imagine what the result would be today had Brigham Young listened to the advice of those men, wise in their own knowledge? There never would have been, except the Lord had brought it about in another way, a unit such as this Church presents. Before the pioneers and those who came immediately after them could have been trained in the ways of God, their lands would have been invaded and they would again have become one with the people of the world. But the Lord kept them in this uninviting place, of which other people were mostly afraid until they, with whom were our worthy sires and mothers and grandparents, had been sufficiently trained to know that they had something in common which the rest of the world had not. But that physical segregation, isolation, separation was of comparatively short duration. When the Lord thought that the Latter-day Saints had learned the lesson, then he permitted others to come. It was not his intention to shut his people up within the walls of a building or within these valleys of the eternal hills, keeping them perpetually aloof from all the temptations of the world, for they had to be tried. In due time means of steam transportation were established and multitudes came, and have since been coming by the hosts every year, mingling with this people who are the covenant people of the last days. But in spite of this termination of physical separation, the people are a unit wherever you find them throughout the world. They are recognized by their distinctive characteristics. 

PREDICTIONS CONCERNING AMERICA AND HER PEOPLE. 

And now turn to the nation as a whole, the nation which I designated — not by any means a designation original with me — as a nation of promise and destiny. As it grew it was isolated, isolated by the  on the east and the deep on the west; and we "have boasted of our isolation, but that, like every other instance of segregation brought about by the hand of God, was not intended to be perpetual. -As a Church we are sending out, as we have been sending out from the first, men by the hundred as we could, by the thousand when it was possible, by the score when that was the limit of our ability, or by ones and twos, men, and in late years women, sending them out into the world. Does that look like perpetual isolation, physically speaking? And in the unfolding purposes of God the isolation of the nation has been brought to an end. Now no longer does the deep shut us off from other continents as once it did. We can speak on this side and be heard on the other with no appreciable lapse of time. Messages are sent to us from Europe and we read the published account here even, according to our reckoning of time, before the hour at which the events occur. No, no it was not intended that this nation should be forever shut off from the rest of the world. If we have anything better than the other nations have let us as Americans give it that the world may be made the better for it.^ That is the spirit of "Mormon" propaganda, that is the spirit of our missionary service, and it will be the spirit of the service that this nation shall render to the rest of the world.  

In line with the excellent precedent set by my brethren, who have given you scripture after scripture, I desire to add another and I pray you read it more deliberately and more studiously than you may be able to listen to it in the brief time that I can give to its consideration. You may easily remember it. It is the first chapter of the Second Book of Nephi. Lehi, the prophet, stricken with years, trembling in limb and knowing that his days in the flesh had been numbered and that he was so_on to follow the way of his fathers, spoke unto his posterity who had then become numerous, respecting this particular land, the land of promise, the land of Zion, and he said unto them : 

Notwithstanding our afflictions, we have obtained a land of promise, a land which is choice above all other lands; a land which the Lord God hath covenanted with me should be a land for the inheritance of my seed. Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children for ever; and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord. 

Mark you, I pray, the prophet knew that it was not to be a selfish inheritance, it was not to be kept forever solely for the habitation of his lineal descendants. It was to be for alb those who were then to be led out from other countries by the hand of the Lord. 

Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land, save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord. 

Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if iniquity shall abound, cursed shall be the land for their sakes; but unto the righteous it shall be blessed for ever. 

And behold, it is wisdom that this land should be kept as yet from the knowledge of other nations; for behold, many nations would overrun the land, that there would be. no place for an inheritance. 

But other nations were to come, not as nations, but as members of nations; and they have come and are coming and shall come, le.d hither by the hand of the Lord. What, you say, these undesirable elements? Well, they are permitted to be here that the people may be tried and tested and given the experience which is so necessary to' make them what the Lord intends that they shall be. And so let us not fear that our nation is going to lose its identity, or is going to lose its sovereignty or is going to be overwhelmed or overpowered by other nations. It can not be so save through iniquity. Well, you may say, are not the people of this nation iniquitous? It is true that sin befouls and defiles the land; but in spite of* it, I know not where you will find a nation with higher ideals or with plainer purposes to uphold the institutions that God has established for the government and freedom of men. The Constitution of this land is the pattern after which the organic laws of other nations shall be framed, and thus has been already fulfilled in part the prophecy that out of Zion shall go forth the law! 

LATTER-DAY SAINTS FEW BUT POWERFUL THROUGH DIVINE APPOINTMENT 

My brethren and sisters, we are a power in the world. The power of the priesthood is felt. What hath God wrought in his dealings with his people? Do you take time to consider how weak we are numerically speaking and yet how mighty we are in the strength of God. Look at the statistical compilations of churches that are published from time to time, summaries for the entire world or for this nation. Did you ever see there itemized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, even under its nickname, "Mormon Church?" No, we are put in with "other small denominations" and so it is throughout the world. May I take time to relate an incident which has been a means of encouragement to me? 

A little over a year ago, I met by invitation in the east the editor of one of the most influential newspapers. Aside from his journalistic career he is known for achievements in literature. I was appointed to deliver an announced address, besides the expectation of speaking at other meetings of our conference in that city, the city of Boston, and the editor of this journal, in speaking with me beforehand, asked me some questions which I was pleased to answer. In an ordinary way he asked : "Will you please tell me what is about the total membership of your great church?" 

And I answered him promptly : "Approximately 500,000." "But," he said, "I don't mean here in Massachusetts or in New England; I mean what is the total membership?" "I have told you, Sir, about  a million." "But, I mean," said he, "all of you throughout the world." "I have the same answer, approximately 500,000." He sat back in his chair and was lost in thought for a moment. He said: "Am I to understand you, literally that, this church which has made itself so well known," and he made other remarks of a descriptive nature, "numbers not more than a half million souls?" "It is true," said I. And then the Spirit of the Lord rested upon that man so that he had to testify of the miracle that God had wrought. Unconsciously he praised the Lord, for he remarked with all seriousness and sincerity : "The hand of the Lord is in it." Then he added : "You may have all the space you need in our paper to announce your conference and for tfie publication of the proceedings." 

In another city I had an experience very similar in some respects. It was in Baltimore. I arrived a couple of days ahead of the time fixed for our conference and' found that I had been advertized to deliver a specific address there. I met the editor of two papers, two papers under one editorial management, and he, like the other journalistic gentleman to whom I referred, asked questions concerning our strength and our numbers. He was a little doubtful as to whether a reporter could be spared to attend our meetings for their force had been cut down by the war demands, but at last he said : "What is the size of your congregation here in Baltimore ?" I said : "Twenty-seven." "Twenty-seven what?" "Twenty-seven souls, several of them children." "What, you have only twenty-seven?" "That is all according to the conference president's report, and if it would interest you, Sir, I can furnish you, with their names and addresses." "Twenty-seven," he said. Now perhaps you would naturally expect that his next remark would be : Why, we can not spare a reporter to look after a body of twenty-seven; we have no space in our paper for such a little thing as you are. But no, no, with deep seriousness upon his face he- said : "We will send a reporter and the paper will give the space you, need." 

So have I seen it time and time again. We can't boast of our numbers, we can't boast of our own strength, but we know that the strength of the living God is with this people, whether they be gathered or yet scattered, and his purposes concerning the Church established upon this land, the only land whose soil was suitable to the planting of such seed at the time of its establishment, shall not fail. He will see to it, for he has sworn so to do, that the Church shall not be overthrown. And as with the Church so with the nation of which we form a part. Aye, verily is the Lord working outside as well as within the Church, and other men than those who have gone down into the waters of baptism are his servants, working along specific lines. Remember, beside the relative few, shall I say, beside those who shall at. tain salvation, exaltation in the celestial kingdom of our God, we have to look after those other hosts who shall attain only the terrestrial glory. Their interests we must have at heart, and the interests of others, of all mankind, for our mission is to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the world and to warn the world by the authority and  power of the holy priesthood which the Lord has laid upon us. I pray for greater effectiveness in this labor and in the discharge of this high commission, in the name of Jesus Christ., Amen. 

"The Plains of Peace," a solo, was sung by Fern Batley. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

A month ago I was traveling in the green hills of New England. As I rode through that great country I was deeply interested and impressed with the historical scenes and with the points of much interest, to every American. 

A VISIT TO THE EAST. 

I remembered, as I traveled around near Boston, something of the history of the settlement of that country. I recalled that about three hundred years ago the Pilgrim Fathers landed at Plymouth, driven there by persecutions, and by intolerance, which they found to exist in the old world. I remembered with what hardship and self-sacrifice they had planted themselves in that part which is now the old part of the new world. There was recalled vividly to my mind and imagination, some of the circumstances attendant upon the colonization of this new world by those who came here to find liberty and freedom. I had the opportunity of passing over the ground that was traversed, not only by the early Pilgrim fathers, but by those who were instrumental in initiating this great government that now prevails among the states of the Union. I stood upon Lexington Green where, I knew, more than a century arid a half ago, those Minute Men had stood to defend their rights and to give their lives for the principles of liberty and freedom, which they regarded as so important and so dear to them and to their people. As I stood upon this historic spot I thought something of the conditions which then prevailed as contrasted with the conditions which now prevail. 

MOMENTOUS PROBLEMS BEFORE THE NATION. 

I was in attendance upon the sessions of the American Bar Association in Boston, when there were called to the attention of those present, many of the important problems which now confront the people. Men of prominence, men who have given themselves over to thought and study, admitted the perplexity of the situation. They confessed that the very foundations of civilization were threatened. They were willing to admit that the problems now confronting the nation and  the people were well-nigh beyond the power and wisdom of men to solve. 

While I was in the New England states the people of Boston 101  confronted with one of the most, if not the most, sorry spectacle that has arisen in this nation during its history. During that period the men who were sworn to enforce the law in that great American city went on strike, disregarding their oaths of office. They refused to serve, and they turned the city over to> the whims .and caprices and outrages of mobs and mob violence. The commonwealth of Massachusetts, which has been the very cradle of American liberty, from which have come many of the best parts of the Constitution, many of the best laws that have been formulated, was disgraced by this outrage and by this failure of men to adhere to their oaths, to keep their covenants and to enforce the law. Everywhere men who studied public conditions were disturbed. The honorable Elihu Root, speaking with reference to this occasion, said in substance, that it betokened a departure from American institutions and from the observance of law, that threatened the very foundations of our civilization. Other men of prominence and of national repute considered it in like manner. 

Before I had reached New York City I learned, as we all know, that great forces were there on strike, and as I came back through the big cities of the country, having occasion to visit manufacturing and other institutions, I learned that the whole business world was upset, disturbed, unable with any degree of certainty whatever to predict as to the future, and wholly without any feeling of security as to that which might transpire. I recall going into one manufacturing establishment, consulting with the president of the company, and hearing him say that within the past six months his institution had been affected, directly or indirectly, by more than twenty-four strikes. It is needless to attempt to point out more of such difficulties and problems which confront the people. 

HOW SHALL WE SOLVE THESE PROBLEMS? 

We have passed through a great war; we have met the problems and the difficulties of that war, but I venture that any thoughtful man will be willing to admit that the problems which confront our people, after the war, are equally serious and important to those which came to us during the war. How are we going to meet these situations? What are we going to do here in America — this chosen land, of which you have heard many things said during the sessions of this conference? How are we going to preserve this land for the pure in heart? How may it be maintained as the land of Zion? How will it be possible that it shall live to its traditions and that it shall preserve the high principles of liberty and justice and equity upon which it has been founded ? These are among the questions that give us concern at this hour. Not only do they concern us as citizens of this great country, but they concern the whole world, because the whole world has come to look to this land, to foster the spirit of liberty and the principles and the cause which underly freedom and liberty among humanity. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

REASONS FOR TURMOIL, DISLOYALTY AND UNREST. 

As we give consideration to these great questions we are forced, I think, to confess that the great statesmen of the world have not been able to find the remedies and have not been able to solve the problems. I believe that the conditions which we see prevalent in the country today are a natural and logical outgrowth of much that has prevailed in our systems of education, in our systems of ethics, and in the very manner in which the affairs of this country have, from time to time, been carried on. Throughout the past half century at least, our educational processes have been largely, if not entirely "devoid of anything pertaining to the divine, of anything pertaining to the spiritual, or anything pertaining to the truely religious. There has been a studied effort on the part of those who have controlled the educational systems of the day, to - avoid even the appearance of religion in any way, shape or form. I take it that there has come, as a natural consequence, from that kind of education, a total disregard for the religious in man's life. There has come an absolute disregard and disrespect for things divine. God has been left out of consideration; the methods of men alone have prevailed, and everywhere and under all conditions the things that have pertained to this world, the things that have pertained to our temporal life have been made paramount and have predominated over the things that have pertained to our souls and the welfare of our souls. In our politics, — I speak not of one party but of all of the great parties, there has grown up such a partisanship, such a bias, such a hatred, between those who espouse different causes, that things have been said, campaigns have been conducted in such a way and manner as to do away with, rather than to foster, the true spirit of national patriotism. Men and women who have belonged to political parties have been led to think that the great thing to be accomplished, the great end to be achieved, is the dominance of their own ideas, is the success of their own party, rather than the great welfare and common good of all. Indeed so much of antagonism, so much of bias and envy and hatred have been engendered that I am one of those who believe that this has been largely responsible for some of the great national crimes. There has come to be a total disregard for those in authority. There has grown up a disrespect for law, that, in my judgment, has been the consequence of the kind of education, political and otherwise, that our people in this country have had. 

We as a people believe in honoring and sustaining the law. We recognize the absolute necessity of upholding the fundamental laws of our land if progress, if advancement, if the integrity of the nation itself are to be maintained. The evils of which society now most complains are the evils that result from the failure on the part of men to consider that they have any obligation to the law. They are a law unto themselves, as, was pointed out by Brother McKay. Their cov103 , their compacts, their contracts are worthless. They keep them only when it is expedient to keep them. They subserve only their selfish interests. They have not been taught the fundamental necessity of obedience, to preserve not only the law of God, but the law of men. They have not been taught respect for person or property; and such respect as has been yielded, in many cases, has only been the respect that has been enforced by external processes. There can never be a great citizenship that comes from the mere force, external force of law. You cannot superimpose the duties of citizenship in order to make a great people. The obligations of citizenship, the love of country and patriotism must come from within and not be imposed from without. Therefore, as I see it, the great need of the hour is the need for systematic training for men and women and children iii the fundamental obligations of citizenship and the fundamental obligations that pertain to their life in this world. The great questions — Who are we? Where did we come from? Where are we going? have been left out of consideration in our educational processes. It has not made any difference who we were, where we came from, or where we are going. Our education has been a commercialized one. We have thought to stimulate the industrial, the financial, and to gain prestige from, a worldly standpoint. While, thank the Lord, there has remained in this great land, something of the spirit of the fathers, something of the great love of liberty, unfortunately there has not been sufficient of it to curtail the selfishness, the mercinary and the ulterior motives. of a great part of this country. Therefore upon this fundamental basis I deplore the organization and the maintainanoe of any society, of any class, of any fraternity, of any union of people that in anyway can be construed to be against the interests of all the people and the common good. For my own part the Church is my union, the Church is my club, the Church is my lodge; the Church is my fraternity; and I want to say to every man that there is within the Church an opportunity for the expression of every legitimate desire that should be in the heart of man. While it may be considered proper for men to organize themselves into clubs and unions and fraternities of one kind and another in order to advance their own selfish interests, I feel constrained to say that in time to come it will prove inimical to the government, and in. time to come these self-same selfish interests will be against each other. The only way in which a great cause can stand and prevail and persist is that all its adherents shall have an unselfish, altruistic motive in seeking to render service to all and for all. Truth, the great principles of the gospel, the bestowal of the Priesthood itself, teach us that we must serve all and love all, if we shall succeed in God's work. 

SEEK NO ALLIANCE WITH ANY UNION THAT DOES NOT URGE THE COMMON GOOD OF ALL. 

My brethren and sisters, I- believe that it is a proper time to warn our people against the dangers that lie ahead, from associating themGENERAL CONFERENCE.  with any institution that does not make for the common good of humanity. I concur with my brethren that there are many institutions in the world that do make for the uplift and the advancement of mankind; I believe that many of our Father's children who are without the- pale of the Church, are instrumental in carrying on his work. I cannot but think that he has let his Spirit rest upon good men, the world over, to advance the cause of Truth. It seems to me that it must be so. We, I believe, should unite with and foster every good ' movement, every good cause, everything that tends to advance the interests of the gospel and of truth in the world; but I think that we should preserve ourselves safe, inviolate, compact against incursions of all kinds, of influences of all kinds of organizations that in any way will tend to disrupt us. If we all hang together we will be safe. If we all espouse the one cause, if we are all devoted to it, we will make that cause felt in the world. And the only way that we can all adhere uniformly to the great cause of truth is to all keep the commandments of God and to follow the leadership that has been placed over us. 

We have been criticized as being a people who act with such unanimity that we are mere puppets, that we do not think for ourselves, that we do not act upon our own initiative and that we are not guided by our own wisdom. That criticism is wholly without justification. We follow the leadership that God has placed over us, because we know that it is right, because we know that it is safe, because we know that the leadership of men, in man's own wisdom, is not safe and cannot be trusted, and that we cannot repose our confidence in the wisdom of men. 

LET LATTER-DAY SAINTS FOLLOW THEIR LEADERSHIP. 

1 call upon the people of this Church to follow the leadership of these men who have been set to preside over them, in their wards and in their stakes. I know that you will not go wrong if you take their counsel. I know that you will be preserved from the dangers, the temptations, the evils and snares of this world if you will follow their leadership. They are true leaders; they have no ulterior motives to subserve, nor selfish purposes to subserve. They seek only your welfare, and I deplore .the fact that occasionally we find those within the Church who impugn improper motives to the men who lead and guide. I want further to testify to you that it is God's truth that the general authorities who preside over you and over the Church have nothing but your welfare at heart. They have no personal purposes to subserve. Their only thought, their one single purpose, is to advance God's work in the world. They love the Latterday Saints. I believe that there is not one of them who would not be perfectly willing to lay down his life for the Church, to advance this great work and to help carry the Truth into the hearts of men. Do not criticise, do not complain on that score. It is wrong; and the man who says that the leaders of the Church are not actuated by the finest and the highest motives, I fear, has within himself a sinister motive that prompts such a statement. 

God bless our people that we may be a shining light to this world. Here, right here in the valleys of the mountains, I have concluded is the cradle of liberty. I am willing to grant to Massachusetts all the credit that is due her for the great effort that she has made to bring freedom to mankind; but I say right here, with God's people, is the real cradle of liberty. I have reached the conclusion that there is only one perfect law of liberty, and that is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that all the systems that may be devised, all of the governments that can be constructed, will not bring liberty to mankind if the true principles of liberty are not in the hearts of the people. The thing that the world needs today is individual righteousness, and if men and women will conform their lives to the principles of the Gospel, if they will, as has been said, be vitalized by these great principles of truth, the problems of the world will melt away, peace will come, the Lord will find his people ready for his reign, and the Millennium will be upon us. God bless us, that as the salt of the earth we may not lose our savor, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

It was announced by President Heber J. Grant, that on Sunday at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. there would be overflow meetings in the Assembly Hall, and at 2 p. m. also in Barratt Hall. The General Priesthood meeting, it was announced, would meet at 7 o'clock in the Tabernacle this evening. Richards ward choir will furnish music for the meetings in the Assembly Hall, and the L. D. S. University choir for the meeting in Barratt Hall. 

The choir and congregation sang: "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." 

President Alonzo A. Hinckley, of the Deseret 'stake of Zion offered the benediction. 


