Afternoon
05 10 1919

The choir and congregation sang: 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! 

The latter-day glory begins to come forth; The visions and blessings of old are returning, 

And angels are coming to visit the earth. We'll sing and we'll shout with the armies of heaven, Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb! Let glory to them in the highest be given, 

Henceforth and forever; amen and amen! 

The Lord is extending the Saints' understanding, 

Restoring their judges and all as at fiist. The knowledge and power of God are expanding, 

The vail o'er the earth is beginning to burst, We'll sing and we'll shout, etc. 

We'll call in our solemn assemblies in spirit, To spread forth the kingdom of heaven abroad, 

That we through our faith may begin to inherit The visions and blessings and glories of God. We'll sing and we'll shout, etc. 

We'll wash and be washed, and with oil be anointed, 

Withal not omitting the washing of feet; For he that receiveth his penny appointed 

Must surely be clean at the harvest of wheat. We'll sing and we'll shout, etc. 

Old Israel, that fled from the world for his freedom, Must come with the cloud and the pillar amain; 

A Moses and Aaron and Joshua lead him, And feed him on manna from heaven again. We'll sing and we'll shout, etc. 

How blessed the day when the lamb and the Hon 

Shall lie down together without any ire, And Ephraim be crowned with his blessing in Zion, 

As Jesus descends with His chariot of fire! We'll sing and we'll shout with the armies of heaven, 

Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb! Let glory to them in the highest be given, 

Henceforth and forever; amen, and amen! 

Prayer was offered by Elder David K. Udall, President of the St. Johns, Arizona, Stake of Zion. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Elder Joseph Fielding Smith informs me that I made a mistake, he thinks, in announcing that his father's favorite hymn was, "Uphold the Right." He believes his father's favorite hymn was, "I know that my Redeemer lives." As I read the other favorite, hymn, I will read this one. 

I know that my Redeemer lives; What comfort this sweet sentence gives! He lives, He lives, who once was dead, He lives, my ever-living head. 

He lives to bless me with his love, Ht lives to plead for me above, He lives, my hungry soul to feed, He lives to bless in time of need. 

He lives to grant me rich supply, He lives to guide me with His eye, He lives to comfort me when faint, He lives to hear my soul's complaint. 

He lives to silence all my fears, 

He lives to wipe away my tears, 

He lives to calm my troubled heart, 

He lives, all blessings to impart, 

- He lives, my kind, wise, heavenly friend, He lives and loves me to the end, He lives, and while he lives I'll sing, He lives, my Prophet, Priest and King. 

He lives, and grants me daily breath, He lives, and I shall conquer death, He lives, my mansion to prepare, He lives to bring me safely there. 

He lives, all glory to His name! He lives, my Savior, still the same; O, the sweet joy this sentence gives, "I know that my Redeemer lives!" 

You will note that I have changed one word in the second line of the last verse. I remember that whenever we sang this hymn in the Temple, President Smith insisted on reading that line as I have given it, "He lives, my Savior, still the same." I believe that I am safe in saying that no man who has ever stood' at the head of the Church, within the recollection of us who were born in this valley, ever thrilled the hearts of the people in testifying that his Redeemer lived, as did our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

The choir sang: "Hear Him," from the Oratorio, "The Restoration," by B. Cecil Gates, solo by Emma Lucy Gates. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

That is very beautiful, indeed, and it seems very appropriate, in this magnificent structure, erected under the direction of President Brigham Young, that his grandson and his granddaughter should be connected with this beautiful singing. 

I sometimes feel that we should have at least four days, instead of three, for conference, as there are so many from whom ,we would like to .hear, but time will not permit. We will now hear briefly from the members of the First Council of Seventy. 

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG (President of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I am thankful, my brethren and sisters, for the honor of standing before you today. When I look over the vast congregation assembled here. I wonder within myself, What shall I say to you? But, the Lord being my helper, I shall say something, I hope, that will interest you as well as be a blessing for myself. I noticed that when it was announced that the music for this beautiful pieee to be rendered at this session had been lost and found, a ripple of merriment was heard, in some part of the congregation. I have always been convinced that we are a light-hearted people; that we are always ready to appreciate merriment, as well as subjects more profound and sometimes sorrowful. I am reminded now of a visit I once made to one of our stakes of Zion. One of the brethren who accompanied us was among and is among the most eloquent, pleasing and forceful speakers; but I noticed that when he arose to speak the people began to smile, and before he had proceeded very far with his subject ripples of laughter were heard throughout the congregation; and I was reminded of a circumstance that I witnessed in London, many years ago. I was at a play, during the Christmas holidays, at the Drury Lane theatre. A man came on to the stage; and the moment he came before the audience, people began to smile, and finally to laugh; and when he had spoken a half dozen words, shouts of laughter were heard from every part of the house. I inquired of a neighbor", sitting near, "Who is the gentleman?" 

"That is the celebrated William Buxton, known all over the world as the great comedian. Whenever he appears before the people they laugh; they are full of joy and merriment." 

I thought this is very well and very necessary; and yet in this particular congregation that I speak of in the north, I thought the merriment at times was a little out of place, because the brethren who visit those conferences, both for the Young Men's and the Young Ladies' Mutual, as well as for the Religion Classes, and for the gen203  assembly, for that matter, are handling and dealing with subjects that are serious, and of the utmost and greatest importance and moment for the consideration of all concerned. 

I rejoice today for the privilege of standing before you. I am reminded of some facts pertaining to the history that has brought to pass present events. It was remarked here today that the allied nations of the world, recently banded together for the defense of the world, were ready and glad to stand in the defense of their common countries, and were ready for the announcement of a day which brought the Armistice and the cessation of bloodshed; and I am glad to say at this time that I have, I believe, seen the hand of the Lord manifest in this great war, time after time; and no greater manifestation and no greater joy could fill my heart than that which I experienced when peace was declared. So the peace that is being established and considered and accentuated and furthered by the League of Nations has my unqualified approval because if ever I felt like sustaining my brethren of the Authorities — which I always have felt, in every fiber of my being — I have the same feeling today; and I rejoice in this. President Heber J. Grant is the very man to decide these great questions; and I know that every true Latter-day Saint, I know that the Apostles and all the leading brethren who preside over the Church are one with him, in sustaining and upholding him as the true leader of this people, and we are. That makes me know, beyond a question of doubt, that the Latter-day Saints are on the right path, and on the direct line of progress and advancement. There have been men raised up by the hand and providence of Almighty God, time after time, to bring to pass the events and the great issues which we witness today. 

The name of Lincoln was mentioned here by one of the speakers- It is recorded that his mother, Nancy Hanks Lincoln, in their little cabin home, irr the wilds of old Kentucky, which was the Far West in that day, one morning went about her work smiling and singing, seemingly full of joy and rejoicing, and her husband said to her: 

"Nancy, what makes you so happy?" 

She said: "Thomas, last night I saw a vision; I was signalled from the shores of eternity, and I shall have a son. He will be a great man among men; for I saw that he was among men; for I saw that he was among the leaders of the nation, and that among the great men he was great. He came to his mother, put his arms around me and said: Mother, I have builded for you and for my country a beautiful palace, with marble pillars that reach to high heaven; but it has cost me my life.' " 

At the close of the war, forty days after his second inauguration as President, a crazy assassin sneaked into the procenium box, at the Ford theatre, in Washington, placed a pistol behind his ear and lodged a bullet in his brain. He had gone through the agony of four years and a half of the Civil War. He had met every difficulty, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to face, when often members of his own party seemed in doubt, and many of them so far forgetting themselves that they came to him, with tears in their eyes, and with trembling voice, and said: 

"Lincoln, you must stop the war, even if you break the Union." 

Lincoln replied: "Never, while life is in me, will I surrender to those who would disrupt this glorious nation of ours;" and he maintained the cause of the Union through all those years of trial. When he had completed his task, the Union, the beautiful "palace" that he had established and maintained, the glorious Union of this glorious country was established more firmly than ever before; for the scourge of slavery was taken entirely from its institutions, and none but freemen occupied the soil of the United States. So he had builded the palace with beautiful marble pillars, for his countrymen and for his loved ones. Sacrifice seems to have been the law of those great hearts who have been the ministers of the world, who have produced results that have saved the world from time to time. As Lincoln's mother said, on one occasion, when he inquired why the Indians had been permitted to destroy a village in which his grandfather lived, and to scalp his grandfather and take his life: "Boy, you must know that there never was a country worth having, that there never was a cause worth fighting for, that did not cost the best blood of those who defended it." Sacrifice so begun and accentuated more fully in other great men's lives! 

President Grant informs me that the time is up. I testify to you that "Mormonism" is true; that our Leaders are directing the affairs of this Church, according to the mind and will of the Lord. God bless you. .Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters: If I could do so/ without being misunderstood, I would be very happy and more than pleased to yield my time to my brethren who are to follow. That, however, would be misconstrued; and so, responding to the wish of President Grant, who is conducting this conference I am sure, by the inspiration of the Lord that is in him, I desire to say, and am thankful for the opportunity of saying it, that I believe in God the Eternal Father, as the creating and sustaining power of the universe. I believe in his Son, Jesus Christ, as the Redeemer of men. I believe in the Holy Ghost as the witness of the existence, and power, and majesty and might of the Father; and the witness also to the redeeming power of the Christ. I believe that these Three constitute the one Godhead of our universe, and that 1 there proceeds forth from their presence the spirit that carries the power and attributes of God — wisdom, holiness, majesty, justice and mercy — throughout the immensity of space; and that it is possible for men to live and move and have their being in that holy Presence. I believe in the new dispensation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in these our own times; that Joseph Smith was a 205  inspired of God to establish — no, re-establish — his Church upon the earth, no more to be thrown down, forever; and as the years multiply upon my head a knowledge of these great truths increase in their emphasis in my soul. "Time but the impression deeper makes, As streams their channels deeper wear." To this I bear witness in your presence, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL (Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I presume there are very few who are here present who are not aware of the fact that I was born in these valleys of the mountains. Have I not given evidence to the Latter-day Saints of this Church, during the twenty-seven years of my ministry? Have I not been frank and honest and clear in my statements, and have I felt any doubt in your minds that I do not believe and am not honest and truthful and believe with all my heart and with all my soul that God is the Father ? I may not have a perfect and true conception of God, but I love God; I love him for his perfection; I love him for his mercy; I love him for his justice; and notwithstanding my many weaknesses I am not afraid to meet him. For I know that he will deal justly by me; and the great joy I will have is that he will understand me and that ie more than some of you have been able to do. (Laughter.) I believe with the same love and faith that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world I believe that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and there is no man living who reads the things that God has revealed through the Prophet, and the sayings of the Prophet with more joy and more satisfaction and more happiness than I have in reading of the Prophet of God. My father breathed it into my very soul, and I thank God that I am a son of one of God's servants, and that no man can place a finger or make a statement that he did not uphold the Prophet of God, not only Joseph Smith but Brigham Young and all the others who labored in the Church. Now, friends, if you are in any doubt about my standing in the Church and any of you want to question my loyalty and patriotism you can get a row any time you want it. (Laughter) 

I sustain President Grant. When he became President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints I told him I sustained him with my full faith and confidence; and that is the best I can do. I propose to stand behind him and his counselors and the Twelve apostles. As I told an apostle once: "If God Almighty puts a child in the Council of the Twelve, and he will give me enough of his Spirit, I will sustain him. I pray the Lord to bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I find myself in full and happy accord with the spirit of this conference and the utterances that have been made from this stand. I GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in the doctrines that have been taught. I believe in those principles which are the underlying foundation of the work of God which contemplate and have for their purpose the liberation and freedom of the children of God, not only our civil liberty and freedom from the tyranny of despotic and autocratic governments, but also that perfect liberty which can only be attained through obedience to the "perfect law of liberty" — the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ — the truth which will make us free indeed, even free from the bondage of sin and the tyranny of the adversary of our souls. 

The discovery of this, land — the promised land — the Land of Joseph, the Zion of latter days, and' the' establishment thereon of this government, a government deriving its powers from the consent of the governed, is so interwoven with the work of God that we are bound to recognize the inspiration of the Almighty in connection therewith. 

Read I Nephi 13, 12 where Nephi sees in vision that the Spirit of God inspired the great Columbus (it can mean no other) to cross the many waters, the great Atlantic ocean, which separated him from the seed of Nephi's brethren, who were in the promised land. 

Let me, then, declare my faith in the inspiration of the Lord 'as it relates to these historical events : 

I believe that the Lord restored this land and inspired its discovery by Columbus for the purpose of establishing a government thereon which would secure to its people their inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. 

I believe that he inspired Thomas Jefferson in the writing of the Declaration of Independence. I believe that the Constitution of the United States was inspired of God, that under its protection his Church could be established and thereby the "perfect law of liberty," the gospel of Jesus Christ) be promulgated not only in the promised land but in all lands, to every nation, kindred', tongue and people. 

I believe that George Washington was the human instrument in the hands of God in establishing a government based on the principles of human liberty. 

I believe that Abraham Lincoln was the human instrument in God's hand of preserving these precious principles that they should not perish from the earth. 

I believe that Woodrow Wilson is the human instrument, in the hands of the Lord of extending these principles to all the nations of the earth, for God is no respecter of persons but designs that all his children shall be made free. 

I believe that the League of Nations covenant, when ratified, will become the instrument whereby the inalienable rights of men shall be extended to our Father's children in every land, that it will be an effectual opening of the door which will admit the promulgation of the greater, the perfect, law of liberty, through which the Lord designs to make his children free. Amen. 

A sacred solo : "Abide with Me," was sung by David Rees. ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I have rejoiced exceedingly, my brethren and sisters, in the splendid things that I have heard during this conference, and I feel that I have been very greatly benefited by the earnest testimonies that have been borne by the presiding authorities of the Church, and by the doctrines of the gospel of the Lord. Jesus Christ that have been sounded in our hearing under the inspiration of the holy Spirit. 

I have had the blessed privilege, my brethren and sisters, of engaging, for the past few months, in the preaching of the gospel in the California mission, and have witnessed, during the short time that I have been in this ministry, the marvelous thing that God, our Father in heaven, is able to do with his handmaidens and with his servants who engage in the preaching of the gospel. I suppose all those who have responsibilities resting upon them similar to the responsibilities that rest upon me, at the present time, wonder why from the ranks of the holy- Priesthood there cannot be found men, with love in their hearts for the gospel of Jesus Christ, who have had experience in the preaching of the gospel, to come into the missionary field and exercise the gifts and graces and powers that have come to them by experience, for the spreading of the gospel among the people. Yet the marvelous thing that has taken place, before my eyes, in the past few months has been to see boys, who have come with very great fear, with very great anxiety, with very much stammering and with trembling limbs, developing into earnest missionaries for the Lord Jesus Christ, and to hear them, while tears were streaming down their cheeks, bear testimony that the Lord God of heaven had revealed unto them the truth of the everlasting gospel, and to hear them make declaration that the work of the ministry, that seemed to be such a tremendous undertaking when they came into the mission field, had been the sweetest and the most precious and the most wonderful experience that had ever come into their lives. 

I rejoice to be associated with the sons and daughters of Israel in the preaching of the gospel of the Redeemer of the world. I am glad for the faith that can be found in the hearts of the young men and the young women who are willing to respond to the calls that are made upon them by proper authority, and go forth in their weakness and in their fear, and lift up their voices in proclamation of the truth. I rejoice, above all else, in the wonderful power of the Lord our God to so bless these feeble instruments that they are. able to maintain the truth of the gospel and to attract to the fold of the Master, men who in worldly learning and in the polish of the world may be superior to themselves. 

Thank God for the gospel; it is, indeed, the power of God unto salvation. This work, to which we have given our allegiance, is not the result of the wisdom of men's thought; but it is, as it was declared to be, in the very beginning by Joseph Smith, the revelation GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the Lord. I bear record that God our Father in heaven and his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I bear record that men who had ministered in the authority of the holy Priesthood, while dwelling here upon the earth, as greater beings in their resurrected bodies appeared to Joseph Smith and ministered unto him and conferred upon him the authority of the holy Priesthood and gave commandment that the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ again should be sounded in the ears of the inhabitants of the earth. I bear record that that divine authority, the power to speak in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, the right to call men to repentance and to an investigation of the glorious gospel, has been conferred upon the men who have been teaching us during this conference. 

I admonish Israel to hearken to the voice of the good Shepherd as it has been made manifest through the presiding authorities of the Church, to follow that voice, to follow that lead, and God will be your father and friend and will continue to reveal unto you the truth that has been made manifest in this dispensation. I bear record that the things that we are teaching, the principles of the gospel, those fundamental principles — faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance from sin, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost — that they have been revealed in our day, that they are just as full of power as. they were in the days of the ancient Apostles, and that the gospel today, is, as it always has been and ever will be, the power of God unto salvation. God help us to-believe it, and be true to it, forever and forever. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I, also, my brethren and sisters, rejoice in the testimonies which the brethren have given us during this conference, and in the instructions and admonitions which have been presented. I rejoice in the just emphasis which the restored Church places upon principles and practices among men; that God is no respecter of persons, as is indicated in the revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the fifty-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, in giving warning to the rich man and warning also to the poor man. 

It is a matter of continued satisfaction that we have the right view of education. The president of the greatest university in the United States, so far as numbers are concerned, has defined education to be the capacity of a self-conscious being to adapt himself to environment and the power to change that environment. That environ-  ment he divided in two classes — the well known physical and, more important than that, the spiritual; — having to do with what makes up the so-called civilization of mankind, man's art, his science, his literature, his institutional life and, last but not least, his religion. So the president of that great university, Columbia, makes a plea for religious training and our Church is successfully solving that problem of giving religious training without impinging upon the rights of other religionists to have in our public schools neutrality so far as sectarian Christianity is concerned. 

I rejoice in the teachings of the Church that this land of ours is God-protected; that it has a special mission; that it is governed by a constitution formed by wise men, raised up for that purpose; and that the Doctrine and Covenants gives us the essentials of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States, expressed in these instruments, to the effect or in substance that all men are free and equal, and that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. I rejoice in the further fact that the boys of this Church, as also the boys of this state* and of this Nation, have performed a noble part to perpetuate these principles in the world. When they went forth in foreign lands, singing: 

God is in his judgment seat, Christ is on his tree, And Pershing's men are marching — Marching into Picardy;" 

they had the true spirit of the Crusaders of old, who were willing to battle to the death to rescue the sacred sepulchre from the hands of the Saracens. I feel proud of the work that our boys did — the work of General Young and others. I have felt that it was indeed providential that that splendid body of men, grouped as they were, were not required, in the providences of the Lord, to undergo a baptism of fire and of death in the great conflict in which they were willing to make the supreme sacrifice, and should have credit for their willingness as fully as though the deeds had been performed. These men and we ourselves, I feel sure, cannot realize the importance of the work which has been done to sustain these great principles in the world. The "Mormon" Battalion boys, as we familiarly call them, did not realize the sublime service, for this state,, and for this intermountain country, which they performed in 1846-7. They were not permitted to live long /enough to have a view of the full glory which was theirs; but, like Moses, were permitted only from afar to view the promised land. These men did not fully realize the glory which their posterity will receive from the works of their fathers. It is true that they heard their general say that history might be searched in vain for a like march of infantry; that they had heard' General Kearny say, as repeated by General Cooke, that Napoleon had crossed the Alps, but that these men had crossed a continent; and after the lapse of all these years we begin to get a true perspective of the sublime work of. these soldier citizens. Purely as a civic move our legislators have provided for a beautiful monument for these men, by appropriating $100,000, and men not of this Church have been just as active and some of them more active, perhaps, than Church men, in the securing of this great tribute. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

If time permitted I would like to read some of the remarks which one not of our Church has made in reference to the sublimity of this monument; but there is only remaining time for me to express the thought that our people will do honor to themselves in contributing to this monument, as they, will realize as they learn the real accomplishment of these Battalion men; and that in the future they will be doing like credit and honor to themselves to rear a more costly monument to the memory of the boys who have been willing to make the supreme sacrifice for their country and for the world. I am sure that their labors will not be in vain; that there shall be no retrograde movement; that the history of international law and the world will not contain a chapter showing that while steady although slow progress was made through all the centuries of the past; that when we came to this enlightened Christian age, an age in which the restored gospel was received, that a retrograde movement set in, and that progress in the great branch of the law known as international law ceased and that, there was a backward turning. I think that in the providences of the Lord the fruitage of the seven and a half millions of lives lost in the war will not fall to the ground and be futile, but there shall be a sublime and divine fruitage by the establishment in all the world of these principles for which the Constitution stands, an instrument given to us by inspired men, and designed to secure immortality to the work of man, so far as immortality can be imparted to -human institutions. 

Now there is only sufficient time for me to drop a word of testimony. I concur in the testimonies which my brethren have so sublimely and strongly given; and in addition I testify to the great joy that I have had in the past thirteen and a half years by being closely associated, in travel and in the work of the ministry, with these men whom, in a few minutes, you shall uphold your hands to sustain as prophets, seers, and revelators. I am a witness that they have been warned of danger that was unforeseen by mere human wisdom; that they have prophesied of unusual things which have come to pass thaf the sick have been raised under their administration, and that thev have administered the word of the Lord as meat in due season to the people, and the people have had a refreshing of the Spirit under the ministrations of these my brethren. It has been my privilege to travel more, I think, with President Grant than with any other one member of the Twelve or the First Presidency, except perhaps the late Hyrum M. Smith; and I have learned to love very much Presi-, dent Grant for his courage, for his frankness, for the simplicity and strength of his life, and for his faith. My first thought before I was acquainted with him was that he would be more sympathetic with the richer than with the poorer people, but I soon learned ho.w badly I was mistaken in reference to that. I rejoice that he has been called into this high position to preside over this Church, and I have the fullest confidence in the success of his administration. May the Lord bless him and his counselors and the Twelve, who have treated me 211  generously, as generously as my own father could possibly treat me. Brother Grant has always treated me as generously as he would treat himself, and the other brethren, particularly the older brethren, and some of those who have departed, have been indeed fathers to me. I rejoice in my associations with them and with the Church, and I pray the blessings of heaven to be upon us all, in the names of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) There are eleven thousand Seventies in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We have already organized one hundred and ninety-eight quorums of Seventy throughout the Stakes of Zion. They are beginning, more and more, each day, to cooperate with all the other brethren holding the Priesthood of God. As one of the seven Presidents of Seventy, I wish to say that it is our desire that the Seventies of the Church become the scholars and missionaries to preach the gospel in all the world. We want them to have the power, the love and the light of God to aid them in this great work. We sincerely hope that the Seventies will take upon themeselves new life, new hope, new vigor, and prepare themselves for the ministry more than they have done in the past. 

This has been a remarkable conference. The many testimonies given ring true. I bear you my testimony that everything that has been said is true; for the words, the sentences, the thoughts have been pertaining to the gospel of Jesus Christ. The fact that ever since the days of Abraham the Lord has called a portion of his family to bear witness of his great truths is an inspiring truth. This place in the mountains had been preserved for the people of God. It will always be a Stake of Zion. May we as Latter-day Saints, from this day on have our testimonies renewed that the Government of the United States was instituted by the power of God, and the way prepared for the coming of the gospel of Jesus Christ. May that testimony grow in our hearts, together with the greater testimony that God lives, . and that the world needs a knowledge of the message of Jesus Christ. There can be no solution of our industrial, social and political problems until the world shall know for a fact that Jesus is the Christ and that we are living in a new day of the world's history. May we, each and every one of us, return to our homes, buoyed up in our souls, with a courageous feeling for the new day, and the promise of a knowledge of God and his great work. May the love and the light of this glorious gospel rejuvenate our spirits as never before, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

(Presiding Bishop of the Church.) It is less than a year since I stood with President Grant at the grave of our departed Prest. Joseph F. Smith. I then and there, on that sacred spot, made pledge and covenant with Prest. Grant that I would GENERAL CONFERENCE.  myself as energetically, as fervently, as obediently, in trying through my weak efforts to make his administration a success as I ever had done in the work that I had tried to do and had done in the administration of President Joseph F. Smith. I have devotedly and conscientiously tried to fulfil that covenant in all humility, in all obedience, and in the spirit of the office and calling which I hold. I propose to continue in that line, and there isn't anything that these brethren can ask me to do that I will not willingly try to do for the furtherance of this work; and they will not ask me to do anything that is not in the interest of the Kingdom of God. But there is one thing on which President Grant and I never could agree; he thinks that his wife is better looking than my wife. Well, I don't believe a word of it. (Laughter.) Anyhow, if it is referred to a league, or assembly of arbitration, I would have three votes to his one. Now with that exception, brethren and sisters, we are in entire agreement and we are working together harmoniously, and, as I say, so far as I am concerned, obediently and in the spirit of the work. 

Now just a minute or two on a matter that I think is of considerable importance. We are blessed abundantly in wordly things in these times. Never was there such a profusion of money. Money, they say, is cheap, but the articles we have to buy with money are dear, which is true indeed. But you produce, you farmers, most of the articles that the rest of us have to buy and there is plenty of money and pretty much everybody has it. The unfortunate thing about it is that a great many people are spending it foolishly. I know I find it so, east and west, wherever I travel. You see attention called to it in the magazines and newspapers. People are spending, as they say, "like drunken sailors." We ought to pause in that. We ought to save while we have abundance. It is a foolish person who spends all he has, and who does not save. I know there are some who will say, "Well, if you had only what I have, and the family I have to keep, you would not think much about saving." That may apply and does apply doubtless to a few families, one here and there, but to the great general part of the Church, the farmers and business men and artisans who are a large part of our population are making means in abundance and are not saving any and putting it away for a rainy day. We are spending it, and we are spending it extravagantly, almost wastefully; and this is a sin. If instead of crowding into so many picture shows a week, if we would only stay home a night or two a week and read the Bible or the Book of Mormon or the Doctrine and Covenants to our families, we would be spending our time in a more profitable way and also saving our money. People have lost the idea of being thrifty any more or very careful about their expenditures either. 

The Lord is working in the earth. The predictions of the prophets concerning this land are being fulfilled. I heard Orson Pratt preach a sermon in Liverpool, forty years ago last March, concern213  this land, and the mob law that would obtain, the destruction of society, or, if not its entine destruction, the destroying element that would be abroad in the land, the utter disregard for law and order, and established customs, the terror, the riot, the anarchy that would take place. I see it being fulfilled in our own land, right here, and it is coming more and more. Were it not for what there is here in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints I would despair; but the promise is and has been — I have heard it repeated, iterated and reiterated hundreds of times — that there would be a people here who would stand for law and order, who would maintain it, and constitutional rights would be observed although the Constitution would be torn to shreds and tatters, as we see it being torn around us in these very days, these anxious, terrible days that are upon us; but here it would be safe. This is the mission of the Latter-day Saints; this is the mission of "Mormonism," to be saviors upon Mount Zion, to save that which is good of the earth. 

I passed through Omaha the other day, just a day after the terrible occurrences that had transpired there, where the mayor of the city, who was sworn to do his duty, tried manfully to do it. They hung him by the neck until he was pratically dead. One of the policemen climbed the pole and cut the rope just in time, so that he was resuscitated, but he was unconscious and gone so far as he was concerned. But, thank God, he is alive. This man sworn to do his duty, trying I believe to do his duty, and yet the spirit of anarchy and riot and mob rule would hang that man, and did hang him, and burned others, burned the jail, burned the courthouse; and, as you know, troops were called in. I need not dwell on it all. Well, such occurrences go on, and we pass them by, seemingly, as the idle wind, and heed them not, but they are here. Only the other week, in Los Angeles, a few platform men of the street railroad could not get the settlement that they wanted, so they went on strike. Out of sympathy for them, the General Electrical Company employees down there, went out on what they call a sympathetic strike, and then all the railroad employees operating trains into the city of Los Angeles went out on a sympathetic strike also and tied up every industry in the city, even tied up hundreds of people here and at other points along the line, who were thus inconvenienced and punished simply because the railroad employees were in sympathy with the few platform streetcar men in Los Angeles. A sympathetic strike is little less than anarchy. These railroad men and Pacific Electric men had no grievance against their companies, neither as to wages, hours of work, conditions of work or anything else; they had no grievance at all, but merely out of sympathy for somebody else they tied up the whole business of hundreds of communities and for what? For mere sentiment. This is one of the worst of the signs of the times. 

Now I must be brief; my time is nearly up. I want to say that T cannot, for one, join any association or lodge or union which diGENERAL CONFERENCE.  my allegiance to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. To serve the Lord acceptably, my allegiance to him must be undivided. My purpose must be single. If thine eye be single thy whole body shall be filled with light. Now if I am obligated by oath or covenant of any kind to some other organization I have of necessity a divided allegiance. This should not be. My allegiance to the Church comprises and includes everything that the civil government requires and a great deal more. My allegiance to the Church causes me not to hate my brother; my allegiance to the Church makes me an infinitely better citizen, as citizenship goes in the world, than if I were not connected with the Church. Now I must not have a divided allegiance. The Kingdom of God first — stand by it! 

The prediction has been, my brethren, that civilization shall not fail; the Constitution of our country shall not altogether fail. It is not all going up in wreck, for here, and I believe here only, will peace and prosperity and the maintaining of the Constitution of the United States and the securing of the liberties of the people, transpire; here through the medium of this Church, and I do not see much hope anywhere else. God bless you; God bless the men who stand at the head; I am with them; I am for them; I uphold them; I pray for them. As I said before, there is not anything that I will not try to do in the interest of this work, if they ask me to do it, and I will try to do a great many things they do not have to ask me to do. God bless us; God bless this people; the Lord help Zion and direct us in these terrible times that are upon us, the terribleness of which will increase and not decrease until Zion is established and the work of the Lord accomplished, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and officers of the auxilliary organizations of the Church who were voted upon and unanimously sustained as follows: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES 

Heber J. Grant, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. Rudger Clawson, as Acting President of the Council. As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, 215 

Joseph Fielding Smith, James E. Talmage, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Melvin J. Ballard. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding- Patriarch. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

The First Seven Presidents of Seventy: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop with David A. Smith and John Wells as his First and Second Counselors. 

Heber J. Grant, as Trustee-in-Trust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder, with Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph Fielding Smith, August William Lund, Assistant Historians. 

The General Church Auditing Committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft, Peter G. Johnston. 

Members of the General Church Board of Education: Heber J. Grant, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, Willard Young, Rudger Clawson, Orson F. Whitney, Joseph Fielding Smith, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer. 

Commissioners of Education: David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Adam S. Bennion, Superintendent. 

Tabernacle Choir: Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball, and Tracy Y. Cannon, Assistant Organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer. And all the members of the choir. 

AUXILLIARY ORGANIZATIONS. 

GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY 

Relief Society. — Officers: Emmeline B. Wells, President; Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor; Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor; Amy B. Lyman, Secretary; Susa Y. Gates, Corresponding Secretary; Emma A. Empey, Treasurer. 

Members of Board : Sarah Jenne Cannon, Romania B. Penrose,  Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe Y. Beattie, Ida S. Dusenberry, Carrie S. Thomas, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Rebecca N. Nibley, Elizabeth C. McCune, Edna May Davis, Sarah M. McLelland, Elizabeth Crismon, Jeanette A. Hyde, Sarah Eddington, Lillian Cameron, Donnette S. Kesler. 

GENERAL BOARD OF DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION. 216 Stephen L. Richards, First Assistant; George D. Pyper, Second Assistant; Laurence W. Richards, Secretary; John F. Bennett, Treasurer. 

Members of Board: Hugh J. Cannon, Seymour B.Young, Andrew Kimball, John M. Mills, George M. Cannon, James E. Talmage, Horace H. Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Harold 

G. Reynolds, Charles B. Felt, George H. Wallace, Nathan T. Porter, Howard R. Driggs, Milton Bennion, Horace S. Ensign, Henry H. Rolapp, Edwin G. Woolley, Jr., Hyrum G. Smith, Charles H. Hart, Joseph Ballantyne, J. Leo Fairbanks, J. W. Walker, Ephraim G. Gowans, E. Conway Ashton, Adam S. Bennion, Edward P. Kimball, Tracy Y. Cannon, George N. Child, Frank K. Seegmiller, Charles J. Ross. 

GENERAL BOARD OF YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. 

Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. — Officers: Anthony W. Ivins, General Superintendent; B. H. Roberts, First Assistant; Richard R. Lyman, Second Assistant; Moroni Snow, General Secretary. 

Members of Board : J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, George 

H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Thomas Hull, Willard Done, Le Roi C. $now, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Bryant S. Hinckley, Brigham F. Grant, Lewis T. Cannon, Benjamin Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe, James H. Anderson, Oscar A. Kirkham, George F. Richards, Nephi Anderson, John H. Taylor, James E. Talmage, Hyrum G. Smith, Henry C. Lund, George J. Cannon, Nicholas G. Morgan, Claude Richards, John F. Bowman, Levi Edgar Young, Roscoe W. Eardley, Preston D. Richards, Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, Brigham S. Young, B. Cecil Gates, Ernest P. Horsley, Preston Nibley, Melvin J. Ballard. 

GENERAL BOARD OF YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. 

Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. — Officers: Martha H. Tingey, President; Ruth May .Fox, First Counselor; May T. Nystrom, Second Counselor; Clarissa A. Beesley, Secretary; , Margaret Summerhays, Chorister. 

Members of the Board : Honorary Member, Maria Y. Dougall; Adella W. Eardley, Agnes Campbell, Ann M. Cannon, May Booth Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Alice K. Smith, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Emily Caldwell Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy W. Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Edith R. Lovsey, Laura Bennion Dimond, Rachel Grant Taylor, Sarah Richards Cannon, Lucy M. S. Carter, Charlotte Stewart, Lucy Grant Cannon, Emily Hillam Higgs, Martha G. Smith, Catherine Folsom. 217 

GENERAL BOARD OF PRIMARY ASSOCIATION. 

Primary Association. — Officers: Louie B. Felt, President; May Anderson, First Counselor; Clara W. Beebe, Second Counselor; Genet Bingham Dee, Secretary and Treasurer; Matilda W. Cahoon, Chorister; Jane Romney Crawford, Organist; Physical Directors: Ann Nebeker, Edna Harker Thomas. 

Honorary Members of Board: Lillie T. Freeze, Josephine R. West, Aurelia S. Rogers. 

Members of Board : Eliza S. Bennion, Edith H. Lambert, Ella S. Capener, Georgina F. Richards, Vilate S. Chambers, Helen Davis, Marion B. Kerr, Nellie A. Talmage, Cordia H. Smith, Zina Y. Card, Sadie Grant Pack. 

Advisors to the Association: Anthony W. Ivins, David O. McKay. 

GENERAL BOARD OF RELIGION CLASS. 

Religion Class. — Officers: Rudger Clawson, Superintendent; Joseph Fielding Smith, First Assistant; William A. Morton, Second Assistant and Secretary. 

Members of Board: Horace H. Cummings, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, George H. Brimhall, P. Joseph Jensen, Willard Young, N. Andrew Jensen, Guy C. Wilson, Levi Edgar Young, John Wells, Newell K. Young. 

Edward H. Anderson, clerk of the general conference. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We would have been very much pleased, indeed, to have heard from one or two more, but time will not permit. I wish to say that each and all of the general authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, without any reservations whatever, have my unbounded love and confidence. They have sustained me with their faith and their prayers, and have fulfilled every request that I have made of them. I wish to say that there is not a stake president in all the Church who does not have my love and confidence. The Latter-day Saints throughout the Church have sustained me beyond anything that I could have expected or believed possible. I pray God to sanctify all that has been said and done in this conference to the good of the Latter-day Saints. I pray for the welfare of mankind, at home and abroad. I bear to you my testimony that God has spoken again from the heavens, that we- have the gospel of life and salvation; and I pray God to help us to live it, all of which I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The Tabernacle choir sang the "Hallelujah Chorus." 

The benediction was offered by Patriarch Hyrum C. Jex. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing in the Tabernacle. Professor John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken in the Tabernacle, by Elder Franklin W. Otterstrom, assisted by R. W. Gallagher and Clyde Rasmussen; in the Assembly Hall, by Elder Frederick E. Barker and Fred G. Barker; in Barratt Hall, by 'Clarence Cramer, and at the open-air meeting near the Bureau of Information by Clyde Rasmussen. 

Edward H. Anderson, Clerk of Conference. 

AVE you ever stopped to think how much time we spend in planning what we shall put on and what we shall put in our children's bodies and how little in planning what we shall put in their minds? They go to school, to be sure, but that is for only five hours a day for approximately 185 days a year. What of the years before they begin to go to school, what of the hours and days each year in which they are not under instruction? Have we any deliberate plans to care for the mind's growth as we care for the body's? 

It is just as important that children shall read good books as it is that they shall learn to read at all. It would be hard to find any one who would declare that it is unnecessary for children to learn to read. Yet reading in itself is not the end we seek, but only a means to the end. The goal of all education is the enrichment of life, and a child's reading carefully guided will deepen and strengthen his future ability to make the most of himself and his opportunities. 

To really love books so that they may be woven into the warp and woof of his life a child should have his own individual library, which grows year by year with his growth, yet which contains friends to whom he will return time and time again, secure in the knowledge of a happy companionship, full of pleasant associations. A large number of books is not essential to have, but a few should be added each year and the standard of choice should be kept high. — Seattle Public Library Bulletin. 

Let us help you select books for your children. 

SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE 

44 East South Temple Street 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

6 Main Street 



Read the Church Works 

Every Latter-day Saint family should possess a complete set of the Church Works. They are full of inspired teachings and bring an influence in the home that is wholesome and uplifting. Familiarity with these inspired books means intelligent membership and a spiritual equipment for big, wholesome service. 

Let your children make the acquaintance of these sacred volumes by frequent contact with them in the home. There is no more impressive and effective way to impress them with the truths of the gospel. 

The Doctrine and Covenants — A wonderful book of modern revelations. The word of the Lord to the people of this dispensation. No home library is complete without it. 

The Book of Mormon — A history unique. A gripping story that has the distinction of being true. A compendium of divine truth. 

The Pearl of Great Price — A volume of pleasant and profitable reading. It's all that its title implies. 

The History of the Church — By any one of three or four trenchant writers. A history full of romance, heroism and achievement. 

You need the Church Works in your home. We can supply you with any or all of them, in a variety of bindings, and prices to meet your convenience. 

SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE 

44 East South Temple Street 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

6 Main Street 







