Morning
08 04 1900


ELDER REED SMOOT, 

of the Council of the Twelve, said: 

"My dear brethren and sisters, I feel exceedingly weak in standing before this vast audience this afternoon. No doubt many of you are surprised at my being called to this position, but I can assure you that no one in this audience was more astonished than I. Five years ago I was called by the mouthpiece of God to occupy a position in the presidency of the Utah Stake. That was a surprise to me at that time and I thought then that the Lord moves in a mysterious way. This afternoon when the mouthpiece of the Lord told me it was the will of the Lord that I should occupy a position as one of the Twelve Apostles, I certainly felt a more humble and more weak instrument in his hands for doing good than ever I did in my life. I beg of the brethren of the Twelve to bear with me in my mistakes. I beseech of you, my brethren and sisters, to give me your faith and prayers for I need them, and to fulfill this position that I am called to, I must have them. If I can be humble and have the confidence of the people and of the Priesthood, as God has called me so will I receive it in the same spirit; and as He gives me wisdom and light and revelation, just so far can I do His will and serve Him in this calling. If I did not know that Jesus^ was the Christ and that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was His Church I can assure you that this calling that has been placed upon me would be the farthest from me to accept of any position that I could think of. 

My life in the past has been in a business direction more than in any other way, and now that this change has come and this call from God has been placed upon me, I hope and trust that I will do nothing — aye, I would rather lose my right arm than to betray the  you have placed in me this day by voting for me in this position. My only desire is that God will give me power to perform the duties that shall devolve upon me acceptably in His sight, and acceptable to you, to the Apostles and to the mouthpiece of God upon this earth. To this end I beseech of you an interest in your faith and prayers that from now on I may be clothed with the Priesthood that will be some good to the children of men. 

I ask God's choicest blessings upon His Church and upon every member thereof, that unity, peace and strength may be with us continually until we become a light unto the whole world, as has been predicted. In the name of Jesus Christ I ask it. Amen. 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

Future exaltation dependent upon obedience to law— Having kept our first estate, our present aim should be to keep well our secondHeavens filled with higher truths, which, as we progress, will be revealed. 

I arise, trusting that the remarks which I may be led to make may be inspired by the Spirit of God. To this end I beseech you, my brethren and sisters, to give me the assistance of your faith and prayers, for I would like the time I occupy to be of profit to those who listen. Time is precious, and this is a vast congregation, and they should not be kept here listening to something that is not of worth. I do not profess myself to be able to impart anything that is worthy of being listened to only as God shall give it through His Holy Spirit. 

I will read a few paragraphs of the 88th section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants. 

"And again, verily I say unto you, the earth abideth the law of a celestial kingdom for it filleth the measure of its creation, and transgresseth not the law. 

'Wherefore it shall be sanctified; yea, notwithstanding it shall die, it shall be quickened again, and shall abide the power by which it is quickened, and the righteous shall inherit it; 

"For notwithstanding they die, they also shall rise again a spiritual body; "They who are of a celestial spirit shall receive the same body which was a natural body, even ye shall receive your bodies, and your glory shall be that glory by which your bodies are quickened. 

"Ye who are quickened by a portion of the celestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness; 

"And they who are quickened by a portion of the terrestrial glory, shall then receive of the same, even a fullness: 

"And also they who are quickened by a portion of the telestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fullness; 

"And they who remain shall also be quickened; nevertheless they shall return again to their own place, to enjoy that which they are willing to receive, because they were not willing to enjoy that which they might have received. 

"For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receiveth not the gift? Behold he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in Him who is the giver of the gift." 

I would like this next paragraph to be noticed by my hearers: 

"And again, verily, I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law, and perfected and sanctified by the same. 

"That which breaketh a law, and abideth not by law, but seeketh to become a law unto itself, and willeth to abide in sin, and altogether abideth in sin, cannot be sanctified by law, neither by mercy, justice nor judgment. Therefore they must remain filthy still." 

There is to' my mind a great amount of importance in these words that I have read in your hearing, and they should be understood by us, because they pertain to our future exaltation. We have been taught by the Lord that this is a preparatory state, that we are here to be tested, to see whether we shall prove worthy of the promises that he has made unto his children. He has given unto all of us our free agency, and that agency is differently exercised. We see mankind divided into classes. Some exercise their agency in one direction and some in another, and there is a great diversity of views and aims among the children of earth. But the Latter-day Saints have had revelation given to them, which places them, it may be said, in a position different to the rest of the world. We are not ignorant of the purposes of God. We have been informed why we are here and what we should do to obtain the glory that God promises unto his faithful children. We have had pointed out to us the path to pursue <-o continue progression. We all believe, I suppose, that we have kept our first estate, or we would not be here. The reward of our fidelity in our pre-existent state is manifest in the fact that we have received earthly tabernacles. We have taken a great step in advance by being permitted to come here. Now much depends upon our second estate and the manner in which we keep it. If we are faithful in our second estate, as we were in our first, then glory will be added to us, and we shall go on progressing eternally. Through the revelation of God's will and our observance of it, the opportunitj" is given us to continue in the path of progress. The Lord has shown to us that there are differences of rewards. Some of his children will attain to what is called celestial glory. Others of his children will not have faith enough nor exercise their agency in the direction to gain that glory; but they will gain terrestrial glory. There are others that will not progress that far; they will feel reluctant to obey the laws that pertain to the terrestrial, and they will obtain telestial glory. There are still others that will not attain even to the telestial glory. Why is it that there are these differences? Is it because God has chosen some of us for the telestial glory, some of us for the terrestrial glory, and some of us for the celestial glory? No, there is no such predestination as this. We are all born with our free agency; with the power within ourselves, aided by the blessing of God,to attain unto the highest glory. How shall we attain unto the highest glory? There is only one way, and that is by observing the highest laws. The highest laws, when obeyed, bring as a reward the highest glory; and the man or woman who expects to attain to the highest glory without obeying these laws, deceives himself or herself. It cannot be done. If I rise above the telestial glory, I must obey a law that will lift me above that. If I rise to the terrestrial glory, it will be by obeying terrestrial law. If I do not obey laws higher than that, I cannot attain to a higher glory. 

I want to impress upon you, my brethren and sisters, that our exaltation, our future glory, depends entirely  our obedience to law. We should not lose sight of this. A man will come along and say, "I believe in Jesus; I am willing to repent of my sins; I want to be baptized for the remissions of my sins and I want to receive the laying on of hands and become a member of the Church." He obeys these requirements and ordinances. He then says, "I hear the Elders talk about gathering, and I do not see any necessity for it. I do not see why I cannot worship God in the place where I embraced the Gospel, as well as if I were to gather. I hear a good deal about Zion. Some of the Elders tell me what a glorious condition of existence there is there, while others say there are many evils in Zion, and I don't think I will gather there." Will that man attain unto celestial glory? I leave this question with you to answer. How can he? It is necessary that he should gather. Why? Because it is a command of God that His Saints shall gather, and a man cannot receive the reward of gathering without he obeys the law of God on that subject. There are many reasons for this, with which you are all familiar. In the first place he cannot receive his endowments. Can a man attain unto celestial glory without receiving his endowments? Under some circumstances he can. If he should die, as some of our faithful brethren have, before endowments were given, no doubt he would be judged by the Lord according to his opportunities and his willingness. But speaking generally, men and women cannot receive celestial glory without having the ordinances that pertain to the endowments. Men and women cannot be united for eternity unless- they are united by the Priesthood of God in the place appointed for the administration of that ordinance. The union of husband and wife, of parents and children depends upon obedience to law, and they cannot get into the celestial kingdom without they obey these laws. Other commandments of the Lord might be mentioned in this connection. We are commanded to live by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God. We must do this. The Lord reveals His word to His Church; that word must 55.  obeyed, if we expect to reach the celestial glory. Besides these precious records that we have— the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Book of Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price— there must be some other power among the people of God. These books alone will never save this people. I expect some of you may be shocked at this statement. It is nevertheless true. All these works, divine as they are, pure as they are, cannot save this people. There must be something else; and God has placed in His Church the living oracles, to guide and govern the Church. We know by experience that unless we had had the living oracles, Ave would have been in the worst possible position. For instance, where is there a commandment given concerning the migration of the Latter-day Saints to the valleys of the mountains. Of course, the Prophet Joseph prophesied concerning it, but there was no command given. The Lord, however, through His living oracles, revealed to the Church His will concerning it, and under the leadership of the living oracles the Church came to these valleys. Almost every day we are doing acts under the direction of the living oracles which are essentially necessary for the people of God, but which are not commanded in any of these books. There is nothing foreshadowed in the records concerning many acts that are performed from time to time by the direction of the Lord through his living oracles. He has placed them in the Church to guide the Church. This book (pointing to the book of Doctrine and Covenants), divine as it is, is insufficient. It reveals certain things, but does it reveal the polity of the work? Does it reveal the mind and will of God concerning His Church? Only so far as it goes. There must be a stream of living revelation flowing from God to His servants whom He has placed to preside over His Church. It was needed this afternoon to fill up the Quorum of the Twelve. We had to know the mind and will of the Lord concerning that important thing. Is there anything in any of these books which says that George Q. Cannon should be an Apostle, or Joseph F. Smith, or any of these  who are Apostles? Not a word.. How is this determined then? It comes through the living oracles, the authority that God has placed in His Church to govern and dictate. Of course, these books, as I have said, are of inestimable value to us as a people, because they contain the word of God. And that which is written agrees with that which is unwritten. There is no clash; there never will be„ because they come from the same source. They are both true, and there is no conflict between two truths. That is our position. 

I think it is of great importance to us as a people to know what we shall do. Are we content to aim for telestial glory. I never heard a prayer offered, especially in the family circle, in which the family does not beseech God to give them celestial glory. Telestial glory is not in their thoughts. Terrestrial glory may be all right for honorable Gentiles, who have not faith enough to believe the Gospel and who do right according to the best knowledge they have; but celestial glory is our aim — I perhaps should not say it is the aim, for sometimes it is not, but it is the hope. If into a family that had just offered prayer, and had asked God to lead them into the celestial kingdom, an angel should enter and should say to them that their prayers were useless and that they would never attain unto celestial glory, what a feeling would be produced in the breasts of that family! How sorrowful and afflicted they would feel! Yet, as I have said, while it is the aim of many, they do not act as if it were their true aim. They either misconceive the nature of the duties they have to perform to attain to celestial glory, or else they are very blind indeed. 

I ask again, what is your aim, or my aim? What do I desire? If I desire celestial glory, the highest law that God has revealed I will be willing to obey, and to observe every word that proceedeth from His mouth. I do not want to speak of myself, but if there is a law that God has revealed and it is necessary to be obej'ed befoi'e celestial glory can be reached, I want to know it and obey it. All that I am this earth for 

is to get celestial glory. I do not want my second estate to be a failure. I want to keep it as valiantly and as correctly as I hope I did my first estate. I believe with all my heart that I kept my first estate. I believe that Satan, with all his blandishments and sophistry, had not the power to induce me to follow him. Now I am here on the earth, and God has revealed to me why I am here. He wants me to be true to Him in the midst of these trials and temptations, and in the midst of the darkness that prevails. He wants me to be unswerving in my integrity and in the keeping of His laws. He wants me to come back to Him as His loyal, faithful, obedient child. He not only wants me to do this, but He wants all of us to do so; to say to Satan, We will not be deceived by you, but we will endure all things for the sake of our Father and the glory that He has in store for us. This is my desire; and it is your desire, when you are aroused. You have shown it as far as you have gone. But something comes along that you hesitate about, and you say in effect, "that law is a little too high for me, my faith is not sufficient to obey it." We heard Brother Clawson this morning repeat the expressions of some concerning the law of tithing, and those expressions illustrate what I am now dwelling upon. A commandment has been given, a law has been proclaimed, and some have not seen the necessity of obeying it. They seem to be content with what they have done. Brethren and sisters, when you know that your eternal exaltation depends upon obeying ' law, will you hesitate and say "I have not faith enough for that; it's too high for me; it requires too great a sacrifice on my part, and I cannot receive it; the laws of the terrestrial kingdom are more suited to my faith and my desires, and I am willing to be content with that glory." Will you, I repeat, hesitate in rendering obedience, and argue thus to yourselves? 

I want to bring this home to your minds this afternoon, my brethren and sisters. Personally I have never felt to say what I would do in the midst of trial. I have heard  talk about their willingness to lay down their lives for this Gospel; but I have always been afraid to say much about this on my part, for fear if I should be put to the test I might not be able to stand it. At the same time the desire in my heart, although I may not express it, is to do everything that God requires at my hands. I would like to be valiant enough to die if the time ever came that I had to die for it. God help me at such an hour. I never yet have shrunk nor had fear in this respect; but I do not know how soon I may, for I am a poor human being. But I rejoice in the Gospel, and I feel that if there is anything of earth that the Lord has given me control of, I would like to put it where He wants it. I want to help forward His work in every possible way, not only by my means and my ability, but by whatever I have; for I want celestial glory. I crave that with all my heart. I feel as though, with God's help, I would make any sacrifice to obtain it, and obey any law, be it ever so high, so far revealed. 

We have not got all yet. I expect higher laws will be revealed to us as we ascend nearer and nearer to our Father in heaven. Therefore we should prepare ourselves for this, and as fast as we can be willing to obey the laws that God reveals to us. You have heard during this conference considerable on the subject of tithing. In one sense it is a small matter to pay tithing. I consider it like the A. B. C. of the Gospel. The promises concerning it are great, and it is such an easy matter to give one-tenth of all we have. Then why is it dwelt upon so much during this conference? Because this people called Latter-day Saints are defaulters, because they have utterly failed in keeping this law. It is just as necessary that we should warn you about tithing as it would be to warn you about the necessity of th'e laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, if you had not received that ordinance. If this congregation had gone as far as baptism and then had settled down and not desired the laying on of hands, we would preach to you with all our might, and impress upon you the importance of being obedient to that ordinance. And you would not be surprised at that. If  heard us talking- to people who were in that condition, you would say that we were doing perfectly right in impressing them with the solemnity of the holy ordinance of laying on of hands, for they could not have the Holy Ghost without it. Now what shall be said of tithing? I say to you that in your non-payment of tithing you have stopped your progress and you have disobeyed a command of God just as much as if you had refused, after you had been baptized, to have hands laid upon you; just as much as you would have done, after having received the Gospel, had you refused to gather to Zion; just as much as you would if you came to Zion and refused to go into the Temple and have saving ordinances administered to you there, such as the ordinance of marriage for time and eternity and other things. You may or may not think as I do, but I know I have taken the correct position in this matter. Here we have had the word of God through the Prophet Joseph for sixty-two years, and here President Snow, the man who now stands at the head, comes forward and tells the the Church that they are defaulters in this thing, that they have not obeyed this commandment, and that God requires obedience to it. Not only so, but he tells us that we are in danger of being scourged of the Lord for this disobedience. I believe it with all my heart. I believe that this consequence will follow our neglect, and that the anger of God will be kindled against the people, unless they obey this law. It is in our path of progress, and is to be obeyed, not evaded and taken advantage of. Men will take advantage of this law in many ways. They will pay a tithing that is not true. They will not do as Brother Joseph F. Smith said this morning his mother did, pick out the best; but they will pick out something that is practically worthless, as though they were making a bargain with a hard man and glad to get the advantage of him. That is not the spirit of tithing. No blessing will attend the payment of tithing under such circumstances. Men must feel that they are doing this to comply with the law of God, and that for complying with this law they will be rewarded. 

I hope that the Saints will take this view of this law and understand us aright. What do I care, what does President Snow care, what do any of us care, whether you pay money or not? We are able to live without getting anything from you. I thank God that this is the condition of most of us, and that we can live without being a burden to the people, and at the same time do our share in helping the work along. It is not for this that we talk like we do, but it is because of the importance of it to you, so that you may carry this out in your lives, and then get faith enough to do something higher. It has required faith to obey some laws that have been revealed in the past, and it will require faith to obey other laws that will yet be revealed. The heavens are full of truth and of everything that is good and noble, and many things are revealed to the servants of God which they are commanded not to reveal to the people. Why? Because it would try their faith. Joseph had things revealed to him that he did not make known. I heard him once say on the stand, that if he were to tell what the Lord had told him, there were certain persons, and he mentioned their names one of whom was an Apostle, that would go around the streets of Nauvoo seeking his life. I was a boy at that time and I wondered what it could possibly be that would prompt those men, one of them especially, to do such a thing. But there are things which God reveals pertaining to the celestial glory and to the higher worlds that the people are not yet prepared to receive. We will all have to grow in faith before these things can be made known. Paul, we are told, saw things that were unutterable. When the Lord visited the Nephites they had things shown to them and their little children spoke things which could not be written. So it is now. The heavens are full of knowledge. To God in his exalted condition, dwelling in the midst of eternal burnings, surrounded by concourses of holy angels, we are by comparison almost insects in his presence. But we are his children. We have within us the elements of Deity in their inchoate state, to be developed as time passes on and as we obey the laws of God. We think we have taken a great stride when we have obeyed baptism and had hands laid upon us and received the Holy Ghost. We think, Oh! what a wonderful thing has come to us! Well, it is wonderful. But, my brethren and sisters, that is just the beginning of what there is in the future. The heavens are full of light and intelligence, and a little of it has been communicated to us. 

We should live so as to keep in this path of progress, and not stop at tithing, feeling that that is too great an obstacle to get over, and therefore cease to progress. If you do, your faith will wither, the Spirit of God will withdraw from you, and you will be in the dark; and in the resurrection, as I have read, you will be quickened by that spirit a portion of which you have had here. If you have had only a portion of the terrestrial spirit, you will get a fullness of it there. So with the telestial, and so with the celestial. You are all going to be resurrected. The earth is going to be resurrected. It will die; but it will  quickened again, and it will be celestialized and glorified, as we will be. We ought to be numbered among the church of the first-born. I pray God that this may be our happy lot; that we all may live so that we shall be counted among the members of the ' church of the first-born, and that we shall receive a fullnes of celestial glory; which I humbly ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: 

Heavenly Father we would worship thy Great Name this Hallowed Day. 

The solo parts were rendered by Sisters Lizzie Thomas Edward and Mabel Cooper. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Francis M. Lyman. 

Conference then adjourned for six months. 

The stenographic work in taking an account of the nroceedings of the Conference was done by Arthur Winter. 

JOHN NICHOLSON, Clerk of Conference. Its Semi-Annual General Conference. 

The general annual conference of the Sunday schools of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held at the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Sunday evening, April 8, 1900, at 7 o'clock. There were present of the general superintendency, George Q. Cannon and Karl G. Maeser, most of the members of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board, and aids, several of the Apostles, and many Stake superintendents, ward officers, and Sunday school workers. The conference was opened by the Tabernacle choir and congregation singing, "Do What is Right." 

Prayer was offered by Elder George Teasdale. 

The choir sang, "Prayer is the Soul's sincere desire," 

General Secretary Horace S. Ensign called the roll, which was responded to by thirty-four Stakes. 

The secretary then read the annual financial and statistical report for year ending December 31st, 1899. After which he presented the general Sunday school authorities, and they were sustained as follows: Geo. Q. Cannon, general superintendent Karl G. Maeser, second assistant general superintendant; Horace S. Ensign, general secretary; George Reynolds, general treasurer; Leo Hunsaker, assistant general secretary and stenographer. 

As members of the Deseret Sunday School Union board: George Q. Cannon, Karl G. Maeser, George Reynolds, Thomas C. Griggs, Joseph W. Summerhays, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Joseph M. Tanner, George Teasdale. Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, Joseph P. Smith and John W. Taylor. 

As aids to the board: L. John Nuttall. James W. Ure, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills,, W. B. Dougall, Wm. D. 

Owen, Jr., Seymour B. Young and Geo. D. Pyper. 

General Treasurer George Reynolds made a report of the nickel fund donation received during the last four years. 

A kindergarten class of eight little girls from the Eleventh ward, under the direction of Sister Louie B. Pelt, sang two selections very sweetly, which were greatly enjoyed by the audience. 

GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT GEO. Q. CANNON. 

From our statistical report it is seen that we number nearly 120,000, in the aggregate, but if we had all the reports in from the various schools there would be upwards of 121,000. The interest in the Sundav schools is growing. Every meeting that we have of this character shows the importance, the growing importance, of this institution among the people, and it is bearing abundant fruit. There are a great many reasons why we should be zealous in this direction. The reports that come to us from the presidents of missions concerning the ignorance of some of our young men who are sent out to help them ought to stir us all up to diligence in imparting a knowledge of our principles to the rising generation. There is a great field, notwithstanding we have labored for so manv vears in this direction, there is a great need that the children, the young people of this community, be instructed thoroughly in the principles of our religion. I feel to congratulate you on your labors, and I can say truly that there is much cause to rejoice in what has been done. The publications of the Sunday School Union are of such a character as to be of great benefit. I wish to call attention, particularly, to the Leaflets. I do not think there has been any publications in our Church that have exceeded in value the Leaflets as they have been issued from time to time by the Union. I think they are invaluable. I would like all the superintendents and teachers to take every pains in their power to have these Leaflets thoroughly studied and mastered by the young people. 

I do not wish to trespass upon your time, as there are many items of business that have to be attended to, but I say as I have said before, God bless you in your labors and give you great success and great joy in continuing your labor in this direction. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

SECOND ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT KARL G. MAESER. 

The use of the Children's Sunday School Hymn Book. 

The Sunday school superintendents at the Stake Sunday school conferences sometimes report that the Sunday school hymn books are left at home by the children and have gradually gone out of use in their Sunday shools. Now, the Sunday School Union Board has spent considerable means in distributing these hymn books amongst the schools. A great many thousands, included in several editions have been published. Why has this been done? There is a principle involved in the use of these hymn books to which I wish to call your attention. Look over the congregations of the Latter-day Saints in their public meetings and you will perhaps see some old brother or sister using the standard hymn books of the Church and following the choir in the singing, but by far the great majority of the congregation have no hymn books with them, and cannot, therefore, understand the words which the choir are singing. This is all wrong. Singing is a part of the prayer— pleasing in the sight of our Heavenly Father. When there is a prayer being offered to my Heavenly Father, I for one always want to share in it; I want to be counted in that prayer, whether it is offered on the stand by one of the brethren or whether it be in the form of a song. How can this be possible if I do not understand the words that are being sung? Well, I always have  book with me and follow the choir in the singing. Now, this is the point: We older Latter-day Saints have got into the habit of going to meeting with our hymn books, and we are going to endeavor to get the rising generation into the habit of going to meeting with their hymn books, and, in order to do this, we must train them in our Sunday schools. Sunday school superintendents have come to me and said, "Well, brother Maeser, that is all very well, but how is it to be accomplished? We have talked, and talked and talked, but it has done no apparent good. What course would you advise us to pursue?" I have advised them as follows: "My brethren and sisters, if I were a Sunday school teacher and had been as signed by the superintendent to take charge of a certain department, and I had found since my appointment that the children in my department were not in the habit of bringing their hymn books with them. I would say, "My dear pupils, I am going to ask you a question, and that question is, which of you have a hymn book' with you? Hold it up and let me see it. That is all. I am going to ask you this question again next Sunday. If any of you have a hymn book bring it along and let me see it." Next Sunday comes. I have sixty pupils in my department. My question comes. "What question did I say I would ask you today?" Some one says, "You was going to ask who had a hymn book." "Well, how many of you have them?" Four children have hymn books and are able to hold them up; the other fifty-six have none. I would not find fault or scold, or make any discouraging remark, but I would thank and bless these four. "Now next Sunday I shaH ask you this same question again. You four will please bring your hymn books, and if the rest of you will do so I will be obliged." Next Sunday comes. "How many of you have hymn books with you today?" Seven. I have gained three now. I would continue this from one Sunday to another. I have got eleven perhaps the next Sunday, then seventeen, and so on, until three or four months have passed. Never occupy too much time in asking these questions, only about two minutes, no longer. After three or four  there are just five boys without hymn books, now I will suppose myself one of these five boys. The other fifty-five have their books, I cannot stand this any longer; I am getting ashamed of myself. All are beginning to hold up their hymn books but me and the other four. I cannot stand it. I go home and ask my father to give me ten cents with which to buy a hymn book. I get one and hold it up next Sunday with the rest, and then there are only four now without books. My brethren and sisters, it is not hard to do this, but we must persevere; we must never leave off asking this question. Neither must we think that our labor ends when all bring their hymn books, if we do the scholars will become discouraged that no one takes any notice of their books, and they will, by and by, leave their hymn books at home again. Before the year is ended we are in the same fix — the children have no books with them. We have to keep constantly at it. The children are as full of human nature as we are. They must be noticed, and they need some encouragement. We Sunday school workers, the grown up men and women, like a little encouragement in our labors, once in a while. So do the children. They must be noticed and encouraged in their work as much as we older ones. God bless you all is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

We find on the 137th page in the Doctrine and Covenants, the following: 

"For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." 

I have, all the days of my life, enjoyed sinking very much. When I was a little boy ten years of age I joined a singing class, and the professor told me that I could never learn to sing. Some years ago I had my character read by a phrenologist and he told me that I could sing, but he said he would like to be fortv miles away while I was doing it. (Laughter.) I was practicing singing a few weeks ago in the Templeton building-, and the room  I was doing so was next to that of a dentist. The people in the hall decided that some one was having his teeth extracted. (Laughter.) When I was a little boy Sister Eliza R. Snow exercised the gift of tongues, and the interpretation was given by Sister Zina D. Young; and therein I was promised that I should be chosen to be one of the leaders of the Church, and I stand here tonight in fulfillment of that prediction. All the days of my life I have tried to sing "O My Father," written by Sister Eliza R. Snow. When I was a child, next to my own mother, no woman that ever lived took as much interest in me, gave me as much motherly advice or seemed to love me more than did Sister Snow. I loved her with all my heart, and loved her hymn, "O My Father." I remarked some four months ago to Brother Horace S. Ensign that I would be willing to spend four or five months of my spare time if I could only iearn to sing that one hymn. He told me that any one could learn to sing that had perseverance. I said to him if there was anything that I had it was perseverance. So I suggested that we sit down and I would take my first lesson of two hours on that song. I have been continuing the lessons on it ever since. (Laughter.) I have sung it as high as 115 times in one day. I have practiced on the "Doxology" between three and four hundred times, and there are only four lines, and I cannot sing it yet. (Laughter.) I traveled from Holbrook, Arizona, to St. John, with Brothers Clawson and Kimball, some months ago, and I sang one hundred times that day and gave them nervous prostration. (Laughter.) Now I tried to sing "O My Father" at Snowflake, Arizona, and I only got as far as the "O," and I did not get that right. (Laughter.) I have been delighted tonight with the songs of these little children, and I am delighted with the singing that we have in our Sunday schools. A few months before Brother Goddard died I asked him to let me copy the songs contained in his song book, and I told him that, though I could not sing, yet I would read them to the children and would perpetuate his memory by reading these songs. He made some excuse at the time, but shortly before he died he presented me with a copy of his song book, written in his own hand-writing. I prize it more highly than money. I would not exchange it for its weight in gold. I intended to fulfil my promise, but when I learned, after five or six weeks of hard study, and after singing one hymn thousands of times, to sing a little I decided not to read these songs to the children, but to learn to sing them in the Sabbath schools. Professor Heber S. Goddard is now teaching me to sing, "Who's on the Lord's side, Who?" I do not know how many months it will take him, but I propose to learn it some day, whether it takes six months or six years. (Laughter.) When I do, if I get the opportunity, I will sing it here. I make these remarks because I feel that we ought to encourage our young people to learn to sing. From the standpoint of a singer, I have lost thirty-three years of my life. I was told, when ten years old that I could never learn to sing. I did not learn until forty-three years of age, and I have spent four or five months trying to learn to sing the hymns, "God moves in a mysterious way," and "O My Father." I have learned one because of the sentiments and my love for the author, and the other because the late President Wilford Woodruff loved it better than any other hymn in the hymn book. Now all singers say it is a mistake to speak before you sing, and therefore if I do not sing very well it is because I spoke first. (Laughter.) 

Brother Grant here sang two stanzas of "O My Father." 

Now, when Brother Goddard used to sing, when he got off he would try again. I have sung this two or three times with Brother Ensign, and I know that I am not singing it right; I have not pitched it right. Brother Goddard would try sometimes half a dozen times to pitch a song. I think I had better try and get this in a different key. (Laughter). 

Brother Grant then sang the concluding stanzas. (In the same key.) 

Now I expect many of you would like to take a trip of thirty or forty miles when you leave here. (Laughter) . Now some people will say Brother Grant has made an exhibition of him by singing here. I have but one object tonight in speaking and singing, and that is to encourage the young men and young ladies not to waste thirty or forty years of their lives before undertaking to sing. if i had told the congregation that I had learned to sing and had not tried they would not have believed it; and many do not believe it now. (Laughter.) But the fact remains that by continued effort one can learn to sing that has no knowledge of music whatever, as was the case with me. I did not know one note from another, and could barely distinguish one tune from another. When I first began to learn to sing this song ("O My Father") I would get off on nearly every line, and did not know it. I have learned to know when I am off. I have been off two or three times tonight. (Laughter). I have been troubled this evening with stage fright and have been very nervous. I have sung this song at least twenty times in this building. Brother Ensign has been behind me to help me tonight. Probably next time I will not have this stage fright. 

I want to repeat to the superintendents and teachers that the Lord says "the song of the heart" is a prayer to Him and that it shall be answered with a blessing upon our heads. I have a song in my home every morning, since I learned to sing, and I feel that it is a nice part of the family worship, and I feel that we can increase the capacity of our children to sing and to praise the Lord in the songs of Zion, if we will only teach them to sing over and over again. May the Lord bless you, I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

DR. J. M. TANNER. 

"All Sunday School lessons should have a bearing on the Gospel or its principles. 

We are engaged in the instruction of something like one hundred thousand children. When the population of the Latter-day Saints is taken into consideration, this is unquestionably the largest organization of children in the world, and our Sabbath school has its distinct objects, and, among the aims of our labors is the cultivation of the faith of the Latter-day Saints among  children. It is our aim to teach them the principles of the Gospel as we have learned them, and to make of them followers of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and to inculcate a love of that religion as it has been taught to us and as we understand it. It is therefore desirable that all of our Sunday school lessons should have some direct bearing upon our faith. They should have those distinct qualities and characteristics that impress upon the little ones the thoughts and feelings associated with the religion of their parents. For that reason pamphlets have been prepared, courses of studies have been mapped out and instructions have been given in the methods of presentation, and yet there is found, very frequently, a disposition to make this work in the Sunday schools purely an argumentative work, and it would be oftimes very difficult to discern any difference in the qualities of those lessons as taught by us and those taught by other denominations in the world. It is distinctly our aim and purpose then, to give a direct quality and bearing to this work and make the lessons correspond with the spirit of the faith which we have. Naturally enough, therefore, we should adopt those means that will best aid us in this direction. We want to know, then, how to present a lesson from a "Mormon" point of view. We want to know how to give these lessons a direct application to our faith, and that is the object of my remarks tonight. I cannot enter into the details, as time will not permit, but I can mention two means by which this may be brought about. The first, and perhaps most important one is that we understand at the outset that the purpose of religion, the purpose of teaching religion, is that our children may be taught to feel as well as to think; for religion is not a system of philosophy, however much scientists or revolutionists may desire to reduce it to a scientific basis. Religion is the Gospel of correct living, thinking and feeling, of correct lives, if you please, including all that we are, including our feelings as well as our thoughts, and for that reason we ought to be instructed how to think correctly and how to feel correctly. It is particularly the duty of  Sabbath school teacher to rouse within the hearts of his children those intense feelings that are engendered by a strong conviction of the truth of the work as he has received a testimony of it. And how we can teach the children to feel— to feel as we feel? In the first place we. must have strong convictions ourselves, and we must be intensely interested. It must be a work of love and come from the heart. It must be with ourselves a question of correct living, and above all things we must be pure in heart, pure in our thoughts and undefiled in our feelings, constantly, within ourselves, dedicating our lives to God and to His work. The Sabbath school teacher has to deal with children who are pure, who are pure from their infancy, whose lives have not been contaminated with the ways of the world, and he should be a man, or she should be a woman, qualified in every respect to come in contact with the purity of youth, and for that reason there should be a constant effort on our part to so conduct our thoughts and feelings that they shall be pure and sanctified before God. Therein lies our safety; therein lies our success. Every man carries with him a certain influence. There is within his character those qualities that make up his general disposition. We cannot always define that influence, but we know that every man carries with him an influence coming from his own individuality, and that individuality comes from his own thoughts and feelings. Those subjects upon which his thoughts dwell are the subjects that reach, through the influence of our presence, the feelings of others. Hence the necessity of correct living. If there is a Sabbath school teacher that is not constantly striving to better his life, to purify his thoughts and feelings, he is not fitted for the sublime work of a teacher in the Sabbath school. For that reason, therefore, we should constantly keep before us the thought, the idea, that we are directing the feelings of the children, and that convictions are forming within them that will carry them through life, that we are making impressions upon their young minds that will be lasting, and those impressions should be of the very purest and chastest kind. I hope, therefore, that the teachers will feel, when they have their classes before them, that they are to carry convictions to the hearts of their listeners, that they will remember that it is an important part of our teaching to instruct the children how to feel as well as how to think, for both are necessary in a complete life. Then again the Sabbath school teacher should be familiar with the history of the Church. If the Sabbath school teacher has had experience as a missionary he will find striking comparisons between the sayings of the ancient Apostles and Prophets and the Apostles and Prophets of the present time. The missionary will find that the conditions of life amonj ancient Israel were very similar to the conditions of life among us. He will find many striking peculiarities in the system of worship of the apostolic age that are also characteristic of our own system of worship at the present time. In other words, the Sabbath school teacher should be familiar with our own history, with the history of the Church, its organization, the labors of the Elders abroad, and so on, that in bringing up these lesons either from the Old or New Testament he can point constantly to the parallel existing between ancient and modern Israel, and in this way he will have constant illustrations that will enable the scholars to understand how we are like ancient Israel, for if one thing has impressed the Elder in his labors it is the great similarity that exists between us and ancient Israel, the similarity of organization, teachings, etc. The student should understand that if persecution overtook us it also overtook them; that if we were unpopular, they were unpopular; that if they had Prophets and Apostles, we have them likewise. The children should understand that if they believed in continuous revelation, we believe in continuous revelation, and in this manner bring constantly to their attention the similarity that exists between them and us, between our methods and theirs, our lives and theirs, our missionary work and theirs. This similarity may also be shown forth in teaching them geography. The location of ancient Israel was among the mountain tops, as is the case with us; their lakes resemble our lakes; their lake Mermom our 

Sevier Lake, their Galilee our Utah Lake, their Dead Sea our Salt Lake, their River Jordan our River Jordan. The impressions and ideas that they imbibed and that grew up in them on account of their homes and surroundings are peculiar to the Latter-day Saints today. All these things may be shown, and the constant comparisons that may be made in teaching these lessons to the Sabbath school children may reveal and will reveal to the minds of the children the great similarity between us, and these evidences will actually carry with them a conviction of the truth of our religion, and they will be more firmly convinced of its truthfulness than ever before. I hold, then, that these two means may, and ought to be, adopted everywhere in promulgating our doctrines and faith among the children, whatever the subjects may be in the Sabbath school. We are teaching the Old and New Testaments as well as our Church works, and it is as necessary, therefore, that these books — the Old and New Testaments — should be as valuable in establishing the truth and the evidences of that we believe,, as those books known to us as the Doctrine and Covenants and the Book of Mormon. 

I take it that the purpose or aim in asking me to speak upon this subject tonight was to call your attention to the disposition, on the part of some of the tea,chers to make our exercises in the Sunday school argumentative rather than to keep them in the line of our faith, that we shall have a distinct purpose in view in the education of our children in the. Sunday school, and that purpose is to make every one of our Sunday school children firm in the faith of our fathers and faithful and lasting Saints. God bles's you. Amen. 

Miss Judith Anderson sang in good style, a contralto solo entitled, "The Children's Friend,'' which was much appreciated, showing a well trained and beautiful voice. 

Elder John M. Mills read the program of the exercises of the annual Sunday school Stake conferences of 1900. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. SUMMERHAYS. 

If you remember, one year ago last November, we had a Sunday school con. vention which lasted two days. The  superintendency of the SundaySchool Union board feel that it would be good policy to hold another convention next fall similar to the one held last November, a year ago. The reason we mention it tonight is because there is considerable detail work connected with it, and if we hold a convention we must get to work immediately. We desire to ascertain the feelings of this meeting with regard to holding such a convention next fall. All in favor of holding another Sunday school convention some time next fall similar to the one last held will please make it manifest by raising their right hand. 

The vote was unanimous. 

We wish to announce to the Stake and ward superintendents that we are still lacking the histories of some of the Stake Sunday school organizations, as well as those of some of the wards. If you remember, at the close of our fifty years last December it was proposed that we get up a history of our Sunday school movement, to cover that period. We have been working on this book, and it is now being delayed, waiting the histories of the Stake and ward organizations that have not yet been sent in. We trust the lacking information will be forwarded immediately, that the work may not be delayed. 

ELDER THOMAS C. GRIGGS. 

Since coming to this meeting I have been requested to draw the attention of this conference to an item that pertains to our growth and interests. 

It must be realized that, in the existence, approximately, of the Sunday School Union of twenty-five years, from an enrollment of 30,000 it has increased to the number of 120,000, over a fourfold increase in twenty-five years. Our labors have been wonderfully blessed, and I trust that this growth will continue, so that at the end of the next twenty-five years we may be able to show another four-fold growth, bringing it up to nearly half a million. 

The attention of the Union is drawn to the desirability of establishing branch Sunday schools. The rule of the Union Board is embodied in the following: "Urge the desirability of establishing branch Sunday schools in wards where there is need of it; where,  instance, the children have to come long distances, or the school is overcrowded. The Union Board favors, where the distance is great between the different parts of the ward, where two or more Sunday schools are established in the ward, that each be fully organized with a separate superintendency." I will say but a few words with regard to this matter; many might be said. There are conditions existing in places, we find, where, through growth, the buildings have become so crowded that there is not room for more. Where these conditions exist it would be well for the superintendency to look abroad to provide means for establishing branch Sunday schools. This, of course, should be done with the consent and approval of the Bishop of the ward. Where children have to come a long distance also branch Sunday schools could be established with profit, in order to give them the advantages of our Sunday school teaching and training. It is not necessary in all cases that public halls or buildings should be provided. My experience has been that many profitable branch schools have been established, at the beginning, in private houses, where one or two rooms had been opened by some good brother or sister and the children of the vicinity have been gathered in, and in such instances, so far as I have experienced, those branch Sunday schools have grown wonderfully. There is this pleasing feature also connected with the branch Sunday school, as it has been established, and that is that it is largely a missionary factor; for not only do those that are active in the Church become members of these schools, but the facilities being placed within the reach of those that have become somewhat indifferent and who have not attended fully to their meetings and duties, their feelings and interests become aroused and they will send their children to this new school, and in this manner a good work is accomplished. Nor should we rest with this. There are the children of our friends, all brothers and sisters in the human family, to whom we should extend the advantages and privileges of the Gospel, for these principles are as valuable to them as they are to us. The Gospel word has been increased in the mission field by establishing Sunday schools; why should this be done only abroad when we have many opportunities at home? It may, perhaps, become necessary, where deemed advisable, in the establishment of these branch schools, that the main school render them their support and aid. This assistance should be freely given by sending brethren and sisters, experienced if possible, to assist in the teaching and also by sending music books, class registers, hymn books, etc., that they may have material to work with. We trust that the superintendents will be broadminded in this matter and not become circumscribed in their feelings and efforts or think that their work should be confined to their own schools only. 

This, brethren and sisters, Stake and ward superintendents, is but the skeleton of the idea in regard to this matter. I am satisfied that if we were to enter into the field in the Spirit of the Gospel as we should do, the skeleton army, mentioned by the Prophet Ezekiel, will stand upon its feet and be clothed with sinew and flesh and have a body pleasing to look upon. 

May the Lord bless us in these labors and in our efforts is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS. 

Brother Mills, a few minutes ago, read to you the program of the forthcoming ^annual Stake Sunday school conference. I now wish to read to you the dates on -which these conferences will be held. 

April 28th and 29th— St George. May 6th and 7th — Parowan. May 12th and 13th— Malad. May 19th and 20th— Juab— Utah. May 26th and 27th— Jordan. June 2nd and 3rd— Wasatch — Granite. June 9th and 10th — Cache. June 16th and 17th— Oneida— Millard. June 23rd and 24th — Bear Lake — Sanpete. 

June 30th and July 1st — Star Valley. July 7th and 8th— Panguitch and Woodruff. July 14th and 15th — Kanab — Wayne. July 21st and 22nd — Morgan — Sevier. July 28th and 29th— Boxelder— Cassia. August 4th and 5th — Beaver. 

August 11th and 12th— Davis — Bingham. 

August 18th and 19th— Uintah— Fremont. 

August 25th and 26th— Emery— Alberta. 

September 1st and 2nd — Tooele. September 8th and 9th — Summit. September 15th and 16th — Weber. September 22nd and 23rd — Bannock. September 29th and 30th— Pocatello. Elder Reynolds, continuing, said: There are one or two items to which I desire to call your attention. One is with regard to the Leaflets. Some of the superintendents think that, because there is a date upon each, they should only be used on that date. This is a mistake. They can be used at any and at all tinies when desirable. We think that the length of the Leaflets now being published, as well as their great importance, is such that it will take at least two Sundays to consider each one properly, that no teacher should attempt to go over all the matter contained in any one of these Leaflets in one single Sunday. We have already published twelve numbers this year, but no more will be published this month, to give those that are behind a chance to catch up. We shall again begin distributing them to the schools for the first of May. 

The general board of the Deseret Sunday School Union issued, some time ago, another Bible chart, connected with the life of our Redeemer, known to us as number Ave, the superintendents and teachers have apparently not understood this, as our sales have been very small. A copy of this chart hangs on either side of the stand, giving a sample of the pictures contained therein. We wish to call the attention of the superintendents to the fact that we have a large number on hand at the Sunday School Union office. 

The Sunday School Union has also just published a chronological chart of Nephite and Lamanite history, which they propose to give free to every Sunday school which has an enrollment of more than seventy-five members. We have restricted it to this number for the reason that we thought a small Sunday school with less than seventvfive members would probably not have  Book of Mormon class large enough they have now, after considerable time, 

to use this chart profitably. This chart completed their labors. The picture is 

comprises the history of the Book of ready and we will be pleased to preMormon from the time that Lehi and sent a copy of the same to the Stake 

his colony left Jerusalem, 600 years be- superintendents, if they will call at the 

fore Christ, to the end of Moroni's rec- office of the Union, No. 408 Templeton 

ord. It likewise contains a tabular building, tomorrow, or any time after, statement of contemporaneous events 

that took place on the eastern conti- GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT GEO. nent; also the time during which each Q- CANNON. 

About a year ago a commit' se was that they require. I pray God to bless 

appointed 1 to secure the photographs of us in our labors and to give every one 

the Stake spuerintendents of Sunday the spirit of this mission and labor, 

schools of all the Stakes of Zion, as The choir then sang, "God be merciwell as those of the members of the ful unto us and bless us." 

Union Board and the general officers of Benediction by Elder Reed Smoot. 

the Union. These photographs were to HORACE S. ENSIGN, 

be grouped together and a picture General Secretary, 

made containing all of these. A commit- LEO HUNSAKER, 

-J:ee was appointed, as I stated, and Reporter. 

Nephite historian held the records and wrote that people's history. It also contains a statement of the years of the reigns of the Judges, as well as other information which will aid our students in the understanding of Book of Mormon history and chronology. We shall also send a copy to each Stake superintendent, and they can now be obtained at the office of the Deseret Sunday School Union. Any persons wishing to purchase a copy can do so. The price, mounted like the one I Tiave in my hand, backed with linen and mounted on rollers, is one dollar. We expect soon to have a large number of copies on hand in paper, which can be folded up and placed between the leaves of a book, the price of which will be only twenty-five cents. 

Our time has expired. We have been here now nearly two hours. I am down for some closing remarks. I will not trespass upon your time but a minute, but I want to draw your attention to the remarks made by Dr. J. M. Tanner. I think there should be more attention paid to the character of the instruction given in our Sunday schools, and every effort should be made to give the children and the youth a knowledge of our principles. I think we cannot devote our time and attention in any better direction than in taking this subject to heart and carrying it out as well as we can in our schools. We feel proud, I think, of our progress, but I can see a large field stretching out before us yet to be occupied. The children and young people are not receiving, with all our efforts, the thorough training 

8,000 Copies Sold Since April 1, 1899. ft llCW CbUrCl) UIOrR, 498 pages, by Dr. James E. Talmage, written by appointment from the First Presidency. Designed as a text book for use in Church Schools, Sunday Schools, Improvement Associations, quorums, and for individual study. Elegantly bound in all styles. 

PRICES: 

Cloth . . . 

Leather . . . 

Leather Gilt . 

Morocco Gilt 

FOR SALE BY . 00 

1.50 

2.00 

2.50 



^THE DESERET NEWS. 

Special Terms to Dealers, Agents, Classes and Quorums. 



TlK BOOH Of IttOrmon," Two lectures from the above work, compiled in pamphlet form by Dr. Talmage for convenience in study. Price 10 cents. 

(Wed Upon 

A bright, interesting story, illustrating theprinciple of pre-existence as believed by the Latterday Saints. Written by the talented home author, Nephi Anderson. 

Read it Yourself and Send a Copy to Your Friends. THE DESERET NEWS, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. To aid Missionaries in their fields of labor the 

Semi-Weekly News 

Will be sent to subscribers sent in by them at 

One Dollar a Year. 

This offer applies only to subscribers in the missionary field. 





