Morning
06 04 1900



PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 
Opening Address. 

My brethren and sisters — I desire a deep interest in your faith and prayers. When I say this I express the feelings, I presume, of every Elder who arises to speak to the Latter-day Saints. So far as giving information and assisting the Latter-day Saints in their faith is concerned, we are dependent on the Spirit of the Lord and, in a measure, the exercise of faith by the people of God. 

I am thankful for the blessings that have attended me in my endeavors to forward the interests of the Church and for the prayers and support that I have had from the people, who have listened to the requirements of the Lord and have conformed to them at least to a certain extent. 

Seventy years ago this Church was organized with six members. We commenced, so to speak, as an infant. We had our prejudices to combat. Our ignorance troubled us in regard to what the Lord intended to do and what He wanted us to do. Through the blessings of the Lord, however, we managed to move along in our stage of infancy, receiving support from the Lord as He saw proper to give it. We advanced into boyhood, and still we undoubtedly made some mistakes, which did not generally arise from a design to make them, but from a lack of experience. We understand very well, when we reflect back upon our own lives, that we did many foolish things when we were boys, because of our lack of experience and because we had not learned fully to obey the instructions of our fathers and mothers. "We could not then comprehend that it was absolutely necessary, for our proper advancement, that we should observe the counsels of our parents. Many of us afterwards learned It, but too late perhaps to correct ourselves. Yet as we advanced the experience of the past materially assisted us to avoid such mistakes as we had made in our boyhood. 

It has been so with the Church. Our errors have generally arisen from a lack of comprehending' what the Lord required us to do. But now we are pretty well along to manhood; we are seventy years of age, and one would imagine that after a man had lived through his infancy, through his boyhood, and on until he had arrived at the age of seventy years, he would be able, through his long experience, to do a great many things that seemed impossible and in fact were impossible for him to do in his boyhood state. When we examine ourselves, however, we discover that we are still not doing exactly as we ought to do, notwithstanding all our experience. We discern that there are things which we fail to do that the Lord expects us to perform, some of which he required us to do in our boyhood. But we feel thankful and grateful that we are enabled now, through our past experience, to accomplish many things that we could not do in former times and that we are able to escape individual sins that have brought trouble upon us in times past. While we congratulate ourselves in this direction, we certainly ought to feel that we have not yet arrived at perfection. There are many things for us to do yet. 

The Lord has prospered us amazingly, and we are doing large things at the present time. We are blessing the people of the world. We are sending well on towards two thousand Elders out into the missionary field, and we learn that they are having very good success; and notwithstanding all the difficulties that seemingly have arisen to make trouble for the Latter-day Saints, we are pleased to find that it has all tended to good. Our Elders in the mission  tell us that the excitement which has been created and carried on almost universally throughout the United States has caused people to become wonderfully interested to know what Mormonism is, and, in order to get an understanding of our principles, they flock to our meetings. Because of this the Elders feel very grateful. This is what we wish and what there has been a difficulty in accomplishing, that is, in getting the people out to hear what we have to say, so that they might understand what Mormonism really is from those who understand what it is, instead of receiving it from those who understand nothing at all about it, only as they hear stories concerning it. So this is going on all right and will work all right. We ought to be very grateful that this missionary work is being accomplished so successfully by the many Elders that are now in the various missionary fields. 

We are also establishing colonies here and there. We are sending many families into Canada, and they are moving along very successfully. We are about to send a hundred families into the Big Horn region, in the State of Wyoming, and Latter-day Saints are moving into other places and building up the country. 

Now that we are approaching our seventy-first year.the Lord expects that we will do something — something that will cause the nations to marvel, as what we have done has caused them already to wonder. 

Now, Latter-day Saints, how is it with us? We have received the Gospel. We have received the kingdom of God, established on the earth. We have had trouble; we have been persecuted. We. were driven from Ohio; we were driven from Missouri; we were driven from Nauvoo; and once we were driven for a time from this beautiful city. Many have lost thousands of dollars; lost their homes and all they had, and some of the brethren have seen their wives and children lay down their lives because of the hardships they had to experience during these changes, these persecutions, these revolutions and these drivings. The people have  with astonishment at the willingness of the Latter-day Saints to suffer these things. Why do we do this? Why do we adhere to these principles that have caused us at times so much grief and sacrifice? What is it that enables us to endure these persecutions and still rejoice? It is because we have had revelations from the Almighty; because He has spoken to us in our souls and has given to us the Holy Ghost, which is a principle of revelation wherever it exists and is promised to every man, as in the days of the former Apostles, who will believe, repent of his sins and be immersed in water for the remission of them by those who have the authority from the Lord to administer this ordinance. Jesus, when he was among the children of men, said that He would build His Church upon this principle of revelation and the gates of hell should not prevail against it. When He was in Cesareea He asked His disciples "Whom do men say that I the Son of Man am?" He had been performing miracles and accomplishing the most astonishing wonders in the midst of the people. What did the people learn from these things and what did they think of Him? As the Apostles replied, some said that He was John the Baptist, risen from the dead; some thought He was one of the former Prophets, while others thought He was Elias. The Savior said to His disciples "But whom say ye that I am?" Peter replied "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God." How did he find it out? On the same principle that you and I have found out that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, who, like Noah, was sent into the world to give the people warning before the great burning should occur and to call upon them to repent of their sins. Peter had found it out by the principle of revelation. He had not learned this of man, nor by reading the ancient Scriptures, but the Lord had revealed it unto him. Jesus said unto him, "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say also unto thee, that thou art Peter; and upon this rock I will build my Church; and the  of hell shall not prevail against it." The Church of Christ today is built upon this same principle, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. They did not prevail against us in our infancy; they did not in our boyhood; they did not in our early manhood; and I will assure you they will not now that we are seventy years old. 

This Church will stand, because it is upon a firm basis. It is not from man; it is not from the study of the New Testament or the Old Testament; it is not the result of the learning that we received in colleges nor seminaries, but it has come directly from the Lord. The Lord has shown it to us by the revealing principle of 4;he Holy Spirit of light and every man can receive this same spirit. 

In the days of Noah the people of that generation had the privilege of knowing whether Noah spoke from the Lord and whether the message that he claimed to have from the Lord was genuine or not. They, could have had a revelation for themselves, because he preached the Gospel as you and I now preach it in the world, and they could have known that their salvation depended upon their receiving and obeying this message which Noah delivered unto them. In the days of Jesus it was the same. But no person can know that Jesus is the Son of God, except by revelation. That was the way Peter received it. The Lord is a consistent being. He does not require the people to do that which is improper, nor does he expect of them anything unreasonable. He gives us a knowledge of what we shall do, inasmuch as we are willing to sacrifice our lives rather than go contrary to that knowledge. He opens to us the secrets of the celestial kingdom, and he is constantly communicating to us things that we never knew before. This knowledge and intelligence is growing upon us continually. 

Ought we not to be thankful, therefore, today? Every man and woman within the sound of my voice ought to be grateful that circumstances are as favorable as they are. Everything is for us and nothing can prevent our moving forward now in our seventy-first year. There is no power that can prevent us, as there has been none in the past. We have received too much knowledge to be thwarted in our purposes. Those who desire to persecute and overthrow Mormonism, let them go on and do their work; that is for them to do. Our work is to grow in the knowledge of God, to keep the commandments of God, to be faithful and to continue to increase and to become more and more perfect as we advance in years. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters. We rejoice to see you here. You have come that you might be blessed that you might get information that will be of service to you and knowledge that will increase your intelligence; and there will be from fifteen to twenty speakers, I am sure that every person who has come here for the purpose of receiving information and being blessed will have the opportunity, through some of the speakers, to get something that will be very valuable to them for the future scenes through which they will be called to pass. 

God bless you, brethren and sisters, and may we have a glorious time and one of the best conferences that we have ever had, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM YOUNG. 

God has brought the Saints through every ordeal — Tithe-paying not a question of Monty, but of priuciple — The Redemption of Zion. 

I take great pleasure in bearing testimony to the remarks that have been made by President Snow this morning. I am thankful to God and to our President for the testimony that he has given us. It arouses in my mind many reflections, brings before me the past history of this Church and foreshadows the future destiny of this people. God has been merciful to the Latter-day Saints, and if there are any men opposing us that have the idea that we do not pray for them, they are mistaken. We pray the Lord to soften the hearts of our enemies. We pray that they may be turned from their evil ways and not kick against the pricks, but seek to forsake the evil that is within them and to do good. They are, however, in the hands of God, as we are. 

We are glad to know that this people have gained victory after victory. They  marched on, conquering and to conquer. In our youth, as stated by our President, when struggling against fearful odds, we came out greater, nobler, better soldiers of the cross than when we entered into this vortex of persecution; and now in our manhood, in our riper years, thank God that we have heard the voice of our leader saying that we are marching on to success and victory— to the time when men and nations will arise up and say, "Thou blessed people, that have fought the good fight, that have led the way and established righteousness in the land of our fathers." I expect to see this day. There is no power that can battle successfully against our Father and God. If we are His people, we are sure to win. If we are not His, how is it that we have been so successful from the beginning? and have through His power, in which we have trusted, grown to be seventy years old, instead of being a mere child in swaddling clothes? God has done it; He has given us these rights and blessings. I felt in my heart while the President was talking that I could prophesy to those who fight against us. Do your worst; do your best; try to accomplish all the evil that is in your hearts; but as true as God lives this kingdom will sweep on, this Church will progress, and the Kingdom of God will be as the stone cut out of the mouru tain without hands— it will crush all opposition. Now, that is not disloyal, because God will do it, not man. 

I am not opposed to any man who seeks to do right. I am not opposed to any government that seeks to give liberty to the people and the privilege to exercise that free agency which Go^ has given to all men. Every man an'; woman must have their agency. No man can take- it from the sons and daughters of our Father. 

It occurred to me this morning while sitting here that if I happened to be called upon to speak, I would read a part of the 29th chapter of Alma, in the Book of Mormon. 

"O, that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God. with a voice to shrke the earth, and cry repentance unto every people; 

"Yea, I would declare unto every soul as with a voice of thunder, repentance, and the plan of redemption, that they should repent and- come unto our God, that there might not be more sorrow upon all the face of the earth. 

"But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish; for I ought to be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto .me. 

"I ought not to harrow up in my desires, the firm decree of a just God, for I know that he granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that he alloteth unto men, according to their wills; whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction. 

"Tea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men; for he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his desires; whether he desireth good or evil, to him it is given according to his desires; whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of conscience. 

"Now seeing that I know these things, why should I desire more than to perform the work to which I have been called. 

"Why should I desire that I was an angel, that I could speak unto all the ends of the earth. 

"For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his word; yea, in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true." 

The Lord is with his people, and I know it. We have learned to know good from evil. Three score years and ten shall be the days of man on earth. We have arrived at the full stature of a man; for we are three score years' and ten this day, and if this people will arise in their manhood, as they have struggled to their feet in their childhood and youth, God will give them the strength of a man. They shall have the power to build up and inhabit, to sow and reap, and if the snows do not come in the mountains, God will send through the faith of the people, the pleasant rains to moisten the earth, that vegetation may spring forth and gladden the hearts of all. Now I learn a good many lessons myself from what I read to you, though I have not reflected so much perhaps as 1 will on the words of Alma. 

I heard a man say in relation to tithing, "I don'.t want to pay my tithing, unless I can make a showing that will  a credit to me and really help to build up Zion. If I could put in ten thousand dollars, I would be glad to do it, but I have nothing. I could pay a little tithing, but the idea seems ridiculous for me to step forward and pay a dollar in tithing. It seems to me like I was making a mockery of this sacred principle." But I take the other view of this, and I said to him, "My friend, if you were a child and received five cents, I would caution you to remember the fact that you owed half a cent tithing, and when you had received another and another five cents, until they amounted to fifty cents, I would advise you to go and pay your tithing on that, not for the sake of the money, but for the sake of principle." If it were a question of money, where would have been the salvation of this people? When President Snow was speaking this morning I felt that the power of God was manifest in our preservation, and that money had nothing to do with it. The everlasting power of our Father has brought this people to see this auspicious day. If every man and woman would follow the example of the widow and cast in their mites, they would be acting upon principle. The amount of money paid has nothing to do with it. It is the principle which God has commanded us to observe. This is the idea that we want to instill into the hearts of the people of this generation, especially at this time, when the servant of God has delivered unto you and me the message that the time has come when this revelation, given on the 8th day of July, 1838, in Far West, Caldwell county, Missouri, must be observed. That revelation has now come to the front. It is as if God had inspired His servant to write a new revelation to the people, which must be observed, because it lies at the foundation of our prosperity in these mountains. General Thomas L. Kane once said to me, "This land, on the backbone of the American continent, from Mexico to Canada, it seems to me, belongs to the "Mormon" people. They led the way into the Rocky mountains, and occupied these valleys, and they ought to have the land." Well, there are not many people that think that, but I am of the same opinion as General Kane. We ou^ht to have this land. But in relation to our preservation upon this land, I have felt sometimes very insecure. Alma wished that he were an angel, that his voice could be heard by the whole world and that he could convert all the sons and daughters of Adam to the Gospel which he had received. I would that I had a hundred thousand dollars to pay in as tithing, because it would make a good showing and I would be talked about. And some have the ambition to be spoken of in the midst of Israel. But I want to say to you that tithing is a principle that God has established for the training of men. It has been with us in our childhood and in our boyhood and in our young manhood, and apparently it has almost been a dead letter at times. But the revelation has come to us in our manhood, when we have reached a stage wherein we know God, and having received this knowledge and being of the full stature of a man, we can rise up as one man and obey this commandment, which has come from God through His authorized servant. I appeal to you on this point. Let every man and woman in this Church arise and do that which God has called upon them to do, that this land may be sanctified and be a land of safety unto us. I do not wish to utter a threat, but I do know this: every time we have disregarded and set at naught the commandments of Almighty God, we have paid for it. We must learn, if it must needs be by the things we suffer. By and by the Saints will prove to all concerned that this principle of tithing is dear to them, and they will surely fulfill to the very letter what God has called upon them to do. 

In a little time you will hear something like this: "Well, the 'Mormons' are moving again. They are leaving Utah, Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico, Old Mexico, Wyoming, Idaho and all these places wherever they are located, and they are having another exodus." Where are they going? Why, you will find out that it will be a pretty strong company going down to Jackson county, Missouri, to redeem and build up Zion, but the word will go forth that the "Mormons" are having another exodus. The people will sav that we  going down to inhabit this land of Missouri, and "we are willing they should." Some that are afar off may howl, but the people mostly interested will be glad to see the "Mormons" return to that land and build it up. Some will say "We have been upon that land and it has proved a land of death unto us." They will have suffered the full force of that desolating sickness which will cover the land, even in Jackson county, Missouri. But when our leader calls upon the Latter-day Saints that are worthy to move down there, the land will be prepared for the Latter-day Saints— not "Mormons." Those who go to Jackson county in that day will be Latter-day Saints. The "Mormons" will be left in Utah, with enough Latter-day Saints to control them. 

I will tell you what is in my heart. We are preparing this day in our manhood for the most glorious epoch that has ever come to man upon the earth. If you do not feel in your hearts that this is the most glorious day that we ever witnessed on this earth, then you do not feel as I do. I feel that there is more of the spirit of God, more wisdom, more knowledge, more light, more intelligence and a better union among those that are Latter-day Saints than I ever witnessed in my life. I bear you my testimony that the providences of God have been with this people, and the scenes that will come before us will be such that we will need all the power and all the union that, we can get to stand and accomplish His work. Now is the accepted time to thrust in our sickles and reap that which has been sown among us and which is now ripe. It was sown in 1838; it is ripe today. That revelation is ripe and the fulfillment of it is ripe. We are now in our manhood, when we can receive and act upon it without question. God will bear us off victorious and we can smile like Him who sits in the heavens and laughs, for we are told that He shall have the wicked in derision, and this people will smile to see the fruitless efforts of those who would retard the progress of the work. They may have been successful sometimes in the past for a little season, but through it all they have seen us grow until we have  arrived to our full manhood. Thank God we see this day. God bless you and all who are interested in this work, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER F. M. LYMAN. 

The Spirit of God the source of Union— Why the Saints are a peculiar people— The coming of Christ and Redemption of Zion— Necessity for preparation. 

While I attempt to speak to you, my brethren and sisters, I trust I mav be able to make you hear, and that by the aid of the Spirit of the Lord we may feel encouraged and strengthened in our faith. We meet together frequently as a Church in general conference for the transaction of business and to receive the word of the Lord. We have the ancient Scriptures and we have the modern Scriptures, and scriptures are being made now, as has always been the case when the Lord has had His Church upon the earth, with the living oracles; for when they speak by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, what they say is scripture. We are entitled to know individually whether our brethren speak to us the truth, for it is our privilege to enjoy the same Spirit that they speak by. This is the power that binds the Latter-day Saints together, and that holds us to our obligations and covenants with the Lord and with each other. We are not held by threats, nor by fear, but by love — the love of the Gospel, which has been planted in our hearts and has been growing with the people for these seventy years. We have become a pretty well trained people, and four-fifths of the Latterday Saints, I believe, are doing tolerably well, and I believe that the one-fifth that are careless in some things, are perhaps laboring fairly well in others. There will no doubt be Quite a percentage of the people that will not be found numbered among the wise. 

While listening to Brother Brigham Young and to President Snow, the para, ble put forth by our Savior, as recorded in the 25th chapter of Matthew, was presented to my mind, and I thought to read it, that we might be brought to consider by its examination whether we are numbered among the wise or among the foolish. This  a very important matter; for if we travel along with this Church for twenty years, for thirty, forty or fifty years, and then at the last find that we have failed to save our souls and that we are among the foolish, it will be very unprofitable to us. As President Snow has said, we are gathered together for the building up of the kingdom of God upon the earth, and there is some reason why we should be thus gathered; why we should take upon us the obligations that we have; why we should endure the hardships that we have; why we should, among all the denominations on the earth, be singled out for the despising of all people, and why this condition should stay with us and follow us in preference to any other people in the world. We are a small people, not very important in numbers nor in wealth, and yet every little while something occurs that creates quite a furore in regard to the Latter-day Saints. The whole world becomes agitated and in a ferment over the Latter-day Saints, and there is trouble in the hearts of many people for fear the Latter-day Saints will do something very wrong. What is the matter? Are the Latterday Saint© minding the business of any other denomination? Are we troubling ourselves particularly about our brethren who have other forms of religion? Are we excited and worried over them? Do we combine together with some other people in order to look after the morality and purity, or the immorality and corruption of other people? How carefully the Latter-day Saints attend to their own business! And is it not a proper thing for the Latter-day Saints to take care of themselves, their own morality and honesty? Shall we not give attention to our own affairs, and are we not just about of the same material, the same kind of people, as our other religious brethren? Have we not come from among other denominations? Have we not been gathered from among the Catholics, the Presbyterians, the Methodists, the Baptists, the Congregationalists and the Christians, as well as the infidels? Now, have we gone to these various denominations and gathered the very worst of them? Have we ever advertised in our periodicals and In our preaching and labors, publicly or privately — have we ever bid for the bad Methodists, the bad Presbyterians, the bad infidels? Have we ever promised them an easy way of salvation? Have we done any of these things, or have we gone to the world conscientiously and honestly and laid before them the offer of life and salvation on consistent and Christian terms? Have we ever promised anybody that they could be saved in their sins? Have we ever asked anybody to come into this Church without repentance, without reformation, without honesty, without virtue? Have we entered into a compact with anybody to be corrupt? Have we promised them immunity from the punishment of the law if they transgressed the law? Do we cover up their sins and hide them? Are we doing that? Are Bishops, Presidents of Stakes, Presidents of quorums, Elders, High Priests and Seventies asking the corrupt and wicked from among the nations of the earth to come to us and we will shield them in their corruption, in their adulteries, their fornications, their thieving and their dishonesty? "Why no. But we have presented to the world a very startling and remarkable work, a work that requires repentance and reformation. And when repentance has been complied with, in order that that repentance may be genuine and the forgiveness of sins continue, it must be eternal. It is not enough for men to repent in order to come into the Church, and then do as they please, but their repentance must be perpetual; it must not need to be repented of. If a man has been a thief and ceases to steal, he must continue to refrain from his larcenies. If a man has been a liar, a deceiver, or currupt in any degree whatever, it is required of him m this Church that he must cease forever. If he should live a hundred years, he would not live long enough to have any degree of allowance shown to him for transgression because of his age, but the older men are the better they must be. I think that is reasonable; for the oldest of all whom we have ever heard of is said to be good and the only one that is entirely good — our Father who is in heaven. I say the father should  better than the son, the n. other should be better than the daughter, and this Church has now arrived at the full ripe age of three score and ten. What shall we do who have been entrusted with the holy Priesthood? Can we afford to be indifferent and careless? We are now seventy years nearer to the coming of the Son of Man than we were when the Prophet Joseph, under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, organized this Church. Afterthis extended experience, can we not well afford to be good, conscientious and honest with the Lord. Can we not afford to make our repentance and reformation genuine from this time forth, believing that the coming of the Son of Man, the redemption of Zion and the fulfillment of the purposes of the Lord are at our door? 

Can we not afford to do this now, so that when the Bridegroom comes we shall be prepared to meet Him; for He will come; he has always come when he has promised. He has visited the earth in this dispensation and has established his authority and power among men, and the Millennium, the reign of righteousness, is to be ushered in; and it is liable to come in our day. The redemption of Zion is also liable to come in our day. There is doubtless a set time for the redemption of Zion and for the coming of the Son of Man. The time has not been made known to us, and is not likely to be, until He comes. It would hardly be fair for the Presidency, the Twelve, and the presiding brethren to know the very time of His coming, so that they could be prepared, and let the people be indifferent and careless. The coming of the Son of Man will be as much ,of a surprise to the presiding brethren as to any others. That is, it will occur when they are not looking for it particularly. "We hope to be prepared, and we hope the people will be prepared, but it will come suddenly, and you will know it as soon as we know it. We have the Spirit of that coming, and the Spirit of the redemption of Zion. We have the Spirit that indicates that in the near future the Lord will appear. 

Hence, the Spirit of the Lord has been very powerfully upon President Snow and his brethren, and they have been  to urge upon the people the importance of reformation, not alone in the law of tithing, but in every other principle of the Gospel. Tithing alone is not enough. It will yield its measure of oil and light, and of inspiration and power, to those who observe that law. But if we are non-prayers, non-partakers of the Sacrament; if we are not found doing by others that we would that others should do by us; if we are not honest and virtuous, the fact of our being tithe-payers will not be enough to save us. But it is pretty well discovered and understood that if men can stand the test of the law of tithing, which appeals to our wealth, they will be able to make other sacrifices as. well; for there is a strength and a' power which comes in answer to our fulfillment of this law that will enable us to do other things much less difficult. There are many things less difficult than the payment of tithing. In our fallen condition, being of the earth earthy, we love the things of this world, and it is a most difficult thing for some of us to meet this requirement of the Lord. There is quite a percentage of the brethren who have received the Priesthood, as well as members of the Church, who ought to be tithepayers and are not. I want to ask any man upon whom I have ever laid my hands and conferred authority in the name of the Lord Jesus; I want to ask any brother who has ever had the hands of the servants of God laid upon his head, to confer the Priesthood of God upon him, can you reconcile your course of life, if you neglect to furnish the revenue necessary for the building up of the kingdom of God on the earth? Can you justify yourself in this? I want the High Priest, the Seventy and the Elder to come to me as an individual and show to me his philosophy and reasoning as to how he can conscientiously hold the Priesthood of God and yet decline to meet the obligations that belong to that Priesthood. I believe that there is no man in this Church entitled to the holy Priesthood who will not magnify it. I believe the Lord requires it of every Deacon, every Teacher, every Priest, every Elder, every High Priest, every Seventy, every Pa, every Bishop, President, etc. And we .will not always be tolerated with the authority of God unless we do honor it. We will be found among the foolish, lacking oil in our lamps and being unprepared for the coming of the Son of Man, unless we attend faithfully to these duties. 

Is a man justified in this church who fails to partake of the Sacrament when the opportunity is offered? Is a man justified who does not bow his knee before the Lord daily, and who forgets the Lord in secret prayer? I think not. I believe that the Latter-day Saints are required to meet all these obligations and to be as honest with their brethren as they are required to be honest with the Lord. It is not enough for us to pretend to be honest with the Lord, and not be honest with our brethren. We cannot be honest enough with our Father in heaven to justify us in being dishonest with our brethren. We must meet our obligations to our brethren, to our families, to the world. We must deal honestly and conscientiously in all these things. If we do not.the spirit of the Lord will withdraw from us, and when the spirit of the Lord withdraws from us, we complain, we find fault, we are not happy, and we are not satisfied. We cannot afford to sacrifice the presence of the spirit of the Lord, because we cannot be Latter-day Saints unless we enjoy it and are directed by it constantly. It seems to be a difficult thing to do to meet our temporal obligations to the Lord. Our hearts are naturally set upon the things of this world. We can see temporal blessings a little plainer than we can see the spiritualities of the kingdom, for they are here before us, and we enjoy them. We are inclined to gather the things of this world around us and to treasure them up, while the spiritual things, and eternal life with our families and friends hereafter, pertain to the future. They are a little ahead of us, and if we do not have the spirit of the Lord strongly in our hearts, there is more or less a question of doubt and misgiving about them. All these things, however, vanish when we discharge the duties that devolve upon us as Latter-day Saints. And we expect to look after every man, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the Presidents, the Bishops, and the Apostles, and see to it that all who have been entrusted with the authority and power of God, shall come to the mark and do their duties faithfully and well, that they with their families may be saved. We want you to be saved; but if you do not want the salvation that is offered through the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, why make the profession that you do? There is no salvation in professions alone, or in promises and covenants, nor is there any salvation in the blessings that are put upon us under the hands of the servants of God, unless we do the will of God. I want to bear that testimony to this people, and ask that from this time forward we serve the Lord with all our hearts, so that when the Son of Man appears upon the earth, we will be numbered among the wise virgins of my text — which I have not read; you can hunt it for yourselves. 

We feel encouraged in our labors, although we are all the time trying to stir the people up. Yet in our councils the Lord has manifested to us that the Latter-day Saints are improving, that they are gaining strength and power, increasing in numbers, spreading abroad and becoming more firmly established on the earth, and that prosperity and success are attending upon them. The best days that we have ever had are the days in which we live now. The kingdom is the Lord's and He will take care of it. It is our business, my brethren and sisters, to see that we take care of ourselves. The Lord will take care of the Kingdom, and no power on earth can prevail against it. As suggested this morning, if it was secure when it was organized seventy years ago, with only six members, what shall we say of it when it numbers over a quarter of a million? We certainly feel encouraged. We feel as though we were on the Lord's side, and that the Lord is on our side. We know He is, for He talks to us and directs us in all things pertaining to this Kingdom. He sustains His servant the Prophet, and magnifies him in the eyes of the people. The will of God is known, and the keys and authority of God are always present. The Lord has established His work, and 

He will preserve it.. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may Hi» Spirit fill >ur hearts, that we may rejoice exceedingly in this conference, is my prayer through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem: "Jesus, I my cross have taken." 

Benediction by Elder Seymour B. Young. 


