Outdoor Overflow
05 10 1919

An open-air meeting was held at the Bureau of Information building, Sunday afternoon, 2 o'clock, October 5. 

Elder Stephen L. Richards, of the Council of the Twelve, presided. The congregation sang: 

Redeemer of Israel, 

Our only delight, On whom for a blessing we call, 

Our shadow by day, And our pillar by night, Our King, our Deliv'rer, our all. 

We know He is coming 

To gather His sheep, And lead them to Zion in love; 

For why in the valley Of death should they weep, Or in the lone wilderness rove? 

How long we have wandered 

As strangers in sin, And cried in the desert for Thee! 

Our foes have rejoiced 

When our sorrows they've seen, But Israel will shortly be free. 

As children of Zion, Good tidings for us, The tokens already appear; 

Fear not, and be just, For the kingdom is ours; The hour of redemption is near. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Lawrence W. Richards, secretary of the Deseret Sunday School Union. 

The congregation sang: "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION 

(President of the Central States Mission) 

I trust, my brethren and sisters and friends, that I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord, in attempting to address you upon this occasion. I am very happy to be here and to have the opportunity of bearing testimony to the things which I know to be the truth. 

The message of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the children of men is one of good will. The Church extends a. friendly feeling toward men, and desires to encourage men and women to look unto the Lord in a way that will bring unto them salvation, for, as. was said in our service yesterday by Elder David O. McKay, there is no name under heaven whereby men may obtain salvation except the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. It matters not what denominations may preach or what men may say concerning the true order of worship, there can only be one way by which men may be saved and that is through a strict obedience to the principles of the gospel taught by Jesus Christ our Lord and which have been revealed again anew in the dispensation of time in which we live. 

We know that the Lord's way of communicating with men upon the earth, according to history and according to scripture, has always been by revelation, either through personal visitation or through revelation by angels, or by his voice; by these means he has communicated with men at various times since the beginning of the world, whenever he has had a message to bear unto his children. And I bear testimony unto you that in the dispensation of time in which we live he has spoken again and revealed the gospel of Christ with all its gifts and blessings, that the children of men who inhabit this land and this earth in these the last years of the earth's history shall have the privilege of redeeming themselves through repentance if they desire, and I take it for granted that the majority of men and women desire to be saved. I take it for granted that they desire to obtain the best they can in life, and I feel that when the true order of worship is made known unto men they will come unto him and receive the blessings which he has promised unto them.  I believe that the Lord, who created this earth and who arranged it so beautifully, of which you and I are witnesses in a measure, provides a still greater measure for his children who are the highest of his creation, and that he does not leave us upon this earth to go through the world alone and to take chances of salvation, when in the hearts of his children there is a desire to serve him and to keep his commandments. 

I have never seen occasion to fall out with the Protestant churches 185  this country, or the Catholic church, or with any of the churches, but, after going into the question thoroughly, I have become convinced beyond the question of a doubt — and to me it is a real possession — that in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the authority of God on this earth. There can not be found in any other church the authority to preach the gospel and to administer in the ordinances of it, to take men and women into the waters of baptism and to confer upon them the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, which is a witness unto all men that Jesus is the Christ and that this is his work. 

Paul said that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed, and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by the Holy Ghost, and if that was true in the days of Paul (and the world, practically, so far as Christianity is concerned, swears by him), then it is true today. If it was necessary then for men, in order to obtain that truth, to follow the instructions he gave, it is necessary now. God ordained one plan in the beginning. He has said that he is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and if that be true so are his principles. There can be no variation.. The same doctrine must be taught today that was taught in the days of Adam, that was taught in the days of Enoch; that was taught in the days of Abraham, aijd so down. If he -shows no turning nor shadow of change, and I am sure that he does not, then his doctrine applies to the children of -men in this dispensation as it did in the days of the Christ, and' even back unto the days of Adam. And this is that through repentance and faith in God, men may turn unto him and be redeemed of him and then go on to perfection, as Paul has stated, "Not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith towards God, but go on to perfection," receiving the higher principles and ordinances of the gospel, which lead men into the eternal worlds from whence they came. 

These principles give men an understanding in a measure of the positions that they shall occupy in that future which will be according to their works upon the earth. I am convinced, my brethren and sisters and friends, that the condition of men and women in this world is according to the blessings pronounced upon them and according to their works in that world from which we came. We may all have, it is true, the same rights and the same blessings and promises, but they are all -predicated upon obedience, and in the future that awaits us, your life and mine, and that of every other son and daughter of God, will depend largely upon our life here in the flesh. 

It was the order of God our Father in the beginning, that there should be continually among us a living prophet, and there can be no scripture brought forth to prove that there has ever been made a change. God has always had a prophet to reveal unto his children his mind and his will from the days of Adam until now, with the exception of the time when the people apostatized and the gospel was taken from the earth. When I looked upon President Heber J. Grant this morning*, a man that we have known all our lives (I remember him GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the days of my childhood); when I heard him bearing testimony unto Israel gathered together, it came to me again that there was a prophet of God. There came into this world with Heber J. Grant this blessing which he received as an endowment, .according to his faith in the world from which he came, that he was to be born into the world a leader and a prophet of God, I said to myself: .Verily is it true that leaders are not made, but they are born. They come into the world born leaders, born prophets, men who have been trained in the royal Priesthood of our Father, and their works do follow them when they are given the opportunity in the flesh, and we see him, we hear him, and we can bear testimony unto the children of men that in the valleys of the mountains, in the tops of the everlasting hills there stands and lives a prophet of God, who is in direct communication with his Father and with our Father, for your good and for mine. Happy are we if we pay attention unto the things which we hear from time to time, especially those things which pertain unto us, individually, in our own lives. 

Thanks be to our Father that we have come upon the earth in a day and in a time when the gospel is here, when the prophets o r God are here to govern and control, and, mark you, my brethren and sisters and friends, whether you be of the Church or not, I want to say to you if you question the things that I say concerning the gospel of Jesus Christ and the things I have spoken, I refer you to the law and to the testimony. If you think men and women come into this world by chance and that they are given opportunities here without appointment you are very much mistaken, for it is not the order of the Son of God and is not found in the scripture in which we all believe more of less. Men come into this world according to their works, according to their faith, and according to their devotion, and we, when we leave this world, will go on and find there a future arranged for us according to our life in the flesh. We heard President Grant say this morning, and it is a principle in which we all believe, that he saw his father and the prophet Joseph Smith and that he saw them consulting together concerning his appointment. Is not that the scripture? We read in the scripture concerning the history of Job that the sons of God were gathered together and Satan was there also. The president this morning brought to our attention that these things do occur in this dispensation, and in our day; and that those who have preceded him, those who have gone from among our midst as bishops and as presiding officers, do live and that they enjoy their faculties, that they are able to hear, and to speak, to act, and to work according to the pattern of the Almighty God, that they do not lose their individual entity when they leave this earth, and that their life there is a continuation of their life here, and their powers and their usefulness are based upon their activity here in the flesh. I pray the Lord to bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen. 187 

ELDER WINSLOW FARR SMITH 

(President of the Northern States Mission) 

"God moves in a mysterious way, 

His wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps in the sea, And rides upon the storm." 

These words were given to us by an inspired man many years ago, and yet, my brethren and sisters, they are just as vital and just as much in force, and just as true now as they were at .the time they were given. It is a fact, an absolutely positive thing that you can not get away from, that God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform. And in this mysteriousness we do not need to look at things that we can not understand. We do not need to look for the supernatural. We do not need to expect some most marvelous manifestation of the supernatural in our behalf, in order for us to understand, but the mysterious way that God moves in, his wonders to perform, is the way of. nature, is the way of order, is the way of law, is according to the plan which has existed from time out of mind, and unless we are in tune with that, plan, with that scheme, we cannot understand things, and we can not know just what is happening. 

It is a strange thing that many of our members are always looking for something absolutely extraordinary. It is another thing that many of our members are here in the Church today because God has granted unto them some remarkable manifestation of his power, but the great thing is that the vast majority of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are in the Church today because they have a living, vital and' abiding faith in the power of Almighty God. 

I trust that those who are within the sound of my voice are members of the Church for this reason, that you have founded your faith, absolutely and completely on that rock that Christ named as the foundation of his Church. I trust that you are ordering your lives, that things are shaping with you, that you are in tune with our Father and his wonderful plan. Has it ever occurred to you that perfect knowledge is what the devil himself possesses? Has it ever occurred to you that many men, who fight against God and his kingdom, know beyond the question of a doubt that the Gospel is true. Has it ever occurred to you that, in this fighting, the one thing that is lacking in their make-up is that very vital thing, faith in Almighty God ? I beg of you to consider this question, weigh it very, very seriously. I have in mind a man right now, whom I met but a few weeks ago, who claims to have had revealed to him the Son of God himself, and yet that man lacks something in his make-up to hold him fast to the Church and to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Something has come between him and the testimony that he had, and instead of being a helper, a supporter of , and a fighter for, the doctrines of Christ, and the missionaries working in GENERAL CONFERENCE.  field he is a hindrance. He is in opposition, out of harmony, and I said to that man: 

"Brother, do you know that the devil himself knows absolutely that God lives? Do you know that Oliver Cowdery, who had most wonderful manifestations, so much so that he was called of God directly by prophecy and by revelation, and had given unto him most wonderful visions; do you know that that man lost the Spirit of God through some cause? And I tell you, my brother, right here and right now — and I do it in love and in kindness, and I do it with the desire to see you hold fast to that which you know is true — that unless you order your life, and unless you come in and put your shoulder to the wheel, right now, and support the men who are here working with you in this branch, the fact that you have seen Christ will not matter. The knowledge, the faith, will be taken from you, and you will be left, according to the promise in the Doctrine and Covenants, to kick against the pricks." 

Now, we, here, are members, I hope, every one of us, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We are all claiming testimonies of the gospel. We are all professing that we know it is true, and yet here we are living in a day and age of reservations, and far too many of us are taking reservations as regards to the principles of the everlasting gospel. I ask you, and ask you to ask yourselves, Do you believe in God and in his Son Jesus Christ? and you will say, Yes, I guess I do. I will ask you if you keep the Word of Wisdom, if you believe that God spoke the truth when he gave that word, and you will hesitate. Now, if you are reserving the rignt to accept or reject the principles of this gospel, you are on mighty dangerous ground, for when you have one thing you don't believe it is a very simple thing to make it two and three and four, and it becomes a mighty serious thing. Unless vou watch yourself, and unless you turn, instead of having faith in God you will be an enemy of him and his kingdom. That is just exactly where we are. The fact that God has blessed us, and given us that knowledge doesn't mean that we can keep it. Marvelous promises, bevond our comprehension, so deep and so urtfathomable in their nature that we can not comprehend them, have been made to us, if we will live according to his law and keep his commandments and do the things that he has commanded. 

I want to read to you just a few verses from the Doctrine and Covenants, and I want you to ponder over them, think about them, and study them, and I bee of you to make therrj a part of your lives. If you will do it, out of this study and this application will come the iov that is yours. In 1832 the Father gave to Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon, a man who fell away, this wonderful promise : 

Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice, ye inhabitants thereof, for the Lord is God. and beside him there is no Saviour. 

Great is his wisdom, marvelous are his ways, and the extent of his doings none can find out; 

His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay his hand; 189 

From eternity to eternity he is the same, and his years never fail. 

For thus saith the Lord, I, the Lord, am merciful and gracious unto those who fear me, and delight to honor those who serve me in righteousness and in truth unto the end; 

Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their glory; 

And to them will I reveal all mysteries, yea, all the hidden mysteries, of my kingdom from days of old; and for ages to come will I make known unto them the good pleasure of my will concerning all things pertaining to my kingdom, 

Yea, even the wonders of eternity shall they know, and things to come will I show them, even the things of many generations;' 

And their wisdom shall be great, and their understanding reach to heaven: and before them the wisdom of the. wise shall perish, and the understanding of the prudent shall come to nought; 

For by my spirit will I enlighten them, and by my power will I make known unto them the secrets of my will; yea, even those things which eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor yet entered into the heart of man. 

My brethren and sisters, to me the most glorious promise that we can expect here as mortals* on earth is the promise that God gave in that revelation. I declare unto you in humility and in candor that this subject is so vital, so big, so all-embracing, that unless we take hold of it, study it, and make it part of our lives, we are losing the opportunity knocking at our door today, as it knocks at every door. How common it is for us to kneel down and pray to our Father in heaven for blessings we do not deserve. How common it is for us to say, Why, I have never been blessed, when we do not deserve the blessings; and yet, our heavenly Father has promised, not only promised, has pledged himself, that if we will do our share he will do his. Look into your own minds, your own hearts, your own souls, take your own lives into consideration, are we doing the things that will bring us those blessings. 

I can not expect the blessing he has promised on condition of keeping the Word of Wisdom, if I don't keep the Word of Wisdom. I can not expect the Lord to give me the blessing that is predicated upon the payment of tithes, if I don't pay tithes. I can't expect the blessing predicated upon being honest, virtuous, clean, just, honorable, upright and faithful, unless I perform the acts that bring forth those blessings. I declare to you, as a servant of the living God, that it is vital. In this day of skepticism we must know for ourselves absolutely whether the gospel be of God or whether it be of man; and if we don't know, it is only a matter of time until we will be outside and in the hands of the evil one. 

My testimony is that the gospel is true. My testimony is that it is worth while. This morning, when I listened to President Heber J. Grant bear his marvelous testimony, my whole being was thrilled, and I s%id to myself: Can any man hearing those words not perform to the utmost the work which God has asked him to do? 

Brethren and sisters, do not only hear these words; take them to your hearts, put them into practice, take them into your lives. Who will be blessed by your doing so? Not the other fellow; no, but you yourselves, will be blessed. God help you. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

The congregation sang: 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation; 

No longer as strangers on earth need we roam, Good tidings are sounding to us and each nation, 

And shortly the hour of redemption will come;' When all that was promised the Saints will be given, And none will molest them from morn until even, And earth will appear as the garden of Eden; 

And Jesus will say to all Israel, Come home. 

We'll love one another, and never dissemble, But cease to do evil, and ever be one; 

And when the ungodly are fearing and tremble, 

We'll watch for the day when the Savior will come: -When all that was promised the Saints will be given, 

And none will molest them from morn until even, 

And earth will appear as the garden of Eden, And Jesus will say to all Israel, Come home. 

In faith we'll rely on the arm of Jehovah 

To guide through these last days of trouble and gloom, And after the scourges and harvest are over, 

We'll rise with the just when the Savior doth come. Then all that was promised the Saints will be given, And they will be crowned as the angels of heaven, And earth will appear as the garden of Eden, And Christ and His people will ever be one. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

(President of the Southern States Mission) 

My brethren and sisters, I think that with much propriety, so far as houses of worship are concerned on this block, we could sing the good old hymn: "Give us room that we may dwell," for Zion is growing. There are many people who have preached a funeral sermon over "Mormonism," and sung their mournful dirges; these people have gone, but "Mormonism" survives. It lives because it is God's work. 

The Latter-day Saints, by obeying counsel and living their religion, can not fall into the hands of men. David said: "Let me fall now into the hand of the Lord, * * * but let me not fall into the hand of man." When a man by neglect of duty or by transgression wanders from the path of the gospel, he falls into the hands of men, into a bondage cruel and bitter. Let us fall into the hands of God. 

The splendid message so splendidly delivered by the prophet of God, President Heber J. Grant, reached the hearts of the people. WHy ? Because he spoke under the power of the Holy Ghost, and the Book of Mormon says that when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost his words go to the hearts of the children of men, and so a minister of the gospel is not as sounding brass or a 'tinkling cymbal, but he is the medium, the instrument, through whom God ministers 191  comfort unto the children of men. This people are led by wise shepherds. They are not tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine, but the leaders of this Church, speaking the truth in love, are guiding the children of God on to their destiny, which God hath mapped out for the faithful. 

A great writer has said that the awakening of the conscience is the grandeur of the soul. If our consciences have been awakened, which I know that they have, if we have been renewed by the good spirit, by the counsel we have heard, then in the grandeur of our souls we will go to our homes and diffuse the spirit of life and instruction that we have received at this great gathering. Repentance is divine Why? Because it is a gift from God. O God, awaken the conscience of the world that their souls which thou hast created may shine out in the grandeur of repentance. 

I have felt during this conference that the speakers have clarified our vision. What is a man without vision? What is a man without an object in life? He is like "a painted ship upon a painted ocean." A life, to be successful, must have directness of purpose, and one reason for the strength of this work and of this people is that God has blessed us with a mission, with a work. O, blessed be the man with a work and the people with a mission. When the Angel Moroni appeared to the prophet Joseph Smith he did not say, "you may wear soft clothing, God is going to give you ease," but he said : "God has a work for you to do," and in that work the Prophet Joseph Smith achieved greatness and the favor of God, and that is how we are becoming a great people, not by what we receive, but by what we give. For it is more blessed to give than to receive. Now the prophet of old said : Where there is no vision the people perish. I can not believe that he meant the gentiles exclusively. I believe he meant his people as well as the gentiles. Have we not a vision? What is it? First, our divine commission to preach the gospel unto every nation, kindred, tongue and people. Second, the glorious second coming of the Son of God, before whom all wickedness shall flee, and before whose power evil shall be subdued. Lord Macaulay said: "It was before Deity embodied in a human form — walking among men, partaking of their infirmities, leaning on their bosoms, weeping over their graves, slumbering in the manger and bleeding on the cross, that the pride of the philosophers and the swords of thirty legions were humbled in the dust." It is before this power that war is going to cease forever and God's will be done on earth -as it is done in heaven. We believe in the glorious millennial reign, in a literal resurrection of the dead, in the reunion of families in heaven, of the sanctification of this earth to be the abiding place forever of the sanctified of God. This is part of the vision. God help us that we may not lose this vision, that it may not be blurred by neglect of duty or by transgression. The Jews perished because they had no vision. They had the holy scriptures which set forth the coming of the Son of God. They had the words of the prophets, but when Jesus came they had no vision GENERAL CONFERENCE.  perceive him, his glorious divine character, and they perished; they perished under means of grace until the times of refreshing shall come from the Lord. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, what of the mission of Joseph Smith ? I tell you that above the dust and blood and smoke of the horrible carnage of the world-war stand in the prophecies of Joseph Smith. His prophecies are written across the sky that all may read. A great man has said that a prophecy fulfilled is a permanent miracle,' and therefore we can behold a permanent miracle every day of our lives. Go on historic Chickamauga, see the monuments that the southern people have erected to commemorate the valor of the boys who wore the gray. Go to Gettysburg where the northern people, have builded monuments to symbolize and to perpetuate in the memory of their children the bravery and valor of their fathers and brothers. Shakes_peare spoke the truth when he said: "And this our life exempt from public haunt, finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything." Each of the monuments on the great battlefields of this country preach a daily sermon, an hourly sermon, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. In the Doctrine and Covenants God said to Joseph Smith: "Behold the world is ripening in iniquity and it must needs be that the children of men, are stirred up unto repentance, both the Gentiles and also the House of Israel." Was Joseph Smith a prophet of God? Did he speak the truth ? Men have been preaching the results of daydreams : they have been building "castles in the air." They have asserted that, with the advance of medical skill and the cultivation of the arts and the sciences, the world was growing better every day, and yet God said that it was ripening in iniquity. It took the. draft boards, the examining boards, to discover to a great many people that they had been living in a "fool's paradise." Only a few weeks ago one of the foremost statesmen of an empire on whose dominions the sun never sets declared that his country could accomplish any task assigned her if it were not for consumption and venereal diseases. Did God speak the truth? Down at Savannah, Georgia', only a short time ago, a Methodist bishop declared that the world was more wicked and corrupt than it was in the days of ancient Rome and ancient Greece. I ask again, Was Joseph Smith a prophet of God ? Did he speak the truth? Yes, statesmen, theologians declare that he did. Now, my brethren and sisters, this is our mission, to proclaim repentance unto the world. God is going to create a new heaven, a new earth, for he says: "Behold, I make all things new." I tell you truthfuly and in the fear of the Lord that he is working today perhaps a greater miracle than that of creating a new heaven or a new earth. We read that man is the noblest work of God and this is true. The young men, your sons, striplings, so to speak, are being sent out into the world, without much previous preparation for the ministry, oh, God is recreating those young men. He is making them powerful in testimony and in preaching his word. Samuel told Saul, that if 193 , Saul, did his duty God would give him another heart, and turn him into another man. God is recreating these young men, he is recreating you, by the principles of the gospel, by the principle of faith, repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

Brethren and sisters, how good it is to be in the service of the Lord. In the Book of Mormon we read that when a man is engaged in the service of his fellow men, he is only engaged in the service of his God. Service is the crown of every good man's life. The life that is lived for itself is barren; it is no good. The man who lives for himself, shrivels up, he dies, for only by working for others can we hope to survive in everything that is good. The crown of President Grant's life is splendid service to God and his fellow men. The crown of the lives of the apostles and all the leaders of the Church, from Joseph Smith down to the present time, is the crown of service*. It glows with the light of heaven's approbation. It is the crown of the life of the Son of God. He died, he served us that we might live, for he descended below all things to bring our redemption from sin and from the grave. 

I bear testimony unto you that Jesus Christ is in truth the very Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, the Christ. I bear testimony to you that Joseph Smith was his prophet, divinely chosen, a splendid servant of the Lord, a man whom God loved, a being whom all the earth shall yet honor and revere. 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! 

Jesus annointed "that Prophet and Seer" — Blessed to open the last dispensation; 

Kings shall extol him and nations revere. 

Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

My brethren and sisters, the sight that I now behold is, I think, one of the most inspiring and impressive that I have beheld at any time. The large congregation gathered here, in addition to the congregations gathered in the Tabernacle, the Assembly Hall, and Barratt Hall is really more significant of the growth of Zion than it is to see the great audience that gathers in the tabernacle. 

"what hath god wrought?" 

Zion is growing. I thought, as I behold the great multitudes fill-' ing this temple block, of the marvelous work that has been accomplished since President Brigham Young and that party of pioneers gathered at the mouth of Emigration Canyon and looked' over this GENERAL CONFERENCE.  sage brush waste without a house, without a strip of green, except along the creek banks, without any indications of life, without the possibilities, seemingly, for development and the nurture and culture and advancement of a people. I thought, "What hath God wrought 1" Here today are the representatives of a half million people, blessed of God, wealthy — wealthy in the goods of this world, more wealthy in the riches of heaven, possessed of the everlasting truth, convinced that they do have a great aim and purpose in life, striving to keep the commandments of God, with whom is lodged the great kernel of truth which shall yet fill the whole earth. As I think and contemplate upon the advancement of the people of God, my testimony, my conviction of the truth, is strengthened and confirmed. No work that is not inspired by the divine will could ever have grown, could ever have made the marvelous accomplishments that this work has made. 

THE GOSPEL THE WHOLE TRUTH. 

How has it been done ? It has been done by the overruling hand of God himself. It is not man's work. Never within the Church has there been a man with such intellect, with such power, with such foresight as to plan the great work that has transpired here in this threequarters of a century. Men and women, you are the possessors of the greatest heritage that God our Father can give to his people. You, above all people in this world, and I say it, not boastingly, not seeking to aggrandize ourselves, but to speak the truth, you are the only people on this earth who have God's whole truth. It has been my good fortune in the last several years to pass around in various cities of the country, to mingle in the assemblies of thoughtful men and women, seeking in one manner and another to advance the interests of humanity. Only a short time ago I had the privilege of being in the National Bar Association, gathered at Boston. There I heard men from all over this country, from Canada on the north, from England across the water, from our insular possessions, and from other countries as well, discuss the great problems that confront the world. I heard them advance their theories for reconstruction. I heard them propose their remedies, but after I had heard them all, I said to myself : in humility, in recognition of God's goodness, Thank God we have the whole truth. Others have fragments of it. God has selected men and women all "over the world to help do his work. The Spirit of God is not confined to us alone, but here we have the whole truth. I have never heard anything advanced that sounds like the truth, that is good, oraiseworthy, desirable for men, that is not embraced in the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

MANHOOD, WOMANHOOD, TRUE CHARACTER MOST VALUABLE. 

We have had a remarkable experience during the last four or five years. The earth and the people of the earth have been tested. 195 

They have gone through the great test of war. Our own country has been in the conflict. We have been called upon to give the utmost of our resources in manhood, in womanhood, in materials, for the advancement of our interest and the interest of our allies. Above all things else, the thing that has been found to be of most value is manhood and womanhood, true character, the genuine quality that goes to make men and women serviceable, useful and efficient. If our government, as well as the other governments of the earth have discovered anything, they have discovered that their power, their great resources depend upon the men and women who make up a nation. They have discovered that not numbers alone count. They have found that it is the quality of citizenship that counts rather than the quantity of it. We discovered very much to our sorrow when the examinations were made, which have been referred to, that a very large number, not an inconsiderable percentage of all the young men that were examined for Uncle Sam's service, were found to be not fit, unclean in many cases. The country has discovered that that kind of manhood won't subserve the interests of the government. The country has discovered that the only kind of men that will do its work are the men and women who are fit and' clean. In recognition of the great principles for which our people have stood, since the inception of the Church, I construe the experience that we have had to be a confirmation, a testimony of the divinity of the work and of the inspiration which came to our first leaders in the establishment of the glorious doctrines and principles which have preserved us as a people, and have contributed to our growth and our advancement. 

BOYS, DEFENDERS OF AMERICA, DEFEND YOURSELVES AGAINST SIN. 

The Word of Wisdom, that simple, plain, understandable law of the Church, has been referred to. Let me say to you men and women ' that in my judgment that simple Word of Wisdom will do more for the advancement of the ultimate destiny of a country than any other law that I know of. Men and women, boys and girls who conform their lives to that simple commandment of the Lord will be the kind of men and women, the kind of boys and girls that a country will be proud of, the kind that will render service in times of need. Our boys have gone forth to fight the country's battles, they have responded in a noble manner. They did their work. They did it well. They saved the country. They saved my home and yours. They saved the great, inestimably valuable principles of liberty and freedom and justice that were so dear, and are so dear, to the heart of every American, yet in spite of all they have done and with all the good that they have done, they have not altogether saved themselves. I would have them not only save their country, I would have them save themselves, and I believe that the greatest duty that we can perform for them, the manner in which we can best show our appreciation of their valiant service, is to GENERAL CONFERENCE.  them by the hand, indeed, put our arms around them and say to them: Boys, boys, defenders of America, defend yourselves against the incursion of sin, against the ravages of disease, against the temptations and snares of the devil. Keep yourselves free from the sins of the earth, prepare yourselves to win the victory for the whole country, for let me tell you the winning of the war did not of itself mean the winning of the victory for the great mass of humanity. That is still to be won and as some wise man has said it will be won by that country or those countries which a generation hence have produced the finest young men and the finest young women. And that is true. 

THE INSIDIOUS CIGARETTE EVIL. 

I observe regretfully, sorrowfully, that a great number of the young men who went over to fight for our country have come back addicted to the use of tobacco. It is, in my judgment, a most unfortunate outcome of their experience. Many of them never used it before. Most of them who went from this section of the country have been taught that it was against their interest, that it was against the law of the Church, and that it would only make for their ill health, and would contribute to their downfall in life. I recognize the fact that there is more or less excuse for them. I recognize the fact that everywhere they went, every station at which they stopped, every hamlet that they visited, there came to them offers of tobacco in one form or another. Young ladies, thinking to do them kindness and to show them courtesy, presented them that everlasting cigarette, — the cigarette on every side. Many of them were so led to adopt this practice. Then in order to increase their temptation, in order to make it harder for them to resist, there has gone forth in this country and in other countries the most damnable campaign of advertising that has ever been initiated . or maintained in all the earth, the campaign begun by the National Tobacco Trust, which has for its aim and object the enslavement of every young man, and woman, too, with this vile and injurious practice of using tobacco. You cannot go down a street, you cannot look beside a railroad track, you cannot observe a prominent place without seeing great, expensive bill boards advertising, soliciting for the use of tobacco in the most insidious ways, appealing indeed to the very love of a son for his father. Have you ever seen that great bill board upon which are printed these words : "Ask Dad, he knows," appealing to the desire of the boy to imitate the example which his father, in weakness, may have set. What a. fearful thing! Well, men and women, that is before you. What are you going to do with it? Are you going to let this great trust that has not one single motive in this world, other than to make money, corrupt the morals of your boys and girls under that slavish and terrible practice of using tobacco ? If you do, you will repent of it. The time will come when you will wish you had not. In behalf of the Church, in behalf of all those who stand for the uplift 197  the advancement of the young, I call upon you, men and women, whether you are members of our Church or not, to stand against this fearful campaign, to stand for that which will bring your boys and girls up to high ideals, to nobler aspirations in life, that will make them fit, fit for the world's service. 

SMOKERS NOT WANTED IN BUSINESS. 

I am grateful to say that there are a great many large business institutions in the country that won't hire a boy who smokes a cigarette. There are a great many institutions that have recognized the evil of this practice to such an extent that they will not have within their institutions a man who uses tobacco. That will help, but unfortunately there" are thousands of other institutions which do not seem to care one whit for the morals of the community and which have no purpose except to gain money. There are thousands of men and women in this world who would be willing to sacrifice the soul of a man to gain a dollar. They are the ones against whom we must fight. 

ENFORCE THE LAWS AGAINST TOBACCO. 

I want to remind you that we have upon our statute books, enacted by the legislature of this state, laws which make it a crime to sell cigarettes or tobacco in any form to boys under the age of 21 years. I am reminded that those same laws are upon the statutes of other states. I believe it to be the duty of every citizen, of every man who has at heart the welfare of his country, to stand for the enforcement of these laws. I do not believe a man is entitled to the privileges and the blessings and the opportunities of citizenship unless he is willing to take the burdens and the obligations that come with them, and one of the obligations that come with citizenship is to see_ that the laws are enforced. Therefore, I call upon my dear friends, those whom I know have at heart the welfare of the young, to see to it that so far as it lies within your power you cause these laws to be enforced. I call upon you to get behind the prosecuting authorities to help to sustain the law, and if I had my way I would boycott every store, every place of business in this whole land that persisted in selling cigarettes and tobacco in violation of the law. I would not buy a pound of butter, I would not buy a pound of sugar, if I could help it, from any institution that persisted in taking action looking to the wrecking of the life of a boy. 

THE PICTURE NOT OVERDRAWN. 

Now, you may think that my attitude, and the attitude of my brethren, are extreme. Let me tell you why we feel so serious about this matter, why we look upon the prospects with so much of concern. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Boys who begin to smoke cigarettes take the initial step that tends to lead them downward. We know that aside from the deleterious effect caused to their health by this noxious weed, the associations, the manner of living, the habits of life are of even more serious consequence as they are attributable in many instances to the use of tobacco. A boy from a good family, with high ideals, with good standards in his life is induced to smoke cigarettes. What is the result? He cannot smoke at home; his folks will not have the smoking there. He has to go away from home. When he goes away from home he loses the influence that should surround him. He becomes estranged from his father and his mother. The ties that bind, the safeguards that are placed around him are lost, and in many, many cases he is led down into bad company. He comes in contact with vicious characters and the very things that he most needs during his dangerous period of life are withdrawn from him. He is left to himself and in consequence he loses himself. He loses the fine standards, the high ideals that he had, and he comes to grief. In addition to that, a young man who knows that it is against the law of the Church to use tobacco, when he succumbs to that practice, cannot pray. He loses the spirit of prayer. He recognizes the fact that his life is not in conformity with the principles of the gospel. He loses respect for his leaders. He loses the love and the confidence of the men and women who can help him, and I tell you he is in a dangerous place. Do you think I overdraw the picture? I only call upon you to consult your own experiences and your own observations. I ask you, have you ever known of the use of tobacco helping any man or any boy in this world ? I ask you, if after you have made careful observation you do not conclude that it is at the very root, at the very initiation of much of the crime, the backsliding, and the falling away among our people and among all people. 

LET ALL UNITE AGAINST THE EVIL. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I trust that every man and woman who stands here, I trust that every one who claims membership in this great Church, indeed, I could hope that all who claim citizenship in these great states here, in these valleys of the mountains, will pledge themselves to stand by the law of God and the law of the land. I trust that every man will use his influence to see that these laws are enforced, and I trust that the women will add the force of their power as well. Not alone, of course, can we hope to accomplish the result that we seek for by the external pressure we can bring by force of law. We must do it from within. We must teach these boys that it is wrong. We must save them, save them for themselves, save them for their home and save them for the country and for the church. In order to do that we have got to instil in them a love and a respect for the principles of the gospel. We have got to teach them to have respect for the leaders of the Church. We have got to teach them 



ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS. 199 

that they cannot criticize and condemn God's servants and continue to have the Spirit of God with them. We have got to teach them respect for law. We have got to teach them the obligations of citizenship. We have got to make them know that they are the principal ones upon whom the future of the Church, the future of the state, the future of the nation and the world depends. 

LET PARENTS TEACH THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME. 

Boys can realize their responsibility if it is put up to them rightly. I plead with my fellow parents to teach the boys and the girls the gospel of Jesus Christ in their homes. I plead with them to teach them these fundamental things that they have heard discussed here this afternoon, in order that they may be impressed with them, in order thatjhey may know God, in order that they may recognize that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world and that they must conform their lives to his laws or they cannot hope to be successful in any way in this life. I pray that our Father will bless the homes of the Latterday Saints. I pray that every man who is the head of a household may be a father, a real father. I pray to God that every mother into whose loving hands is entrusted the nurture, the culture, the development of these precious human souls may be a mother, not just a woman. And if our homes are filled' with mothers and real fathers, God will do the rest. Amen. 

The Authorities of the Church were presented by Elder Stephen L. Richards, as in the Tabernacle, and unanimously sustained. The congregation sang: 

Lord, dismiss us with Thy blessing; 

Fill our hearts with joy and peace; Let us each, Thy love possessing, 

Triumph in redeeming grace. O refresh us, 

Traveling through this wilderness. 

Thanks we give, and adoration. 

For the Gospel's joyful sound; May the fruits of Thy salvation 

In our hearts and lives abound. Ever faithful, 

To the truth may we be found. 

Benediction by Elder Benjamin Goddard. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 


