Third Overflow
05 10 1919

The third overflow meeting was held in Barratt Hall, Sunday 2 p. m., Octooer 5, 1919, Elder David O. McKay, of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, presiding. The music was furnished by the L. D. S. High School Choir, P. Melvin Peterson, director. 

The choir sang : "The Lord in strength victorious." 

Prayer by Elder Harden Bennion, of Vernal, Utah, Uintah stake, and secretary of the State of Utah. 

The choir sang: "Rejoice, the Lord is King." 

ELDER STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN 

(President of the Alpine Stake of Zion) 

My beloved brethren and sisters. I trust that the few moments I occupy I may enjoy the influence of our heavenly Father, for I certainly feel that I need his divine aid this afternoon. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the spirit of the meetings thus far during the sessions of the conference. I have been built up in the faith, have been encouraged in the labors that devolve upon me, and have made some silent resolutions, to be more diligent, if possible, in carrying on the work that rests upon my shoulders when I return to our stake of Zion. The Alpine stake of Zion is located in the north end of Utah county. There are seventeen wards in the stake. We are somewhat compact, and we can visit every ward in our stake and, if necessary, return home that same evening. When I hear the reports of some of our brethren who are compelled to make long journeys and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  devote a great deal of time away from home in looking after the work, I feel to appreciate our own locality and the stake where I live, and ought not to complain at the labors and duties that naturally rest upon the officers in the stakes of Zion. 

I was' very much impressed last evening when Elder Ivins spoke of the slogan for the Mutual Improvement Associations : Spiritual growth through attendance at sacrament meetings. I thought perhaps if we all could sense the importance of this, as the bishop of the ward does, that we would sometimes make an extra effort to be present at the sacrament meetings, in order that the bishop may appreciate our attendance, and we may improve from the fact that we are where we can receive the word of the Lord and partake of the influence of his holy Spirit. I realize that in our stake of Zion we have a very low average in attendance at our sacrament meetings, and I have tried to figure out why it is. Sometimes I have heard said that if they had the right kind of a bishop the attendance at the sacrament meetings would be better; and then I have sized up the men who preside in our stake of Zion, in the various wards throughout, and I know that we have a class of splendid men as bishops in our stake of Zion. I know, too, that they are faithful, that they are regular in their attendance. I have heard some say that if the bishop would call the meeting to order and commence on time, they wouldn't mind going to meeting, but it is usually started late; but I know of bishops in our stake of Zion who are prompt in commencing their meetings, and yet the benches are empty. Some have said that if they had a good meeting house where they could go and have comfortable seats they wouldn't mind attending the meetings, but we have proven that that is not successful; for, since I have been called upon to act as the president of this stake, we have erected quite a number of beautiful buildings with splendid seats, and yet we find that the attendance at the sacrament meetings is very slim. We formed the habit of reading a little scripture in our wards just preparatory to calling upon the brethren, or having those who were called upon to take part, and we thought perhaps that might induoe the Saints to be more diligent in reading the scriptures, but some of the Saints began to complain that they could, read the scriptures at home. Thus we find some in our stake of Zion who are very hard to please, it matters little whether we have a good building, splendid seats, a bishop who is prompt in commencing his meetings on time, who is exemplary in his habits, or not, the attendance remains about the same. Sometimes when we have speakers announced, who are noted for their ability to interest the people, we will increase our attendance, and this thought I believe is one that is important to the brethren who preside; if they could realize that it is necessary to prepare to feed the people and to give them the principles of the gospel, though we are compelled to go outside of the ward sometimes to get speakers to come in who will bring the people out and interest them in the meetings, we might succeed. Of course, I realize, at the same time, that if the Saints had a burning desire within -their hearts to be fed with the bread of life, it would not matter whether they were going to have a speaker they were not accustomed to hearing, nor not; they would nevertheless go there to partake of the spirit and influence of the meeting. If they went with that desire, with a prayer in their hearts that they would be fed, I am sure that they would be built up in their faith and encouraged in their labors. 

For, after all, my brethren and sisters, it isn't altogether the person who stands before the congregations of Latter-day Saints to instruct them, but it is the spirit that we have, and the spirit that the speaker has, that impresses us and makes us feel that the gospel of Jesus Christ is worth living for and if necessary worth dying for. I think the bishops ought to try to make the meetings just as interesting as it is possible. I believe that they ought to meet at least once every week, at a stated time, and plan their work, and go over the affairs of the ward, to discover what is needed, and the best method to adopt in order to secure a better attendance and in order to instruct and inform the Saints of the ward upon points that are so much needed. 

I believe that we do not use the magazines of the Church enough in our meetings. I am at meeting every Sunday somewhere in our stake of Zion, unless we are at a general conference, and I seldom ever hear a selection read from the magazines of the Church. I am sure that where the Saints are taking them and reading them, there is plenty of food for reflection in every magazine that we receive, and I am sure that if we would read them, we would be better able to keep in touch with the workings of the Church, and with the requirements and the desires of the authorities of the Church who preside over us. 

I believe the young people can be used in our sacramept meetings, and with a little judicious thought and careful planning that they can be brought in to have experience vital to them, in the reading of these selections that are short and to the point that we have published from time to time, and thus give the young people an opportunity of using their voices in public and getting accustomed to speaking to the the people, by reading these selections; and if necessary, they might speak upon the points about which they read. I think, too, that in almost all our wards, we have young people who have abilities along ,the line of singing, of playing musical instruments, who could be brought in to make our sacrament meetings more interesting, so as to" hold the young people. And we find that the young people do not attend the sacrament meetings as faithfully as we expect them to, and as we believe they should. We have well attended Sabbath school meetings. The young people are there, and we appreciate that fact, and we realize also" that young people are not able to appreciate, perhaps, as many of the older people are, the principles of the gospel talked upon and about; but we are sure that if they would form the habit they would obtain valuable informaGENERAL CONFERENCE. , and if they would partake of the spirit that we have in our meetings, they would feel it and it would keep them, so to speak, well cared for during - their youthful days. 

And I believe that we should more diligently seek the Lord; be more anxious to know concerning his work. We should have a desire in our hearts to know whether the gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is of divine origin or not. We hear our brethren testify from time to time that they know that it is true, but if we want a testimony for ourselves, I believe that it is necessary that we seek the Lord for that testimony. "Ask and ye shall receive," and if we have a desire in our hearts, to be strengthened and to receive testimonies concerning this great latter-day work, if we desire it earnestly enough, and will attend our meetings and pray to the Lord in sincerity and truth, he will give us a testimony of the work which will be a strength to us and will help us to defend it and to stand by it and support those who are leading amongst us. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I do not desire to take more time than is necessary and due me, but I would like to bear my testimony, and to give you a testimony that I received last winter, that gave me great strength. A young lady came to me last winter and said : 

"I would like to have you and President Clark and Patriarch Warren B. Smith" (who was formerly the bishop) "go over to Lehi" (a distance of three miles) "and administer to a lady who is very sick." 

I said, "Why, they have brethren over there who are just as good as we are, and I don't know why we should go over there." 

She said, "Well, I just feel that if you brethren will go over there and administer to that girl, she. will get better." 

"Well, if it is all right with the brethren over there, why it will be all right." 

So we went over, and we met at the home where the girl was sick, and when we went into the room the grandfather of the girl came to the door. He said, "Now, brethren, this is a very peculiar sickness that this young lady has; she is out of her mind, she doesn't know what she is doing, and if she knows you brethren are here, we will not be able to hold her; you can come in, she is in the next room." We went in; a cousin of the young lady was present; also one of our brethren, a member of our high council; also President Abel John Evans. We heard the statement of the grandfather and of the mother of the girl. She had been in this condition for nearly two weeks; they had been unable to control her. She refused to talk, and she was able to eat but very little, except what they could induce her to eat, with a great deal of effort, to maintain her existence. When we sat there deliberating upon what we should do, we thought perhaps she was possessed of evil spirits, and we remembered the saying of the Savior that this healing or administration should be done with fasting and prayer. We sat there deliberating upon the subiect 169  we ought to fast' and pray first before we administered, or whether we ought to administer immediately to her. As we did so " the thought came to us that if we let brother so and so go in, with whom she is acquainted, perhaps he could pacify her. As soon as we had decided that this brother should go in and talk to her, she sprang out of the arms of those who were trying to hold her and opened the door into the room where we were, then counted just like that (illustrating), and she went back and wrote on a piece of paper, "five evil spirits," and then she wrote underneath these words : "I don't want brother so and so to come in here; I hate him." Now how she knew that we had decided on that brother to go into that room I don't know, but after a great deal of persuasion the little girl who came to get us persuaded her to let a couple of the brethren come in and administer to her, and she said she would, and wrote it down. When the brethren went in she was standing with her face toward the wall; wouldn't look at them; they couldn't get her to sit down, but with the persuasion of this young lady, who seemed to have a great deal of influence with her, they persuaded her to sit down on a chair, and one of the brethren anointed her head with oil and the other brother confirmed the anointing and commanded and demanded that the evil spirit depart from her body and leave the room, when she ?aftk riown just like a limp rag. It was necessary to pick her up and place her on the lounge. She lay there just as weak as she could possibly be, without any strength, and before this, my brethren and sisters, the grandfather told me that he had strained his wrists trying to hold her, she was so strong. 

About the third day after this administration, I received a telephone message to come to the home of this young lady who wanted us to go and administer to this girl, and I went up to the home, and when I arrived there, this young lady who had been administered to was present, just as well and normal as we are here now, talked sensiblv, and has been well ever since. Now, my brethren and sisters, I tell you this incident that the young people of Zion may know that the gifts of the gospel, promised to the believers, are with the Latterday Saints, in order that they may be encouraged and feel that there is power in the Priesthood. 

We ought to honor our brethren who preside in our wards and stakes, and in the Church, uphold their hands, and try to carry out the requirements made of us, no matter how small. If we will do this, I will promise you, having had now a great deal of experience in this work, having noticed the growth of our young people in the Church, that if the young men and young women will fasten on to the work and labor at it with a desire to know the truth, they will grow in graoe and in a knowledge of the gospel, and will be more useful in the Church in carrying on the work. 

May God bless us and help us, to appreciate our standing in the Church, and the privileges and the opportunities that come to us as Latter-day Saints, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER HEBER Q. HALE 

(President of the Boise Stake of Zion) 

The deliberations and instructions of this conference have been to me a wonderful source of inspiration, and I am very glad to say that under the spirit that has prevailed I am perfectly able, without any reservation whatever, to harmonize all my feelings, all my opinions, and all my beliefs, on all questions that have been presented and discussed, with the instructions that have been given. In the^ thrilling appeals made by oiy President, and others of the brethren who have spoken, my mind has repeatedly gone to a certain scripture found in the word of the Lord to the prophet Brigham Young, contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 136:27: 

Thou shalt be diligent in preserving what thou hast, that thou mayest be a wise steward; for it is the free gift of the Lord thy God, and thou a; I his steward. 

To my mind, the crying need of the age is for us to do the very best we can with what we have. No one has a gift, a talent, or a possession, so humble, so insignificant, so unimportant, but what that gift, that talent, that possession, can be made serviceable to the human family, and become a blessing and a help to the one who possesses it. All that we are and all that we have, are the free gifts of God. So by the grace of God we are made his stewards, and given the direction of the affairs of our 'bodies, as a steward is given the management of an estate. And it is given us to say, mainly, what our eyes shall see, to control to a large extent what our ears shall hear, what our tongues shall speak, what our hands shall do, where our feet shall lead us, and what shall be stored in the brain. I sometimes wonder how we, as the stewards of God, are conducting these precious and sacred affairs that have been committed into our hands. Are we doing the very best we can with what we have, or are we burying our talents, losing sight of our gifts and our blessings, and wishing for things that we do not possess, and cannot get? When the Master calls upon us to give an accounting, can he say to us : "Well done, thou good, and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord" ? Or will he say: "Thou wicked and slothful servant. . . . Take, therefore, the talent from him and give it unto him which hath ten talents"? How many of us, stewards, make the Master welcome when he calls by the presence of his Spirit through the medium of the Holy Ghost, the express representative of Jesus Christ, the Son? How many of us invite him into our home? How many of us make him welcome in all the house ? Or do we assign him to what we commonly call the "spare room" or the "guest chamber," where no friend or brother would like to be consigned ? Why not invite him into the kitchen or into the living room, where the wife and the children are, by the hearth or the 171 ? There is where he loves to come. There is where he loves to be, and there is where we need him most. Oh, we need the divine, sweet, all-inspiring influence of the Holy Ghost in all the house of our souls, in every room, every day, and in all our affairs. Let us remember that he is a guest, he comes only when invited, and stays only so long as he is made welcome; and when we re-claim for ourselves any appetite, any passion, any desire, he will vacate and give us possession. Such is the mission of the Holy Ghost, that great Spirit emanating as a personage of the Godhead, the third personage of the Holy Trinity, to lead, to guide, to inspire into all truth, and no one can be led into all truth without him. 

There is something peculiarly significant in the history of the Jewish people. For something like four thousand years they had looked forward to the coming of the Savior of the world, and when he came, the first thing we read of him is, there was no room for him in the inn at Bethlehem. And I am led, sometimes, to wonder if there would be room for him if he came today. I wonder if he could find a place where he would be made welcome. What nation would receive him as its king? What church would resign to him? What pastor would step down from the pulpit and say, "Take my place; I have only been serving pending the time of your coming?" I fear that the world is not quite prepared yet for the coming of the Son of Man to rule and reign as "King of kings and Lord of lords." I would rather pray, it seems to me as I feel now, that his coming might be delayed, at least until we could purify our hearts, set our own houses in order, and carry forward unt6 the nations of the earth the sacred mission that has been committed unto us, that more souls may be saved and fewer souls lost before the coming of that "great and dreadful day of the Lord." 

We have heard at this conference that there is too much policy among men, and let me add, among churches and among nations, and also say there is too much politics among men and among churches and among nations. We need more of the real and less of the counterfeit. We need men and women — the world need's them — who will arise and stand for what they know to be right at all times and under all circumstances. We find too often that love is counterfeited by lust; prudishness is made to pass for virtue; cleverness for wisdom,- apathy for peace, self-congratulation for gratitude. The world needs to be humbled with the thought that all that we have and are we owe in an unpayable debt to God who gave us life. We need among us, even ourselves as Latter-day Saints, more gratitude and larger love, more sympathy for each other and for all human kind. And I fear that other calamities, I fear that other punishments, will come upon the earth; that the Lord will have to speak through the sterner forces_ of nature, which seem to be his only means in many instances of arousing the feelings and the thoughts and appreciations of people to the condition in which they stand, having closed their ears to the spoken word, their eyes and hearts to the written word of God. We need to stand 

172 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

for honesty for honesty's sake, and forever put into the discard that most misleading aphorism, "Honesty is the best policy." Let no man be honest for policy's sake. Let him be honest for honesty's sake. Let him be virtuous for the sake and love of virtue. Let him pay his tithing not for the hope of reward, but because he loves to contribute his share, out of appreciation of all that he has received, for the onward progress and assistance of God's work in the earth. We need to be honest with ourselves, honest with each other. 

A minister once announced to his congregation that he would, on the following Sunday, speak on the subject of "Liars," and directed his congregation to read the seventeenth chapter of Mark. The next Sunday he reminded the congregation of his subject, and asked how many had read the text in the seventeenth chapter of Mark. About two hundred and fifty hands went up. He said, "Just hold your hands right there for a moment; you are the very people that I want to talk to today; there is no seventeenth chapter of Mark." 

As stewards of God we must be truly appreciative of the things we receive. One has said that, "Ingratitude is a crime more despicable than revenge which is only returning evil for evil, while ingratitude returns evil for good." You remember that of the ten lepers healed by Christ, only one returned to give thanks. A beautiful legend tells the story of two angels that were sent forth throughout the land, each given a basket, one to gather up requests and the other thanksgivings. The angel of requests came back with her basket running over full. The angel of thanksgivings came back with her basket practically .empty. So it is in life. It seems that all have requests to make, but few of us think to return and give thanks. 

I wonder if we sometimes stop to think of our debt of gratitude unto, for instance, our parents; what we owe them, and how we might discharge our obligation unto them. In what kind of coin would you pay father and mother for what they have done for you, brother, sister? What do you owe for the Bible ? For the sermon on the mount, as only one inspirational chapter in that Bible? What is your debt of gratitude for the Book of Mormon? For the Doctrine and Covenants? For the Pearl of Great Price? What do you owe the pioneers of this western country ? What do you owe the prophet Joseph Smith ? What do you owe the inventors, the discoverers, the statesmen, the poets, the philosophers ? What do you owe for all the modern conveniences and blessings of the commercial and the industrial world ? And how are you going to begin to discharge these obligations, my brother, my sister? The only way we can discharge our obligations to our parents is to live our lives, as sons and daughters, so as to bring credit to the name we bear and make our parents feel, before they die, to thank God that that mother had the privilege of giving birth to that son, and not regret one hour of vigil spent over his cradle, not regret one tear she has ever shed for him,, or one hour of labor spent for him; and then for us to go on and fulfil our missions in life and become parents ourselves. Then we can begin to pay the debt we owe father and mother. The only 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IV INS. 173 

way we can begin to discharge our obligations to the world for all that we have received is to so live that we can make the world better for our having been in it; that every citizen of our acquaintance can point to us with pride as his neighbor; to take upon our shoulders a share of the world's work and be of actual service to our f ellowmen; to be clean in body and soul, and see to it that our feet shall never lead into places where we would not want our children to follow. 

General Pershing, standing before the assembled houses of Congress on the 18th of last month, upon his triumphant return from France, said, among other things, in giving his report: "The burdens that fell to the lot of our soldiers have been heavy, and the way beset by many obstacles, but faith in the righteousness of our cause and trust in Almighty God have given us courage and inspiration." So I say to you, my brethren and sisters, our burdens may be heavy and our way may be beset by many obstacles, yet faith in the righteousness of our cause, which is the greatest cause under heaven, and trust in Almighty God, who is our Father and our Defender, will give us courage and inspiration, and we, like our great general, will come out victorious in the end, and God will look upon our labors well pleased. 

God bless us with courage and faith and love and sympathy and gratitude, that we may be wise stewards and do the very best we can with what we have, I pray in the name of him whose servants we are and in whose vineyard we labor. Amen. 

Alexander Anderson, sang a solo: "I Come to Thee." 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS 

This morning at 8 :30 o'clock, a meeting was held in the upper room of the Bishop's building, on this block, by representatives of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church. No program had been arranged; it was an informal meeting, and as it progressed I thought of this scripture, which I will read, from Joel : 

THE SPIRIT OF TESTIMONY. 

And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions: 

And also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I pour out my Spirit. 

The meeting was given to the congregation, and men were asked to give expression to their faith, and to make any suggestion they might feel like making regarding the important work in which this auxiliary pssociation of the Church is engaged. They stood upon their feet, frequently two or three at the same time. There were men there from Canada, from Idaho, from northern Utah, men from Arizona and from Mexico. There were tall men and short men; some of them were light complexioned, some dark complexioned; some were older GENERAL CONFERENCE. , others quite young men. There was great diversity of character written in their faces and exemplified in their words, but there was this one thing which characterized the remarks made by every person who spoke. They all had the same testimony, it made no matter where they lived. They all bore witness to the divinity of this great latterday work. They all bore witness to the fact that the Lord himself, our Father, who is in heaven, had made good this promise which I have read here from Joel, although none of them referred to it, that in the latter days he would pour out his Spirit upon the people, that the influence of the Holy Ghost, referred' to by Brother Hale, would be among men again; and, not only men but women, would enjoy it. It was a veritable time of refreshing to sit there and listen to the testimonies of these people. Men, some of them, who had gone away from the Church in their youth; they had been careless, indifferent, had gone off into mining camps; their lives had not been the lives that Latterday Saints should lead, but when they had turned to the Lord and sought him in faith, he had never failed to respond to their petition. And now they had been born to newness of life, they knew the truth, they were enlisted in God's cause, and their lives devoted to his work. It was a witness to me, my brethren and sisters, of the fulfilment of the words of the Redeemer himself. 

You know that men sought Jesus. They desired' to know the way by which they might attain to everlasting life. They offered money on occasions. But he told them that the gifts of God could not be purchased with money, and bore witness that except a man be born again he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus marveled at that. He did not understand what it meant. Then the Redeemer illustrated the thought by saying, "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." How often in the Church we encounter people who lack faith! People addressed us at that meeting this morning who, I knew, because of their accent and peculiarity of speech, were not American born. I knew they had come from abroad. I knew the gospel had found them away over there in England, possibly in Ireland, possibly in Scotland, or in Wales, or in Scandinavia, or other of those old world countries. Their testimony was the very same as 'the testimony of boys whom I knew, and who were there this morning, whose grandfathers were in the Church, who were among those who first carried the gospel into the old world. There is no difference of nationality; there is no difference of sex. It doesn't matter where we live, doesn't matter, as I remarked, whether we are tall or short or blonde or brunette, if we go to the Lord he will make good the promise which he has made to the people of the world, that "He who seeketh me in faith shall find me, he who asketh in faith believing, I will answer; to him who knocketh, I will open;" and just as certain, my brethren and sisters, as the Lord has made good ♦hot nromise. so is it certain that he who does not seek does not find, l-."m who ('oes not knock it is not opened, and to him who has no desire to know the truth, truth is a sealed' book. 175 

A REBIRTH NECESSARY — A CONVERSION TO THE <,OSPEL. 

I have often thought, and I have thought of it recently more than at any other period in my life, that there is, it seems to me, among young men and women in the Church, a spirit of indifference. This is not general, but there are too many exceptions to the general rule. We find among these boys and girls a lack of faith, a lack of knowledge; among many of them apparently there is a sincere desire to know, and yet they appear to be in doubt; I wonder if we have not thought, we fathers and mothers, that from the fact that our children were born in the Church, born under the covenant, and that we have, in the Church, auxiliary associations that are designed to teach faith, — whether we have not left our children entirely to the direction, or to a great extent to the direction, of these facts and organizations, and we have neglected to impress upon their minds that boys and girls born in the Church of gocdly parents must be born again to know Christ and God, just as a person who has been born in the world must. It isn't sufficient that our parents had faith. We cannot live and survive upon the faith of others. These boys and girls here, who are in this choir in attendance upon this school, good boys and girls, never can know the truths of the gospel to satisfy their souls unless they go to the Lord for it; and I promise them, as I promise all men and women, that the prayer of faith will bring response, comfort will come to our hearts and our souls, and that invisible but nevertheless potent power which bears witness of the truth will satisfy us so that we cannot be in doubt, and once we are thus converted to the truth, the whole work practically is, accomplished. We are worried to know what means we may adopt to protect our children from, the sins of the world, from the great wave of immorality that is sweeping over the country today as it has never swept over it before. We may study devices, we may discuss ways and means, but we will never find an effective way to combat it, except through conversion to the truth of the gospel, to get our hearts in communion with God our Father, to become possessors of his Spirit, for the Spirit of the Lord will protect us from the sins of the world. I do not believe that a boy or girl who has in sincerity prayed to God when he or she arose in the morning, or when he or she retired to bed at night, has ever transgressed the laws of the Lord upon that day. He will protect them. But when we forget him, we are left without that necessary guidance and protection. So I appeal to you to exercise faith. Parents, inspire in the hearts of your children a desire to establish closer relationship with the Lord. 

CONVINCING TESTIMONY OF A CONVERSION. 

This homely story may illustrate my thought as well as anything I could tell. When I was a boy, I had close friends, as all boys have, neighbors with whom I was chummy, and among them was a boy about my own age. We lived near together; we went to school together. This GENERAL CONFERENCE.  had two older brothers. His parents were devoted Latter-day Saints. The country at that time was wild and lawless along the frontier. Those older brothers became freighters; they loved horses and mules, and they delighted in putting together splendid teams, and drove those teams into Montana, and west into Nevada, and down to the coast in' California, freighting back merchandise which in those days was needed for the use of the people. They became two of the most profane men I ever, knew, indifferent to the faith of their fathers, and intemperate. One day the body of the elder of those two boys was brought into our town, and his funeral services were held there. He had been killed in a difficulty with another man. The other, the next older, brother drifted away, and I lost sight of him. But this boy, who was my chum,T grew up with, and pretty soon he obtained a team and he went off to Silver Reef to freight, and learned to swear, and he was following the very road that his older brothers had followed. About that time I lost track of him. I went to Mexico. I came back after fifteen or twenty years, and had occasion to go up into Idaho to visit one of the stakes of the Church. I found this man there, presiding as bishop of one of the wards! I found one of his sons the bishop of another ward. I found another son president of the Mutual Improvement Association; and one or two of the boys had been on missions. He had a splendid home there, presided over in dignity by his good wife. 

I looked at it all with wonder, and he smiled and said, "I know what you are thinking about." 

I said, "Tell me how it all happened." 

"Well," he said, "you know that I was going just the way my brothers went." 

"Yes," I said, "that is what surprises me." 

"My parents had always taught me a better way," he said; "they had urged me to read the scriptures, and finally I decided that I would read the Book of Mormon, and I did while I was freighting. I read it through, and when I came to certain words in the last chapter of Moroni, I was very deeply impressed with them." These are the words to which he referred: 

And I seal up these records, after I have spoken a few words by way of exhortation unto you. 

Behold I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it he wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam, even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. 

And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

He said, "When I read those words, I thought I would put the Lord to the test, and I stopped' my team, wrapped the Titles around the brake, and got down from that high seat, on one of those old-fashioned California wagons that were common in early days, and I turned off from the road; and, you remember that piece of straight road," he said, "just below the twist?" 

"Yes," I said, "I remember every rock there is on it, because I have freighted over it." 

"Well, I went out there," he said, "under those high cliffs to the east of the road, went around behind some rocks where no one could see me, kneeled down there, and thought I would pray, and I couldn't say a word." 

Have any of you boys and girls ever tried to pray for the first time and found it difficult to say a word? There is always someone right there near you telling you you cannot pray, and it would not do any good if you did. That is one of the devices of the enemy of truth to prevent you from placing yourself in harmony with the Lord. 

"But," he said, "by making a great effort I managed to appeal to the Lord, told him that I wanted to know the truth, and I want to tell you that those fellows on the day of Pentecost never received a stronger testimony than I did; I felt that I was surrounded by consuming fire, and I got up on my feet knowing just as well that the Lord lived, that Christ was the Redeemer of the world, that the gospel had been restored through the prophet Joseph Smith, and that the Book of Mormon is a divine record, as I knew that I was there; and I got on to my wagon, drove home, left the road and came up here, located on this quarter section of land, and you can see the rest." 

PRAYER IS THE ROAD TO CONVERSION. 

Shortly after that, I was back at my old home, and met another friend of mine, with whom I had been more familiar than with the other. He was an entirely different kind of boy. There was nothing wild nor rough in his character. His father and mother were very refined people. We grew up together. As we got older, our interests became identical. We traveled together, we rode the range together; we went out for days and sometimes weeks together, sleeping under the same blankets. All this time my faith was developing, I was reading the scriptures, I was praying to the Lord, and I was full of desire to convert this boy companion of mine; but for some reason I never could make any impression upon him. 

So in after years, when I went back there and found him, his hair whiter than mine, I talked with him. I called him by name. I said, "We are getting old, we ought to be doing something, we ought to be thinking of the future." He had never married. A more industrious man I never knew. I never heard him speak an improper word. But he had never married. I said, "For my sake, if not for your own, I want to urge that you study the word of the Lord; read the Book of Mormon." "Why," he said, "I have just finished reading it, and the Doctrine and Covenants, too." 

I said, "What did you find in them?" 

"Why, I found lots of good things, and nothing that was bad." "Did it impress you particularly, did it change your religious view, did it add to your faith?" "No, not specially." 

I said, "Did you ask the Lord to help you, as you read those books, to make you understand them, comprehend their meaning and their importance to you?" 

He looked up at me and said, "Toney, I never prayed a word in my life." 

I knew then why he lacked faith; I knew then why testimony of the truth never came to him, and I knew that it mattered not how long he lived, unless he went to the Lord, pleading with him for grace to understand, that he never would comprehend his word and will as he might otherwise have done. 

Now that is the secret of it, my brethren and sisters. That is what I want to say to these boys and girls here. If you are in trouble, go to the Lord; if you are tempted, go to him; if you have, in an unguarded moment, done that which is wrong, go to the Lord. He will forgive and pardon transgression and sin, no matter though it may have been grave. No persons are so far lost, except they may have committed the unpardonable sin, and that would be exceedingly rare, that God's arms are not stretched out to them for their redemption. Our transgressions will be blotted out from the book of his remembrance, our sins will be washed white as wool, through faith in him, and our hearts will be filled with joy, and confidence in ourselves, in each other, and in our Father, through the exercise of faith. 

LET US DO OUR PART IN HUMILITY AND FAITH. 

Now may the Lord bless us all, my brethren and sisters, and help us at this time, when his help is so greatly needed, needed as it never before has been needed in the history of the Church and in the history of the world, for we have never before been confronted by such problems, never before has the world, has civilization, been in greater danger, never before has so much depended upon you and upon me for the redemption of the world and the maintenance of the doctrines of the gospel in it. May the Lord help us to do our part, each of us, in humility before him, I humbly pray. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

There have been many features of this most excellent conference that have delighted my soul. I have rejoiced with you in the wonderful testimonies that have been given, and in the divine instructions that have fallen from the lips of those who have addressed us. 179 

YOUNG PEOPLE PRESENT A FEATURE OF THIS GREAT CONFERENCE 

But I want to tell you this afternoon that among the most pleasing features of this entire conference, to me one of the most gratifying, is the attendance at this overflow meeting of so many young men and young women. There are present here not only the boys and girls from the school, who have come here in response to the call of duty (I am not so sure but some of you would not have been here, if it had not been for the choir; I am not unmindful of that fa.ct, but you are here in response to the. call of duty), but also groups of youngpeople throughout this audience, by dozens and by scores. At first thought that does not seem very much, but to me it is most significant. With the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall crowded to overflowing it is an easy matter for young people to have an excuse to walk around the grounds and to take a stroll through the streets. There is but one conclusion — that there is in the hearts of these young people a desire to do what is right, and I find that is pretty generally manifest throughout this Church. I rejoice in it; I rejoice in it. I will tell you that I never feel more inspired, more encouraged, than when I arise before an audience of Latter-day Saints and find sprinkled in that audience the clear eyes and the rosy cheeks of youth; no bleary eyes, no sallow complexions, no defiled teeth; souls that are just as clean and pure as when the spirit came from God. I am not unmindful of the fact that there are those who have soiled themselves, but, generally speaking, I have faith in the youth of Israel, and I love to see the least manifestation among them of the desire to maintain the standards of their parents and to uphold the standards of righteousness. 

THE BEST LEGACY TO VOUTH. 

Oh, I think nothing in this world can give such consolation, such peace, to fathers and mothers, as to realize the fact that their boys and girls have faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I may never be able, I think I can say I shall never be able, to leave to my children, wealth. Many of you may be unable to offer to your young sons, your young daughters, as they leave their household and strike out for themselves, even a dollar to help them on their way; but I would rather live in poverty all the days of my life, I would rather be unable to give one copper cent to my boys and girls when they start out in life, but be able, through sacrifice, diligent attention, watchful care, to implant in their hearts a belief, a faith, in the gospel of Jesus Christ, than to be able to give them all the wealth and honor and distinction which the powers of man may bestow. I know that a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ is the most sacred, the most precious, gift in our lives; I know it. And, boys and girls, you cannot get that by following the paths of the world; you cannot get it. You cannot get pleasure, even! Oh, you may get pleasure; I will GENERAL CONFERENCE.  that word back; I have used it rather carelessly. You can get momentary pleasure by following the paths and the enticements of the world: 

But pleasures are like poppies spread: You seize the fiow'r, its bloom is shed; Or like the snow falls in the river, A moment white — then melts forever; Or like the borealis rays, That flit ere you can point their place; Or like the rainbow's lovely form Evanishing amid the storm." 

A better definition of pleasure than this from Burns you cannot find in all literature. You may get that transitory pleasure, yes, but you cannot find joy, you cannot find happiness. Happiness is found only along that well beaten track, narrow as it is, though straight, which leads to life eternal. That is my testimony to you. Sometimes there are obstacles, there is persecution, there is self-denial; there will be tears, because you are coming constantly in contact with these enticements, with these worldly ideals, and you have to overcome them, and for the moment there will seem to be sacrifice, but it is only temporary. The Lord never forsakes those who seek him. I add my testimony to that which has been given. Never. It may not come just the way you think, but it will come. The Lord will certainly fulfil his promise to you. 

A PERSONAL TESTIMONY ON PRAYER. 

Illustrative of this, I am constrained to add my personal testimony. I seldom speak of manifestations that have come to me. I do not know whether it is the Scotch reticence or what, but I do not like to speak of some things which are most sacred to me. I am glad to say that I have had many, which I treasure -as most sacred; but along this line, mentioned by Brother Ivins, of faith and prayer, and subject of prayer and the assurance of answer to prayer, I am going to accede to the promptings and give you a personal testimony. I listened as a boy to just such admonition and testimony as we have heard from our brethren this afternoon regarding the principles of the gospel, the power of the Priesthood, the divinity of this work. I heard the admonition that we, too, might get that testimony if we would pray, but somehow I got an idea in youth that we could not get a testimony unless we had some manifestation. I read of the first vision of the prophet Joseph Smith, and I knew that he knew what he had received was of God; I heard of elders who had heard voices; I heard my father's testimony of a voice that had' come to him, and somehow I received the impression that that was the source of all testimony. I realized in youth that the most precious thing that a man could obtain in this life was a testimony of the divinity of this work. I hungered for it; I felt that if I could get that, all else 181  indeed seem insignificant. And so 1 did not neglect my prayers. I never felt that my prayer at night would bring that testimony; that was more of a prayer for protection, as I look back upon it now, to keep the burglars and other intruders away — really it was more of a selfish prayer — but I always felt that the secret prayer, whether in the room or out in the grove or on the hills, would be the place where that testimony would come. So, accordingly, I have knelt more than once by the service-berry bush, as my saddle-horse stood by the side. I remember riding over the hills one afternoon, thinking of these things, and concluded there in the silence of the hills was the best place to get that testimony. I stopped my horse, threw the reins over his head, and withdrew just a few steps and knelt by the side of a tree. The air was clear and pure, the sunshine delightful; the verdure of the wild trees and grass and the flowers scented the air; as I recall the incident all the surroundings come to me anew. I knelt down and with all the fervor of my heart poured out my soul to God, and asked him for a testimony of this gospel. I had in mind that there would be some manifestation, that I should receive some transformation that would leave me absolutely without doubt. I got up, mounted my horse, and as ,he started over the trail I remember rather introspectively searching myself, and involuntarily shaking my head, said to myself, "No, sir, there is no change; I am just the same boy I was before I knelt down." The anticipated manifestation had not come. Nor was that the only occasion. However, it did come, but not in the way I had anticipated. Even the manifestation of Gcd's power and the presence of his angels came, but when it did come it was simply a confirmation; it was not the testimony. 

OBEDIENCE TO GOD'S WILL INCREASES ANSWER TO PRAYER. 

I remember on one occasion when I was seven thousand miles from here, when President James McMurrin was attending a confp-ence in Scotland, that in a priesthood meeting the power of God was so manifest that one man present in that little room jumped to his feet and said, "Brethren, there are angels in this room," and strong men began to weep, not for fear, not for sorrow, but out of the fulness of their souls, which left them a testimony of the truth of that statement. The man's declaration did not impress me very much; but the Spirit present did impress me; but when President McMurrin, a brother to Joseph, arose and said, "Yes, there are angels in this room, and one of them is the guardian angel of that young man sitting there" — and he pointed to a young Elder whom I knew and who was in our conference — he was weeping as though his soul would overflow, "and," continued President McMurrin, "the other is the guardian angel of that young man there," and pointed to a boy with whom I had been associated and with whom I have been since. I knew by inspiration that what President McMurrin said was true. Why there was not one in the room who did not know it. And then, when he turned GENERAL CONFERENCE.  me and in prophetic word pronounced my future, I knew that the answer to my boyish prayer had come. But the testimony that this work is divine had come, not through manifestation, great and glorious as it was, but through obedience to God's will, in harmony with Christ's promise, "If ye will do the will of my Father which is in heaven, ye shall know whether the doctrine is of God or whether 1 speak of myself." Test it from any source you wish, and you will find, my dear fellow-workers, that there is not one phase of the gospel of Jesus Christ which will not stand that test; and as you, in your weakness, as you in your youth, undertake to embrace these principles of life everlasting, you will find it instilling upon your soul a benediction of the Holy Spirit which will give you a testimony beyond any possibility of a doubt that God lives, that he is indeed our Father, and that this is his work established through the prophet Joseph Smith. That is my testimony to you. I know it. . The most precious thing in life. You can test it. I would rather have my sons and daughters feel that than to obtain any earthly emoluments, because I know then that they will be good citizens, I know they will be good' fathers and good mothers, I know they will be honest and true to eyervbody, and to God; why, I know that everything which a man ought to be and which a woman ought to be, they will become, and they will do it through obedience to these divine principles. 

THE GREATEST BLESSING OF ALL. 

Boys and girls, my brethren and sisters, God bless us and guide us to be true, true to him and his work. That work which is commonly called "Mormonism" is in very deed the gospel of Jesus Christ. May he give us strength to live it, not only to preach it, not only to bear testimony to it by voice, but in very deed to live it and bear testimony to the world thereby that we do know whereof we speak. And that reminds me of a little line which I think is appropriate here, which will perhaps crystallize this thought more effectively than my words. I chanced to pick it up recently. The author says : 

So, he died for his faith! That is fine — 

More than most of us do; But, stay, can you add to that line 

That he lived for it, too? 

In his death he bore witness at last 

As a martyr of truth. Did his life do the same in the past 

From the days of his youth? 

 . 

It is easy to die. Men have died 

For a wish or a whim — From bravado or passion or pride — 

Was it harder for him? 

But to live — every day to live out 

All the truth that he dreamt, While his friends met his conduct with doubt 

And the world with contempt. 183 

Was it thus that he plodded ahead, . 

Never turning aside? Then we'll talk of the life that he led, Never mind how he died. — Ernest Crosby. 

That life, with prayer and purity, will give you the greatest blessing in all this world, a testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ, which I pray we may all have, and go out from this glorious conference to our various wards and stakes, and disseminate and radiate from our very being the truths and expressions of this conference, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The General Authorities of the Church were presented by Elder David O. McKay and unanimously sustained, as in the Tabernacle. 

The L. D. S. High School Choir, sang: "One Sweetly Solemn Thought." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder John L. Henrie, President of the Panguitch stake of Zion. 


