Afternoon
03 10 1919

President Heber J. Grant presided and called the congregation to order at 2 o'clock p. m. 

The choir and congregation sang : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, 

To guide us in these latter days; We thank Thee for sending the Gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee for every blessing " 

Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, 

And love to obey Thy command. 

When dark clouds of trouble hang o'er us 

And threaten our peace to destroy, There is hope smiling brightly before us, 

And we know that deliverance is nigh; We doubt not the Lord nor His goodness, 

We've proved Him in days that are past; The wicked who fight against Zion 

Will surely be smitten at last. 

We'll sing of His goodness and mercy, 

We'll praise Him by day and by night. Rejoice in His glorious Gospel, 

And bask in its life-giving light; Thus on to eternal perfection 

The honest and faithful will go, While they who reject this glad message 

Shall never such happiness know. 

Elder William Lennox Adamson, President of the Blaine stake of Zion, offered prayer. 

The choir and congregation sang : 

Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah, 

Guide us to the promised land, We are weak, but Thou art able —  

Hold us with Thy powerful hand. Holy Spirit, 

Feed us till the Savior comes. 

Open, Jesus, Zion's fountains, 

Let her richest blessings come, Let the fiery, cloudy pillar 

Guard us to this holy home. Great Redeemer, 

Bring, O bring the welcome day! 

When the earth begins to tremble, 

Bid our fearful thoughts be still; When Thy judgments spread destruction, 

Keep us safe on Zion's hill. Singing praises, Songs of glory unto Thee. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It has fallen to my lot, from the time that I became one of the general authorities, to come in close business relations with many influential people, both on the Pacific and the Atlantic coasts, as well as in the cities between. When I was a small boy, about twelve years of age, Col. Alex. G. Hawes, the Western Manager of the New York Life Insurance Company, came to board at my mother's home. He subsequently returned with his bride, and his first child was born in our house. He became, without any exception, the dearest and best friend that I had in all the world, aside from my own people, and my association with him, I believe, was as intimate as it was possible to have with any man. He treated me almost like a father; and in the panic of 1893, hearing that I might fail in business, he wrote and told me he had arranged to mortgage his home, to get money to assist me. He had tried at every commercial bank in the city where he lived to borrow money on first class collateral security, to send me; none of tRem were making loans. "But," he said, "the savings banks are loaning; they loan only on real estate, and I have no real estate except the home in which I live. I have arranged for a loan on my home, and if it will save your financial life, do not write, but telegraph immediately upon receipt of this letter, and I will transfer the money to you by wire, as delays are dangerous." 

I could not hold back the tears of gratitude that filled my eyes, to think that a man of the world would make such an offer as this to me in my time of distress. He subsequently secured for me the agency for Utah of the great company with which he was connected, and for one year I was their representative in connection with my associates in this city. At that time a gentleman by the name of Darwin P. Kingsley was the superintendent of agencies, and subsequently became the president of that company. The day before yesterday I received a very beautifully bound volume of some four hundred pages, containing speeches made by himself mainly upon this great question of peace, and questions connected with the war. I have read with intense interest something over one hundred and fifty pages of these speeches, since the book arrived, and they strike a very responsive chord in my understanding of the situation. I remarked here this morning that, like the congressman, I was going to ask permission to reprint my speech of two weeks ago. I am going to do the same here again this afternoon, and shall have printed in tomorrow night's News one of President Darwin P. Kingsley's speeches on the League of Nations, containing also a splendid tribute to President Wilson. We will now be addressed by President Charles W. Penrose. PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE 

I feel very grateful for the privilege of attending this conference; also for the opportunity of speaking for a short time to this vast congreation. Although I am not altogether unaccustomed to public speaking, but have had some experiences at home and abroad in this direction, I approach the task imposed upon me this afternoon with some timidity. 

GRATITUDE FOR THE RESTORED GOSPEL. 

I feel keenly the need of the spirit of my office and calling to qualify me for saying anything today, after the splendid utterances that were delivered from this stand during the morning, and I hope that I shall have your attention and your faith and help while I stand here occupying this position. The Lord has been very merciful and kind to me since I embraced the gospel, restored in the latter days, when I was but a boy, and through all my travels and labors and struggles he has been with me by trie power of his Spirit, and in the public congregation, this afternoon, I express to him, although in feeble language, the gratitude of my soul, the desires of my heart that I shall be able to continue in this splendid work in which we are all engaged as long as I live in the flesh, and then be able to carry on the work when I pass beyond the veil, and come into the society of the great men and women with whom I have been associated in years that are past, in the same mighty cause. It is the cause of God and of humanity, his children, for it involves the happiness and salvation of many millions, and the exaltation of those among them who received the gospel in the flesh, or afterwards received it in its fulness, and prepared themselves thereby to associate with the good and the true and the best of mankind. 

Ever since I heard the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored in these last days, preached by the elders of Israel and published in the books of the Church, I have been filled with joy and satisfaction, for it seemed natural to me to receive these things. Although not one of my family and kindred received this gospel, yet It seemed perfectly natural to me to drink in of the streams that flowed from the eternal fountain, and today I bless and praise the name of the Lord for his goodness to me, in opening the eyes of my understanding and enabling me to see and comprehend the truth as it is in Jesus Christ, and that I am enabled so far to continue in the path, in the good work of the Lord. I can say, with the Prophet Joseph Smith, my course has been always, apparently, up-stream. I have not been favored like some of my breth<-n with having been born in the faith, or of parents that were in the faith, or of associations until I came in the Church with people called Saints; so my career during all the years that I have been in the service of the Church has been one continual struggle, so to speak. But my path has been a pleasant path, so far as enjoying the principles of eternal life is concerned, and so far as the influences that have been thrown around me in the gospel and in my associations with the Saints and servants of the living God, it has been a continual pleasure to me, and today I rejoice with all my soul that I am in harmony with my brethren in the Priesthood and with the Saints of God who desire to serve him and keep his commandments. 

IN HARMONY WITH THE BRETHREN ON THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS. 

This is a glorious day for me. I find myself in perfect harmony with that which has been said by our brethren today, and with the sentiments expressed by President Grant, a week ago last Sunday, in which I believe most of the people, at any rate those who heard or have read the remarks that he made, feel that they were right and true and applicable to the present situation. I take great pleasure in announcing that so far as I know, all our close associates, the First Presidency, and Council of the Twelve, who are here at home — some of them are away — are in accord with President Grant in that which he did in reply to the manifesto, as it is called, sent from the East, which came by telegraph, and he telegraphed back his pleasure in signing his name with that of Ex-President Taft and a number of other prominent American citizens, desiring that the pact or covenant of the League of Nations should be approved by the Senate of the United States and that without delay, making some little lee-way for clarifications, perhaps, in some of the text, so long as it did not interfere with the full signing of the treaty. I believe we are of one heart and mind on that particular question, but we do not call into question the sincerity of some of our friends who do not see exactly as we do on this matter. 

CONCERNING LIBERTY AND LABOR ORGANIZATIONS. 

I am also in hearty accord with President Grant in the sentiments expressed this morning concerning the liberties of mankind. I believe in the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence; I believe in the principles set forth in the Constitution of the United States; I also believe in the destiny of this great government which God set up, the constitution of which was written by men who were raised up for the very purpose of placing on record principles that will bring about, eventually, the freedom of "all flesh." I believe it is the destiny of this great nation to carry the principles embodied in the two instruments I have named to all the world, and that this will be a preparation for that great day of universal peace referred to by President Lund, this morning. The liberty of mankind is not to be limited except to the extent of oppressive tyrannizing over and preventing the freedom of people who differ from us. I agree with President Grant on that matter that he talked about this morning, — that it is right for men to have the liberty to combine for their own benefit, for the raising of wages, for the shortening of hours of labor, for anything that will be for their good and benefit, but they must not exercise that in a way to infringe the liberties of others who do not see as they see. The idea of a Latter-day Saint, a man holding the Priesthood of the Most High, given for a blessing, for persuasion, for instruction, for light and for the liberties of mankind, saying that a brother in the Church shall not have the privilege of obtaining work for the support of himself and family, unless he joins some society and has a card to show his membership therein! That, I think, is going far beyond the bounds of the liberty of American citizens. We have no right to trench upon the freedom of others. It is permissible to stand up for our own individual rights, to stand up for the rights of any association with which we are connected, unless such association involves oppression and tyranny upon any portion of mankind. 

THE LORD HAS SET UP THE ENSIGN OF PEACE. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Later-day Saints was revealed from heaven in the last days, to bring about the liberties of the world. For all nations the Lord has "set up an ensign" as the Prophet Isaiah predicted he would. Read the 18th chapter of the book of Isaiah, also the 11th chapter and the Sth chapter. I will not turn to them now — you get them, and read them. The Lord declared that some time he would raise an ensign to the nations of the earth : "All ye inhabitants of the world, and dwellers on the earth, see ye, when he lifteth up an ensign on the mountains; and when he bloweth a trumpet, hear ye." The ensign has been raised. Brother Brigham, when he went up on the mountain here just after the arrival of the pioneers, said tnat was "a good place to raise an ensign." I don't know that the ensign was raised right then and there, but the real ensign alluded to is the ensign of peace which is in the gospel of Jesus Christ sent down from heaven anew in these last days. It is to be brought by Zion, as Isaiah the prophet said, "Oh, Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the high mountain." That has been fulfilled in the coming here of the people who are now gathered in these mountain valleys, and the word of the Lord is going forth and it is to be carried to every nation and kindred and tongue and people. 

THE REVELATIONS OF GOD AND THE COVENANT OF PEACE. 

Some of our brethren will say, perhaps : But do not the revelations of God, ancient and modern, declare that there will be tribulations and troubles and wars and bloodshed in the last days?" Certainly. Is that any reason why an ensign of peace should not be lifted up? Is that any reason why the gospel of peace should not be preached? Is that any reason why nations and communities and clubs and associations shall not be formed for the establishment of peace, for the proclamation of peace, for attempts to bring about harmony among the nations of the earth, preparing them for that day of universal peace? I see nothing in any of the revelations of God, ancient or modern, that should stop or hinder in any way proper efforts made for the bringing together of the nations of the earth in a bond of peace. President Grant read some hymns this morning, all appropriate, all having good texts. I would like to read a hymn that we used to sing when I was a boy, when I first embraced the gospel, written by Parley P. Pratt, one of our splendid poets, one of the great men of the latter days, one who proclaimed the gospel at home and abroad. Here is what he says, on page 102 of-our Hymn Book,- hymn 92. He was the author of the first hymn in the book, the Church hymn book. I don't say anything against Psalmodies, or The Songs of Zion — they are all good, but there is our Hymn Book, not bound quite so well as it might be, perhaps, but it is our Church Hymn Book, very difficult to find in many of the stakes of Zion, and in some of the wards you cannot find one, but he is the author of the first hymn, a most splendid piece of poetry. I will read the. first one — the President says to read them both : 

The morning breaks the shadows flee; 

Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day 

Majestic rises on the world. 

The clouds of error disappear 

Before the rays of truth divine; The glory, bursting from afar, 

Wide o'er the nations soon will shine. 

The Gentile fulness now comes in, 

And Israel's blessings are at hand; Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin. 

Shall in their promised Canaan stand. 

Jehovah speaks! let earth give ear, 

And Gentile nations turn and live; His mighty arm is making bare, 

His covenant people to receive. 

Angels from heaven, and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne; 

Thus Zion's light is bursting forth, To cheer her children's glad return. This is changed a little from the original but that does not matter so very much. 

Now here is the %mn that I was referring to: 

Lo! the Gentile chain is broken 

Freedom's banner waves on high; List, ye nations, by this token 

Know that your redemption's nigh. 

See on yonder distant mountain, 

Zion's standard wide unfurled; Far above Missouri's fountain, 

Lo, it waves for all the world. Freedom, peace and full salvation 

Are the blessings guaranteed — Libe-rty to every nation, 

Every tongue, and every creed. 

Come, ye Christian sects, and pagan, 

Pope and Protestant and priest; Worshipers of God or Dagon, 

Come ye to fair freedom's feast. 

Come, ye sons of doubt and wonder, 

Indian, Moslem, Greek or Jew; All your shackles burst asunder; 

Freedom's banner waves for you. 

Cease to persecute each other, 

Join the covenant of peace; Be to all a friend, a brother; 

This will bring the world release. 

Lo! the King, the great Messiah, 

Prince of Peace shall come to reign; Sound again, ye heavenly choir, 

Peace on earth, good will to men. 

PREPARATION FOR PEACE NECESSARY. 

The point that I wish to make is this : While the numerous prophecies concerning the terrible times of tribulation of the latter days are about to be fulfilled, and are being fulfilled now, yet there should be efforts made to bring about peace, if possible, among the nations of the earth; and it seems to me that it is the province, the right, the duty of Zion -in her beauty rising, in the mountains, to send forth all the aid possible and to lend a ready hand to help bring about peace on earth, good will to men. Do you think, my brethren and sisters, that when Christ shall come as the King of kings, the Lord of lords, that there will be no preparation made for that coming? Do you think that he will come and by a great  cataclysm, will turn the warring nations into peaceful, united peoples? Oh, no. Some one will say, perhaps, he is going to utterly destroy them. Don't you believe it. When Christ comes there will be people dwelling on the earth who will not perish; many of the wicked will be destroyed "by the brightness of his coming," but before that a work of preparation will have to be accomplished and the principles which belong to our government and which are now being extended in the efforts to bring about peace will have softened the hearts of nations, the leading nations of the earth, so that they will combine for mutual help, and agree, instead of going to war and drenching the earth with human blood, that they will come together in a fraternal spirit and settle their difficulties by arbitration or submit them to courts of justice, which will be provided for, so that the rights of each other may be fully made plain and clear to all the world. That is the object in view. I had the pleasure of meeting as a delegate in some of the congresses for the world's peace when I was abroad, particularly on my last mission to Europe, a number of the finest men and women who can be met with outisde of this* Church, great men, great women, with great minds and of great influence who advanced theories that were not practical. But they were good', philosophical, kind people with splendid desires. But the first real practical thing they tried to bring about was the disarmament of the great nations, that the number of their men in armies and navies should be diminished, that the munitions of war should be decreased in production, and the way be thus prepared for some kind of league or union by which the nations of the earth could come together in a solemn compact for the purpose of bringing about peace, so far as it could be established. I don't think there is any ardent advocate of the measures now being taken who makes the contention that this pact, if it should be signed, will bring about entire suppression of war or the war-like spirit. Not at all, but if there is anything practical that can be done to bring about disarmament among the nations (except by agreement when circumstances may arise to require arms and ammunitions), anything that can bring that about is in the right direction. It may not accomplish all that its advocates expect it to do, but it will prepare the way for that which eventually will come. The ideas will thus be presented to nations that have power and influence in the earth whereby they can make agreements by which wars shall be diminished and eventually abolished, so that the time will come, also predicted by the prophets, when "nation will not rise against nation nor kingdom against kingdom," and they will not even "learn war any more," but every man, spiritually speaking, can sit down "under his vine and under his fig tree; and none shall make him afraid." 

That time will come. I am just as sure of it as I am that the sun will rise tomorrow morning. I don't know whether I will be here to see it, but it will rise just the same, no matter how much the clouds may come up, and I am just as sure that "the Sun of righteousness will arise with healing in his wings," as the ancient prophet predicted, and the bright rays of his glory will penetrate to the utmost parts of the earth, and he will indeed be the King of glory and the Prince of peace. 

WE ARE NOT TO CEASE OUR EFFORTS AGAINST EVILS, BECAUSE EVILS ABOUND. 

But before that day comes there will be wars and rumors of wars, and plague and famine, and earthquake and divers evils, as we call them, which will only be, perhaps, the beginning of greater sorrows yet to come. I believe that these predictions will come to pass, but should that prevent all that are lovers of their race from making any efforts to bring about a different condition of things ? If the "flu" or any other plague should go over the land again, are we to sit down and say, "Oh, it was predicted, it will come and we cannot do anything against it?" If iniquity abounds, as Christ said it would, and because of it "the love of many would wax cold," is that any reason why we should not take steps against those iniquities? We are forming a social society, many of our brethren here, men that are capable of handling the subject, and the Lord knows, if he doesn't the devil does that something is needful to be done, needful for our young people, particularly, and those social workers are busily engaged in the good work, and they will be more busily engaged by and by, when they get a routine prepared and methods adopted by which we can reach the evil. Shall we cease from our efforts against evil because evils will abound and because '"evil men and seducers will wax worse and worse," as predicted by the Savior? Are we not to take steps to try and check the evil ? Take the Book of Mormon. That predicts wars and at the same time provides and tells what shall be done. Read the writings of Mormon and Moroni m the Book of Mormon. There is a labor imposed upon us, so it tells. What is it to do? Why, to check these evils, to proclaim against them, to unite together for peace and for harmony and for, brotherly love, for the prevalence of the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So that the words of Parley may come to pass and the heavenly choir will sing again the anthem, "Peace on earth, good will to men." 

READ THE PEACE PACT FOR YOURSELVES. 

Now, I want to feel a good spirit toward my brethren who do not see it the way I do, exactly, and I want them to feel the same way towards me. I have most profound convictions in regard to this matter. I have read the propositions for a covenant of peace carefully, over and over, and over again, and I find that nearly everything that some of the great men and statesmen want to put in the pact is there already, and some things that they want taken out are not there at all. There has been a great deal of misrepresentation concerning it, and another thing I find to my great regret, that I have talked to a large number of our prominent men personally, and they have never read it themselves-, they have had to go by what the proponents and the opponents have had to say and they are bewildered about it. They don't see and read and understand for themselves, as Jesus taught in his day, "Whoso readeth, let him understand." And that is something they should do in regard to this covenant, read the articles and compare them and see the bearing of the different articles, one upon another. I say here, that to my mind, it is one of the grandest things ever presented to the people of the world. There is nothing anywhere to be compared with it. Do I say it is perfect? No, but it provides means for its perfection, or for its correction, plenty of means provided for anything that needs to be put into it, or anything that needs to be taken out of it, just as it was with our great Constitution of the United States. Now, I did not intend to talk directly on this subject this afternoon, but it has come to mind as I have been speaking., ON THE NECESSITY OF OBEDIENCE TO. LAW. 

Now, my brethren, men holding the Priesthood of the Almighty! This has been sent down for the salvation of mankind, not merely for the honor of men who are called and ordained to the several offices in the Priesthood, not merely for that, although it is a great honor to be a priest of the Most High, a servant of the living God, clothed upon with divine authority, for that is what Priesthood means, divine authority, no matter whether a person has but a small part of divine authority or in its fulness, he has it, he is definitely called and ordained to certain duties — what for? For the salvation of the world, of all nations, kindreds and tribes and tongues. That is what that is for, and for the establishment of freedom. The flag of liberty, as Parley says, "waves on high," and "list ye nations, by this token, know that your redemption's nigh!" The time is coming when the nations shall be redeemed from tyranny and oppression and from seeking each other's, blood, fighting for that which they could acquire by proper reason and by reasonable argument and reasonable associations and courts. 

Now, my brethren, do you think any of you that may be engaged in the order that President Grant alluded to this morning, have any right to say to a man that because he does not see as you do, and does not carry a card showing that he belongs to a certain society, that he shall not work, you will not work with him; if he gets a job, and people employ him, you lay down your tools and say you will not work with him? Is that right? Is that reasonable? Is that Christ-like? Is that brotherly? Is it in accordance with the principles of liberty in the Constitution of the United States and the Declaration of Independence? I believe with all my heart that if our brethren holding the Priesthood of the Lord were to combine together for everything that is good in these societies, but will not go one step farther than that which is their right to do, that they can control the situation and they will also avoid the great troubles of mob law. There are projects now on foot — I have learned about them — to make a mob and go up to the Legislature to try and persuade the law makers to do or not to do certain things. Will Latterday Saints do that? Men are elected to the Legisature to frame laws for the good of the State and they ought to be left free to use their best judgment. That is what they are elected for. But gathering mobs to try and influence them is all wrong. The right to petition is proper, but there is a proper way to make petitions and we ought to have respect for those who have been selected to occupy places in our government, and all should be obedient to law. Look at the fruits of mobocracy in Omaha, alluded to by President Grant this morning. That is only one outburst. If this is allowed to go on there will be a vast deal more trouble in the land. It is a great menace of the latter times; and I want to read a few verses from the Book of Mormon in regard to what the Lord said many hundreds of years ago in regard to this very thing. You will find it on page 587. In ancient times on this land there were organizations, "secret combinations" they are called. Now, I don't say that what I am going to read applies directly to a simple order of labor, but it applies to the situation generally, and to what is to come of it. Moroni is writing on the subject of that which was found upon the records that he discovered from the people that came on the land anciently, and it is called the Book of Ether and he is quoting from that arid reasoning upon it and he says : 

And now I, Moroni, do not write the manner of their oaths, and combinations, for it hath been made known unto me that they are had among all people, and they are had among the Lamanites, 

And they have caused the destruction of this people of whom I am now speaking, and also the destruction of the people of Nephi. 

Now, page 588 : 

And whatsoever nation shall uphold such secret combinations, to get power and gain, until they shall spread over the nation, behold, they shall be destroyed, for the Lord will not suffer that the blood of his Saints, which shall be shed by them shall always cry unto him from the ground for vengeance upon them, and*yet he avenge them not; 

Wherefore, O ye Gentiles, it is wisdom in God that these things should be shown unto you, that thereby ye may repent of your sins, and suffer not that these murderous combinations shall get above you, which are built up to get power and gain, and the work, yea, even the work of destruction come upon you, yea, even the sword of the justice of the eternal God shall fall upon you, to your overthrow and destruction, if ye shall suffer these things to be; 

Wherefore the Lord commandeth you, when ye shall see these things come among you, that ye shall awake to a sense of your awful situation, because of this secret combination which shall be among you, or wo be unto it, because of the blood of them who have been slain; for they cry from the dust for vengeance upon it, and also upon those who build it up. 

For it cometh to pass that whoso buildeth it up, seeketh to overthrow the freedom of all lands, nations, and countries; and it bringeth to pass the destruction of all people, for it is built up by the devil, who is the father of all lies; even that same liar who beguiled our first parents; yea, even that same liar who hath caused man to commit murder from the beginning; who hath hardened the hearts of men that they have murdered the prophets, and stoned them, and cast them out from the beginning. 

Wherefore, I, Moroni, am commanded to write these things, that evil may be done away, .and that the time may come that Satan may have no power upon the hearts of the children of men, but that they may be persuaded to do good continually, that they may come unto the fountain of all righteousness and be saved. 

There are glorious promises made in this book to the Gentiles, "if they will obey the God of this land, which God is Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world," all on conditions. But wars will come, no doubt; disputes will arise, but if the efforts now being made are carried out, they will succeed in bringing people together who have good sense and good judgment, representing the leading nations of the world, who will submit their difficulties to one another and then to arbitration, or courts of justice, as may be necessary, and stop the shedding of blood and promote harmony and peace, prepare the world by learning and understanding truth, by understanding real freedom and the proper action of nation with nation until one great brotherhood is established among the nations and the way will be prepared for the coming of the Lord. We do not expect full peace, full justice, full glory and unity and brotherly love until the reign of Christ is established, but it will come just as surely as the light shineth from the East even unto the West, so shall the coming of the Son of man be. Read the 24th Chapter of Matthew, as revised and published in the Pearl of Great Price — T will not take up time to read it now, — there are many passages of old scripture that I would like to read, if there were more time, but I have said enough on this point. 

LET US UNITE AS ONE. 

Now, what I desire this afternoon in my soul is that the Latterday Saints, people who have been reserved in the eternal worlds by our Father in Heaven, until the last days, to come down on the earth and aid in the great dispensation of the fulness of times, which is to bring about the redemption of the human family, living and dead, will unite together and be one. 

Let Zion in her beauty rise, . Her light begins to shine; Ere long her King will rend the skies, Majestic and divine. 

Let us prepare ourselves for the day, in our. hearts, in our spirits, in our works, in our efforts, let us combine for mutual good and for the good of the world, and understand that the destiny of this great nation, which the Lord has raised up, is to carry the gospel of freedom, of liberty, of union, of brotherly love into all the nations of the earth, if they will receive it, and a great many will. 

I here bear testimony that my brethren standing in high places in the Church, through the providence of God, are united in this, That we desire the welfare of mankind; we desire that liberty shall be extended; we desire that bloodshed shall be stayed; we desire that war shall cease; we desire that men shall meet in a fraternal spirit to bring about harmony and good-will among the nations, and we believe in the doctrine of the Covenant; we believe it is practical, whether everything that is being done is just exactly that way, we will leave to the wise men among the nations. Some of the very best among them are engaged in the work to bring this about, and if anything appears to be imperfect that can be corrected in due time. PRAYER FOR THE PRESIDENT. 

In regard to the President of the United States, the eloquent prayer for his recovery that was offered by Brother Whitney, found an echo in my soul. My heart went with it. I met the gentleman here, and I have pleasure in bearing witness to what President Grant said this morning concerning him, personally, and I do hope that now he is lying possibly on his death-bed, the wicked slanders that have been sent abroad, reported here in Utah, in Zion, concerning him will cease, if for no other reason than the condition that he is in. I have the greatest assurances that .can be given that those stories which have been circulated concerning his personal morality are not true. I believe that he is a good man; I believe that the Lord has been with him; that he has accomplished a mighty work among the European nations; and I believe that he is sincere and that his heart beats for the good of the whole world, and for the good of the United States in particular, because he is the President thereof. 

Now, everybody is at perfect liberty to dissent from that idea if they have any reason for it, but that is my conviction. I have had interviews, associations, with men and women in different lands all over the continent of Europe, and throughout the United States, and I know a little something about discernment, and my discernment is to the effect that what Brother Grant said about Woodrow Wilson this morning is eminently true and right. May the Lord bless him and heal him, _and may the Holy Spirit, which comes from above, to bring about peace and harmony and good will, enter into our souls, unite us together for every effort that will be for the welfare of humanity, and the glory be to God, through Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters, I. have greatly rejoiced in the spirit and power of this meeting, and also of our first session that was held this morning. Surely the Lord is with his people and with his servants, and the inspiration of his Spirit is upon them. Gathered here in this house is a great host of people, mostly adult members of the Church. In the Church there are also another great host, the host that I refer to are the children of the Latter-day Saints. We have them among us in great numbers. They have been committed to our care and keeping by the Lord. We are the children of the Father, and our little ones are also his children. He is the Father of their spirits, and we are ^ie fathers and the mothers of their bodies. And thus is the relationship between us and our heavenly Father cleary defined, as also between us and our children — a relationship that is indeed very intimate. man's duties to multiply and replenish the earth. 

When the Lord placed Adam in the Garden of Eden, it was found that he was alone. God saw that it was not good for man to be alone; therefore, he brought the woman to him to be a companion and a helpmeet, and he joined them together in marriage. Thus, marriage received divine sanction in the very beginning of the race. The Lord said unto our first parents : "Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it; and have dominion over * * * every living thing." This great commandment had reference to the posterity of Adam and Eve, which should follow. The law was made binding upon them; and I do not believe, that it was contemplated by this great commandment that conditions such as we find in the world at the present time should exist; wherein many parents restrict their offspring to one or two children. This seems especially deplorable in view of the fact that parents are endowed with a God-given power of procreation, and that it is within their province and ability to have numerous children. 

God said, "Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth." And so this law is made binding upon men and women in the world through the marriage relation. Whenever this sacred covenant has been guarded properly and observed among men, they have been blessed and prospered. 

It was so in ancient Israel. The law respecting marriage was introduced by Moses, the great law giver, and was very strict. Those who violated it were subject to extreme penalties. You will remember, that when the children of Jacob, or Israel, as he is called, went down into Egypt, they numbered something like seventy souls and when they came out of Egypt, out of bondage their number exceeded six hundred thousand souls. Thus during a period of four hundred years the children of Israel, while in Egypt, were greatly blessed and multiplied, and this blessing continued with them during .their journeys in the wilderness. When they came into the land of Palejtine they were a highly favored people. They were blessed, however, only so long as they observed to keep the commandments of God, so long as they held sacred the great and glorious covenant of marriage, but when they de-parted from it, as they sometimes did, and drifted into evil ways, and sometimes into immorality, the anger of the Lord was kindled against them and his judgments fell upon them. It was so in that time; it has been so, in all ages of the world, and with all the nations of the earth. Great and mighty kingdoms have gone down to destruction and to oblivion because they broke the everlasting covenant of marriage and departed from the way of virtue. This is a solemn thing, indeed. 

We can learn many lessons from history. You will remember what David, the Psalmist, the sweet singer of Israel, said in respect to children. The words will be found in the one hundred twenty-seventh Psalm : 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON. 57 

CHILDREN A PRIZED GIFT OF THE LORD. 

"Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord: and the fruit of the womb is his reward. 

"As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of the youth. 

"Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate." 

So, I think we may regard children as a great and precious gift from the Lord, a gift that is much to be prized. The Savior in his day clearly defined the status of children. People brought their little ones, so that they might see the Savior, and that he might touch them. When this aroused the anger of the disciples, and they rebuked those who brought the children forward, the Savior, who was much annoyed, said : 

"Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." 

Then he uttered this solemn warning : 

"Except ye become as little children ye cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven." 

His language signified that little children were innocent before the Lord, and worthy of consideration, worthy of attention and notice; and that they must not be passed by and ignored. This was, certainly, a beautiful example. So, my brethren and sisters, in these latter times, Israel is under that great law, the first great commandment which was given to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. 

A REMARKABLE PICTURE. 

It is expected of us that we should be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth; and, so far as the Latter-day Saints have observed this great and important law, they have been blessed of God, and they have been multiplied, greatly multiplied, in all the stakes of Zion. In every ward we have many large families. It is not an uncommon thing to met a woman who has had ten or twelve or fourteen children; and sometimes you will meet women in the Church who have had as high as eighteen children. I. met one such woman, and I asked her casually how many children she had in her family. She said : 

"Brother Clawson, I have had eighteen children, and most of them are living." 

I said to her : 

"All honor to you. Surely you are blest of the Lord; and I look upon you as a veritable queen among women." 

Just the other day, in attendance at one of the quarterly conferences — the conference of the Montpelier stake — I was speaking on the subject of marriage and I saw in the congregation, before me, a woman with eleven children, all sitting together and occupying an entire bench in that congregation. There was a nursing child upon her lap, and ten other children. She had twelve children, but one was dead. Her entire family of children were with her there in that meeting, and I presume her husband would have been with her also, but, being a railroad man, he could not be excused from his duties. It was .a remarkable picture, and I felt in my heart to praise the Lord that we have such women among us — women and men, too, of course, who are willing to honor the law of marriage, who believe in it, who believe in large families. 

THE SAINTS BELIEVE IN LARGE FAMILIES. 

Our leaders, in the Church, believe in large families, and that is generally the example that they have set to the people. President Brigham Young was the father of many children, very many; I know not how many, but a host of children. John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, and the late Joseph F. Smith, all had large families. My own father, the late Bishop Hiram B. Clawson, was the father of forty-two children. President Joseph F. Smith was the father of some forty-three or forty-four beautiful children. I have seen them all in a single group picture. It was fascinating. I could hardly take my eyes from that picture. I marveled at it, to see this man, the leader of the Church, the Prophet of God, sitting in the midst of his own family, composed of a great host of children. Surely in a time to come his seed will be as the sands upon the sea-shore, and as the stars in heaven for number. Blessed was he, and blessed were these great men of the Church, with the large families that God gave them. They were indeed blessed. They honored the law of marriage, and they preached it to the people all the days of their lives. 

And so we also preach it. We preach it today to this people and we say to them : be careful aiid guard this glorious principle, and honor it in your lives. Exercise these God-given powers of procreation, as far as you reasonably can; and Latter-day Saints, do not interfere with the fountains of life, and do not cut off your posterity and restrict them. Do not limit them to that extent that your only hope is hanging by a thread. For this is not pleasing to the Lord. 

THE RESPONSIBILITY IN LARGE FAMILIES. 

Then, oh, how great is the responsibility that goes with these children, when they come into our homes! Do you not know, brethren and sisters, that the pure spirits of these little children who are among us were sent down from heaven to take upon themselves mortality? It takes the body and the spirit to constitute the soul of man. That was the blessing that you received at your birth. That is the blessing that I received. I came down upon this great mission, to secure my ; and oh, how thankful I am, how I rejoice and praise the Lord for this precious gift! So we are blessed and so our children are blessed. 

There is another grave responsibilty, that should not be lost sight of, and it is the obligation resting upon us to teach and train our children in the principles of eternal truth, to teach them everything pertaining to the everlasting gospel, and to train them up in the way they should go; because, as with us, so with our children. They must learn to subdue and bring into subjection the evil appetites of the body, the unrighteous desires of the heart, and the sinful inclinations that spring out of the heart through the body. These things must be controlled in order that our chidren may grow up- without sin, if possible, unto salvation; and that in the future they may take up these bodies from the grave and go on to exaltation and glory. 

RESPONSIBILITY RESTS IN THE HOME. 

Now, let me say briefly that the first great obligation, with reference to the children, rests with the parents themselves in the home. It is upon you, fathers in Israel, and it is upon you, mothers. The Church has done much, the Church is doing much, to assist yuu in the work, of training your children. God has so ordered it that we have organizations in the Church which are intended to give help to parents in the training of their children; but that does not relieve the parents of their obligations. We have the Sunday Schools with at least one hundred twenty-five thousand children; and we have the young people's organizations. We have the Primaries with twenty-five or thirty thousand children; and we have the Religion Classes with about an equal number. We have the quorums of the Lesser Priesthood, enrolling great hosts of boys, in the deacons' quorums, in the teachers' quorums and in the priests' quorums. Of course, these boys, many of them, belong also to the Sunday Schools and other auxiliary organizations. They are a great army, these boys and girls, and they must have training and education, they must be instructed, and trained in the principles of eternal truth. A great work is being done in these splendid societies that were inspired of the Lord. Teachers in these organizations are giving their time without money and without price, freely, for the instruction of the children. 

What are you doing, brethren and sisters? Are you sending. your children to these places of instruction? Do you support them? Are you fostering the Religion Class? Are you giving good support to the Primary organization, to the young peoples' societies, and to the Sunday Schools? Above all, I repeat it, above all, are you givivng proper instruction yourselves to your children in the home, by precept and by example? If parents want their children to be good children, they will have to be good themselves. If they want their children to keep the Word of Wisdom, they must keep the word of wisdom themselves. If they want their children to be prayerful, they must also lead out and pray. If they want their children to pay tithing, then the parents must pay tithing. It is not sufficient to say to a child, "Go thou and do so and so," because more than likely the child will not go. But if the parents say, "Come now, with me, and do so and so," the child will go with the parent. 

So, my brethren and sisters, I have felt in these few words today to emphasize the grave responsibility which is resting upon us with reference to our children; and, let me say, in addition, we should guard our children against evil companionship and evil doing, against the immoralities of the world today, which are very great. 

Do you always know, parents, where your children are? If you are at home in the evening, and they are away, do you know where they are? That is the question. Do you know what company they keep? Do you know what hours they keep? If you would bring them up properly you must know these things; you must be posted; you must keep your eye upon the children, because many of them are weak, and all of them are inexperienced. They are beset by temptations, and they need your counsel and your aid. 

Woe unto that man, or woe unto that woman who despises little children, who passes them coldly by, who ignores them, and who has no thought or love for them, because these little ones are the gift of God unto man, precious immortal souls. Let us remember this, brethren and sisters, and let us give the children that care and attention that are essential to their welfare and salvation, which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

It is three and one-half years since I last had the opportunity of attending a general conference of the Church, and I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that this opportunity affords me much genuine pleasure. I have been delighted with the privilege of meeting so many of the brethren and sisters with whom I have had a personal acquaintance, and I regret that I am unable to entertain in my own home, at conference time, those of whose hospitality I have partaken while visiting the stakes in Zion. 

THE SITUATION IN THE BRITISH MISSION 

As most of you are aware, I have but recently returned from England, Liverpool being the headquarters of the European mission over which I had the honor of presiding while there. Since my return, many people native of Great Britain, and elders who have labored there, have enquired of me as to the conditions of the people and of the work in that mission. No doubt but there are others to whom a brief recital of conditions over there will be of interest. Before the war there were from three to four hundred missionaries from Zion  in the British Mission. But few local brethren were used as branch presidents and none as conference presidents, nor as traveling elders. A prohibition by the British Government having been placed upon aliens entering the county, it became impossible to keep up the former memebrs. No missionaries arrived in Great Britain between December, 1916, and Mar. 31, 1919, and our force of elders from home was reduced to seven in June of the present year, when we received ten others. This, however, did not represent our entire missionary force, for we had called into the service a .number of local brethren and sisters who did yeoman service for the Lord, which labor also proved a great blessing unto those who were thus employed. When I left Liverpool, last July, we had twenty-three local brethren, laboring as traveling elders and in the neighborhood of three hundred seventy-five local lady missionaries laboring in the British mission. All of the seventy-five branches, and ten of the thirteen conferences were presided over by the local elders. The tithes of the mission increased materially each year while I was there and during that period almost doubled in amount. The number of conversions to the Gospel also kept up well; in fact, during the year, 1917 we had more baptisms in Great Britain than during either 1916 or 1915, when there was a considerably larger number of elders employed. There is scarcely anything connected with the church that stimulates the faith of the elders so much as to give them; responsibility. Activity in the cause inspires love for, and interest in it. I have proven to my satisfaction that when we work for the Lord we love , him more, and as we love him more, we have more desire to work for, and serve him. It works both ways. It is equally true that if we have no appreciation of what the Lord has done for us and what he designs to do for us, we will not have much affection for him, and if we do not love him we will not give to him much valuable service. Love and service to God and man are necessary qualifications in order to obtain eternal life, the greatest gift of God to man. 

We have proven that the British Mission is self-sustaining as well in its working arrangement as in its finances. The work can be carried on by the local brethren and sisters if we be not permitted to send missionaries from Zion. What I have said with reference to the British Mission is measurably true in regard to all the European missions. 

THE GREAT WAR. 

The great European war had been in progress two years before I arrived in England. During my stay in that land, I saw it ended by the signing of the armistice. I was there also during the sitting of the Peace Congress. We had a varied experience and had feelings of great anxiety over there as you had here, and perhaps we had occasion for being more anxious. We were nearer the war zone. < The wounded were brought home to us in England by the train loads. All the hospitals were filled and school buildings and private residences were converted into hospitals and filled to their capacity. It was evidenced on every hand that a terribly destructive war was being waged in close proximity to us. The daily news paper reports of the sinking of ships by the enemy and the frequent raids made upon the coast cities of England by zeppelins and other enemy air craft and by the German war ships were all calculated to unnefve the people and cause them to realize the horrors of it all. I think, too, that the newspapers did not reveal all the damage done to life and property in England. There was a significant purpose in keeping it camouflaged. I am happy to be able to say that through all these experiences there were but few casualties among the Latter-day Saints. We were constantly praying for the protection of the elders and the Saints at home as well as for those who had gone to the front and we acknowledged the protecting care of God which was over them. 

It was necessary for most of our elders to return home during the war period which was extremely dangerous as the enemy submarines were lying in wait for them. Mines laid by the enemy were also a constant menace. All ships were obliged to travel without lights at night and as a consequence many collisions occurred and some sinkings. A ship on which some of our elders had embarked was run into and damaged so that she had to return to harbor for repairs. These things caused us great anxiety but, thank the Lord, none of our elders lost their lives from such causes. I tried to live near to the Lord so as to receive inspiration from him to direct the affairs of the mission and that his protection might be over us and I encouraged the Saints to do likewise and we feel that our prayers and labors were not in vain. 

THE UTAH AND IDAHO SOLDIERS IN ENGLAND. 

Many of the United States soldiers came through Liverpool enroute to France. A rest camp was established at Knotty Ash, on the outskirts of Liverpool where there were almost constantly great numbers of American soldiers. Some of our "Mormon" boys were billeted there for weeks. We had the pleasure of a visit at Mission headquarters from Brigadier-General Richard W. Young, Chaplains Brigham H. Roberts and Calvin S. Smith and many others. Chaplains Roberts and Smith addressed the Saints in Liverpool. Some of our soldier boys stationed at London rendered valuable missionary assistance. We were able to help some of our boys while they were in France by providing them with garments, such clothing as could not be obtained elsewhere in that country. Some of the boys had the spirit of missionary work having previously had that kind of experience. We supplied them with literature for distribution and very much gpod and some conversions were accomplished in that way. 

BURYING GROUND OF AMERICAN SOLDIERS. 

Before leaving for home, accompanied by Sister Richards, Elder Arnold G. Holland of Rexburg and Albert Smith, son of President George Albert Smith, I went out to Ellerton cemetery on the outskirts of Liverpool where six hundred forty American soldiers were buried, they having died from the influenza and other causes, and by permission -of the care taker dedicated those graves. The section of the cemetery used for these burials is apart from the main burial ground and is a beautiful place. The graves are made in systematic order and the name and number of each person buried there are plainly indicated by lettering and numbering on a cross made of 2 x 4 hardwood standing about two and a half feet above ground. A register is also kept in the sexton's office. This information should be of special interest to those having friends or relatives buried there. The influenza plague afflicted the people there as it did the people in this country causing wide-spread fatality among soldiers and civilians, the strong and fit seeming to be special objects for its attack. 

THE HAND OF GOD IN THE VICTORY FOR THE ALLIES. 

While the war was in progress we were naturally anxious and were praying that the Lord would give the victory to the Allies, with the United States associated, believing that they were in the right. When the war did come to an end with the signing of the armistice we believed that God had given us the victory that militarism might be crushed and that those glorious principles vouchsafed to us through the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of this great country might be established in the countries of Europe. I think I would be doing less than my duty if I did not acknowledge the hand qf the Lord in this victory and did not praise and thank him with all my soul for this deliverance. 

I believe that the field of God's activity is not confined to his Church, and that inspirations from him is not limited to the general authorities of the Church or its membership. There are millions of our Father's children in other countries, whom he loves and in whose welfare here and hereafter he has deep interest. He desires that this gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached to them as it has been preached to us and to our fathers. 

GOSPEL DOOR TO THE NATIONS WILL BE OPENED AS RESULT OF THE WAR. 

It is my firm belief that as a result of the war and the victory to the Allies that the doors of nations hitherto closed against us to the preaching of the gospel, will be opened and that we will be permitted to enter into those new fields and into fields which have been restricted in the past, and preach the everlasting gospel. This will help compensate for the loss sustained. While the Peace Congress was in session we were praying in secret and in public that the members of that body might be inspired to produce a treaty which would be just to all the nations, one which would be acceptable to all. We were also praying that some provision might be made by which such wars might forever be prevented. When that important body of men, after months of careful, prayerful deliberation brought forth the Peace Treaty including the League of Nations Covenants, I believed that God had been instrumental in its accomplishment. Why should we not expect answer to our prayers and theirs? 

THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS, GOD'S WAY TO PEACE. 

I returned from my mission on the 25th of July and on the 27th spoke from this stand. Without any previous intention of mentioning the League of Nations, and not knowing that in this country there was strong oppositions to the League Covenant, I stated as my belief that President Woodrow Wilson is one of the greatest men of his time, and that in his work pertaining to the war and peace that he had been inspired of the Lord. Nothing I have read or heard from the opponents to the League Covenant has caused me to change my mind. I am glad to know that my attitude towards this the most important question under consideration by the nations at this time, is in harmony with that of the President of the United States and with the views of the President of the Church. 

The constitution of the United States, though established by the Lord, through wise men whom he raised up for that purpose, was not perfect and later had to be amended. It, too, was opposed by men who were considered wise, but the greater wisdom prevailed. The League Covenant may not be perfect but I believe that it is the product of wisdom and of inspiration, the same as was the constitution of this country, and that the Lord will see it through, also that it will be effective in preventing wars between the nations which are conceded to be the most calamitous. 

I believe that had there been a League of Nations such as the one now offered, when Germany launched this war, it never would have been accomplished and the world would have been saved all the loss of life and property and the broken hearts the war entailed. Think of it, my brethren and sisters — seven and one half millions of people killed on the battle field. It would require seven hundred fifty tabernacles of the capacity of this one, ten thousand, to hold that number. A destruction of one hundred eighty-six billions of the world's wealth can only be comprehended by those who have been accustomed to considering enormous sums of money. Do we want a repetition of such catastrophe? Something is in need of being done to prevent it. A League of Nations as a part of the Peace Treaty is the only thing offered. Even the opponents to the League offer no substitute. It is a case of negativing that which is offered as the best and only solution of a much perplexed question. The cause of the proposed League of Nations like that of "Mormonism," is a positive one. Its opponents are negative. We say that the League can be used to prevent wars between nations; they say it will fail of its purpose, and are trying to make their predictions come true. We say, let us give it a trial; they say no, it is useless to do so. There was a certain wise man in the days of the primitive church, educated at the feet of the great Gamaliel. He was a persecutor of the Saints, but through the special providence of God he was made to see his mistake. According to his own testimony he had acted conscientiously. We can afford to give those who oppose the League credit for being conscientious, and we should ask ourselves : Is it not possible that I am mistaken in this matter? 

I have asked myself that question and have analyzed my position the best I could but have not been able to arrive at any other conclusion than that in this thing I am right. I have been used to the inspiration of the Spirit oi God and if I am not mistaken, I have inspiration upon this subject; that it is God's way of helping, to establish peace and good will on earth, and I am not sure but that a fight against the League of Nations, as it has been presented to the Senate of the United States for ratification is a fight against God. May he deliver us, I pray, and guide us aright in all things. ' May he inspire the members of the United States Senate who have the responsibility of ratifying the Treaty, including the Covenant -of the League of Nations, as he inspired our fathers in the forming of the Constitution of the United States. Surely the interests of many nations surpass the interests of one. God remembered the needs of this nation in times of great peril, and I believe that he will not be unmindful of us now, and of those who fought with us for such great and glorious principles, and of the other nations, for they are as much in need of his divine providence as we. May the Lord add his blessing, I pray, in the name o£ Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang: 

High on the mountain top 

A banner is unfurled; Ye nations, now look up; It waves to all the world; In Deseret's sweet, peaceful land — " On Zion's mount behold it stand! 

For God remembers still 

His promise made of old, That He on Zion's hill 

Truth's standard would unfold! Her light should there attract the 'caze Of all the world in latter days. 

His house shall there be reared His glory to display; And people shall be heard In distant lands to say, We'll now go up and serve the Lord, Obey His truth, and learn His word. 

For there we shall be taught The law that will go forth, With truth and wisdom fraught To govern all the earth; Forever there His ways we'll tread, And save ourselves with all our dead. 

Then hail to Deseret! 

A refuge for the good, ' And safety for the great, If they but understood That God with plagues will shake the world Till all its thrones shall down be hurled. 

In Deseret doth truth 

Rear up its royal head;* Though nations may oppose, Still wider it shall spread; Yes, truth and justice, love and grace, In Deseret find ample place. 


