Morning
04 10 1919

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

I hope we shall all be able to remember the many good things that have been spoken during the previous sessions of this Conference. It is not what we eat, but what we digest, that makes us strong. It is not what we hear that makes us learned, that fills us with knowledge, which is power; it is what we remember and profit by and make a wise use of. Attention is the mother of memory. So my old teacher, Doctor Park, used to say; and I have demonstrated the truth of his teaching. It is wonderful what the memory will do, if it be trained and given a chance. 

A PHENOMENAL MEMORY. 

I heard a story of a colored gentleman who possessed a phenomenal memory. He was the keeper of the cloak room at a fashionable hotel, and his memory served him so faithfully, that he was not under the necessity of using checks when the guests left with him their hats or coats or canes. When they returned for them, he never failed to give each man his own. A certain judge went to that hotel for the special purpose of testing this man's marvelous memory. He gave him his hat — a hundred others did likewise — and passed into the dining room. Returning in about an hour, sure enough, he got the right hat back again. "Well,' he exclaimed, "that is remarkable. How did you know that was my hat?" "I don't know that that is your hat, judge," said the keeper. "Well, why did you give it to me, then?" "Because you gave it to me." (Laughter.) 

THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS. 

I am in hearty accord with the inspired teachings of my brethren. I haven't a great deal to say on the subject of the League of Nations; but I can say that I am heartily in favor of it. I believe in the League and in the Peace Treaty, not because it is a perfect proposition — I do not regard it as the key to God's kingdom, nor as the gateway to the  Millennium; but it looks to me like a good piece of pavement reaching in that direction, and I propose to step up out of the mud and walk on the pavement so far as it goes and as long as it lasts. 

"THE SHOULDERS OF THE PHILISTINES." 

President Grant told us yesterday that President Woodruff's favorite hymn was the one beginning : "God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform." God does so move; but he does not always bring to pass his purposes by means of miracles or through the instrumentality of his chosen people. Seven hundred years before the birth of the Savior, the Prophet Isaiah, looking down the vista of time, saw the Latter-day gathering of the scattered House of Israel, and said concerning them: "They shall fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines toward the West." We recognize the fulfilment of that prophecy in the founding of this Church by Joseph Smith, a lineal descendant of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, who thus lifted the Ensign for the gathering of their descendants from their long dispersion among the nations. But a part of the fulfilment rests with the Gentiles. Their steamships, their railroads, their means of rapid transit and communication — these are "the shoulders of the Philistines," upon which the children of Ephraim have been and are being brought to the West, to the land of Zion, where the New Jerusalem is to rise, where the pure in heart will assemble, and the necessary preparation be made for the coming of the Lord in his glory. God works outside as well as inside his Church, and uses big things and little things for the accomplishment of his purposes. 

IMPORTANCE OF LITTLE THINGS. 

We must not despise the small things, for they are often the seeds of great things. Flake on flake piles up the mighty avalanche, and the stir of a stone on the mountain-side hurls the whelming mass into the valley below. 

We must not expect miracles unless the occasion demands them. God is a wise economist. He would not take a bludgeon to brain a gnat, nor a thunder-bolt to kill a flee. He always suits the weapon to the warfare, the tool to the task required of it; and he is the God of the whole world, the God of the big and the little, the high and the low. He is over all things, and neither man nor Satan, with all their free agency, can by any possibility thwart the Divine Will. 

napoleon's overthrow. 

The other evening, while pondering some of these thoughts, -I picked up, not for the first time, Victor Hugo's famous master-work, "Les Miserables," in which is given a wonderful description of the Battle of Waterloo, where Napoleon, the conqueror of the world, was overthrown by the combined English and Prussian armies, in the month of June, 1815. Concerning that great and decisive struggle, Hugo says : 

"If it had not rained in the night between the 17th and the 18th of June, 1815, the fate of Europe would have been different. A few drops of water, more or less, decided the downfall of Napoleon. All that Providence required in order to make Waterloo the end of Austerlitz was a little more rain, and a cloud traversing: the sky out of season sufficed to make a world crumble. * * * The Battle of Waterloo could not be begun until half-past eleven o'clock, and that gave Blucher time to come up. Why ? Because the ground was wet. The artillery had to wait until it became a little firmer before they could manoeuvre." 

Yes, it is a historical fact that Napoleon, the greatest artilleryman of the ages, had more cannon on the field of Waterloo than did Wellington or Blucher — but he could not use them. Our author continues : 

"Suppose the soil dry, and the artillery capable of moving, the action would have begun at six o'clock in the morning. The battle would have been won and ended at two o'clock, three hours before the change of fortune in favor of the Prussians." He adds, sententiously, that it was not Wellington; it was not Blucher — it was God who overthrew Napoleon! 

HOW FAMINE COULD COME. 

I believe in the doctrine. I have seen, during the past summer, while traveling to and from a number of the Stakes of Zion, north, south, east and west — I have seen the whole land parching and burning under the torrid rays of the sun — no rain, no moisture, and the farmers, discouraged, all their labor in vain, talking of "pulling up" and moving away. An extraordinary season it has been, the dryness, the drought, beyond anything of the kind I have ever witnessed; and I was born right here in Salt Lake Valley where drought is not uncommon. I have thought how easy it would be for God to bring a famine upon the land, simply by withholding the rains of heaven — the "few drops of water" that overthrew Napoleon by coming down, and could so easily destroy the world if they were kept back. 

god's promises and prophecies conditional. 

All God's promises and prophecies are conditional. "Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled? I command, and a man obeys not; I revoke, and they receive not the blessing." There never was a time in the history of the world when a nation against which a divine prophecy, a proohecv of disaster, had been uttered, could not obtain a revocation of the edict, if thev were willing to pursue the course that God desired them to take. He sent Jonah to Nineveh, to tell them that within forty days that great city should be destroyed; but Nineveh repented, and God revoked his decree. The judgment passed over, but it would surely have come if the king and nobles and people had not humbled themselves and done the thing that was required of them. There is always an alternative —  no "dead-open-and-shut" . business about God's dealings with men. He gives them a chance. 

JOSEPH SMITH AND THE CIVIL WAR. 

Joseph Smith predicted the war between the Northern and the Southern States — told where it would begin, and named the question over which it would arise. It was on Christmas Day, 1832, that he foretold that great conflict, and twenty-eight years and some months later it began, the first gun being fired on Fort Sumter, April 12, 1861. Seventeen years before the war broke out, the Prophet made an effort to avert the awful calamity that he saw impending over his country. Was it inconsistent of him to do so — to utter a prediction and then work to prevent its fulfilment?. No, — that is not the way to look at it. He was a prophet of God, and he knew that the nation was entitled to an alternative. We hear it said, when a man dies : "It was his time to die." And so it was — it must have been, or he would not have died. But a man's time»can change, according to the course taken by him. If he does what God requires, what he was sent into the world to do, there is no reason why he should not remain to fully accomplish the purpose of his mortal creation. But if he is unwise, and dissipates his strength; if he does wrong and weakens his powers, then he shortens his life and his time to die comes earlier. 

Joseph Smith made an earnest effort to ward off the very calamity that he had predicted. And how did he propose to do this? Early in 1844, a few months before his martyrdom, he became a candidate for President of the United States, and sent forth the Apostles and Elders of the Church to present his "views on Government" to the people of the States of the Union. Incorporated in the platform of political principles upon which he proposed to stand, was a provision for the liberation of the slaves of the South — not by violence, not by confiscation, thus despoiling their owners; for the slaves were their property, inherited from their fathers and grandfathers : The Prophet recognized this "fact, and he said, let the Nation purchase the slaves and set them free : let the colored man owe his liberty to the Government as a sift; the money for the purchase to be realized from the sale of public lands. Eleven years later, Ralph Waldo Emerson, the great philosopher, made the same identical suggestion, and was praised and commended for his humane and just proposition — though his advice was not taken. How many of those who praised Emerson appreciated Toseph Smith, who had offered the same suggestion eleven years before? It's an awful thing to be a "Mormon!" — in the eyes of the world, at least. We are proud of it. The Prophet's counsel was not acted upon. The hate-blinded politicians of that period thought they saw ''a more excellent way," and the great war came that cost this nation a million lives, a billion of treasure, and planted those terrible heart-burnings that separated the South from the North far more effectually than Mason and Dixon's line ever did or could. 

THE JACKSON COUNTY SAINTS. 

In the year 1831, the Latter-day Saints, directed and inspired of God, attempted to build Zion in Jackson County, Missouri, and establish a condition of affairs that would be a preparation for the Lord's glorious coming. If they had but followed the counsel of their heaven-inspired leader; if they had put into practice God's law for the building up of Zion, and without which there can be no Zion in the fullest and highest sense, they could have succeeded even at that early day, for the Lord said so in just that many words. But they failed to do as he required, and another set of consequences ensued. They were "not united, according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom." They did "not impart of their substance, as becometh Saints, to the poor and afflicted among them." They were not what Enoch's City had been — "Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind and dwelt in righteousness, and there was no poor among them." The Jackson County colonists were the best people that could be had at that time for the puijjpose, but they were not good enough to carry out God's holy design. "There were jarrings and contentions and envyings and strifes and lustful and covetous desires among them; wherefore, by these things they polluted their inheritances;" and the Lord, who had promised that if they woufd pursue a certain course they should build up Zion, now permitted their enemies to come upon them and drive them from the "goodly land." Banished — exiled for failing to fulfill God's purpose. 

ZION NOT MOVED. 

Banished, but not forsaken! In a revelation given soon afterwards, the Lord said to his people : "Let your hearts be comforted concerning Zion; for all flesh is in mine hands : Be still and' know that I am God. Zion shall not be moved out of her place, notwithstanding her children are scattered. They that remain, and are pure in heart, shall return and come to their inheritances, they and their children, with songs of everlasting joy, to build up the waste places of Zion." Until then, he had "other places" he said, for the gathering of his Saints, and they should be called "Stakes of Zion." 

THE GLORIOUS FUTURE. 

The Elders were told that they must "wait for a little season for the redemption of Zion." The people were to become mighty, not only in numbers and in material influence, but mighty by the power of God descending upon them as an endowment from on high. When the  should be ripe and all things ready, then, said the Lord: "Mine angels shall go before you, and also my presence, and in time ye shall possess the goodly land." Again : "I will fight your battles. Behold, the destroyer I have sent forth to destroy and lay waste mine enemies; and not many years hence they shall not be left to pollute mine heritage and to blaspheme my name upon the lands which I have consecrated for the gathering together of my saints." 

We must live God's laws if we desire to reap his promises. The Latter-day Saints of Jackson County were a far better people than those who mobbed them and drove them from their homes; but a lack of preparedness hindered them from playing their full part in the great work that God had designed. The mighty event, however, was only postponed. Zion, in due time, will be redeemed; Israel will be gathered; and the preparation made that is necessary to precede the advent of the King of kings. 

GOD J S COVENANT WITH ENOCH. 

More than five thousand years ago a prophet of God obtained a promise from him in relation to these things, and I will now read to you a portion of that promise: 

"And the Lord said unto Enoch: As I live, even so will I come in the last days, in the days of wickedness and vengeance, to fulfill the oath which I have made unto you concerning the children of Noah; 

"And the day shall come that the earth shall rest; but before that day the heavens shall be darkened, and a veil of darkness shall cover the earth; and the heavens shall shake, and also the earth, and great tribulations shall be among the children of men. 

"But my people will I preserve. And righteousness will I send down out of heaven, and truth will I send forth out of the earth, to bear testimony of mine Only Begotten, his resurrection from the dead, yea, and also the resurrection of all men; and righteousness and truth will I cause to sweep the earth as with a flood, to gather out mine elect from the four quarters of the earth, unto a place which I shall prepare, an Holy City, that my people may gird up their, loins, and be looking forth for the time of my coming; for there shall be my tabernacle, and it shall be called Zion, a New Jerusalem. 

"And the' Lord said unto Enoch: Then shalt thou and all thy city meet them there, and we will receive them into our bosom, and they shall see us; and we will fall upon their necks, and they shall fall upon our necks, and* we will kiss each other. 

"And there shall be mine abode, and it shall be Zion, which shall come forth out of all the creations which I have made; and for the space of a thousand years the earth shall rest." 

THE GREAT PEACE. 

There is the great peace promised for this suffering, war-torn planet. Enoch saw the glorious dawn, and likewise "the darkest hour" before the dawn. We are living in the Saturday evening of Time. God gave to this earth seven days, or seven periods' of a thousand years each, in which to accomplish its mortal mission — -six working days and a day of rest, the period of sanctification. Four thousand years, or four of those great days, had passed before Christ was crucified; and nearlj two thousand years have gone by since. Consequently, we are now at the end of the week, in the Saturday night of human history. Morning will break upon the Millennium, the thousand years of peace, the Sabbath of the world. And any man, nation, or movement that turns its steps in that direction, is walking toward the Light! 

This is a wonderful prediction. It began to be fulfilled when the Father and the Son appeared to the boy Joseph, in the spring of 1820. Let it not be forgotten that the first to bear testimony of the Only Begotten of the Father in this dispensation was the Father hirnself, for he said to that boy : "This is my belovevd Son, hear him." It was Righteousness looking down from heaven; and subsequently Truth came out of the earth — the inspired records of the ancient past, containing the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel. Down from Heaven came the powers of the Priesthood, the authority to preach that Gospel to all the world as a witness bef ore the end; and ever since that day truth and righteousness, or the Gospel preached by the power of God, has been going forth to gather his elect and bring them to their promised land. The gathered Saints are up here in the Rocky Mountains, out of harm's way, comparatively speaking, founding Stakes of Zion, as a preliminary to the establishment of Zion proper; and we shall remain here until our . preparation is complete. When the right time comes, and all things are ready, the pure in heart, chosen from the midst of this people, will go down in the might of the Lord and redeem Zion. 

THE SONG OF THE REDEEMED. 

Then shall the New Jerusalem be built, and the way prepared for the return of the City of Enoch and for the glorious coming of the Lord. Then shall be realized the blest condition described in this song of the redeemed: 

The Lord hath brought again Zion, 

The Lord hath redeemed his people, Israel. 

* * * 

And Satan is bound, and time is no longer. 

The Lord hath gathered all things in one: 

The Lord hath brougth down Zion from above, 

The Lord hath brought up Zion from beneath. 

The earth hath travailed and brought forth her strength', 

* * * 

And the heavens have smiled upon her, And she is clothed with the glory of her God; For he stands in the midst of his people. 

Amen. 

Edna Gothberg sang a solo : "I will lift up mine eyes." 

ELDER DAVID 0. McKAY 

I wish to read a few words from one of the strongest testimonies to the divinity of the mission of Christ that we have in sacred literature. 

A TESTIMONY TO THE DIVINE MISSION OF CHRIST. 

Peter and John had the previous day passed by a lame man who had sat at the temple from his youth, after having been carried there, and sought alms from those who had gone into the temple to worship. You remember that Peter answered his pleadings by saying: "Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I thee. In the name of Jesus of Nazareth, rise and walk." Later, as these apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ were bearing testimony of his divinity in Solomon's Court, they were arrested and put in hold until the next day when they were brought before the council, and as they stood before their accusers this is what Peter is reported to have said : "If we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what means he is made whole, be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole. That is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which has become the head of the corner. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved." That is my testimony to Israel and to the world today. There is none other name under heaven given among men whereby 'we must be saved. 

CHRISTIANITY HAS NOT FAILED. 

It is now about one year ago, following a session of the fall conference held at that time, and just a few weeks before the signing of the armistice that put an end to the carnage of the most terrible conflict of the world, that I met a very dear friend who wanted to know how such a catastrophe could overtake the worloVin the light of the fact that Christianity had been preached for nearly two thousand years. Said he : "Christianity has failed, and," he added, "the pepole of the world generally accept it as a fact that Christianity has failed. Let us approach some man as we walk up this street, and ask him the question;" and it chanced that we overtook a young man whom we both knew, and just as my friend had aaid, when he put the question: How do ycu explain this world's_ catastrophe in the light of Christianity? he answered : "Christianity has failed." 

VIOLATION OF CHRISTIAN PRINCIPLES BROUGHT ON THE WAR. 

I took issue with them then, and I take it today, by answering that the conditions which brought about that world conflict were un-Christian. There was no Christianity in it. The world did not have Christianity. Now, at first thought that might seem unjust to the many honest, true followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. I mean many who in their hearts profess belief in the principles of Christianity and who in their lives sincerely desir.e to live those principles. I grant there were many such honest souls in the world. There are hundreds of thousands of just such honest souls, but I say, too, that it was not from their ranks that the evil, which precipitated the world war, sprang. It was not from those who obeyed Christian principles that thfe carnage and bloodshed came. It was from those who violated Christian standards, who rejected the principles which Christ taught and who even went so far as to reject, not only his divinity, but the very doctrines which he advocated. I haven't time, I shall not take the time, even to name those principles, hut there are two or three fundamental things which stand out in Christ's teachings the mere mention of which will be sufficient to make my point. 

THE KINGDOM OF GOD A REALITY. 

What was the burden of Christ's teaching when he came among men? The first great proclamation was the announcement that the kingdom of God is at hand. "Repent for the kingdom of God is at hand." The fore-runner, John the Baptist, preached that. . He preached the coming of the Lord. He showed the position which the Lord would hold in that kingdom and the Savior bore witness to it and preached the same. And what was that kingdom? Not a mystical, but a real kingdom; not just a feeling within, but an outward expression of righteousness. It was divine government among men. That was what the Savior had in mind, the establishing of a divine government among men. 

I was pleased the other day, in reading a book written by a man who rejected Christ as the Redeemer, to find that even he had to acknowledge that Christ's principles would finally establish just such a kingdom. This is what he says, in Problems of Religion: . 

But after all, there was a deeper truth in his dream of the coming of a golden age and his own pa#t in its establishment than any of his contemporaries could know. Though its coming be far more remote than he thought, the time will yet come when God's will shall prevail on earth, and in the bringing on of that cosummation he will be seen to have in truth played the master role. To the Savior of the world, to the twelve, and the many other disciples, the kingdom of God, as taught by the Redeemer, was indeed a reality in which the government of men would be one of justice, love, charity, mercy, truth, not just an ephemeral condition, but indeed a reality. 

REQUIREMENTS OF MEMBERSHIP IN THE KINGDOM OF GOD. 

What were the conditions, the requirements of citizenship in that kingdom ? The first great lesson to the Jews in the Meridian of Time  this; That God, the eternal Father, is indeed our father, not just creator, not just omnipotence, but a father unto whom they could go, a father of love. The word "father" as it relates to God, we are informed, appears about seven times in the Old Testament. It is found ten times in the New Testament to one in the Old. More than a hundred times in the New Testament God is spoken of as Father. The first condition, the first requirement of citizenship in that kingdom was faith in our Father, obedience to his will, honor to his name. They were told to defile not his temple, profane not his name, to hold it sacred, to reverence him, worship him in spirit and in truth, and the first prayer, model prayer, given to them : "Our Father, our Father." 

The second was one of purity, charity, -love, not only for God the Father, but for his children. 

The third was service, losing themselves for the good of others. 

Even Christ's enemies will admit that these are the fundamental principles as taught by the Redeemer of the world. The existence of his Father in whose likeness he was. "If ye have seen me, ye have seen the Father." Second, boundless love for his children, and third, service. 

APPLY THESE REQUIREMENTS TO CONDITIONS PREVAILING NOW AND DURING THE WAR. 

Now apply those general principles to the conditions which were rampant in the world one year ago and which are rampant in the world today. Belief in God! Where was it manifest? There was an outward form, it is true, worshipping with their lips, but their hearts were far from him, and you know and the world knows today that they had heaped to themselves Gods of the world, as the prophet Joseph clearly points out they would do, in Section one of the Doctrine and Covenants, idols after the fashion of the world. The nation that precipitated the great war, worshipped the God of power, the God of militarism, and while it is not right to take a few isolated statements from men, though they be leading men, and say all the people were prompted by that same ideal, yet these things indicate the trend of thought of the men who are responsible for that world-catastrophe, and there is no Christianity in it. In the application of the principle of charity for all, purity of thought, cherishing honor, integrity of soul, why, they have violated every principle of it. Note the spirit as exemplified in this remark when that power looking forward to the consummation of their military ideal, having France in view, said : "We must crush France," or to use the exact words: "France must be so completely crushed that she can never again come across our path." 

IS THIS CHRISTIANITY? 

Christianity? Why, it is the spirit of the evil one. It is crushing, it is death, and what was the purpose of it? To build up the god of state; and to them the state knew no law — could be bound, said one of their men, could be bound by none of its own laws, for according to Treitschke the state could not bind itself over against other states "by any obligation, not even of its own making." Is it any wonder, then, that when they found a neutral nation in their path, to defend which they were bound in all the honor which a sacred agreement could bind them, that they tore up that agreement as a mere scrap of paper? Is there any Christianity in that? 

SELFISHNESS AT THE BASIS OF TURMOIL, WAR, AND UNREST. 

The third point, service, to each other? Only one nation to serve and that was the nation itself. The selfish, the self must be protected though others be crushed. So we might go on for hours, if necessary, pointing out conditions, small in themselves, but mighty in their consequences, as has been so eloquently pointed out by my beloved fellow laborer, Brother Whitneyfflsmall in themselves, but mighty in their consequences, indicating that it was not because of Christianity, but because of the rejection of Christian principles that these conditions came upon the world. CHRIST AND HIS DOCTRINE THE ONLY WAY TO PEACE. 

So it is today, my brethren and sisters. There are honest people in the world, there are true Christian people in the world, but it is not from them that present-day trouble springs. You do not find hatred and enmity in their hearts. The men who desire to wring from the poor that which does not belong to them, are not prompted by Christian principles. The men who are revengeful against others simply because others have property, are not prompted by Christian principles, and today it is our duty to preach Christ and him crucified and to declare to all the world that he is indeed the chief cornerstone, that through him, and by him, and only by obedience to his principles, can we have that peace, happiness, contentment and prosperity in the world for which we are all longing and praying. 

HOW TO PREACH CHRISTIANITY. 

The best way to preach that, my dear fellow workers, is by example. Start to have or be sure that you have in every Latter-day Saint a truly Christian spirit. Is there prayer in that home? Are you following Christ's admonition to pray to the Father and teach your children to pray, that godliness, reverence for God and his work, every day may be impressed upon the hearts of your children? That should be in every home. Pray not only for yourselves, but pray even for your enemies. Are you charitable in your homes and your organizations for those who are not of the same opinion as you ? We talk about service to others. Too often when service is mentioned we think of  physical aid that we might render. I tell you a better service can > sometimes be given to others by speaking well of them, or, if you cannot speak well of them, by refraining from speaking of them at all, than .by any physical aid which we can give. O, how gloriously Christ taught us that principle of charity when those self-righteous men dragged into his presence that fallen woman and almost with a curse threw her at his feet, asking him what he would do to her. The law of Moses said she should be stoned to death. What do you say? He wrote with his finger in the sand, and without looking at her accusers, said: "Let him that is without sin cast the first stone." Then went on writing. One by one they slunk away, and when he looked up, none was there. Said he: "Woman, where are thine accusers?" "They are all fled." "Is there not one left to accuse thee?" "No, not one." "Then neither do I accuse thee." He, who could not look upon sin with the least degree of allowance, could say, "neither do I accuse thee;" but note : "go thy way, and sin no more." The person separated from the sin, from the act. The sin was just as detestable, was just as heinous in his eyes, but the poor creature was to be saved. Let us in our dealings with one another separate the thing from the individual if we can, and not wound one another's feelings, serve one another as true Christians should serve by upholding one another. 

THE APPLICATION. 

Now, I mention that simply to make this application. Before thirty days shall have passed we may be in the heat of an election. We never get angry at people towards whom we are indifferent. We never get injured over the contemplation of a thing that is not very dear to us, but we do get angry when one who is' near to us disagrees with us. We get hurt and in the heat of passion say things for which afterwards we are sorry. Let us in very deed apply our principles of Christianity and speak well of those who might happen to disagree with us. 

Nay, speak no ill, a kindly word 

Can never leave a sting behind, And oh, to breathe each tale we've heard, 

Is far beneath a noble mind. Full oft a better seed is sown, 

By choosing thus the kinder plan, For if but little good is known, 

Still let us speak the best we can. 

That is good doctrine. It is good' to be applied in our quorums, in our associations, in our groupings, during the discussion of heated questions. 

ONLY THROUGH CHRIST IS RIGHTEOUSNESS ESTABLISHED. 

Brethren and sisters, there is only one name given under heaven whereby the principles of righteousness, of peace, of contentment, of eternal life can be established among men and that name is Christ, the Redeemer of the world. I know he is our Savior. I know the world must accept him. They must sooner or later bow before him as the King of kings, and the Lord of lords. That the Lord will help us to be true to him, help us to bear testimony to the world by our acts, by gentleness, charity, love, service to one another and to the world, that we know that he has revealed to men in this dispensation the truth that God lives, that his Son is the Redeemer of the world and that the gospel is the eternal plan of salvation, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder Charles H. Kent sang a baritone solo: "I know that my Redeemer lives." 

ELDER ANTHONY W.TVINS 

And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 

And many shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. 

And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. 

HOW TO OBTAIN BENEFIT FROM THE SCRIPTURES. We are told, my brethren and sisters, that all scripture is given by inspiration from God, and that we should search it carefully, because in it we think we have eternal life. 

To derive the greatest benefit from the written word, it is necessarv that we be familiar with the entire text; it is impossible to form a correct conception by the simple reading of an isolated passage; we must be familiar with that which goes before, and follows after it, and more than all else, we must be able to discern whether that which we read is a definite declaration of the purposes of the Lord, or simply a condition which depends upon the actions of men for its fulfilment, or non-fulfilment. 

A very common error, and one which has led to criticism of the scripture, and lack of faith in the printed word, is the fact that men confound the word of the Lord, as it applies to his definite plans, and unchangeable purposes, with the words of the prophets, who, moved upon by the Holy Ghost, foretold events which were to occur among the inhabitants of the earth, many of which events were not decreed of God, but, on the contrary, were obnoxious to him, contrary to his will, and entirely due to the disobedience of the people, who, despite  word and will of the Lord, brought judgment upon their own heads. 

AN ILLUSTRATION. 

To illustrate that which I wish to express I will read from the Book of Mormon : 

And the Lord would not suffer that they should stop beyond the sea in the wilderness, but he would that they should come forth even unto the land of promise, which was choice above all other lands, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous people; and he had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them. 

And now we can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall serve God, or they shall be swept off when the fulness of his wrath shall come upon them. And the fulness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity. 

For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God, or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God. And it is not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land, that they are swept off. And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentfles, that ye may know the decree of God, that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you, as the inhabitants of the land hath hitherto done. 

Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if tkey will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written. 

AMERICA DEDICATED TO JESUS CHRIST. 

In this scripture we have the definite, unchangeable decree of God concerning America. It is, and will always be a choice land, choice above all other lands. It will always be a land dedicated to the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ. The latter part of the prediction is enf'rely conditional. Whatsoever people inhabit this land shall serve the Lord! and if they observe to do so, they are to be free from all other nations, and are never to be brought down into bondage, but the moment they depart from the truth, and turn from the Lord, the promise ceases to be effective; they have no promise, but on the contrary the Lord says that when they are ripened in iniquity, they shall be destroyed, or in other words, they will bring destruction upon themselves, as it has come to all nations when the protecting power of the Lord is withheld. 

The word of the Lord, which I have read was delivered to the people of Jared, and they were given this land for an inheritance, on condition that they would serve the Lord of the land' who is Jesus Christ. They rejected the truth and were destroyed. The promise was repeated to the Nephites, they were warned that this was a land dedicated to the service of the Lord, and were advised of the destruction which had come to the former inhabitants, because of their lack of faith, but notwithstanding this fact, that their prophets warned them of the judgments which were to come to them, because of their iniquity, and that the Messiah visited them in person, and promised them redemption, through faith in him, they became faithless and wicked, and finally disappeared as a nation. It was not because the Lord decreed their destruction, or that he desired it. On the contrary, he desired their redemption, and provided a way by which they could attain to it, but they wilfully rebelled against God, and brought their own destruction. 

PURPOSES OF GOD ACCOMPLISHED BY OTHER MEANS THAN MEN EXPECT. One great difficulty with mankind has been that^ they have expected the purposes of the Almighty to be accomplished by means different from that which he has used. The coming of the Messiah, and his mission to mankind, was taught in the very beginning of time. The Jews looked for their Redeemer, believed that he would come, but they refused to accept Jesus, because of the humility of his birth,' and the character which he assumed among men. They looked for one who would come in pomp and splendor, to tread down their enemies, and restore the kingdom, as it existed under their great king, David. The simple Nazarene, to them the son of an humble carpenter, they would not accept, notwithstanding the fact that the power of the Lord was manifest in his life and works. He was rejected by his own people, and persecuted unto death. 

At the time of his death light came into the world; there was no darkness when the night came, angels upon the hills of Judea sang, "Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, good will to men." He bore witness that he came to bring salvation to his people, and wept because they rejected his offering. "O, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, * * * how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not; Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. * * * Ye shall not see me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord." 

That the mission of the Christ failed, so far as the redemption of the House of Israel, at that time, was concerned, was not the fault of either the Father or the Son, but was because of the fact that the people rejected the truth, and wilfully sinned against light. Peace might have come to the world, and redemption to mankind at that time had the people desired it, and. been obedient to the voice of the Son of God. 

John, in the revelation given on the Isle of Patmos, saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth, crying with a loud voice, fear 

God, and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment has come. Christ bore witness that in the latter-days the gospel of the kingdom would be preached in all the world, as a witness to all people, before the end should come. 

These declarations have been preached from every pulpit in Christendom. Men have looked forward to a great miracle, a mighty angel with a trump, proclaiming, with a voice to be heard everywhere, the word of the Lord, but it did not come in that way, and when this scripture was fulfilled through the prophet of the latter days, the people were no more ready to accept it than they were to accept the Christ as the Redeemer of the world. In each instance they were praying for, and looking forward to, the coming event, but in both instances rejected it, because it did not come in the manner they expected and desired. PERMANENT PEACE TO COME TO THE EARTH. 

The scripture which I read at the commencement of my remarks is a definite, positive statement, that peace will come to the earth, a peace which will be universal and permanent. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. The manner in which this desired condition will be brought about, this condition for which all good men and women have prayed and waited, is not stated. It is urged by some that the nations will be so wasted, before peace is established, that they will be without power to wage war. By others that peace cannot come until the people are all converted to the gospel, -and that this will not occur until after the coming of the Redeemer. For myself I do not know just how or when peace will be established upon the earth, but of this I feel certain, that it will never be established until the people want it, and are willing to establish and maintain it. If the time of its establishment is to be deferred, it will be because we reject the offer which is now made to us, for the Lord himself cannot establish peace on earth, if the people are determined not to have it. I do not know whether it will be through the present league and covenant, or by some other means. It would be no more strange if it were accomplished through the present covenant than has been the accomplishment of the purposes to which I have referred, by the means which the Lord has used. 

THROUGH WHAT PLAN? The world has just emerged from the most destructive, devasting war it has ever known, so far as we are aware. War-weary, the people are crying for some plan which will make a repetition of that through which we have just passed impossible. For the first time in our history the strongest nations of the world have entered into a league, or covenant, by which it is hoped that peace may be established and maintained. It is said, as has always been said of every great forward movement, that the plan is not a good one, that it will not bring peace, but will be a fruitful source of discordand strife. It is urgea that some better plan may be found, that the time for peace has not yet come, that the Lord will accomplish what we are trying to do, if we will only wait and leave the matter to him. 

THROUGH ANY PLAN UPHELD BY A UNITED PEOPLE. 

I feel certain that no plan will succeed, no matter who is its author, or when it may come, to which the majority of the people are opposed. I am just as oertain that the present plan, or any other like unto it, will succeed beyond our fondest hopes, provided the people of the world will unite in a determined effort to establish and maintain it. If the effort and energy which are being used to defeat the present league were united with the efforts of those who are seeking to establish and carry it into effect, there is no power that could stay it; without the united effort, I fear that it will fail. I care not who is its author, whether its terms be those of the present covenant, or some other like unto it, there must be some such league, or covenant entered into between the peoples of the world, otherwise I can see only the mobilization of larger armies, the building of greater navies, the filling of war chests with gold, the means which Lucifer said he would use to dominate the earth, and war, war which will bring a carnival of bloodshed and suffering, compared with which the war just determined will be forgotten. 

PEACE WILL COME WHEN THE PEOPLE UNITEDLY W.ANT IT. 

When referring to this question before I have been accused of talking politics, of tricky word-building, by which I may fool the people. Can a congregation of Latter-day Saints be deceived by tricky word-building? I do not believe it possible. The sheep know the voice of the good shepherd, and a stranger they will not follow. I speak for no party, for no candidate, but for the Master whom I serve, to whom I have given my life's work, to whose words and works my conscience is a captive, who has admonished me to live at peace with all men, to raise the standard of peace, and maintain it in the world, and with his help I will continue to follow him, to be guided by his words and works, regardless of the opinions of men. He has always held out the hope of peace, he does so today. The people of the world can have peace now, as they might have had it long ago, if they want it, we must choose whether we will follow Christ, or Moloch; if the former blessed are we, if the latter woe is our lot. May the Lord inspire us to choose the better way, at this time when his wisdom is so indispensible, is my humble prayer. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the favorite hymn of President Lorenzo Snow : 

Zion stands with hills surrounded — 

Zion, kept by power divine; All her foes shall be confounded, Though the world in arms combine; Happy Zion, 

What a favored lot is thine! 

Every hiiman tie may perish, 

Friend to friend unfaithful prove, Mothers cease their own to cherish, 

Heaven and earth at last remove; But no changes 

Can attend Jehovah's love. 

In the furnace God may prove thee, 

Thence to bring thee forth more bright, But can never cease to love thee, 

Thou art precious in His sight; God is with thee; 

Thou shalt triumph in His might. 

Elder Heber C. Austin, President of tjje Bingham stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


