14
Afternoon 
06 04 1923
Elder William L. Adamson 
No Speaker ID
37-38

None

None 

I am indeed grateful to my heavenly Father, on this occasion, my brethren and sisters, that in my weakness I can bear my testimony unto you that I know God lives, that I know Jesus is the Christ, and that in this dispensation a prophet of God has been raised up to make known unto the world the wonderful truths that God would have revealed unto his people, Israel. I thought this morning, as we saw our beloved President stand before us, of the words of the ancient prophet, wherein he said: "Where there is no vision the people perish." And it seems to me that this scripture has been fulfilled in behalf of the Latter-day Saints to the utmost, because from the moment that the Father and Son appeared unto the boy Prophet, and that glorious vision burst upon his soul, the wonderful power of vision and heavenly manifestation has been constantly before this people. The wonderful power of vision that the Prophet had in directing and establishing this work and in leading his people from place to place under such trying ordeals, surely must demonstrate to the world beyond all question of doubt as well as to this people, that he was indeed a mighty prophet. The wonderful vision of that mighty prophet Brigham Young as he started on his journey westward over a thousand miles of trackless waste, — the faith that was instilled within his soul was not of the present, but of the future, and as he saw this people established in their strength and in their might in the midst of these Rocky mountains, what was the thing that urged him on? That vision of the future which he beheld, that he knew he was being led, with his people, by Almighty God. When he stood overlooking this valley and saw this waste of wilderness, and he said: "This is the place," surely it was the vision of the future which he beheld that inspired him on, to bring that little band of pilgrims into this wonderful intermountain country; and each of our leaders in turn, each with his own mission and his own particular work to perform, all have beheld and made known to the people the wonderful visions of the future, which they have seen. I wish to testify that I know that our leaders are men of God, that their time and their energy and their lives are dedicated to the work and to the welfare and well-being of the Latter-day Saints. May God give us strength to appreciate their worth to us as a people, and their ability to lead us and to direct us as God would have us led and directed. May we have faith to follow where they lead, that we may all be led safely back to our Father and our God, I pray in his name. Amen.
