17
Afternoon 
06 04 1923
Elder David R. Langlois 
No Speaker ID
43-44

None

None 

It is a pleasure to be present at this conference. I have enjoyed immensely its spirit. I love to work in the Church. I don't remember a time in my life when I did not enjoy laboring in the work of the Lord. I don't remember a time in my life when I did not have a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Even as a boy, I felt as strong in my testimony, with the knowledge that I had, as I do with the added knowledge that I have since been able to gain, and I can testify to you today that I know that President Grant, and all the brethren associated with him, are righteous men, men whom God has called to preside over his Church here on the earth, and men whom he is pleased to recognize as the directors of his kingdom here on earth. When counsel, advice or instruction comes from them, it is for us to receive it and act upon it, for it is as if it came from the Lord himself. 

I was much impressed at our conference a year ago by the remarks of President Grant in advising our people to raise sugar beets. We were so much impressed on that occasion that we went home from that conference and did all in our power to get our people to follow the advice of the brethren, so that we were successful to quite an extent in increasing our acreage of sugar beets, not nearly to the extent that we should have been, but those who heeded the counsel were blessed. I was very much impressed by the remarks of one man who is not a member of the Church, but when the instructions were given by President Grant he said: "I believe that your leaders are looking to the interest of your people, and I think that I will follow President Grant's advice." He planted twenty acres of sugar beets, though he had not intended to plant any. I would to God that all of our Saints could have that same faith in our leaders. Brethren and sisters, we will never go wrong when we follow their advice. 

I had occasion to go to the president of my stake, while living in Utah, for advice, on one occasion, and when he gave me the advice it was just the opposite from what I wanted, and I want to tell you it was a test of my faith to follow his advice. It was when I moved to Idaho, and he said: "Go, and the Lord bless you. We have bishops of wards and presidents of stakes all over that country. Now you go and be one of them." I never dreamed at that time that I would be one of them, but through the inspiration that came to him as an officer in this Church, he saw the future, and it was not long after that until I had an occasion to give advice myself. I was but a boy, young in experience in the Church. I was called to preside over a little branch of just a few souls in the locality in which I had settled, and a man came to me and said: "Brother Langlois, I have come to you for advice." And when he said that, it frightened me, to think that I would have to give him advice. I feared because he came to me in my official capacity. I offered a prayer to the Lord, while he was relating his circumstances, and the vision of that man's future passed before my eyes. I saw just what he should do and what would be the result if he did as I told him, and I related to him what he should do and promised him what the result would be. I also saw what the result would be if he disregarded that counsel. I told him that if he did the opposite, he would lose all he had in the world. He went home and chose to do the very thing that I told him not to do. It was not three months until he had lost everything he had in a worldly way, and because of that loss his wife became dissatisfied and, taking her children, left him also, so that he had lost everything that he had but the clothes he stood in. It was one of the greatest lessons of my life. I realized more fully than I had ever realized before, that when we go to any of the officers of this Church for advice that it is as if God had given it. We should not go unless we expect to follow that advice. 

I remember when Elder Hyrum G. Smith, our Presiding Patriarch, visited our stake. I think it was Elder Smith. He told our people, though they had lost out, to remain where they were, not to move to any other place, that conditions were just as good there as any other place, but to get a new footing and stay where they were. One brother came to me a day or two after and said: "President Langlois, our visitor has upset all my plans. I expected to leave Burley in a very short time. I have lost my place, I have nothing here to stay for." He said: "What shall I do? Shall I follow his advice and stay here?" I said: "There is only one answer that I could give, and that is to follow the advice that has been given, and the Lord will bless you if you do." He said: "I will take his advice." He went home, and about three or four months later he came back to me and told me how things had opened up. He had secured another place on very favorable terms, and he was much better off than he had been before the financial crisis came. The place he had secured was better than the one he had lost, and he did not owe half as much on it as he did on the other place when he purchased it. It was another testimony to me that if we will follow the advice and counsel of the authorities we will never go wrong. May the peace and blessing of the Lord be with us and help us always to follow the advice and counsel that are given to us from our brethren, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
