20
Morning 
07 04 1923
William H. Mendenhall 
202
49-50

None

None

It seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that the President proceeds on the theory, "If at first you don't succeed, try, try again." It was not my privilege to be present at the conference meetings yesterday. Some of my friends have told me that the first day of conference I was called for twice. 

I rejoice in being present at this conference. I endorse all that has been said. I endorse the remarks, the instructions, and the discourse of the President of the Church yesterday, while I did not have the privilege of hearing them. For twenty years I have been connected with the presiding authorities of this Church, acting in the capacity of one of the presidency of the Bannock stake of Zion, and in those twenty years I have learned that the presiding authorities in this Church are men of God who are inspired of the Lord to direct its affairs in all the world. And so I have no hesitancy, while I did not hear the brethren, in declaring to you that what they said was the word of the Lord unto this people. 

I represent twenty-five hundred Latter-day Saints in the southeastern part of Idaho known as the Bannock stake of Zion. Ours is a farming and stock-raising community. While during these few years of hard times our people have been severely "strapped" financially, some of them, yet they maintain the faith of the gospel, a desire to serve the Lord and to keep his commandments; and I believe, in the main, the people of our stake have endeavored to carry out the instructions that have come to them from the general authorities of the Church in the years past — to keep out of debt; and therefore, I feel that the people of Bannock stake will eventually survive this financial difficulty and things will be normal again. 

In the beginning of the organization of this Church, Joseph Smith, Sr., the father of the Prophet, accepting the testimony and the mission of Jesus Christ, inquired what he might do to further the work. The Lord, through the instrumentality of the Prophet, gave the revelation contained in the fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with this sentence: "Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." Dr. Widtsoe, in his discourse this morning, has pointed out to us some of the marvels of this great latter-day work as it pertains to education, the training of the youth of Zion, and the establishment of truth and righteousness, information and knowledge in the hearts of the young people of the Church. 

The Lord further says: "O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day." 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that this revelation applies to us. The Lord requires that we shall give our whole soul, our whole effort and our energy, for the development and growth and the spread of this work in the earth among the children of men. 

"Therefore," he says, "if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work; 

"For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul." 

Then he goes on to enumerate the qualifications that men should possess who are called upon to labor and to minister in this Church: — 

"And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. 

"Ask and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." 

My brethren and sisters, I commend this revelation of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints everywhere. Let us read it. Let us study it. Let us become acquainted with it, that we may be equal to the duties and obligations that devolve upon us from time to time in the development and growth and onward progress of this great and marvelous work of the Lord. 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I know the gospel is true. I know that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. I know that the President of this Church, President Heber J. Grant, has been called by inspiration to lead this people, and direct the affairs of this work, and that his counselors and the quorum of the apostles and the brethren who constitute the general authorities of the Church are endowed with power from on high, and have the right to give to the members of this Church counsel, advice, instruction, revelation and admonition for the upbuilding and the strengthening of the stakes of Zion and the people everywhere. May the Lord bless us, help us to do our duty and serve him and keep his commandments, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
