24
Morning 
07 04 1923
Elder William T. Jack 
74
60-62

None

None 

I have rejoiced very much, my brethren and sisters, in attending the sessions of this conference thus far; and I can say, as was stated by one of the brethren yesterday, that I have been fortunate in my life in the fact that my heart and my feelings have always been in tune with those whom God has chosen to lead his Israel; and I stand before you in that attitude today. I rejoice in the privilege that I have of attending these conferences of the Church and of associating with the best men that live upon this earth, men whom God has chosen from among his people, and has lifted them up to be our leaders, our prophets and those to whom we should look for advice and counsel, and those from whom we should take that counsel and that advice. 

I believe that the third verse of the twelfth chapter of the Book of Daniel is applicable to us as Latter-day Saints today. In the eleventh chapter he has referred to a great war, and pictures the close of it temporarily, and shows that we are approaching the time when the dead in Christ shall arise, and he makes this specific mention of the Latter-day Saints, in my opinion; he says: 

"And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever." 

The world's calamity today, as was stated yesterday, is our opportunity. As individual members of this Church, if we are applying ourselves to the missionary spirit and labor, if we are doing our duty, if we are living our religion, we may be laying up for ourselves treasures that some day will make those who do it shine as the stars forever and ever. 

I rejoice that we have been able to read the scriptures differently from our friends who profess the Christian religion in the world. I thought this morning, while sitting here, of the prophecy delivered to and made by John the Revelator while he was upon the isle of Patmos, banished from his brethren and from his people. We are told that an angel came to him and said: "Come up hither, John, and I will show you things which must come to pass hereafter," and he took him up on to an eminence and showed him the falling away of the ancient church, the decay of the faith of those who were saints and their destruction by the evil power. Then he showed him the period of darkness through which this world has passed. Then, in the spirit of hope, he raises his voice and says: 

"And I saw another angel flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of water." 

Well, I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to live in the day of the fulfilment of that prediction. I rejoice to know that Joseph Smith was raised up and received heavenly visions, as was testified to here today by President Cardon. I know that Joseph Smith received the vision of the Father and the Son, in the Spring of 1820. I know that he received a visit from the angel, Moroni, and that he was blessed with visions and with revelations from time to time, and finally with the authority of the Priesthood of God. Friends may rail against us for believing in divine authority and for looking up to the Priesthood of God, but I want to tell you, my brethren and sisters, that is our hope in the future, to follow the lead of these men whom God has raised up and unto whom he has given his Spirit, and to whom he is giving the inspiration, the knowledge and the wisdom that should lead Israel and will lead Israel. 

I rejoice in these blessings and in these opportunities. I know that the gospel is true. I know that the Lord has spoken, that this is his work that he has established upon the earth, never again to be overthrown nor given into the hands of another people, but it will stand forever; and the only question is: Shall we stand with it? 

I think that those who attended the meetings yesterday and those who are here today are among the most faithful in the different parts of the Church, because we appreciate the conference; we are glad to be present and catch the inspiration of the Lord that falls from the lips and through the addresses of men who are called to lead this work. I rejoice in the fact that there are so many who are faithful among the Latter-day Saints — men and women upon whom rests the responsibility of carrying on this great work through these days and years of trouble. 

I know that the admonition and counsel given to the Church a year ago, at this conference, from President Grant, was the word of the Lord. There were people who doubted it at that time. There were people who went home feeling angry that the President of the Church should assume to dictate to them or to suggest to them what they ought to do in their own affairs, but the great majority of them did not feel that way. We knew that it was the word of the Lord and it required less than a year to demonstrate the fact that that was true. So I believe that the words of Daniel will apply to us also in this day, that if we are wise, wise enough to catch the inspiration, to take the word of those who preside over us, the time will come, within, perhaps, the next ten years, when the financial world is crashing and is coming down to the same condition that many of the members are in at the present time, that we will be able to shine with the brightness of the firmament, as men of wisdom, men who have taken counsel, men who have been guided thereby in their financial affairs. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters. May the inspiration of his Spirit continue to rest down abundantly upon President Grant — and upon his counselors, and upon these chosen men — the Council of the Twelve — men after God's own heart. I thought last night, while listening to Dr. Talmage referring to the general authorities of the Church — twenty-six men — that their equal could not be found among all the peoples of the earth. There are no such men outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, upon whom the Lord has placed his power, into whose hands he has given his authority, and to whom he looks for the safeguarding of the good ship Zion, through the breakers around about us. 

May peace rest down upon you, my brethren and sisters, and the inspiration of the Lord be with you in your homes. May you be successful in the rearing of your families, in the conduct of your affairs, and in your duties and obligations to God and to your brethren and sisters, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
