29
Afternoon 
07 04 1923
George Albert Smith 
30 OR 31 (there were two on the google doc)
74-79

None

Faith

I desire with all my heart that the Lord will bless me that the few moments I occupy may be profitable to this assembly. 

MEN SEEKING EVERYTHING BUT THE WORD OF GOD 

We are living in a time when men are running to and fro in the earth, seeking almost everything but the word of God, and surely they are finding what they seek. It would appear that the chief desire of the human family at present is to discover something new. Whether it is uplifting or not, it must be different. They are trying out experiments of every kind, and many of them are reacting on their heads in a very unprofitable way. Our heavenly Father desires his children to be happy. He placed our first parents upon this earth that he had prepared for them and beautified. He told them just what they might do in order to enjoy it, and said that if they would listen to his teachings they would be happy here and would lay the foundation for eternal happiness. From time to time he has repeated and emphasized that counsel through his servants, the prophets. Ever since our first parents were placed in the Garden of Eden there has been an evil influence at work that has directed men's minds in selfish channels and inclined them to satisfy their own personal longing regardless whether or not it would prove profitable to them. The Lord gave our first parents instructions and told them that they should have faith in God and from then until now those who have had faith in him have been earning an eternal reward. They have rejoiced in the blessing of a contented mind and have enjoyed peace and happiness that they could have had in no other way. 

FAITH THE MOVING CAUSE OF ACTION 

We are informed that without faith we cannot please God. It is the moving cause of all action, and Scripture is replete with evidences of the power of faith. It was Noah's faith that enabled him to build an ark, and as a result of obedience to the commandments of God he and his household were saved, while those who lacked faith were buried in the great flood. It was through faith that Lot and the members of his family were preserved when fire from heaven consumed the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, and destroyed the inhabitants who had not faith. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE POWER OF FAITH 

When Daniel continued to pray openly to the God of Israel, contrary to a decree which had been prepared by his enemies purposely to destroy him, he was cast into a den of lions and left there all night. He knew his heavenly Father could preserve him and his confidence was unshaken. The next morning the king went early to the pit and found Daniel alive. His faith had rendered the wild beasts harmless and earned for him the devotion of the king. Three Hebrews, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, who refused to worship a golden image set up by Nebuchadnezzar, were cast into a fiery furnace heated seven times hotter than usual. They trusted in the living God and their faith was rewarded by the preservation of their lives. By faith, the Prophet Elijah called down fire fiom heaven to consume his offering, and the king and the people were convinced that the God of Israel was God and that Baal was not. It was by faith that the brother of Jared and his followers retained the language of their fathers during the confusion of tongues at the Tower of Babel, and were brought to this Western Hemisphere in the first submarine of which we have any record. It was a similar faith that enabled Lehi to bring his family across the sea and plant their feet on this land, choice above all other lands. It was faith that enabled the disciples of Jesus to endure the persecution that overtook them, and in spite of the opposition of the Jews to establish the gospel which the Savior had delivered to them. It was because of faith that Joseph Smith went out into the woods and knelt down to pray. Born of humble parents and reared in a real Christian home, he was imbued with the teachings of the Bible. He believed the promise recorded in the fifth verse of the first chapter of James: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." So in humility he asked which of the churches he should join; and he was told to join none of them. I have no doubt he was greatly astonished to be informed that not any of them was right. Although but a youth he was told that he would be called upon to perform an important labor if he would live a righteous life. This most remarkable experience was the result of faith, and this youth had the heavens opened to him and he beheld the Father and the Son and listened to their voices. Later he was given additional information and directions which brought about the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

RESULTS OF THE FAITH OF JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET 

The people generally were not satisfied with the teachings of their churches, but because of lack of faith were not able to find the truth. It remained for this boy, not yet fifteen years of age, living in an obscure village to test the promise of our heavenly Father, and to become the first human being in several centuries to know through seeing them that the Father and Son have bodies like ours. Through faith Joseph Smith was able to bring forth the Book of Mormon, translating the same from an ancient language, through the gift and power of God. By faith, he was able to communicate with heavenly beings and resist the temptations of the adversary. Under the direction of our heavenly Father, he organized the Church with apostles and prophets; in fact the same form of organization as existed in the days of the Savior. He received from John the Baptist the Aaronic Priesthood, and Peter, James and John conferred upon him the Higher, or Melchizedek, Priesthood, enabling him to officiate in all the ordinances of the Church of Jesus Christ. It was through faith that those men who accepted him as their leader were able to withstand the assaults of the evil one. They were driven from place to place, persecuted and abused; but many of them remained true to the end. They knew that God lived and that his all-powerful arm would be extended for their salvation. While few in number in the midst of the communities in which they lived they knew that the power of the heavens would sustain them if they performed their part; and that the power of evil would be unable to stay the onward progress of the Church that our Father had again established on the earth, in order that his children might be saved. It was often difficult to overcome the temptations that beset them, but because of faith in God and a determination to do his will, they were able to endure. In the early rise of the Church faithful misionaries were sent to the nations of the earth to say to all people: Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Retain all the virtues that are now yours, all the goodness you possess, but let us divide with you the truth that has been revealed anew from heaven, that you may add to the assurance you now possess and profit by it. Since then many thousands of the servants of the Lord have traveled to and fro in the earth proclaiming the truth of the gospel of our Lord, the real gospel of peace, the only panacea for the ills of mankind if they but knew it. During the past century Israel has been gathering, people have come from all parts of the earth. Isaiah's prediction is fulfilled, the mountain of the Lord's house has been established in the tops of the mountains, and exalted above the hills, and all nations are flowing unto it; Men, women and children, often in poverty, have been willing to leave their home land and loved ones to cross the ocean and the great plains, with the assurance that they were in the keeping of the Master of heaven and earth. Thus, for seventy-five years they have continued to come, until today countless thousands of the favored sons and daughters of God raise their voices in thanksgiving and praise, for the faith of those from whom they have descended who dared to seek first "the kingdom of God and his righteousness," with the assurance that all things necessary would be added. 

OUR DUTY BECAUSE OF OUR FAITH 

We live in a wonderful age when the faith necessary to redeem mankind is lacking in most of the children of men. During this Conference it has been stated that about half of the ministers of a great church in the City of New York were not sure of the divinity of Jesus Christ. What is it they are lacking? It is the assurance that is possessed by the members of the true Church, due to serving the Lord. It is the information they refuse that is offered to them without price by men divinely commissioned to teach the promised blessings of the Lord resulting from faith; how gladly we should continue our efforts to perform the duties that devolve upon us. All Latter-day Saints should bow before the Lord morning and evening and from the depth of our souls express our gratitude to our heavenly Father. I hope that those who have received this wonderful gift of faith are living to retain it. If any lack faith it is because they have not kept the commandments of God. Those who do not honor the Sabbath and keep it holy, displease him. Some people appear to think that if they have attended religious meetings, or performed some portion of the service required of them on Sunday, they are then at liberty to go to ball games, picture shows, or resorts of various kinds, and still continue to enjoy the favor of the Master. I say to you that if they persist in doing things of that kind, members of the Church will lose their faith; and the Spirit of our heavenly Father will withdraw from them. Let us teach our children the gospel of Jesus Christ, not leaving that duty entirely to the auxiliary organizations. At our own firesides, let us explain to them the harmfulness of the use of those things that our heavenly Father has forbidden; portray to them the beauties of a pure life. Let us conduct ourselves so that they will see in us the benefit derived from living the gospel of our Lord. Let our homes be assembling places of the families that God has blessed us with, and we can render home sacred to our dear ones by associating with them under divine influence. 

This is our Father's work. He has always desired the salvation of all his children, and has offered to everyone the gospel of Jesus Christ, without money and without price. How thankful we ought to be, having heard the voice of the Good Shepherd! We have been able to understand the messages and have been made partakers of the blessings. 

THE PATH OF HUMILITY, THE PATH OF SAFETY 

I am grateful for the hospitality of your homes, and for kindness you extend to me and my brethren as we visit you form time to time. In my visits to the mission fields I have rejoiced in the development of your sons and daughters and in the increase in their faith due to obedience to the will of the Lord. It is pleasing to our heavenly Father to see us devoting ourselves to the various honorable vocations by which we earn a livelihood. Sometimes we meet with reverses and we are brought face to face with our inability to do things without divine help, but if we will humble ourselves and put our trust in the Lord, he will not forsake us. The path of humility is always the path of safety for the members of the Church. 

ADMONITION 

Husbands, be good to your wives; and wives, be kind to your husbands; parents, treasure your children and safeguard them in every way. Children, honor your fathers and your mothers, that your days may be long in the land which the Lord your God giveth unto you. Let us evidence our gratitude to our heavenly Father for the many blessings bestowed upon us by our living righteous lives. We will be tempted, but let us resist the insidious advances of the adversary, and avoid those customs and habits that lead us away from the right. Let us oppose evil with all our power, and renew our determination to be worthy sons and daughters of God; let us pray for and sustain those whom the Lord has called to preside over us; let us set the world an example of righteousness which will preach the gospel as it has never been preached in all the years that have passed. This is our mission and it is indeed a privilege that we should prize. We can so live that our faith can heal the sick and stay the hand of the destroyer when he invades our communities. We should continually pray for all our Father's children, that they may turn from the error of their ways. We should remember the faithful Saints that are scattered among the nations, and petition the Lord to open their way that they may be gathered out before the dreadful day when the earth will he swept by scourges. In other words, let us be real servants of the Lord, doing our duty in all things, in order that we may receive the blessings he has promised the faithful; and that we may is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
