3
Morning 
06 04 1923
Winslow F. Smith 
211
12-14

None

None

Last Sunday throughout the world was celebrated the Easter day. A prominent divine of our city, in his service, laid emphasis, I am told, on the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ and the prophets of old were mere human beings, as we are, possessed of no further aid than human aid in performing their work. In short that Christ was man — not God. As I heard this report, there came to my mind the words of Peter to the Savior, when he said to him: "Whom say ye that I am?" And Peter replied: "Thou art the Christ the Son of the Living God." It occurred to me that among the Latter-day Saints, as among no other people in the world, positive knowledge exists. While we are few in number, we are powerful and mighty in influence for good, because in the heart of every one of the members in the Church who is doing his duty, there is that positive knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that in this day and age man was chosen for a great work, and unto him was given the Priesthood of God. Through the work of this priesthood, and because of its influence, every man and every woman, yea, every boy and every girl in the Church, who is doing his part, should the question be put to him: "Whom say ye that Jesus Christ is?" can answer, "He is the Christ, the Son of the Living God." I rejoice in the blessing that has been mine to labor in the mission field, to become intimately and closely associated with between four hundred and five hundred young men and young women of Zion, boys and girls in many instances, who have accepted the call and gone into the field and done the best they could to carry on the great work that is entrusted to us as a people. I have marveled at their wonderful growth. In many instances they have come into the field ignorant of the ways of the world, ignorant of the basic principles of the gospel, unschooled in the learning of the world; yet possessing a faith and a determination that they would put the best they had into that which they were called to do. This faith has spurred them on, and through application, through diligence, through humility, through prayer, they have come to know beyond the shadow of a doubt that the gospel is true. 

I am reminded that on one occasion a young man who had been in the field a number of months stood before the group of missionaries in one of our little council meetings and said: "Would that I could say as you brethren have said, that I know that the gospel is true. I believe it is true, I accept it, and I am glad to be here doing what I can for its furtherance, I have the means and I want the privilege of staying in the field and working until I can say, as these brethren have said, that I know the gospel is true. Not many months after that, in one of our council meetings, this same young man stood up and bore a most fervent testimony. He declared that he knew that it was true, and there was real, genuine, sincere conviction in the ring of his voice, and he proved with his works, his diligent application, with his untiring efforts to do all that was asked of him, that it was true; and when the time came for his release he said to me: "Would to God that I could spend my life in the wonderful influence of this mission." 

Brothers and sisters, we can all have that spirit if we will; we can all know beyond the shadow of a doubt, if we will. There is a positive rule, laid down by the Lord Jesus Christ, recorded by John, couched in these words: "If any man will do his will, he shall know the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." If we will do his will, this promise of the Lord unto us will be kept; and in this age of skepticism, when doubt fills the earth, when men in high positions, many of them professed teachers of religion, express doubt as to the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ, this people, under the guidance of the Priesthood of Almighty God, will be immune to such influences, yea, they will be a testimony to the world that they know that God lives. I am grateful that we live in this day. I thank God for the vicissitudes that have come to this people, for through them has been born faith, sterling faith, genuine faith in God and his promises; and if we remain true, our testimonies will grow. We will be loyal to our bishops, loyal to our stake officers, and we will recognize our president and his associates, the men at the head of this Church, as men of God. Their counsel and their advice we will heed. I pray that we may have the strength to do this, and that we do all we can to support our boys and our girls in the mission fields. They know the troubles at home; they know the perils through which we are passing as a people; but they need our encouragement. Let the discouragements in the home and the hardships be kept from them. Send them happiness and encouragement to the utmost, that they may have the fire of the spirit of the gospel in their hearts, and that the testimonies that are growing and being built up in their lives may be strengthened. I thank God for the boys and girls, and for our missionary system. May we, to a man, be back of it, giving them the best that we have, doing the will of the Father, keeping his commandments, and then we can say undoubtingly, unflinchingly, unhesitatingly, when the question comes to us, that we know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was indeed his Prophet, raised up for this great work, and that the Priesthood of God conferred upon him has come down through a noble succession of leaders and today the man who stands at our head is there because God wants him there, and he is deserving of our support. May the Lord give us this strength, this faith, and this testimony, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
