31
Afternoon 
07 04 1923
John M. Knight 
213
80-82

None

None

Remembering what President Clawson had to say about my voice six months ago, I don't know whether I dare speak into this amplifier or not. He said that the rafters of the building shook. They may now fall upon you. 

I rejoice in the privilege I have of meeting with the Latter-day Saints and bearing testimony to the truth. I have listened with a great deal of interest to the testimonies that have been borne. They bear the stamp of the genuine; they ring true. I don't know of any body of people in the world who can affirm, as do the Latter-day Saints, their faith in God, and in the divine mission of his Son Jesus Christ. Joseph Smith, the prophet, was the pioneer in leading the world away from the worship of idols. The wonderful vision given unto him, in the early spring of 1820, was a greater vision, from a loftier Sinai, than that given to Moses when the commandments written by the finger of God were given to ancient Israel; because, coupled with that revelation was the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He gave to the world a knowledge that God is a personal being, and that Jesus Christ is his Son; that they were like each other, and that he was the Redeemer of the world in very deed. 

President Roberts referred to the fact that there are many who deny this important truth in the Eastern States mission. Dr. Grant to whom he referred, together with Dr. Fosdic and others are quoted very frequently by the people of the Western States mission. Not only this gentleman, but Mr. Hastings Rashdahl, Dr. H. D. A. Major, and others who have presented views along the same line, are being quoted, in the Western States at least, as leaders, pioneers if you please, in the thought that is being given to the world with relation to Jesus Christ, that he was in every sense a man, with human skill and intellect, and in no sense was he divine. I am thankful that the Latter-day Saints have the witness of the Holy Spirit that this statement is not true, but that the mission of Christ was and is divine. 

I have been interested, as I say, in the positive declarations of our brethren and sisters, many times, with relation to these things, particularly those of our brethren during the sessions of this conference. Positive assertion invariably accompanies either deliberate falsehood, profound ignorance, or else the individual has a definite and positive knowledge of that which he speaks. I believe the statistics which have been read in your hearing are a refutation of the statement that the Latter-day Saints are an ignorant people. Surely none of them desire to perpetuate a falsehood, to speak falsely concerning that which is true, but they have a definite and positive knowledge that God lives, that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him, and that Jesus Christ is the Son of the Living God. I call to mind the words of the Apostle Paul in speaking to Timothy. He exhorted him to preach the word, to be instant in season and out of season, to reprove and rebuke with all long-suffering, "for," declared he, "the time will come when men will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears, and they shall turn away from the truth." The story that has been told you with reference to the creation, with reference to the faith of Daniel, of the Hebrew children, and of the prophets of old, are considered by many of our leading theologians as fables. The statement that Jesus Christ's mission was divine, and that he atoned for the sins of the world is declared to be "bunk." I thank the Lord that in the day and age in which we live a mighty prophet was raised up to implant in the hearts of the children of men faith in God and in his Son, faith in the holy scriptures, in the word of God, faith in the new volume of scripture, the Book of Mormon, faith in the covenant that God has made with Israel in the day in which we live, for he has made a new covenant with the people of this dispensation, and he has written in our hearts a testimony of its divine truth. 

I rejoice in the privilege that is mine to labor in the ministry, both at home and abroad, and to declare the gospel of repentance. We are fortified as no other people in the world are fortified, because we have not only the word of God as it is contained in the scriptures, the Holy Bible, but we have these other volumes of scripture, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, and we are enabled to present to the world evidence of their divinity, the one bearing witness of the other. It is necessary now, when you come in contact with the great majority of people, to prove to them that the word of God is true, that it is reliable, that it is authentic, that it is worth while investigating. The Latter-day Saints, as I say, are fortified with evidence that these things are true. 

I see that the time I should occupy is gone. I bear you my witness, my brethren and sisters and my friends, that I do know that this is God's work, and that it is the power of God unto salvation, that the Lord did raise up the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the dispensation in which we live, to reestablish his work in the earth, and I bear witness that it will continue onward to the fulfilment of its destiny, and all the powers of earth and hell combined can never stay its progress. God bless you. Amen.
