39
Overflow 
08 04 1923
Elder Brigham S. Young 
No Speaker ID
102-105

None 

Missionary Work

My dear brethren and sisters: It is with feelings of timidity that I stand before you, because, to a degree, I sense the responsibility of the position of a public instructor; and that I may speak to you understandingly, and that there may be profit in what shall be said, I desire that my remarks may be dictated by the Spirit of God. 

It is a great privilege, brethren and sisters, to address a congregation of the proportions of this one, and one that rarely comes to us — never in the field in which I am at present engaged. As I have the honor to preside over the Northwestern States mission, naturally I am deeply interested in missionary work. I am interested in the boys and girls, and we have at present seventy-seven in the Northwestern States mission, fifty-seven young men and twenty young ladies. I want to say to you that they are representative of the best men and women in all this Church, which means in all the world, for a finer, nobler, and more exemplary lot of young men and women it has never been my pleasure to know. 

I am deely interested in the youth of Zion, and have been so for many years. I have a large family myself. However, I am not in the class of my forebears, but I am interested in the youth of Zion, because I recognize this fact, that upon them depends the future of this work. The greatest possession, I believe, that it is possible for us to confer upon, or bequeath to, our children is a knowledge that this is the work of God, and to that end, brethren and sisters, I have a strong anxiety that your boys and girls should go into the mission fields, even though it may be at great sacrifice to yourselves. Those boys and girls, when they return from a mission, if they have discharged its duties as are the boys and girls discharging their missions who are now in the field, when they come back to you, you will find them men and women of power and inspiration, their intelligence immeasurably increased. If you would contribute the best that it is possible for you to contribute in your day and time, leave behind you a posterity who know that God lives. There is no higher achievement in this world, because it extends into eternity, than that the men and women, all of God's children, should know that he lives. The missionaries come back to your communities, and we endeavor to teach them to return with the spirit of their mission resting mightily upon them, that they may be a leaven in your communities for the dissemination of the spirit which they acquire and which, God willing, they may retain when they return to you. The future of this world depends upon these boys and girls, and it depends upon the strength of the testimony they shall acquire that this is God's work, and there is nothing you can give them that is of more value than the education, the finishing touches, the degree that they shall acquire in the mission field when they have graduated in this great practical school of the best there is in life. It teaches them that this is the work of the living God. Do not stint them, brethren and sisters; send them on missions. You want them to be educated. There is no branch of education that better fits them for the practicabilities, the best, the highest things in life, than will a knowledge and a testimony of this great work. This great fact should be borne in upon our consciousness, that we will get just what we earn and we will not get anything more. And your boys and girls will earn for themselves the best that can be conferred, if they will learn the fact that God has spoken and that he has established his Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith teaches us that the great thing to acquire is capacity. What have you capacity for? Are you prepared through your educational attainments, to go into the society of the highly educated? If so, you can enjoy that atmosphere in which they live. If you have not been educated, you can not enjoy the atmosphere of education: and according to your capacity, that limits your power of enjoyment, of understanding, of intelligence, in the presence of God our Father, and if we, some of us, were to be transported into his presence, it would be bad for us, because we could not endure his presence; but these boys and girls are fitting themselves for these places that are to be occupied, not only in this world, but in the great hereafter. 

I am reminded of a dream that I heard a man relate. He said: "I dreamed that I had died, and I found myself on a great rocky plateau, a smooth shelf of rock; on the right hand rose a precipice that was lost in the clouds. On the left hand was an abyss, the bottom of which Was lost in the mists which obscured it, and as I went along this great rocky shelf my attention was directed to a slight nodule on the surface of the rock sheet. As I approached it there issued from this nodule, which proved to be a cave, a little man, not more than half my height, and beckoning to me he said: 'Come in here, I want to see where I am to send you,' and he took down, when I had entered his cavern, from a shelf on the rock, a little plaque that was about four by nine inches in dimension, and said: 'I will rub my hand over this plaque and your record will appear in points of light on its surface, and according to your record, there is where I will send you.' He rubbed his hand once over the plaque and a few points of light appeared. I looked over his shoulder with the utmost anxiety to see where I would be sent. He turned, when he had rubbed the stone once, and looked at me with very great significance. Again he passed his hand over the stone. There were a few more points of light and turning to me he said: 'It looks pretty bad for you, but I will rub my hand once more over the stone,' which he did, and when he had finished he put the stone back on its shelf and said to me: 'You won't do.' With that he picked me up with one hand and tossed me into this abyss into which I sank to interminable depths. By and by I found my descent arrested. I stopped and began to rise slowly until I was on a level with the shelf from which I had been thrown. I continued to rise until I found myself in most beautiful surroundings. The trees were green, the grass, the flowers, the white bordered walks were beautiful. There were mansions on every hand, and as I traversed one of these splendid pathways I met a man whom I had known down below who had been a saloon bum. I said to him 'Why, Jack, how are you?' 

"'Oh fine,' said he. 

"'What are you doing here?" I inquired. 

"'Oh, this is where I belong,' he replied. 

"I hadn't gone very far before I met another, a card sharp. 'Why, Bill, what are you doing here?' 

"'Oh, this is where I belong and where you belong,' said he. 

"It was a beautiful place, but I met only that kind of men and women. And presently my attention was directed to a great height above me, which I could see with perfect distinctness, and I saw there my father, my mother, my friends, my loved ones, but I couldn't reach them because I had lived a life which entitled me only to the association of these men and women who surrounded me in this beautiful place, but which, compared with where my loved ones were, was poverty stricken, and mean and contemptible, and I knew that it was where I belonged, because I had lived such a life as entitled me only to go where I would have the society of such men as I had known and kept company with down on that earth from which we had come and where I had wasted opportunity." 

Your boys and girls, brethren and sisters, are fitting themselves for the highest, the best that God has to confer upon his children. Give them, above all things, a testimony that this is God's work, and you will give them what can not be destroyed here or hereafter, and they will live, and you will glory in, as will God, the records they have achieved here upon the earth. Let us be faithful to opportunity. This is God's work, brethren and sisters. It can't be destroyed. It will live. Will we live with it? That God may help us to help ourselves, which is the vital thing, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
