47
Second Overflow 
08 04 1923
J. Golden Kimball 
14
125-128

None

None 

To begin with, if the brethren and sisters desire me to run smoothly and make no breaks, it will be advisable to keep awake until I finish my speech, as it requires exceeding grgat faith to put into practice what you preach, and it calls for much faith to believe what you teach. For me to be my natural self is somewhat dangerous, and to be original would cause the very air to resound with criticism. I fully realize that brevity, and to the point, should be added to the virtues. Horace Greeley used to say that the way to write a good editorial was to write it to the best of your ability, then cut it in two in the middle and print the last half. I am going to follow this suggestion. 

Brevity, and to the point has been the instructions given by President Grant. This counsel has been adhered to and is unusual and very gratifying. There have been many speakers and the Spirit of the Lord has been given to men who are not included among the general authorities of the Church, which is very encouraging to the people. I do not think as a people we have any special use for presidents of stakes, or bishops of wards, who are not directed by inspiration. Without the guidance of the Holy Spirit we cannot fill our appointments. 

I have been thinking of a subject for a considerable length of time, and I have the idea fixed and fastened in my mind. If we as Latter-day Saints will do our own thinking and search the revelations of the Lord, it will help us out of many of our difficulties. Therefore, I ask that you give careful consideration to some of the ideas I wish to convey. Elder B. H. Roberts has lately published a tract, for use in the Eastern States mission, entitled: The Lord Hath Spoken. The contents of this pamphlet is very interesting and instructive, as I have read it. 

Many testimonies have been given during the conference by the brethren saying in no uncertain way, "We know that God lives." This to me is only the beginning of our recognition of the great loving Father for his children, "as no living soul can move, or wake, or open the eyes," that he does not see the self-expression of God's goodness and graciousness for his offspring. I have little hesitation in saying this is what parents should teach children before teaching them to pray and even children should grasp the idea "that God lives." 

They say that almost everybody has one big idea. It may come suddenly to your mind by inspiration, and the question arises: what do you do with it? You put it in definite form and develop the gem of truth. To get a true conception of God is the biggest idea I have ever tried to comprehend. 

The second big idea is: "Have you found God?" 

St. Paul, when he spoke to the men of Athens, said that they might seek God, if perhaps they might grope and find him — yes, though he is not far from any one of us. We are the offspring of the living God, and as our heavenly Father is not far from any of us, he cannot be very far distant from me. 

Our pioneer fathers and mothers, as it was with the prophets of the Old and New Testament, had suffered disaster after disaster —  they knew — they had found God. They had tested the truth for themselves. 

These leaders, seers, and teachers had no fear. In their anguish and tribulation they said: "Let it roll. The Lord will fight for you. Stand still and see what he will do. His arm is not shortened, neither is his strength diminished. Trust in the Lord and be doing good, so shalt thou dwell in the land and verily thou shalt be fed. O, how great is the goodness which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men. Be of good courage and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that have hope in the Lord." 

What is in the future? How far can we see ahead of us? Some of us cannot see the length of our noses, but the prophets have warned us of the danger that menaces us. We must be prepared and get our feet planted upon the ground, because we don't know, I don't know, what test is ahead of us. The gospel of Jesus Christ has had to be preached with tears and beseechings, sufferings, adversity and persecution from one generation to another. No generation accepted it because their belief in material power was so dense that they lost faith in the spiritual. We have to talk of the temporal. Temporal things have to be attended to, or we all would starve to death, but we must not place the temporal before the spiritual, for if we do, you can look out for disaster and trouble. No man can save the nation, or a people when they get the temporal first and forget the spiritual. I went on a mission for two years, and I came home and I loved everybody, but I hadn't been home long before I partook of the environment. No thinking man or woman can be free from deep forebodings, however optimistic we try to keep ourselves, with this crisis in world history. Fear has crept into the hearts of men. You talk to them, and see for yourselves. I think many of the Latter-day Saints are greatly frightened. You don't know what is going to happen. Time must be close at hand when we shall need a living testimony and knowledge for ourselves that God lives and that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. Have we found God? Have we found him strong enough, so that we are stripped to the skin? — then we cry out: "I will rejoice in God. I will joy in the God of my salvation." Elias Kimball and I worked for the Lord, and we gave the very best effort we had while in the Southern states and when we came back we went over the hill to the poorhouse. We hadn't a penny left, but we loved God. We had found him, and I still rejoice in God. 

I am going to read you something that was said three years after I was born. That is a very long time ago. It seems to me like a hundred years. A prophet of God said it, and it is coming true every day, but it has taken a long time to fulfil the prophecy. In the year 1856 — Heber C. Kimball said: "We think we are secure here in the chambers of the everlasting hills, but I say to you, the time is coming when we will be mixed up in these now peaceful valleys to that extent that it will be difficult to tell the face of a Saint from the face of an enemy of the people of God." Can't you see its fulfilment? You cannot tell a "Mormon" from a Gentile unless you know them. I have stood on a corner of Main street to prove the fulfilment of this statement, and I have taken out my watch for one hour, and I am a pretty well informed man as to faces. I have lived here all my life. I am pretty well known among the people. I only saw a very few that were "Mormons," and I wasn't right sure of them. "Then, brethren, when that time comes, look out for the great sieve, for there will be a great sifting time and many will fall, for I say unto you there is coming a test, a test, a test, and who will be able to stand?" That was just what our father kept saying. Father came up to the house, and he said in the presence of my mother, who lived there: "O, the test, the test, the test, who will be able to stand?" My mother replied: "Brother Heber, what is the test?" "I don't know, but only those who know that Jesus is the Christ can stand." 

Brethren and sisters, I am about to conclude: If you will think about what I have said don't get fearful — be like those old prophets. This is God's work; God is at the helm. He will take care of us no matter what our troubles are. We will never be shaken, if we know that Jesus is the Christ. It is a wonderful thing to know. I know there is something that prophesies to my soul that this is true because I have a light, if you can only get it lighted. A manifestation of the Spirit of God is given to every man and woman and child and I know that there is something that prophesies to my soul that this is true because I have tested it. I have not finished my work yet. I think I look as if I had had some experience. I haven't got much knowledge, but I have enough, all I need to know is that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I am able to demonstrate that I know that God lives. I hope the Lord will be kind to me and not leave me to forsake him. I don't think he will, unless I do wrong, but no one knows how safe he is. My father said that his election had been made sure, and just before his death an angel appeared to him and told Heber C. Kimball, "Your work is finished." His work was completed, his election was made sure. We don't hear much about that now-a-days. 

I pray in your behalf that you will not allow yourselves to be shaken, but if you desire to have faith in God and in this Church you have got to work, and you have got to make sacrifice, and the time will come, just as sure as you live and breathe and have a being, when you will not only say that you are willing to place all upon the altar, but you will do it. I am ready now. I haven't got very much, but everything goes. I will stake my all. 

The Lord bless you. Amen.
