5
Morning 
06 04 1923
Elder Peter M. Hanson 
No Speaker ID
16-17

None

None 

My brethren and sisters: It is with a spirit of humility that I stand before you here this morning, in the opening session of our general conference. I feel very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity I have of being a member in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am fully in harmony with the remarks of our President this morning. I have witnessed the humiliation of some of our brethren who are not able to meet their obligations, that they have contracted, while we had "flush" times. I am sure, my brethren and sisters, if we had heeded, as our President said this morning, the counsel that we received from the Prophet Joseph F. Smith, here, a number of years ago, and which has been spoken in our conferences from time to time, that we would have been much better off financially as a people. I have tried, my brethren and sisters, to obey this counsel, and today I do not owe a man a dollar, and I am mighty thankful for this. 

I am reminded now that I left my native land fifty-two years ago, as a boy then sixteen years of age. I did not have a dollar. I interceded with an uncle of mine who paid my immigration to this land, and when I landed in Ogden I was one hundred and ten dollars in debt. It took me two years to liquidate that debt — two years of hard labor, after I came here. But that was the first thing I did after I arrived here in Utah. My relatives in the old country rather spurned me when I joined this unpopular Church. They thought, of course, that I did wrong. But when I think of it, my brethren and sisters, and of the blessings I have enjoyed since I came to this land, arriving here as I did with not a penny; and today, though I have many wealthy relatives in the old country, today perhaps I could buy out some of them. That is the condition; that is a part of the blessings, my brethren and sisters, that have come to me through obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I feel this morning, as the brethren have said, to give my time and my talents, and all that I have to this great cause for I owe it all to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will inspire us, that we may do right, keep his commandments, live according to the light that we have received, and be in harmony with his servants who preside over us. I feel that we are greatly blessed when the general authorities come into our stake of Zion. We have been favored always in this respect at our quarterly conferences, with a visit from the general authorities of the Church, which we appreciate, brethren and sisters. I feel that I am in harmony with the servants of the Lord, who preside over us, and I pray that the Lord may bless us, that we may labor in love and in harmony and enjoy the blessings that we receive through the gospel, which is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
