50
Second Overflow 
08 04 1923
Seymour B. Young 
49
133-135

None

None 

My brethren and sisters: We have had a variety of speaking and speakers this afternoon, to whom you have listened, I have no doubt, with great pleasure, as I have. 

On Friday morning President Heber J. Grant made some remark; about the dedication of the Salt Lake temple, and referred to some persons who are still living that were among the general authorities of the Church at the time of the dedication Services. 

I heard President Wilford Woodruff tell of this incident connected with his ministry. He said that several years before the temple was completed, he was sitting on the east steps of the temple entrance and President Brigham Young came to him and said: "Brother Woodruff, take the keys and unlock the doors of the temple and let the people in." When President Woodruff awoke on the following morning, he wondered why he was commissioned to let the people into the temple, realizing that President John Taylor was at that time president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, But time passed along swiftly as usual. President Taylor passed away on July 25, 1887, to his eternal great reward, and about two or three years after his demise, President Woodruff, being President of the Twelve and consequently the presiding officer of the Church was sustained and set apart as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This occurred April 7, 1889. Four years thereafter, the temple was completed, April 6, 1893. President Woodruff then said:"I realize now that my appointment was proper, I have taken the keys, and I have unlocked the doors of the temple, and I have bidden the people to enter to our dedicatorial services." 

I am pleased to see that the Latter-day Saints are advancing along the lines of higher education. I observe during this conference the system of wireless telegraphy, or wave motions of sound that are spoken into a receiver or transmitter and carried to every part of the house. In speaking of this matter, a lady addressed me at noon time today, one of my acquaintances, and said: "Brother Young, I heard the speakers tolerably well inside the house — I was at the extreme end of the building — but when I stepped out through the open door I could hear with much greater distinctness than I could on the inside," and she thought the sound waves advanced irregularly, and it reminded me of our recent storms that we have had. The storms sometimes have a center of fierceness. In Salt Lake City the storm rages; out at Cottonwood, seven or eight or ten miles away, they scarcely know about having any storm at the same time, so that the storm waves gather and spread in cycles in different parts of the country. So it is with our sound waves that come through the transmitter into the great tabernacle during this conference, and by and by they will arrive at a greater perfection in transmitting sound this way to different parts of our great buildings, and the perfection will come with the experience that we shall gain. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in our organizations. Doctor Winship, when he was here, speaking hefore the school boards of the state, made this remark: "The system of teaching the young people of the Latter-day Saints from the age of twelve years to the age of eighteen, is superior to that of any other community with whom I have been acquainted." That, now, is a very welcome compliment paid to the Latter-day Saints by a man who knew whereof he spoke. 

Recently I have observed that the physicians have again decided after thorough investigation of the power or principles or stimulating effects of alcohol — that alcohol is not a stimulant — you know we are trying to observe absolutely the system that will do away entirely with the use of stimulants from the alcoholic process. Now, they registered one hundred patients of typhoid fever. Fifty of them were given stimulants in the way of alcohol, because certain physicians recommended that it be given as a stimulant to aid them in their recovery. Thirty-five per cent of that fifty died under the stimulating process. Out of the other fifty who had no alcohol, thirty-five of them recovered. It has been proved that the Latter-day Saints, when they took the stand for absolute prohibition, and as they are teaching it today, went on the side of the right, they had the right view of the matter, and by this means they are safe-guarding the rising and growing generations of our children. I am glad to be a Latter-day Saint. I rejoice that I have fellowship among my brethren and sisters. 

I want to say this for the information of some who are here and maybe don't know that the recent amendment of Senator Reed Smoot has brought into the circle of pension receivers about two or three hundred more. There are certain rules yet that we cannot quite reach with all of the legislation that has been enacted in favor of the pensioners of the Indian wars of Utah, but Senator Smoot has again introduced another bill of protest which is more sweeping in its character, and those who are deserving of pensions and who will be left out at the present time will only have to wait a little longer. When his new bill becomes a law I think it will take in all that are worthy of the pension claim. 

My brethren and sisters, I pray the Lord to bless you. I feel in my heart glad to be with you today, and I pray that the spirit of your mission, fathers and mothers, may rest upon you constantly, that you may be indeed not only parents to your children, but friends to them, and actual associates with them and get into the deeper recesses of their hearts by your kindness and your solicitation for their welfare, and let them feel that you love them, that you love them dearly, and that you have their interest at heart all the day long, and thus you will easily bring your children into lines of greater perfection as they advance in life, preparing them for the great events that are to transpire in the future, and fitting them to take the places of their parents in the leadership and membership of the great societies of the Church, and thus making good your parentage in the rearing of your children in the fear of the Lord. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
