57
Afternoon
08 04 1923
Elder William A. Morton 
No Speaker ID
152-153

None

None

I heard the president call me when I was standing at the Bureau of Information. As you know, I have just returned from another mission to Great Britain. I would have been perfectly willing to have stayed another year, yes, ten years, if the authorities of the Church had desired me to do so; but I am very glad to be back in Zion. 

A man on hearing an Irishman boast of his country — before the Home Rule bill was passed, said to him, "What makes you think so much of Ireland?" The answer he received was, "Other lands." What makes me think so much of this land? Other lands. What makes me think so much of this people? Other people. What makes me think so much of my religion? Other religions. Sister Morton and I have been in other lands, among other people, and we have come back with a far greater love in our hearts for Zion and her people than we ever had before. 

I remember reading in the Doctrine and Covenants what the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that lying spirits had gone abroad in the earth. A large number of them have taken up their residence in the Old Country. A minister who returned some time ago from a visit to the United States, delivered in his church an illustrated lecture of his trip, and what do you think he told the people? That when he was in Salt Lake City he was given a banquet at which he sat beside the mayor, who was the husband of three wives. (Laughter.) And the audience believed him! (Laughter.) That was published in a daily paper. I immediately wrote the editor, asking him if the minister had been reported correctly. He answered that he had, and I then denounced the statement as a malicious falsehood. I told the readers of the paper that I knew the mayor of Salt Lake City; that he was at one time a member of my Sunday school class; that he is not and never was a polygamist. Then the minister had to tell another lie, in order to prop the first one up, for, as you know, a lie cannot stand alone. He said he did not refer to the present mayor, but to a former mayor. I wrote the editor of the paper, telling him that there has not been a polygamist mayor in Salt Lake City for thirty-eight years. Think of a Methodist minister telling such falsehoods! 

Another minister, a minister of the English Church, told the people of England that when "Mormons" get tired of their old wives, they take them into the desert, leave them beside a spring, and bring them provisions from time to time. (Laughter). He said that he himself had rescued quite a number of young women from the clutches of "Mormons." Think of that out of the mouth of a consecrated minister of the Church of England! And thousands believed him. Why? Because they would rather believe a lie than the truth. 

My time is up. I thank God with all my heart and soul for the Gospel of Jesus Christ which I embraced in my native land thirty-five years ago. I love this work, I love this people; I would rather live here on bread and water all the days of my life, than to live in the palace of the king. I pray God to help us to be grateful and thankful and to appreciate his blessings, because I know that if we are faithful in keeping his commandments his blessings will continue to flow unto us. God bless you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
