58
Afternoon
08 04 1923
Richard R. Lyman
17 
153-157

None

Youth, Scouting

Today is Sunday; the hour is 3:45 p. m. I am reminded that at this very hour, Sunday, April 7, 1918, one day more than five years ago, I was presented to the General Conference, by President Joseph F. Smith, as the new member of the Council of the Twelve. 

THE VALUE OF PERSECUTION 

It hardly seems possible that in these days, when information as to the world is so generally published, and when practically all the people, in all the countries of the world are able to read this information, the people of one of our great civilized countries can be induced to accept as true the intensely false statements to which Elder William A. Morton in his remarks has just referred. Is it not necessary for such assertions and statements to be made in order to fulfil the predictions which are so clearly and numerously made in the holy scriptures? For example: "And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end shall be saved." (Matthew 10:22.) "Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution." (II Timothy 3:12.) "Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake; for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." (Matthew 5:10-12.) "Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for so did their fathers to the false prophets." (Luke 6:26.) The great Master himself, said: "If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye be of the world, the world would love his own; but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you." (John 15:18, 19.) 

THE WELFARE AND TRAINING OF OUR YOUNG PEOPLE 

I shall attempt to place additional emphasis upon two subjects that have been discussed by many of the speakers during this conference. One is the arousing of additional interest in the training and welfare of the young people of the Church. The other is the importance of having Latter-day Saints remain in this section of the country and of rearing their families generally on the farm. 

Marvelous transformations have taken place since that memorable day in July, 1847, when Brigham Young and his band of noble pioneers looked over the mountain tops into this great valley, and said: "This is the place." The great pioneer leader looked with the vision of a prophet. He spoke the truth. "This is the place." Not the place for making the most money, perhaps, not the place in which the greatest amount of luxury can be found; but it is the chosen place for Latter-day Saints. It is the place where struggles must be met — those struggles which make men and women. It is not gold or silver, nor is it what these can purchase, that is most desired by Latter-day Saints. What we want is sons and daughters strong in the power to resist; sons and daughters with high ideals and exalted ambition, for these give joy and satisfaction which no amount of money can purchase. It is in these young people — our most valuable asset — we are most interested. 

AN ILLUSTRATION FROM BABSON 

Is not Roger W. Babson our greatest statistician? It is he who says he was visiting the home of a famous manufacturer, who took him out to his farm and showed him his cattle. Above the head of each heifer and cow was the pedigree. The most careful record was kept of every animal. He had a blue print in his library at home of every one of these animals. Later in the evening — it was during the Christmas vacation — a young fellow drove up to the house in a fancy automobile, and he came in and asked for the manufacturer's daughter, in order to take her to a party. Not liking the looks of the fellow very well, after the couple had gone out, Mr. Babson said: 'Who is that chap?' The father replied: "Oh, I don't know, just some friend of Mary's." Mr. Babson says this father had every one of his cows blue-printed, but he didn't even know the name of the man who came to get his only daughter, and who did not deliver her until two o'clock the next morning. That man was neglecting the welfare of the human soul — the world's greatest asset. 

As I have said before, this may not be the place to find the greatest amount of money, or the greatest quality of luxury; but it is "the place" designated by divine Providence for the Latter-day Saints, and it is the place where, with divine help and guidance, we are struggling to produce the best men and the best women that can be produced in any part of the world. I believe "this is the place" for accomplishing this great end. 

THE VALUE OF THE MISSION FIELD AS AN EDUCATOR 

Intensely interested as we are in developing to the highest degree the virtues of our young men and young women and also their talents, may I add a little emphasis on what Bishop Nibley has already said, and also Elder Stephen L. Richards, that I regard the experience in the mission field as a great educational asset to any young man. While my lifetime has been spent almost entirely in the school room, either as student or teacher, I am of the opinion that for the average young man time spent in the mission field is, even for him, more valuable than an equal amount of time spent in the school room. Character certainly is worth more than education without it. Young missionaries who go into the mission field make an intense study of the life and example of Jesus Christ. I ask all good people everywhere if the amount of time ordinarily spent in the mission field could be devoted to any more worthy or helpful work. If you have to choose between sending your children to school for higher education, or sending them into the mission field, I say, choose the latter. 

THE M. I. A. - GIVE SUPPORT TO THIS HELPFUL ORGANIZATION 

Since I happen to be one of the general superintendency of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, I am naturally intensely interested in the welfare of the young people, and especially the young men. I appeal for you to give the Mutual Improvement work your earnest, honest support. Your boys are calling for you. They need your help. "Of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these: It might have been." What greater anguish can come into the human heart than that which results from regret? Be close to your son. Put your arms around him. Enjoy his affection and enjoy his confidence. It is this sort of spirit we are encouraging in the Mutual Improvement organizations. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." 

THE "M" MEN

At Richfield a few weeks ago my heart was filled with pride at seeing our "M" men, a portion of the Mutual Improvement Association, give the Sunday evening program for the M. I. A. meeting. Every detail was arranged by these young men. Thus we are aiming to give at home a training similar to that received in the mission field. That is, we are aiming to give that training that takes a young, laughing, silly boy, and makes of him, as the mission almost always does, a fine, dignified, glorious man. 

THE FATHERS AND SONS' AND SCOUT ACTIVITIES 

Scout work is a portion of the Mutual Improvement program. We desire to make our stake and ward officials give to this portion of the program the same good support they do to other portions of our work. In this city, during the last two weeks, I have attended three banquets given by the scouts and their fathers. This intimate association of fathers and sons cannot do otherwise than result in doing great good. What can give greater uplift than to have boys in the most critical moments of their lives intimately associated with, and positively guided by, their fathers and their mothers? 

The subject assigned to one of these scouts, and put in the language of the modern boy, was: "My Dad — My Pal." It was thrilling to see that bright-eyed little chap with head erect, his hand on his father's shoulder, tell the great group of fathers and sons assembled that he and his dad were chums. When at the close of the banquet contributions were solicited for buying a truck for the scout troop, some men gave one dollar, a few gave five. This little fellow came forward and put down a check and said: "My dad gives twenty-five dollars." 

MOTHER, THE BEST SCOUT OF ALL 

A fine looking, dark-haired Scandinavian mother was sitting at another table, and by her side her little son. This boy was asked to respond to the toast: "Mother, the best scout of all." You ought to have heard his story. The little fellow, somewhat frail in body, was as light in complexion as his mother was dark. With quivering lips he said: "During all the days of my boyhood my mother has taught me to. pray. Sometime ago I went down to Utah Lake with a group of my companions on a swimming trip. We were carrying on one contest after another. I found myself actually exhausted, when I saw one of my little friends and companions in deep water, drowning." There were many strong men with strong hearts in that audience. All listened in breathless silence to the simple narrative of this little scout. The hearers could not hold back the tears, when the little fellow said: "And, remembering the teachings of my mother, that, under all conditions, I should place my trust in divine Providence, I uttered a prayer, placed my trust in Him, then went forward and saved the life of my little friend." That is the spirit of the scouts. Scouting is a portion of our M. I. A. program. 

HIGH IDEALS IN TWO SLOGANS 

In the L. D. S. Church we have every doctrine, every principle, every practice, every element, that tends to make men and women better, happier, stronger, cleaner. In the language of the Boy Scouts, we are struggling to do our duty to God and to our country. We are struggling to make good citizens, for only out of good citizens can good Latter-day Saints be made. We are striving to make better men and women than are made or can be made elsewhere. We expect to accomplish this greatly desired end by living more strictly in conformity with the teachings and example of Jesus Christ, than do others. Our slogans are an indication of our standards. One of these is: "We stand for the non-sale and non-use of tobacco." This year's slogan is: "We stand for a pure life through clean thought and action." With these high ideals we are going forward with faith in divine Providence, expecting to produce a generation of people better than any the world has known. 

The Lord bless you. Be interested in the boy. Give him a fair share of your time. Give him your confidence. Do not be satisfied until in your ward there is an efficient troop of Boy Scouts in which your son can be trained. Give splendid support to this portion of our Mutual Improvement work. You cannot know what real scouting is until you have at least one Eagle Scout in your troop. The Lord bless you. Amen.
