59
Afternoon
08 04 1923
Heber J. Grant 
10
157-159

None

None

While listening to Bishop Nibley I thought of some quotations from a book, a copy of which was sent by the Presidency to the 1775 misionaries of our Church, in all the world. This book is entitled Fundamentals of Prosperity, and the author is Roger W. Babson. I brought it here to hand to a friend after the meeting, and not for the purpose of reading from it, but some of the things that have been said this afternoon have caused me to turn to the book, and I desire to read some things from it, and to make a few comments: 

"The need of the hour is not more legislation. The need of the hour is more religion. More religion is needed everywhere, from the halls of Congress at Washington, to the factories, the mines, the fields and the forests. It is one thing to talk about plans or policies, but a plan or policy without a religious motive is like a watch without a spring or a body without the breath of life." 

"Why is it that most of the able men in our great industries came from the country districts? The reason is that the country boy is trained to work. Statistics indicate that very seldom does a child, brought up in a city apartment house, amount to much; while the children of well-to-do city people are seriously handicapped. The great educator of the previous generation was not the public school, but rather the wood box." 

There is hardly an individual in all the Church who has not some responsibilities. We have ward teachers, two of them for every block in all the Church. In addition, we have two Relief Society teachers for each block. There are a bishop and two counselors in every ward. There are from fifteen to twenty high counselors in every stake. Responsibility develops people. I want to read just a word on responsibility, from Mr. Babson's book: 

My little girl has a black cat; about once in four months this cat has kittens. Opposite our place is a man who has an Airdale dog. When that dog comes across the street and that cat has no kittens, the cat immediately "beats it" as fast as she can, with the dog after her. But when that dog comes across the street and that cat has the responsibility of some kittens, she immediately turns on the dog and the dog "beats it" with the cat after him. It is the same dog, the same cat, and the same back yard; but in one instance the cat has no responsibilities and in the other case she has. Responsibilities develop faith, vision, courage, initiative, and other things which make the world go round. 

I will read a comparison between the people who settled North and South America: 

Just before I went to Brazil I was the guest of the President of the Argentine Republic. After lunching one day we sat in his sun parlor looking out over the river. He was very thoughtful. He said, "Mr. Babson, I have been wondering why it is that South America with all its natural advantages is so far behind North America notwithstanding that South America was settled before North America." Then he went on to tell how the forests of South America had two hundred and eighty-six trees that can be found in no book of botany. He told me about many ranches that had thousands of acres under alfalfa in one block. He mentioned the mines of iron, coal, copper, silver, gold; all those great rivers and waterpowers which rival Niagara. "Why is it with all these natural resources, South America is so far behind North America?" he asked. Well, those of you who have been there know the reason. But, being a guest, I said: 

"Mr. President, what do you think is the reason?" 

He replied: "I have come to this conclusion. South America was settled by the Spanish who came to South America in search of gold, but North America was settled by the Pilgrim Fathers who went there in search of God." 

Friends, let us as American citizens never kick down the ladder by which we climbed up. Let us never forget the foundation upon which all permanent prosperity is based. 

That foundation is religion, faith in God and determination to serve God. Our fathers came here for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and for nothing else. 

Again, I say to the Latter-day Saints, that we can rear better citizens and better Latter-day Saints upon the farms than in any other place. Mr. Babson goes on to say that over thirty per cent of all the great men in the industries today have come from the farms, or are sons of poor preachers. 

May the Lord bless the people of Zion. May we keep his commandments in a way and manner that all men, seeing our good deeds, our honesty, our integrity, may be led at least to respect us, whether they believe in our faith or not. God bless you. Amen.
