7
Morning 
06 04 1923
Elder James W. Funk 
No Speaker ID
20-21

None

None

My brethren and sisters, it is because I have made it a rule and practice of my life to respond to the calls that have been made of me that I stand before you this morning, for I assure you that I feel very weak and incapable, in a measure, of filling this position except that it be to comply with the call that has been made of me. I rejoice in the spirit of this conference. I had not felt, I believe, before, as I have felt this morning, that there is safety in following counsel. I had not realized to the same extent that I do now, the closeness of temporal and spiritual things in the welfare and well-being of the people of the Church. It has been said by some that the "Mormon" people lay too much stress upon the temporal things of life, that they are not spiritual enough in their teachings; but, as the President said this morning, we know the consequences that have come to those who have disregarded the counsels of President Joseph F. Smith in the matter of getting out of debt, and keeping out of debt. Because of their failure to comply, disaster has come to them, and they now find it necessary, in many cases, to abandon their property and to leave for new fields, to take their families into new environments and into environments which may be detrimental to their spiritual growth and advancement, that may be conducive to drawing them away from the Church and its teachings. The President did not say so, and I do not say it, but I wondered if this is not just as good a time to put into effect today that counsel which was given several years ago, as it was then. No prophecy has been made, I think, from this stand to the effect that we are standing today in perilous times financially. No one has predicted that this wave of temporary prosperity shall continue — perhaps I should not say "temporary," because I hope it is not temporary, but the signs of the times would indicate, I think, that we are at least in a state of uncertainty, and while the financial clouds are lifting today, as they have been for several months — I have failed to find anyone who is keeping abreast of the times financially, to predict safety beyond the next few months, and there is always the proviso that for the next two or three, and some will say as far as six, months, there is apparent safety in matters of finance, but beyond that, no prediction is made. It occurs to me, brethren and sisters, that today is just as good a time to keep out of debt, to strive to get out of debt, those of us who are in debt, as was the day when President Joseph F. Smith counseled it, and when other leaders of the Church have counseled it, because, as I recall, they have always given advice of that kind. It occurs to me, too, that one of the first duties that we owe, and we should not forget it, is the duty that we owe to the Lord: Pay your tithing, brethren and sisters, in the time and the season thereof, and that does not mean, to us who live in agricultural sections of the country, to pay our tithing in December, but it means to pay it every month of the year, as means come into our hands; and then at the end of the year we will not be owing the Lord tithing that we should have been paying at the beginning of the year and throughout the months thereof. 

There is safety in counsel. It has been evidenced on every hand. That brother and that sister who follow the counsel of those who are placed in authority to lead us and guide us, will not go far wrong, but will be found in every crisis safe, standing not only safe as to themselves, but in a position to help and to assist those with whom they come in contact. I have a sincere testimony in the divinity of this work. I know that it is the work of God; I know that those who are in charge of the work at this present time are holding their positions because of their call from the Lord. They are answering the call that has come to them, and from my personal contact with these men, as it is my privilege, my very highly esteemed privilege, brethren and sisters, to come in contact with them occasionally, I testify to you who are not so favorably situated as to come in personal and intimate contact with them, that they are men of God, sincere in their desires to lead the people in the way that God would have them to go, sincere in their teachings and in their living, with hearts full of prayer for the welfare of the people of this dispensation, and I am sure that God is inspiring them, leading them, that they may in turn inspire and lead us. May God bless the Latter-day Saints and help us at all times to do his will, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
