9
Morning 
06 04 1923
Heber J. Grant 
10
23

None

None

While Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were engaged in translating the Scriptures, they said: 

"And while we meditated upon these things," [the things they refer to were in regard to the resurrection] "The Lord touched the eyes of our understandings and they were opened, and the glory of the Lord shone round about, 

"And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the right hand of the Father, and received of his fulness; 

"And saw the holy angels, and them who are sanctified before his throne, worshiping God and the Lamb, who worship him forever and ever. 

"And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Regotten of the Father — 

"That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

Thank the Lord that Joseph Smith saw and conversed with the Redeemer, that the Redeemer of the world was introduced to him by God our Father. Thank the Lord that somebody else, in addition to Joseph Smith, has left us his testimony that Jesus is the Son of God, and that the voice from heaven bore record. Thank the Lord for the gospel. 

"And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us — 

"That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness; 

"That through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him." 

These passages came to my mind as I was listening to the remarks of Brother Winslow Farr Smith. I want to read just a few words for the benefit of all Latter-day Saints, from the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same. 

"For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever."