Overflow 
08 04 1923


ELDER BRIGHAM S. YOUNG 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission) 

My dear brethren and sisters: It is with feelings of timidity that I stand before you, because, to a degree, I sense the responsibility of the position of a public instructor; and that I may speak to you understandingly, and that there may be profit in what shall be said, I desire that my remarks may be dictated by the Spirit of God. 

It is a great privilege, brethren and sisters, to address a congregation of the proportions of this one, and one that rarely comes to us — never in the field in which I am at present engaged. As I have the honor to preside over the Northwestern States mission, naturally I am deeply interested in missionary work. I am interested in the boys and girls, and we have at present seventy-seven in the Northwestern States mission, fifty-seven young men and twenty young ladies. I want to say to you that they are representative of the best men and women in all this Church, which means in all the world, for a finer, nobler, and more exemplary lot of young men and women it has never been my pleasure to know. 

I am deely interested in the youth of Zion, and have been so for many years. I have a large family myself. However, I am not in the class of my forebears, but I am interested in the youth of Zion, because I recognize this fact, that upon them depends the future of this work. The greatest possession, I believe, that it is possible for us to confer upon, or bequeath to, our children is a knowledge that this is the work of God, and to that end, brethren and sisters, I have a strong anxiety that your boys and girls should go into the mission fields, even though it may be at great sacrifice to yourselves. Those boys and girls, when they return from a mission, if they have discharged its duties as are the boys and girls discharging their missions who are now in the field, when they come back to you, you will find them men and women of power and inspiration, their intelligence immeasurably increased. If you would contribute the best that it is possible for you to contribute in your day and time, leave behind you a posterity who know that God lives. There is no higher achievement in this world, because it extends into eternity, than that the men and women, all of God's children, should know that he lives. The missionaries come back to your communities, and we endeavor to teach them to return with the spirit of their mission resting mightily upon them, that they may be a leaven in your communities for the dissemination of the spirit which they acquire and which, God willing, they may retain when they return to you. The future of this world depends upon these boys and girls, and it depends upon the strength of the testimony they shall acquire that this is God's work, and there is nothing you can give them that is of more value than the education, the finishing touches, the degree that they shall acquire in the mission field when they have graduated in this great practical school of the best there is in life. It teaches them that this is the work of the living God. Do not stint them, brethren and sisters; send them on missions. You want them to be educated. There is no branch of education that better fits them for the practicabilities, the best, the highest things in life, than will a knowledge and a testimony of this great work. This great fact should be borne in upon our consciousness, that we will get just what we earn and we will not get anything more. And your boys and girls will earn for themselves the best that can be conferred, if they will learn the fact that God has spoken and that he has established his Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith teaches us that the great thing to acquire is capacity. What have you capacity for? Are you prepared through your educational attainments, to go into the society of the highly educated? If so, you can enjoy that atmosphere in which they live. If you have not been educated, you can not enjoy the atmosphere of education: and according to your capacity, that limits your power of enjoyment, of understanding, of intelligence, in the presence of God our Father, and if we, some of us, were to be transported into his presence, it would be bad for us, because we could not endure his presence; but these boys and girls are fitting themselves for these places that are to be occupied, not only in this world, but in the great hereafter. 

I am reminded of a dream that I heard a man relate. He said: "I dreamed that I had died, and I found myself on a great rocky plateau, a smooth shelf of rock; on the right hand rose a precipice that was lost in the clouds. On the left hand was an abyss, the bottom of which Was lost in the mists which obscured it, and as I went along this great rocky shelf my attention was directed to a slight nodule on the surface of the rock sheet. As I approached it there issued from this nodule, which proved to be a cave, a little man, not more than half my height, and beckoning to me he said: 'Come in here, I want to see where I am to send you,' and he took down, when I had entered his cavern, from a shelf on the rock, a little plaque that was about four by nine inches in dimension, and said: 'I will rub my hand over this plaque and your record will appear in points of light on its surface, and according to your record, there is where I will send you.' He rubbed his hand once over the plaque and a few points of light appeared. I looked over his shoulder with the utmost anxiety to see where I would be sent. He turned, when he had rubbed the stone once, and looked at me with very great significance. Again he passed his hand over the stone. There were a few more points of light and turning to me he said: 'It looks pretty bad for you, but I will rub my hand once more over the stone,' which he did, and when he had finished he put the stone back on its shelf and said to me: 'You won't do.' With that he picked me up with one hand and tossed me into this abyss into which I sank to interminable depths. By and by I found my descent arrested. I stopped and began to rise slowly until I was on a level with the shelf from which I had been thrown. I continued to rise until I found myself in most beautiful surroundings. The trees were green, the grass, the flowers, the white bordered walks were beautiful. There were mansions on every hand, and as I traversed one of these splendid pathways I met a man whom I had known down below who had been a saloon bum. I said to him 'Why, Jack, how are you?' 

"'Oh fine,' said he. 

"'What are you doing here?" I inquired. 

"'Oh, this is where I belong,' he replied. 

"I hadn't gone very far before I met another, a card sharp. 'Why, Bill, what are you doing here?' 

"'Oh, this is where I belong and where you belong,' said he. 

"It was a beautiful place, but I met only that kind of men and women. And presently my attention was directed to a great height above me, which I could see with perfect distinctness, and I saw there my father, my mother, my friends, my loved ones, but I couldn't reach them because I had lived a life which entitled me only to the association of these men and women who surrounded me in this beautiful place, but which, compared with where my loved ones were, was poverty stricken, and mean and contemptible, and I knew that it was where I belonged, because I had lived such a life as entitled me only to go where I would have the society of such men as I had known and kept company with down on that earth from which we had come and where I had wasted opportunity." 

Your boys and girls, brethren and sisters, are fitting themselves for the highest, the best that God has to confer upon his children. Give them, above all things, a testimony that this is God's work, and you will give them what can not be destroyed here or hereafter, and they will live, and you will glory in, as will God, the records they have achieved here upon the earth. Let us be faithful to opportunity. This is God's work, brethren and sisters. It can't be destroyed. It will live. Will we live with it? That God may help us to help ourselves, which is the vital thing, is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

(President of the Central States Mission) 

I desire to be led by the Spirit of the Lord in my remarks this morning, and I trust that I may have your faith and prayers. This position is, to some extent, a difficult one, but inasmuch as I have been selected to take a part, I desire to say that which the Lord would have me say for the good of all who are here. 

There is no question in my mind concerning the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have learned by experience, through association with men and women in the world, who know not the truth, and through my experience with men and women who have been sent into the world to preach the truth that there is power and genuineness and a spirit in this work in which we are engaged, which can not be found elsewhere in the earth. We would find this morning, if we had the privilege of visiting the great churches of the day, men and women, honorable men and women of the earth, gathered together, worshiping a God and believing in a God without a body, without parts, without passions, a great Spirit who fills the immensity of space and who sits enthroned in yonder heavens on the top of a topless throne. This is the conception of God held by many of the children of men, outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I haven't found in my experience any church which teaches, or representative of such who believes, that our Father is a personal being and that we are created in his image. I have listened to one or two men not representing any church, who have made such statements. I know where the truth came from; it came from our Father through Joseph Smith, the prophet of God. I have wondered just how long it would be before those who were discussing the personality of God would recognize the inspiration and authority from which they took their remarks. This world is astray, so far as religion is concerned, and if it had not been for the revelations of the Father to Joseph the prophet, there never could have been any present salvation for the children of men, for man may worship God with all sincerity, believing that he is doing the right thing, but if he is worshiping in a way that is not ordained of the Lord, he can not receive the blessings of a glorified exaltation in the presence of that God who gave us life. There is one way only by which men may be saved and that is through obedience to law, and that obedience must be rendered by every man and every woman in the earth, or who has lived in the earth, or who will yet come to the earth, for salvation is predicated on obedience to the principle and ordinance of repentance and baptism. 

We have some illustrations in holy writ covering these points; for example, the story of the rich man and Lazarus. Lazarus was persecuted by the afflictions of the body; he was poor so far as this world's goods were concerned; he suffered during his life and lived from the leavings of the rich man's table. We are told that in time he died and was carried by the angels to the bosom of Abraham, for he had served the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; had walked in that path which led him to Abraham, and Jesus told the Jews that Abraham was in the kingdom of God. In time the rich man died also, and he looked up and beheld Lazarus in the bosom of Abraham. He found that he himself was in torment; he had not received what he expected. When he appealed to Abraham, Abraham told him that he had received in his earth life that which was a pleasure to him, that which his wealth had procured for him. He had wasted his time. He had not served God whom he did not know. So this man's reward was a punishment unto him and he said to father Abraham: "Send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his fingers in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame." But Abraham told him that where he was, Lazarus could not come, and where Lazarus was, he could not come: there was a great gulf that separated them. Lazarus in his day had overcome the wickedness of the world; the other man had not, and in justice of God one was in torment and the other in the kingdom of God with Abraham, the father of the faithful, through whom all the nations of the earth were to be blessed. 

When the rich man discovered that he could not receive the blessings of Lazarus, he called Abraham to send some one to the earth to warn his brothers, five of them, that they might not be made partakers of his punishment, but Abraham said unto him: "They have Moses and the prophets. If they hear not them neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead." The law of Moses was in the earth; the words of the prophets were there. There were men to administer the ordinances of the gospel and it was not the privilege of Abraham to send a man direct to those who were, undoubtedly, willfully neglecting their opportunity. 

These stories and these illustrations are given here in mortality and they apply to your life and mine, and give us to understand that, according to the things we learn and do in this world we shall be rewarded and be blessed and exalted in that great life which awaits the human family. Is it not our duty to stand by the commandments of God that we may have his Spirit, and that we may truthfully worship him and declare unto men and women who are in the world the true order of worship? 

For this is the day for men to prepare to meet their God. Escape from punishment hereafter is obtained through overcoming guilt in mortality. The Lord appeared to men in this dispensation and gave a new and true order of worship and sent forth men into the earth to declare unto the children of men that they were in the depths of spiritual poverty and in the bonds of iniquity and there could not come to them a salvation and an exaltation in the presence of God except they would repent. 

The habits men sometimes form are of such a character that it takes the effort of a giant in spirit to overcome them. It is easy for men, honorable, as they may be, to believe that the Lord will give unto them all they desire. Why, they say, the thief on the cross, when he was put to death, at the time of the Redeemer's crucifixion, received a promise from the Christ that he should that day be with him in paradise, and because of that they take it for granted that he went into the presence of the Father. But they have not read the scripture fully, as it is written, or they would readily understand that the thief did not receive a glory in the presence of the Father, for we find recorded also that the Christ, who suffered for the sins of the world, and was put to death in the flesh, was quickened by the Spirit, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison which sometimes were disobedient when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was preparing, wherein few, that is eight souls were saved by water. While his body lay in the tomb, the Savior preached the gospel to those who were dead. When he came back to the earth he was met by men and women, and particularly by Mary, who recognized him first and attempted to embrace him. But he said unto her: "Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father; but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father and your Father and to my God and your God." 

If it were not for the revelations of our Father to his children through Joseph the prophet, in this dispensation, this body of people would be in the same condition that the world is in, and take it for granted that the thief received an inheritance in the kingdom of God and that there is nothing to do but to repent, even though it be at the last moment of time. For this purpose the Lord revealed himself that the true order of worship might be instituted again among the children of men, that men and women, in their own time and enjoying free agency in mortality, away from home, as it were, might have the privilege, through the power which had been given unto them by that Father who sent them to the earth, of developing their character, which had its beginning before this earth was laid, or the foundation thereof; that they might in time claim the privilege of association with their Father whom they had learned to love through keeping his laws and walking in his paths. From such doctrine there can be no appeal, neither can any one prove it untrue. I have failed in my experience in the mission field, covering a period of nearly nineteen years, to find one man who has been able to disprove the logic of Joseph Smith the prophet, or who has ever proved untrue one single truth that came through the prophet to us in our day. On the contrary, everything that has been taught has stood the test. Men and women have been brought to a knowledge of the truth and deception has vanished and the adversary has not the power that he had in the earth in the days of the coming forth of this great Latter-day work. The Priesthood, the power of God, is in the earth; the power to explain and expound the scripture is vested in men, and Lucifer, neither by mob law, nor by an attack of the learned upon the truth, nor in any other way, has ever been able to prove untrue the statements made constantly by the elders of Israel. Show me the man, regardless of who he is, who can prove from holy writ that God our eternal Father is without form and without body, parts or passions. Let him write or teach if to the children of men and I promise him, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that he will prove that he himself is wrong and that the Church of Jesus Christ is right in its doctrines and in its teachings. Why, the glory that comes through the knowledge of this gospel, can never be measured by the mind of men in mortality who do not know the truth. 

I want to say to you, in conclusion, I think there is not a single person who has the interest of a boy and a girl at heart but who desires and really prays and hopes that they may have the privilege of going into the mission field and bearing testimony of this truth. The truth makes men free, makes men strong and absolutely keeps them from being overcome by all the sophistries that are brought to bear against the true order of worship; and bearing testimony of it qualifies a boy or girl for a future that can not be purchased with money, that can be purchased only by real experience. Boys and girls will never learn at home to discuss and preach the gospel as they do away from home, for the spirit of opposition is not found here. They do not find here men who rise up from every corner and say: I don't believe your doctrine. They have not that chance at home, but out in the mission field they have that opportunity. 

When you look into the faces of people, bond or free, black or white, anywhere in the earth, remember one thing, that they kept their first estate to the extent that they had the privilege of coming into the world and having the chance of keeping their second estate. We who have received the gospel, owe it to them every moment of our time, to labor with them, not to fight them; to show them the true order of worship; to pray for them, to plead for them. Out of the mission fields of the earth in the last few years have come some of the most wonderful men and women that are found in the earth, whose testimony is as great and as sure as those who have been reared in the valleys of the mountains. I tell you we owe it to them, or in the day of judgment we may be called to account for a neglect of duty, when we had the money and the property that would have taken the message to a man or a woman who has not had the privilege of receiving it, and can not have that privilege until he has obeyed the law. 

I want to say to the Latter-day Saints, in your triumphs, or in the times of adversities, don't forget that the preaching of the gospel is the life of your boy or your girl, and that it will give them a better training than anything else that can be found. I have a son in the mission field in Old Mexico. I would rather he would be there than in any school in the country during a certain period of his life. I have had the privilege of having in my mission more than two thousand missionaries. I want to say to you it is the greatest experience I ever had. No school could measure up to it. Those who have been missionaries are better qualified to enter into colleges of the country. They are more reliable, surer, better men, better women in judgment. I tell you this gospel is the perfect law of liberty. The words of the Savior are true; they apply unto these boys and girls and to all of us. He said unto his disciples: "If ye continue in my word, then ye are indeed my disciples, and ye shall know the truth; and the truth shall make you free." And may God give us the power and the privilege and the faith and the protection to worship him in spirit and in truth, and be free so that we may be able to stand for him forever, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 

(President of the Canadian Mission) 

My dear brethren and sisters. If there was ever a time in my life when I was in need of the power of the Spirit of God it is at present. As I have sat and listened during the sessions of this conference to the many testimonies that have been given by the brethren who have occupied the time, I have been convinced more and more of the greatness of the wonderful institution of which we have become members. I have been convinced more than ever before as I have listened to these testimonies that this great Latter-day work deals with and provides for the material as well as the spiritual salvation of the children of men. 

I have had the honor of being called to preside over one of the great missions of the Church. During the last month I have been introduced into the various conferences comprising the Canadian mission, in connection and in company with President Nephi Jensen, who preceded me in this work. He has been generous in his introduction of me into the different branches, to the different elders, to the Saints and to the people of that great dominion. I want to say here that President Jensen and his wife have indeed done a glorious work, have laid a splendid foundation upon which to build in that great country. It has been my privilege to visit nearly all of the missions of the Church in the world, but I believe that I can say without any fear of contradiction that my introduction now into the mission field has brought me in contact with young men and women who are more desirous of promulgating this great and mighty truth, the gospel of Jesus Christ, in power and in strength to those with whom they come in contact, than any others I have met at any other time of my life. I have found during my labors among them for this short period of time a most splendid attitude, a fine spirit. 

They are actuated by a strong desire of equipping themselves with a knowledge and with a testimony of this great and mighty work, and I feel to praise God, my eternal Father, for the opportunity that has come to me in being worthy of carrying this great message of truth to an unbelieving world, to leave with them my testimony concerning the divinity of this work. I am grateful to God, my eternal Father, that he has permitted me to come in contact with elders who are imbued with the Spirit of our heavenly Father. When I associate with them and witness their dispositions in proclaiming this gospel and their endeavor to have a testimony come to them concerning the divinity of this work, I want to tell you that it is worth all the means, all the money and all the time, that one can give in listening to these young men and women bear their testimony concerning the divinity of this great and mighty work. I have known them, when they have received this testimony, to testify that God lives; that the fulfilment of the prophecy has taken place that came to John the Revelator while he was upon the Isle of Patmos, namely, that his vision was opened, and he made this proclamation in the way of prophecy to the generations of all time, that he saw another angel flying through the midst of heaven having the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth, to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. These young men and women bear this testimony with power and strength that can not be misunderstood, and when they take it with the spirit of humility and prayer into the homes of the honest in heart there comes a joy unspeakable, because it is taken there with that conviction that those who listen to them mistake not, and many there are now who are accepting this humble testimony and the message they have to bring. 

My brethren and sisters, to me there is nothing so fine and beautiful as knowing that this is the work of God. There is nothing so beautiful and so fine as feeling that it is the work of God, and when I read of and hear repeated, time and time again, the visitation of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith, there comes to me a testimony that there is nothing in the gospel of Christ that is negative, but on the other hand everything is positive. If we analyze carefully each visit that this angel made to the Prophet Joseph Smith we will discover that he was absolutely positive in the message that he delivered to him. The second time that he came to him, we are told that the words were identical with the first message that was delivered to him; likewise the third message; all were repeated with the same power, with the same authority, with the same influence, the same glory, that it convinced to that extent the Prophet Joseph Smith that he was to be used as the instrumentality in bringing about the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And it seems to me, as I read and hear these things repeated, that so positive was the angel Moroni in the delivery of this message that he wanted to impress more perfectly upon the mind of this young man the importance of this latter-day work, that he appeared to him again the following day and gave him the exact message that he had given him the night previous with the same power and the same authority that there was no mistaking any message that he did deliver and the purpose of it. 

My hrethren and sisters, I want to bear my testimony today that I know, as I know that I live, that God, my eternal Father, lives and that Jesus Christ is his only begotten Son in the flesh. I stand here as a living manifestation of his great and mighty power. Had it not been for the Priesthood of God it would not have been my privilege to live upon the earth at this time and I feel that there is an obligation resting upon me, as a servant of Almighty God, to leave a testimony wherever I go, wherever the opportunity affords to give it to the children of men; and I know, with just as much certainty as I know that God lives, that Joseph Smith was his prophet, that he was used as the instrumentality of God in establishing this great and mighty work here upon the earth in this day and time, and blessed is he or she who has the opportunity and the privilege of taking this gospel of Jesus Christ into the nations of the earth. 

God bless us to the end that we will cherish the testimonies that have been given to us during this conference that we might devote our time and our talent and all that we have in the establishment of God's mighty purposes upon this earth, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

A tenor solo was sung by Elder A. A. Beckstrand. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

(President of the Northern States Mission) 

I am grateful for the gospel of Jesus Christ and the testimony that has come to me of the truth of the same. In these days of doubt, in these days of wandering to and fro, searching after truth, I am grateful that we have in the gospel of Jesus Christ the truth, the thing that counts and makes it possible for us to go back into the kingdom of God, provided we live the lives we should live here upon the earth. 

These men who are telling us that there is no divinity in the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ are trying to wreck the faith of the people of the earth. These men who go around telling us that the truths which are written in the holy scriptures are nothing but foolishness, and are so childish that men of intelligence should pay no attention to them, are also trying to destroy faith in God's work and Church. I am glad that we have no apologies to make to anybody about the kingdom of God, the Church of Jesus Christ. We are not ashamed to accept the divinity of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We are not ashamed to accept the holy scriptures that were given to us by holy prophets through the inspiration of God. We are engaged in the great work of carrying this message to the people. Sometimes we rather feel that in the early days of the Church we had such glorious, powerful missionaries, which we did have, but sometimes, it seems to me, that we rather feel that the day of such missionary spirit and work are of the past. I want to bear testimony that the spirit of that kind of missionary work is still in the hearts of the boys and girls who are out preaching the gospel in the world today. It abides with them to the same extent that it did formerly and they are the same kind of faithful, humble men and women who are preaching the word today, as preached it in the early days of the Church. 

I am grateful for the auxiliaries of our Church. They may not always show the great results that we have anticipated, but I want to tell you that the auxiliaries of the Church are making and bringing into the hearts of the boys and girls a desire to be clean, a courage and a faith to accept the call of God to go out and preach his gospel unto the people, making them feel that they should give their time and their energy in carrying the glad tiding of great joy to the people, sowing into their hearts the precious seeds of truth. As they go out into the missionary world, those seeds grow and grow rapidly, and the missionaries stand bdfore the people bearing testimony of the truth of God's work. These men and women are finding God because they are seeking God; they are knocking at the door, and the door is being opened; they are searching and they are finding, and as we go to God, so God does answer our faith, and prayers, and permits us to know for ourselves the truth of this great and precious gospel of Jesus Christ. What wonderful testimony our boys and girls are finding out in the world. One boy, one humble boy, called at a home with some of his associates to administer to a woman who had a large swelling on her neck. After the administration the boy wrote to his mother and said: "Why, mother, when we took our hands from off her head, you could see the swelling going down. No one can tell me, in the future, that there are not miracles in these latter days." What a glorious testimony. Talk about the need of your boys and girls in the home; it is not comparable with the things that the boys and girls are learning about God the eternal Father in the mission field. Let them remain as long as possible. Let them come into the field; because of their humility God will fill their hearts with a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Not only are the boys and girls learning about God, but they are finding out about their fathers and mothers at home. When they are young, they some time go away from home for the night and they come back next day homesick, for their fathers and mothers. Sometimes now our boys and girls are homesick for their fathers and their mothers; the first time perhaps that they have been homesick for you for a long while, homesick because you have again come into their life, you have a point of contact and they want their fathers and their mothers. As we talk to them in their little rooms, these boys and girls of yours tell us about their fathers and mothers at home, and they are grateful for such men and women as you. I hope that we will keep in close touch with our boys and girls, so that being far from us or near by, they shall always be anxious and homesick for us. For while they are in this condition, they will be safer and sweeter and cleaner in the sight of God. A young man was lying on his deathbed, with his father as his side. The father asked him if there was anything that he could do for him. The boy replying said, "Yes, after I am gone, I wish you would bury me in the field by that big tree." And the father asked him what he wanted to be buried in the field for, and the boy said: "Why, you know, father, you are down in the field most of the time, and I want to be near you." What a precious thing to have our boys and girls loving us so much that they are always wanting to be near us! What a glorious privilege it is to send our boys and girls out as messengers of truth into the world! 

May God bless us; may he help us; may we be faithful, retain a faithful testimony of his gospel in our hearts, and may we lead the lives we should, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER ANGUS T. WRIGHT 

(Newly Appointed President pf the New Zealand Mission) 

It seems unnecessary for me to say that it is a great pleasure to be with you this morning in the service of the Lord. While I look upon your faces and recognize very few of you as acquaintances, yet I feel and know that you are my brethren, you are my sisters, in that great cause which has been revealed in these last days. 

I rejoice in this work, I rejoice to know that I have been counted worthy to be called to go forth again to carry this glad message to the nations of the earth. Thirty odd years ago I was called to New Zealand. When I was called I hardly knew where New Zealand was. I had to get a map to find out, and when I got that map I found a small spot away off in the south Pacific Ocean, seven or eight thousand miles away, and it seemed an awful long way from home, but I was called to that mission. I never questioned for a moment but what it was a call of the Lord. His servants had called me; his servants had laid their hands upon my head and blessed me. They told me that I should go in peace and return in safety, and I believed as firmly in that promise as I believed that the sun would rise upon the morrow. I had several narrow escapes while there, but God blessed me with his Spirit, he preserved me in health, he preserved me in strength; he blessed me that I was able to perform, to some extent, the mission that was expected of me. 

Before leaving my home a rather peculiar thing happened to me. President Lewis W. Shurtliff, then president of our stake, said: "Brother Wright, I desire to give you a blessing before you leave." And I told him I should be very glad indeed to have it, and he, with my fatherin-law, Charles F. Middleton, came to my home, and President Shurtliff blessed me, adding, as has been stated by the brethren previously, when I was set apart, that I should go in peace and return in safety, but he made this additional promise. He said: "You shall go and assist in the translation of the Book of Mormon." Now, I didn't know that the Book of Mormon was being translated. He, no doubt, had heard of it, but I remembered that promise, and when I landed in Auckland, with seven other elders, and was met by President Paxman, he selected me from that entire number to go down to that particular part of the island where this work was being done by Brother Ezra Richards, of Farmington, and another brother from Salt Lake City, and while there I had the privilege of assisting as scribe. I read the manuscript, that had been corrected, to Sister Marriott who rewrote it for the brethren. And afterwards I was called to go to Auckland and there I proof read and published the Book of Mormon in the Maori language. Now, it was a rather convincing thing to me that President Shurtliff should make this promise to me, at that special time and that President Paxman, who had no way of knowing of this particular promise, should select me from that number to go to that particular part of the island and assist, as had been promised, and it was surely a testimony to me that, at least, I had been called by the proper spirit. There was no question in my mind when I was called whether I would go, or not. Sure, I didn't know where I was going. Some of my outside friends, and I had a lot of them, said, "Well, there are cannibals down there, but there is one satisfaction for them in eating you; they will get a whole mouth-full because you are built that way." 

But they didn't eat me. However, we met cannibals. I met one old gentleman in particular who admitted to me that he had been a cannibal, and he told me that the flesh was sweet and very much like pork, so there you are! 

I was somewhat surprised, I will admit, at this second call. I will say, however, that I also had the privilege of presiding, the last year of my mission there, as I relieved President Paxman, who was released to return home, and I had the privilege of directing the labors in that mission for one year, but it is thirty-three or thirty-four years since, and I am getting old, so they tell me. That is the only objection that anybody has ever made to my present call, they thought I was getting too old, but I can not realize that. I feel yet that I am only a kid, and my mind is just as alert — I couldn't ride a horse just as well as I did then. I couldn't, perhaps, walk just as far as we had to sometimes, but otherwise I feel just as capable, just as alert, just as much filled with that desire and that ambition and that Spirit of God, as I ever have been in my life, so I think these friends who would like to relieve me on account of my age are mistaken. I don't feel that I am in that class at all. 

When President Ivins spoke to me about going, he said my name was under consideration, several have been named, but he said, "I can not get my mind on anybody else but you." President Ivins and I had the privilege of laboring togther on the State Board of the Agricultural College as trustees, and he said: "I have become pretty well acquainted with you in these past five or six years, and you, having been tbere must yet remember part of the language. I feel that you are the proper man. Will you go?" "Why," I said, "President Ivins, you should not ask me that question. You ought to know that I will go, and with pleasure." "Well, but," he said, "you are a business man, and if it will interfere in any way with your business, with your financial affairs, and you feel that you can not go, say the word and we will find someone else." "President Ivins, all that I have belongs to God, and I am only his steward. I haven't so very much, but what I have is on the altar and at your service. What few years I have left, if necessary, I am willing to devote to this great cause, which I know is true," and he gave me his hand, and the shake of that hand that I got at that time I never will forget, and the spirit that I seemed to receive from him has been with me ever since. I used to be afraid, I used to be nervous. I used to take a back seat. I admit business men usually are a little backward about coming forward, but since that day, why, it has been a pleasure to come and speak, it has been a pleasure for me to pray, it has been a pleasure for me to meet with the Saints, and I have taken more joy and satisfaction in this short month, or month and a half, than I have for many years, and it is a testimony to me that it is the work of God. My wife, God bless her, is going with me. She is not quite as old as I am, and don't look nearly as old. She is not as white-haired as I, but she has been spared for some good purpose. She has been ill, she has had serious operations, but today she seems to be in perfect health, and I can't help but believe, and she believes, that she has been spared for some good purpose. She is a noble woman. I say it sometimes in her presence, and I say it here, because I know she is over in the other building, but she is a noble being. She will make a mother to those elders, as she said last night. We had a little meeting telling us goodby, and she was asked to speak. She said: "I will be a mohber to those boys, and if they get holes in their stockings I will help them darn them," and she will; she is built that way; she is a perfect mother. 

Now I must not take up to much time, but I assure you that I feel to rejoice. I feel my weakness in being classed with these veterans who have been in the field, as Brother Bennion says, for nineteen vears, while I have been trying to accumulate dollars. He has been laying up his treasures in heaven; mine are where thieves sometimes break through and steal, but I am willing, my brethren and sisters, to spend part of that little in the service of the Lord. I feel to rejoice. I know that we are going in safety and we are going to return likewise, because we have been promised. Not only that — let me say, just to be exact, a rather peculiar incident happened. The occasion that I spoke of when President Ivins first asked me if I would go was on Friday, February 16. On Friday, March 9, President Grant called me on the phone and confirmed this call, and asked if I could go, and I said, as I told President Ivins, "Brother Grant, you know I will go. While I am weak, while I am not a preacher, I am willing to devote my time, and if God will help me and with the prayers of you good brethren, I feel that I shall succeed." That is the great satisfaction for me. No matter which one of the apostles I have met, or any of the other authorities of the Church, they have shaken me by the hand and said: "Brother Wright, I believe you are the right man in the right place; we have confidence in you." And oh, what a joy, what else on earth could give one so much joy, so much joy to know that one has the faith, the confidence, the love, the respect and esteem of these good men, and I say, God bless them. But, getting back, I have said now, there are two Fridays, Friday, February 16, Brother Ivins spoke to me; Friday, March 9, Brother Grant confirmed the call. On Friday, mind you again, we were set apart, and we sail on Friday, in a room or cabin numbered 13. You cannot tell me but what we are going in safety, and we are coming in like manner, after all that, because all these negatives must make a positive. 

It is almost time to close, and I regret it, because I have a lot more I would like to say to you. I certainly received a great testimony of the truth of the gospel when I was in the field before. I did not know the power that was within me as a servant of God. In one field that we were opening up, the power of darkness preceded us. It took possession of a weak sister, and tried to confound us, to prevent us from opening up this mission on this adjacent isle. It was in the form of a man. He talked to me through this sister. He told me his name, that he was a cannibal, that he was a bad man, that he was there with thousands with him, and they were going to prevent us from opening up that mission, he was going to prevent these people whom he called his from entering into the waters of "Mormon" to be baptized. But by the power of the holy Priesthood, by the authority of Jesus Christ, we rebuked that evil influence, that evil spirit, and we were enabled to go forth and perform the ordinances of baptism to thirty-five of them; we blessed fifteen children; we organized a branch, and we left them happy and contented, and I know it was by the power of the Priesthood of God, and I have rejoiced in that testimony ever since. 

May God bless you, my brethren and sisters. I hope you will remember us sometimes, in that far-off land, and I know that the prayers of the faithful accomplish much, and we sincerely ask for them. And I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I know and am satisfied that this is the work of God. Why, look! who could deny it, when you see its effects? You shall know a tree by its fruits. See how Zion is growing. Go into any of the branches, or the wards, see the interest that is being taken. They are crowded as never before. We are dividing our stakes and sub-dividing our wards, and yet our meetinghouses will hardly hold the Latter-day Saints because of that great awakening, the great spirit, the great desire, to serve God, which seems to have come literally upon them, and I rejoice in it, and may God bless us, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

The choir sang the anthem "Gospel Restoration," with Mrs. Mark Gardner, soloist. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder George Durham. 

Meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


