Morning 
06 04 1923

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is indeed a source of pleasure to see such a magnificent audience here this morning at the opening of our General Conference. 

DEDICATION OF THE SALT LAKE TEMPLE THIRTY YEARS AGO 

I am reminded of the fact that thirty years ago today we were dedicating the Salt Lake Temple. I am reminded of the fact that of the twenty-six General Authorities of the Church who were then alive, Presidents Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, J. Golden Kimball, Rulon S. Wells and I are the only ones now living, and that four chosen during the past thirty years, have also passed away from this life. 

TEMPLE CORNERSTONE LAID SEVENTY YEARS AGO 

My attention has also been called to the fact that seventy years ago today the corner-stones of the Salt Lake Temple were laid by the General Authorities, and that a contingent of the Nauvoo Legion was in attendance, under the direction of my father, as major-general, and marshal of the day. 

GREAT PROGRESS OF THE CHURCH 

I am grateful for the preservation of my life until the present moment, and I desire to live as long as I can be of any benefit to the Latter-day Saints. I am grateful for the very wonderful work that has been accomplished in the Salt Lake Temple, since its dedication. I am grateful for the prosperity, for the advancement spiritually, temporally, and in every other way, of the Church of Jesus Christ during this period. I am thankful for the great increase in the attendance at our General Conferences, in comparison with that of thirty years ago. It was very seldom that we had, then, more than two-thirds as many in the audience as we see here today, with the exception of Sundays, when, of course, we always had more people than this building could accommodate. 

GENERAL STATISTICAL INFORMATION 

It has been customary at the April Conference to give some statistics regarding the expenditure of the tithes of the people, our mission work, and other items; and, as a rule, during the time that I have presided over the Church, I have read those statistics at the close of my remarks; but, today I have decided to read them first and trust to the inspiration of the Lord that the latter part of my remarks may perhaps be more interesting and more inspiring than statistics. 

Following are the expenditures from the tithes of the Church for the year 1922: 

STAKE AND WARD PURPOSES: 

There has been returned from the tithes to the stakes and wards for their maintenance and operation $928,859.00 

EDUCATION: 

Expended for the maintenance and operation of Church schools. 771,490.00 

TEMPLES: 

Expended for the construction, maintenance and operation of temples 168,371.00 

CHARITIES: 

For the care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, including hospital treatment 273,657.00 

MISSIONS: 

For the maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings in the missions 615,461.00 

TOTAL: $2,757,838.00 

which has been taken from the tithes and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the stakes and wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities and for mission activities. 

OTHER CHARITIES: 

In addition to charities paid out of the tithes, (as above stated) there have also been disbursed the fast offerings and Relief Society charities, amounting to $323,638.00, which, added to the $273,657.00 paid from the tithes, makes a total of Church charities $597,295.00 

MISSIONS. 

In addition to the large sum paid out of Church funds for mission purposes, amounting to $615,460.00, we estimate that there has been sent to missionaries by their families and friends, the sum of $887,500.00. Estimating the value of the services of 1,775 missionaries at $1,000.00 per year each, viz $1,775,000, makes a total expenditure for the missionary work of the Church for the year 1922 $3,277,960.00 

STATISTICAL REPORT COMPILED FROM THE RECORDS OF THE YEAR 1922 

Church Growth: 

Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in the stakes and missions 19,703 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions 14,440 

Converts baptized and entered on the records of the stakes and missions 6,376 

There were at the close of the year 87 stakes of Zion, 883 wards, 61 independent branches connected with the stakes, 24 missions and 733 branches in the missions. Since the first of the year the Los Angeles stake has been organized, making 88 stakes today. 

Social Statistics 

Birth rate — 36 per thousand. 

Marriage rate — 14 per thousand. 

Death rate — 8.3 per thousand. 

There are 155,606 persons in the Church who are married; of this number, there were 243 persons divorced in the year 1922. 

Families owning their own homes — 75 per cent. 

Missionary Activities 

Missionaries laboring in the stakes of Zion 2,552 

Number on foreign missions 1,775 

Total number performing special missionary labors at home and abroad 4,327 

Books of Mormon and other Church books distributed in stakes and missions 286,702 

Gospel tracts distributed in stakes and missions 6,601,132 

Gospel meetings held in stakes and missions 153,437 

Temple Work 

There were 43,207 persons recommended to the temples during the year 1922. 

Ordinances for the living and dead performed in the temples in  year 1922 768,546 

Educational Statistics 

Attending colleges and universities 3,845 

Enrolled in high schools 27,230 

Enrolled in district schools 100,513 

Total attending schools 131,588 

Nearly every child of school age is attending school, except 480 physically unable to attend, and 2,497 who, in consequence of distance from school, and other conditions, are not attending. There are only 535 adult persons in the stakes who cannot read the English language. 

Occupations 

There are 113,000 Latter-day Saints employed in all kinds and varieties of occupations. Of this number 86,780 are employed in productive occupations. "Productive occupations" means those that the Government classes as productive. 

CLEAN UP TOWNS AND VILLAGES 

It is expected there will be a great increase in the tourist travel through the state from this time on, particularly through the southern part of the state, where the government and the railroads are spending large sums of money to induce tourists to visit Zion National Park, Bryce Canyon, Cedar Breaks, and the Grand Canyon of the Colorado. In view of this, our people should take pride in cleaning up and grading their streets, fixing their fences, planting trees, and in every way making their towns and villages more attractive. 

TEMPLES AND MEETING HOUSES 

The Alberta Temple is practically completed. Its furnishing and equipment is in process. It will be ready for dedication by August 1, 1923. 

The building of the Arizona Temple is under way. It is expected that it will be completed within two years. 

Extensive alterations and improvements will be carried out this year in the Salt Lake Temple, to provide facilities for the large number who visit the temple. Comparative report of total ordinances performed in the Salt Lake Temple: 1918, 158,887; 1919, 189,593; 1920, 212,514; 1921, 300,474; 1922, 413,478, an increase of nearly three hundred per cent since 1918, — a most remarkable and wonderful record. And our other temples, with the exception of St. George, where the population has decreased, have also had remarkable and splendid increases. 

A splendid new meetinghouse has been erected in Honolulu and will be dedicated in the very near future. 

A mission home is in process of erection in Atlanta, Georgia, for the accommodation of the president and office staff of the Southern States mission, the only mission of the United States that has not been furnished with suitable quarters for its president. Quite a number of chapels, some large and beautiful, are being erected in most of the missions of the United States. 

THE PRIMARY CONVALESCENT HOME 

The Primary Home is taking care of from twenty-five to thirty children, who need expert surgical and nursing treatment. The Church has expended considerable means in preparing and equipping this home for these little children. Since then it has been very largely supported by the gifts of the Primary children and other benevolent persons. The Rotary Club of Salt Lake City has just donated $1,000 to this childern's home. 

TRAINING OF THE AARONIC PRIESTHOOD 

A commendable work is being done in all the wards and stakes in the development and training of the Aaronic Priesthood and this good work should be continued. 

TITHES RETURNED TO THE STAKES 

I should like to call attention to the fact that the amount of tithes returned to the stakes, and the total amount of charity, including that of the relief society and the Fast day donations, amounts to over $3,300,000. Considering the limited membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to my mind this is a marvelous and wonderful showing of the liberality of the people, and of their willingness to contribute for the support and erection of meetinghouses, the support and erection of schoolhuses, and for educational, charitable and church purposes generally. 

REMARKABLE INCREASE IN TEMPLE WORK 

I am particularly pleased with the very remarkable increase in the labor being performed in our temples. There is no work in which the Latter-day Saints are engaged which brings greater peace and joy to the human heart than laboring in the temples for the salvation of our dead. This vicarious labor is one of the greatest that Latter-day Saints can be engaged in. It is one that brings greater satisfaction and joy than almost any other in the world, and it is one in which the Latter-day Saints have always taken great pride and great interest. I believe there is no money expended by the Church or by the individual members that has brought more comfort and happiness to the people than that expended for the erection of temples and for the labor performed therein. 

I am pleased to hear that the temple erected in the Hawaiian Islands is doing a great deal by way of advertising the Latter-day Saints and causing a great many influential people, — tourists visiting those wonderful islands, — to take an interest in the literature of the Latter-day Saints. I hear nothing but good reports from that temple; and I also hear very wonderful and splendid reports concerning the spirit of good-will that comes through such visits to the temple that is not yet dedicated in Canada. I believe Brother Wood, the president of the Alberta stake, might be willing to put off the dedication another year, on account of the great good that he thinks would be accomplished by admitting strangers into our temple before it is dedicated. But, we have erected that temple, of course, for temple ordinances, and when it is ready for dedication, we will dedicate it that it may be utilized for the purposes expected of us by the Lord. 

THE BEET INDUSTRY AND THE CHURCH 

A year ago, in this stand, at the opening of the Conference, I devoted nearly the entire time in my address, to the beet industry. I urged upon our people, during that conference, the planting of sugar beets, and announced that I believed it would be greatly to their advantage if they would do so. This was my opinion then. I am pleased to say that during the past year the industry has been very successful, and that today it is in a very much better financial condition than it was a year ago. Two years ago this coming October the Church went in debt for the first time in many years; the Trustee-in-Trust borrowed in New York and Chicago in the neighborhood of two millions of dollars, to help the sugar industry. It went against the grain, to run the Church in debt, but it was the unanimous opinion of the Presidency and Apostles that it was a wise thing to foster this industry, by borrowing the money necessary to protect and safeguard it. I am very pleased to announce to the Latter-day Saints that all of those obligations of the Trustee-in-Trust, incurred for the support of the sugar industry, have been paid, and once more the Church has no direct floating indebtedness, barring one little note of $10,000, that we did not get a chance to take up. 

PEOPLE ADVISED TO STAY ON THE FARM 

I believe it will be to the interests of the farmers to raise sugar beets during the coming year. I believe that the sugar industry, in our community, is one of the greatest beneficial industries that has ever been established. I feel that President Wilford Woodruff was inspired of the Lord to call upon the people to invest their means in that great enterprise; although some of the brightest of our business men had no faith in the final outcome. President Woodruff felt that the inspiration of the Lord pointed to the establishment of that industry, so as to have an increase of the products of the soil. It has always fallen to the lot of the Latter-day Saints to be engaged in tilling the soil. From the days of President Brigham Young until the present time, the leaders of this people have always advised the Latter-day Saints, as far as possible, to be engaged in tilling the soil, and in manufacturing, and in other productive enterprises. Brigham Young preached that the Saints perhaps could go to California and get sudden wealth and come back with gold, but said it would do them very little good, while if they stayed on their farms and engaged in cultivating the soil, making homes and in rearing their famlies, they would gain eternal riches. I believe firmly that the very best place in all the world to rear Latter-day Saints is on the farm, and that about the poorest place to rear Latter-day Saints is in the biggest city in which you can locate them. There seems to be strength, physical, moral and religious, which comes to those engaged in cultivating the soil which, on an average, is far superior to that of any other occupation I know anything about. 

At the present time there is quite a feeling that it is not worth while to stay on the farm, that the thing to do is to sell the farm, or if it is mortgaged for a large amount, to say: "Well, we will let the man who owns the mortgage cultivate it. It does not pay us to cultivate it." This is wrong. I believe that with the blessings of the Lord and with economy and the raising of products from the ground, and utilizing those products to feed cattle, sheep and hogs, and to increase your income by producing butter, eggs, cheese and in other ways, that the farms can be made profitably productive. I remember that when I was in the far-off land of Japan, I ate butter from Scandinavia, and I know that while I was in England the great majority of the time I ate butter from Scandinavia. If butter can be shipped all the way from Scandinavia to Japan, I believe that butter can be raised and shipped at a profit out of this inter-mountain country. There are no finer farms to be found anywhere than can be found in this inter-mountain country. It is the best dairy country. There is no stronger, more substantial and splendid soil that will produce year after year if it is only treated right, than that of this intermountain country. 

THRIFT, ECONOMY AND HARD TIMES 

We talk about hard times. I wish to say that I have read more than once the wise sayings of Benjamin Franklin, on thrift and economy, and his reference to the people's complaint against the tax burdens laid upon them. He says that the luxuries in which the people indulge and the wasteful expenditure of their money is a far greater burden, many times over, than the taxes and the public burdens the people have to meet. Today, the great majority of all the money put into automobiles is for pleasure. In the state of Utah we have about 50,000 automobiles. I think we have a few more than that. 1 do not believe the depreciation, wear and tear, the oil, gasoline, and the tires, will cost less than $50.00 a month per car on an average; 50,000 cars at fifty dollars each a month is $2,500,000; multiplied by twelve, is $30,000,000 a year, principally an unnecessary expense. I believe that this figure could be cut squarely in two, if the people made up their minds to do it. I believe that nearly all of the hardships of a majority of the people would disappear if they were willing to forego the habit of wearing silk stockings, so to speak, and get back to the ordinary manner of dressing in a rather quiet, unassuming way; stay away from about nine-tenths of the picture shows that they attend; return to the ways of thrift and economy that I have heard preached from this stand from the days of President Brigham Young until today. 

I believe that the burdens that are upon the Latter-day Saints would be very light indeed had the people listened to the advice of our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith, to get out of debt, when everything was booming, when they could sell all of their sheep and their cattle and nearly everything they had for about two or three times its cost instead of running, as they did, further in debt, increasing their mortgages on homes and live-stock, believing that every dollar they could borrow meant increased wealth to them. President Joseph F. Smith's warning sank into my heart. If I have had one opportunity, being in debt, to go in deeper, I have had scores offered to me, but I remembered the teaching of President Smith and I went to work that day to get out of debt and not to speculate one single solitary dollar until I did get out of debt; and, with the exception of some small loans on my life insurance policies, — I have saved by investing in a building society every month enough to pay these loans — I do not today personally owe a dollar. If I had not listened to and taken the inspired advice of Pres. Smith, I think I should be everlastingly "busted," because of the very many good things that have been offered to me since for financial investments. Pres. Smith's inspired words found echo in my heart, and I went on from then until his death, singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet to guide us," instead of adding, "providing he does not guide us to keep out of debt," as a good many people should be singing today. 

AN APPEAL TO SUPPORT HOME INDUSTRY 

Brethren and sisters, support our home manufactured goods of all kinds and all descriptions. At a recent conference, I pleaded with the people to do this, and told story after story about home-made goods, and announced that I was going to have a Provo suit of clothes. I got that suit and have been wearing it every since, but it is a little old now, and so I thought I would put on my black suit again this morning. Let us support our home industries. Let us stay on the farm. Let us remember that our fathers sacrificed and came here for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I want again to assure you that the best place in the world to rear Latter-day Saints is on the soil. I know of people who have sold their farms, gone to California or some other place to work, and spent all their farms brought them. Now they are wishing they had enough to get back to Utah. 

"O say what is Truth? 'Tis the fairest gem 

That the riches of worlds can produce; 

And priceless the value of truth will be, when 

The proud monarch's costilest diadem 

Is counted but dross and refuse." 

We have the Truth to give to the world. We have the plan of life and salvation. We have the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and if we will live our religion, the Lord God Almighty will bless us. 

"Yes, say, what is truth? 'Tis the brightest prize 

To which mortals or Gods can aspire; 

Go search in the depths where it glittering lies, 

Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies; 

'Tis an aim for the noblest desire." 

Every Latter-day Saint should have a desire, above all other things, that his life should proclaim the Truth, and that his life should be a teacher of the Truth, not only to the world, but especially to his own family. 

"The sceptre may fall from the despot's grasp, 

When with winds of stern justice he copes, 

But the pillar of truth will endure to the last, 

And its firm-rooted bulwarks outstand the rude blast 

And the wreck of the fell tyrant's hopes. 

Then, say what is truth? Tis the last and the first, 

For the limits of time it steps o'er; 

Though the heavens depart, and the earth's fountains burst, 

Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, 

Eternal, unchanged, evermore. 

I pray the Lord to bless us abundantly in this conference. We are going to have more speakers than ever before, for we are going to limit the time of the speakers including myself. I usually talk an hour in my opening address; I decided to take thirty minutes this morning and I have just about a minute left. 

We are going to depart a little from our usual custom, and call on the presidents of stakes and others to make brief addresses, not exceeding ten minutes. I earnestly pray the blessings of the Lord to attend you. Amen.

NEW MISSION PRESIDENTS AND RELEASES 

I find that I omitted reading some of the statistics I had intended to present. The following have been released as Mission Presidents: 

Elder Nephi Jensen of the Canadian mission, succeeded by Brother Joseph Quinney, Jr. 

Elder Winslow Farr Smith has been released as President of the Northern States mission, succeeded by Elder John H. Taylor. 

Elder Orson F. Whitney as President of the European mission, succeeded by Elder David O. McKay. 

Elder Carl E. Peterson as President of the Danish mission, succeeded by Elder John S. Hansen. 

Elder John P. Lillywhite of the Netherlands mission, succeeded by Elder Charles S. Hyde. 

Elder August S. Schow of the Norwegian mission, succeeded by Elder Albert R. Peterson. 

Elder Isaac P. Thunell, of the Swedish mission, succeeded by Elder Gideon N. Hulterstrom. 

We are going to release Brother Hulterstrom during the coming week and he will be succeeded by Brother Hugo D. E. Peterson. 

Elder Serge F. Ballif, President of the Swiss and German Mission, succeeded by Elder Fred Tadje. 

Elder E. Wesley Smith, President of the Hawaiian mission, succeeded by Elder Eugene J. Neff. 

Elder George S. Taylor, released as President of the New Zealand mission, to be succeeded by Elder Angus T. Wright. 

Brothers Nephi Jensen, Winslow F. Smith, Orson F. Whitney, Carl E. Peterson, John P. Lillywhite, August S. Schow, Isaac P. Thunell, Serge F. Ballif, E. Wesley Smith and George S. Taylor have all given very splendid and satisfactory service in the missions over which they have formerly presided, and they return to their homes with the love and blessings of the Presidency, and I am sure with deep satisfaction on their own parts for the privilege that they have had of laboring in spreading the gospel. I am sure that the Lord has abundantly blessed them and rewarded them with a rich outpouring of his spirit for their splendid labors. 

ELDER ABEL J. EVANS 

(Second Counselor in the Presidency of the Alpine Stake of Zion) 

My brethern and sisters: I have had many experiences of various kinds, in my life, but I think nothing to equal this. I certainly desire that the few moments I shall occupy, I may do it under the inspiration of our heavenly Father. I am sure President Chipman would have been delighted to be here to occupy a short time this morning, and I should have been proud to listen to him. We have worked together for over twenty-two years — President Clark, President Chipman and myself — and we have not yet had our first disagreement in opinions, although we do not always agree in the beginning as to just certain methods, but it is all in brotherly love and kindness and for the welfare and interest of the Latter-day Saints over whom we are called to preside. 

I rejoice this morning in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, after having spent now seventy years of my life, having been born in the Church and having gone through the various vicissitudes through which the Church has been called upon to pass, during that time. My testimony today is as bright, and my assurance as great as ever and my determination perhaps stronger than ever before, and my desire is to remain faithful to this great Latter-day work. I have had the honor, upon two occasions, to go out into the world to lift my voice in calling the children of men to repentance, and I have rejoiced exceedingly in that labor, and I have continued work at home in a small degree in this great Latter-day cause. 

I could not help but reflect when President Grant made the remark that only President Seymour B. Young and himself and two or three others are still alive of the General Authorities who were present when the Temple was dedicated. I remember that occasion very well. Oh, my heart rejoiced! I think that if ever words sank into my soul as deeply as they did upon that occasion I do not remember it. The Prophet of God told the people assembled that if they had made their wrongs right; if they had come to that dedication with clean hands and with pure hearts, having adjusted their difficulties and their troubles with the people with whom they associated, the Lord God Almighty would forgive their sins. I rejoiced exceedingly in that declaration and promise and have sought from that day to this to keep in line. I have known personally every President of the Church since the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I have loved each of them with all my heart, and President Grant no less than his predecessors. His counselors are men of God, standing for the right, seeking to promulgate the interest of this great Church that God has instituted in the day and generation in which we live, unselfishly devoting their time and their talent to the interest and the advancement of this great Latter-day work, ever looking into the details that are necessary to accomplish the greatest purposes. They have been exceedingly liberal in extending help to the various stakes of Zion in the erection of their meetinghouses and amusement halls, and blessing the missionaries by bringing them home from their fields of labor. I have rejoiced in this, and I have felt in my heart that if we Latter-day Saints would stand as faithfully by them, as they have stood by us, the Church would advance by leaps and bounds, because more means would come into their hands from the honest tithes of the Latter-day Saints, thereby giving them the opportunity to do more than they have been able to do heretofore, because we have closed our hearts, in many instances against the principle of tithing which the Lord has instituted for carrying on his work in the Church. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters; may we appreciate our condition, and be thankful that the Lord God of heaven has given us a testimony of this great and divine work, and that the Book of Mormon came through the power and gift of God in its delivery and in its translation by the Prophet Joseph Smith. I rejoice in this with all my heart, and I desire that the Lord will continue to preserve me in the truth until I shall have finished my work in this world; and I have an assurance, an abiding faith that I will meet my. father and my mother. My father gave his life in this cause, having laid it down in the mission field, and I feel that he will wear a martyr's crown. I have it in my heart to pray that I may conduct myself in such a way that I may meet him, with some degree of satisfaction upon his part. May the Lord bless us, my brethren and my sisters, from President Grant down to the last and least in the Church, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER WINSLOW FARR SMITH 

(Former President of the Northern States Mission) 

Last Sunday throughout the world was celebrated the Easter day. A prominent divine of our city, in his service, laid emphasis, I am told, on the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ and the prophets of old were mere human beings, as we are, possessed of no further aid than human aid in performing their work. In short that Christ was man — not God. As I heard this report, there came to my mind the words of Peter to the Savior, when he said to him: "Whom say ye that I am?" And Peter replied: "Thou art the Christ the Son of the Living God." It occurred to me that among the Latter-day Saints, as among no other people in the world, positive knowledge exists. While we are few in number, we are powerful and mighty in influence for good, because in the heart of every one of the members in the Church who is doing his duty, there is that positive knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that in this day and age man was chosen for a great work, and unto him was given the Priesthood of God. Through the work of this priesthood, and because of its influence, every man and every woman, yea, every boy and every girl in the Church, who is doing his part, should the question be put to him: "Whom say ye that Jesus Christ is?" can answer, "He is the Christ, the Son of the Living God." I rejoice in the blessing that has been mine to labor in the mission field, to become intimately and closely associated with between four hundred and five hundred young men and young women of Zion, boys and girls in many instances, who have accepted the call and gone into the field and done the best they could to carry on the great work that is entrusted to us as a people. I have marveled at their wonderful growth. In many instances they have come into the field ignorant of the ways of the world, ignorant of the basic principles of the gospel, unschooled in the learning of the world; yet possessing a faith and a determination that they would put the best they had into that which they were called to do. This faith has spurred them on, and through application, through diligence, through humility, through prayer, they have come to know beyond the shadow of a doubt that the gospel is true. 

I am reminded that on one occasion a young man who had been in the field a number of months stood before the group of missionaries in one of our little council meetings and said: "Would that I could say as you brethren have said, that I know that the gospel is true. I believe it is true, I accept it, and I am glad to be here doing what I can for its furtherance, I have the means and I want the privilege of staying in the field and working until I can say, as these brethren have said, that I know the gospel is true. Not many months after that, in one of our council meetings, this same young man stood up and bore a most fervent testimony. He declared that he knew that it was true, and there was real, genuine, sincere conviction in the ring of his voice, and he proved with his works, his diligent application, with his untiring efforts to do all that was asked of him, that it was true; and when the time came for his release he said to me: "Would to God that I could spend my life in the wonderful influence of this mission." 

Brothers and sisters, we can all have that spirit if we will; we can all know beyond the shadow of a doubt, if we will. There is a positive rule, laid down by the Lord Jesus Christ, recorded by John, couched in these words: "If any man will do his will, he shall know the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." If we will do his will, this promise of the Lord unto us will be kept; and in this age of skepticism, when doubt fills the earth, when men in high positions, many of them professed teachers of religion, express doubt as to the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ, this people, under the guidance of the Priesthood of Almighty God, will be immune to such influences, yea, they will be a testimony to the world that they know that God lives. I am grateful that we live in this day. I thank God for the vicissitudes that have come to this people, for through them has been born faith, sterling faith, genuine faith in God and his promises; and if we remain true, our testimonies will grow. We will be loyal to our bishops, loyal to our stake officers, and we will recognize our president and his associates, the men at the head of this Church, as men of God. Their counsel and their advice we will heed. I pray that we may have the strength to do this, and that we do all we can to support our boys and our girls in the mission fields. They know the troubles at home; they know the perils through which we are passing as a people; but they need our encouragement. Let the discouragements in the home and the hardships be kept from them. Send them happiness and encouragement to the utmost, that they may have the fire of the spirit of the gospel in their hearts, and that the testimonies that are growing and being built up in their lives may be strengthened. I thank God for the boys and girls, and for our missionary system. May we, to a man, be back of it, giving them the best that we have, doing the will of the Father, keeping his commandments, and then we can say undoubtingly, unflinchingly, unhesitatingly, when the question comes to us, that we know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was indeed his Prophet, raised up for this great work, and that the Priesthood of God conferred upon him has come down through a noble succession of leaders and today the man who stands at our head is there because God wants him there, and he is deserving of our support. May the Lord give us this strength, this faith, and this testimony, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER ROY A. WELKER 

(Second Counselor in the Presidency of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion) 

I think, my brethren and sisters, that this is one of the most wonderful institutions in all the world. I have been impressed, ever since I was a boy, with the fact that the majority of the people of the world have been followers of leaders. I have been impressed, as a young student, with the life and influence of the great Confucius, Socrates, Plato and many of the modern wonderful scholars. I always had a longing desire to understand their marvelous principles and methods and systems of thought. I wanted to be on the inside, so to speak, of all that they knew, and all that they did, and strove to find out their ways. Quite early in life a call to a mission came to me. I saw an opportunity in that to gain experience. I struggled for a testimony. It came; and then the dream that I had of a student's life was very much upset. I was impressed with the character of Joseph Smith, of Brigham Young, and of the other presidents and leaders of this Church. But I immediately noticed a wonderful difference between them and the so-called scholars of the world. It soon dawned upon me that there was a vast difference between them and the other men of the world. The first class had been led and directed, apparently, by their own powers. They had taken credit unto themselves for that which they had unfolded for their followers. I noticed in the life of President Joseph Smith, our Prophet, God's inspired servant in the world, a disposition not to take credit unto himself, but to give credit to that God with whom he said he had conversed — not that indescribable God that so much puzzles the world today. So I began to give my allegiance to him as a leader, and to try to follow the teachings that he had given to the world through revelation from God. My testimony soon grew, and was strengthened, and I learned that we, in this world, my brethren and sisters, are children, not of the men of the earth, but that we are children of God. All that I have, all that I ever hope to be, I trust will be given as service to this great cause of the Latter-day work which I know is the work of God, not that invisible, incomprehensible God, such as is taught in the world, but he who was revealed to Joseph Smith in person, who has been revealed to many of our leaders, and whom we know by testimony, as we have known, if our hearts have been attuned to it. 

It was my good privilege while upon my mission to Germany to have President Grant visit us, and also my pleasurable task to translate some of his sermons into the German language. I know with what power and authority he spoke, and how the people were convinced that he was indeed a servant of the living God, and my testimony was wonderfully strengthened upon those occasions. I came to know, not by reason, not by logic, not by the philosophies of man, that President Grant was a servant of God, but by that spirit and that testimony which surpasses all that method of arrival at knowledge. I am happy to be numbered with the Saints of God, to claim as such men President Grant and his counselors, the quorum of the Twelve Apostles and all the other constituted authorities of the Church as our right leaders, inspired and appointed by God in those wonderful positions. 

May the work of our Father progress, may we be inspired with the thought and the knowledge constantly that amongst the Latter-day Saints is the power of God, the only authority to speak in the name of God in the earth. The Priesthood of the Almighty is here in our midst, although others may claim it; yet they cannot be true, for the Lord said, when he visited Joesph Smith: "They are all wrong." We have no quarrel with our brethren of the world, but we do differ with them in their opinons as to authority. They can never come to a proper knowledge of God except through the channels of the Priesthood or the authority of his servants whom he has appointed. 

May the Spirit of the Lord be upon this conference during its various sessions. May those who preside have a rich outpouring of God's Spirit with them. May we all know, even those who perhaps are not of our faith, down deep in their hearts, that the prophets of God live, and that they are here in our midst. May our testimonies grow and increase. May we follow the instructions that are given, for in them is safety. May we through our faithful lives, in the end, be saved in God's kingdom, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen.

ELDER PETER M. HANSON 

(President of the Bear River Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters: It is with a spirit of humility that I stand before you here this morning, in the opening session of our general conference. I feel very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity I have of being a member in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am fully in harmony with the remarks of our President this morning. I have witnessed the humiliation of some of our brethren who are not able to meet their obligations, that they have contracted, while we had "flush" times. I am sure, my brethren and sisters, if we had heeded, as our President said this morning, the counsel that we received from the Prophet Joseph F. Smith, here, a number of years ago, and which has been spoken in our conferences from time to time, that we would have been much better off financially as a people. I have tried, my brethren and sisters, to obey this counsel, and today I do not owe a man a dollar, and I am mighty thankful for this. 

I am reminded now that I left my native land fifty-two years ago, as a boy then sixteen years of age. I did not have a dollar. I interceded with an uncle of mine who paid my immigration to this land, and when I landed in Ogden I was one hundred and ten dollars in debt. It took me two years to liquidate that debt — two years of hard labor, after I came here. But that was the first thing I did after I arrived here in Utah. My relatives in the old country rather spurned me when I joined this unpopular Church. They thought, of course, that I did wrong. But when I think of it, my brethren and sisters, and of the blessings I have enjoyed since I came to this land, arriving here as I did with not a penny; and today, though I have many wealthy relatives in the old country, today perhaps I could buy out some of them. That is the condition; that is a part of the blessings, my brethren and sisters, that have come to me through obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I feel this morning, as the brethren have said, to give my time and my talents, and all that I have to this great cause for I owe it all to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord will inspire us, that we may do right, keep his commandments, live according to the light that we have received, and be in harmony with his servants who preside over us. I feel that we are greatly blessed when the general authorities come into our stake of Zion. We have been favored always in this respect at our quarterly conferences, with a visit from the general authorities of the Church, which we appreciate, brethren and sisters. I feel that I am in harmony with the servants of the Lord, who preside over us, and I pray that the Lord may bless us, that we may labor in love and in harmony and enjoy the blessings that we receive through the gospel, which is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JOSEPH F. McGREGOR 

(President of the Beaver Stake of Zion) 

I am reminded of a story of an Irishman who went into a drugstore to get some medicine. He asked the price. The druggist told him that it was so much for the medicine, and so much for the bottle and the label. He hesitated: "Well," he said, "hurry up and put a price on the cork, and let us know the worst." I am very thankful that Beaver comes toward the beginning of the alphabet so that the worst will soon be over. 

I was grateful, in listening to the remarks of President Grant this morning, that I was a Latter-day Saint, that my spirit had been held in reserve until this latter day, when I had been permitted to come upon the earth, when the gospel has been restored, and to think that I am affiliated with a people who enjoy so many blessings. We have been told that the death rate among the Latter-day Saints is eight and three-tenths per thousand. I believe that the death rate in the United States is nearly double that. As I recall, it was nearly double that last year; and educated people are sitting up and taking notice. They think there must be some cause for this condition. We have a very high birth rate. I did not quite understand this morning whether it was thirty-six per thousand; I believe that is what it was. How much higher it is than the average in the United States. I think it was twenty-two or twenty-three last year. Our birth rate is far ahead of that of the rest of the United States, and our death rate is far below. We know why this is. Through obedience to the law and ordinances of the gospel, the Lord is blessing his people, and he will continue to bless us. The way of the transgressor is hard, but we always receive blessings both in this life and in the life to come, by obedience to the laws and ordinances that He has laid down for the governing of his children. 

I was thinking this morning how this country had been changed since the advent of the Latter-day Saints, and I was thankful in my heart that, when the Pioneers were met at Green River by Samuel Brannan and he tried to get them to go on to California, they refused to go, that they settled in this forsaken country. It was a forsaken country, and forbidding at that time; but the Lord knew what he was doing, and his servants were susceptible to the promptings and influence of his Spirit, and they knew what to do. President Brigham Young told them, when they were anxious to go to California, that if they would remain here, the Lord would temper the climate, and he has done so. One of our elderly brothers, Brother White of Beaver, was telling me yesterday, as we were riding up, about the conditions that obtained in that town in the early days. In the first place, they thought it was so cold that they could only dairy a little, but President Young told them that if they would plant the hardier grains, wheat, oats, and grains of that kind, these would grow. They did so. They made a dam in the Beaver river and turned all the water upon thirty acres; but they continued, and now they are watering with the Beaver river and its tributaries thirty-nine thousand acres, and they could water a great deal more if it were economically used. They are now raising plenty of fruit, apples, pears and fruits of that kind, and we have been told just recently by Mr. Peet, a man working for the railroad company, that it is the best place in the world, that he knows of, to raise celery. We are expecting to get some Hollanders in to show us how, this spring. We hope to raise other things besides those that we are raising at the present time. 

I know that the Lord has blessed his people here in the valleys of the mountains, and what is said of Beaver could be said, practically, of most all the towns in our fair state. The Lord is overruling affairs for our good, as he has done from the beginning. I have often when a small boy, heard it stated that ship captains wanted our people on board. It was a well-known fact that the vessels did not go down when "Mormon" immigrants were on board, and they were out bidding for those immigrants to go in their vessels. I recall hearing Brother Brimhall tell a story, during the world war, as I remember it, that a ship had been torpedoed. They were getting the women and the children off on the life boats. Four "Mormon" boys stood by the railing looking over, and the captain came up to them and told them, "You go on this boat, and you on the other." And he assigned the four boys to as many different life boats. Someone spoke up to the captain and said: "Don't you know that these boys are 'Mormons'?" "Yes," he said: "I know it, and that is the reason I am assigning them to those life boats, because 'Mormons' don't sink." Brother Brimhall said he did not want to tell that story until he knew absolutely that it was true. He wrote and got the information, and then he felt free in telling it. 

I know that the Lord watches over his people. I recall hearing my father tell when he was returning from a mission to Europe that a number of our elders were on their way home. They were very anxious, as the elders usually are, to get home, but when they came to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, they went to get their lunch baskets replenished. You know "Mormon" elders do not patronize the diner, as a rule, because they haven't money enough. When they returned to the depot the train was just pulling out, and they missed it. They were very much disappointed, so anxious were they to get home, and they had missed their train. But there was nothing for them to do but to wait for the next train, which they did. As they came along a few miles out there was depression and a swale, and the train that they had been traveling on, and on which they should have continued, had collided, head on with another train, and the cars were piled up thirty feet high on either side of the track. It was no accident that they missed the train. The Lord had an overruling providence. 

So many instances could be told. I am reminded now of the conditions that obtained in Galveston when our elders were there at that great catastrophe, the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds, sweeping over the city, destroying so many hundreds of people there, and so much property. Our elders were housed in a small two-story frame building that was left intact in that part of the city — a wonderful manifesation of the overruling providence of our heavenly Father; and in the California disaster, in San Francisco, not one of them was hurt. We have been told that few have been injured in traveling to and from missions, and no vessels have gone down carrying brethren bound for Zion. We know how in the Zion's camp movement, when they were going up there, they were so anxious to reach Clay county, and President Woodruff has told us in his journal that they had so many difficulties to contend with. Wagon wheels ran off, wagon tongues were broken, and there was this, that and the other to delay them, so that they were compelled to pitch their tents between Big and Little fishing rivers. Soon after they had made their camp, five men rode in and told them that they would see hell before morning, and just then a little cloud began to unroll. It looked about as big, Brother Woodruff said, as a man's hand: it began to unroll, and in a few minutes the whole sky was inky black. A terrible storm came up. As the Prophet came into the schoolhouse, where they were for shelter, and shook the rain from his hat and coat, he said: "God is in this storm," and the enemy told them, afterwards, that in forty minutes Little Fishing River rose forty feet. You will all remember how the efforts of the enemy were thwarted. There were those in Ray and in Clay counties and in Jackson county who were uniting together to exterminate this little band of "Mormons," but the Lord intervened, and their plans were not permitted to mature. The next day Colonel Sconce, with some of his associates, came into the camp and he wanted to see and talk with the people, a people whom God had defended and whose battles he had fought. After talking with the Prophet and listening to a history of the people and their sufferings, tears came into their eyes, and they promised to go back and do all that they could in order to allay the prejudice which existed against the "Mormon" people, which, be it said to their credit, they did. 

I believe my ten minutes are up. I pray the Lord to bless us, my brethren and sisters, with his Spirit, that we may be fed the bread of life, in this conference, and go forth better prepared to perform our duties in this Church, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JAMES W. FUNK 

(President of the Benson Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters, it is because I have made it a rule and practice of my life to respond to the calls that have been made of me that I stand before you this morning, for I assure you that I feel very weak and incapable, in a measure, of filling this position except that it be to comply with the call that has been made of me. I rejoice in the spirit of this conference. I had not felt, I believe, before, as I have felt this morning, that there is safety in following counsel. I had not realized to the same extent that I do now, the closeness of temporal and spiritual things in the welfare and well-being of the people of the Church. It has been said by some that the "Mormon" people lay too much stress upon the temporal things of life, that they are not spiritual enough in their teachings; but, as the President said this morning, we know the consequences that have come to those who have disregarded the counsels of President Joseph F. Smith in the matter of getting out of debt, and keeping out of debt. Because of their failure to comply, disaster has come to them, and they now find it necessary, in many cases, to abandon their property and to leave for new fields, to take their families into new environments and into environments which may be detrimental to their spiritual growth and advancement, that may be conducive to drawing them away from the Church and its teachings. The President did not say so, and I do not say it, but I wondered if this is not just as good a time to put into effect today that counsel which was given several years ago, as it was then. No prophecy has been made, I think, from this stand to the effect that we are standing today in perilous times financially. No one has predicted that this wave of temporary prosperity shall continue — perhaps I should not say "temporary," because I hope it is not temporary, but the signs of the times would indicate, I think, that we are at least in a state of uncertainty, and while the financial clouds are lifting today, as they have been for several months — I have failed to find anyone who is keeping abreast of the times financially, to predict safety beyond the next few months, and there is always the proviso that for the next two or three, and some will say as far as six, months, there is apparent safety in matters of finance, but beyond that, no prediction is made. It occurs to me, brethren and sisters, that today is just as good a time to keep out of debt, to strive to get out of debt, those of us who are in debt, as was the day when President Joseph F. Smith counseled it, and when other leaders of the Church have counseled it, because, as I recall, they have always given advice of that kind. It occurs to me, too, that one of the first duties that we owe, and we should not forget it, is the duty that we owe to the Lord: Pay your tithing, brethren and sisters, in the time and the season thereof, and that does not mean, to us who live in agricultural sections of the country, to pay our tithing in December, but it means to pay it every month of the year, as means come into our hands; and then at the end of the year we will not be owing the Lord tithing that we should have been paying at the beginning of the year and throughout the months thereof. 

There is safety in counsel. It has been evidenced on every hand. That brother and that sister who follow the counsel of those who are placed in authority to lead us and guide us, will not go far wrong, but will be found in every crisis safe, standing not only safe as to themselves, but in a position to help and to assist those with whom they come in contact. I have a sincere testimony in the divinity of this work. I know that it is the work of God; I know that those who are in charge of the work at this present time are holding their positions because of their call from the Lord. They are answering the call that has come to them, and from my personal contact with these men, as it is my privilege, my very highly esteemed privilege, brethren and sisters, to come in contact with them occasionally, I testify to you who are not so favorably situated as to come in personal and intimate contact with them, that they are men of God, sincere in their desires to lead the people in the way that God would have them to go, sincere in their teachings and in their living, with hearts full of prayer for the welfare of the people of this dispensation, and I am sure that God is inspiring them, leading them, that they may in turn inspire and lead us. May God bless the Latter-day Saints and help us at all times to do his will, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

(President of the Southern States Mission) 

Brethren and sisters, it is a good thing to live in the present. The Apostle Paul said: "But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press towards the mark, for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus." There was a people in days of old who garnished the tombs of the dead prophets but who persecuted, stoned and put to death the living prophets. I believe that if a man is in opposition to the President of the Church today, such a man would have been found in opposition to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I also believe that if there is a disloyal American in this country today he would have been disloyal had he lived in the days of George Washington. 

In a conversation with a prominent minister, two or three years ago — he was a fine gentleman I believe, a good man — we discussed the great World War, and I said to him: "Do you not think that this great World War foreshadows some great event, such as the glorious second coming of the Son of God, to judge the people and to inaugurate the blessed millennium?" 

The minister replied: "I think so now; but if a man had told us, eight years ago, that this World War would have fallen upon the world with all its horror, we would have laughed him to scorn and then crucified him." 

I said: "Doctor, men did crucify such a man. Joseph Smith, the Prophet of God, foretold the great Civil War; he likewise predicted by the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost, that the World War would come to vex the nations. He died a martyr for the testimony of Jesus Christ." 

The mission of this Church is to preach the gospel, to cry repentance unto a crooked and perverse generation, and in this dispensation the Almighty has declared that the whole world is ripening in iniquity, and it must needs be that the children of men be stirred up unto repentance. We have proved that God was as he always has been, as he always will be, right, for he knows what is in man. He said: "That by reason of transgression cometh the fall; which fall bringeth death; and inasmuch as we were born into the world by water, and blood and the spirit which I have made and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the kingdom of heaven, of water and of the Spirit and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten Son, that ye may be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory. For by water ye keep the commandment; by the Spirit ye are justified, and by the blood ye are sanctified. * * * This is the plan of salvation, unto all men, * * * and thus may all become my sons." The Apostle John said that every man that hath this hope in him, purifieth himself even as he, God, is pure. What hope? He tells us: "Beloved, now are we, the sons of God." In this glorious hope we do purify ourselves. But the pernicious, the groveling, theory which teaches, or seeks to teach that we came from a lower order of creation, that we came from low decree, does not purify. But the gospel of Jesus Christ does purify us, for through it we know that we are the sons of God, that our heavenly Father is the Father of our spirits. 

I bear my humble testimony that the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation, "I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ," said Paul, "for it is the power of God unto salvation." Brethren and sisters, the Latter-day Saints are not only not ashamed of the gospel, but are not ashamed of its author, even Jesus Christ, for we testify that he is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, the Savior of mankind, the author of eternal salvation; and in this hope we will abide and progress to eternal life. This testimony is the strength of this Church, and may we ever abide in it is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT

While Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were engaged in translating the Scriptures, they said: 

"And while we meditated upon these things," [the things they refer to were in regard to the resurrection] "The Lord touched the eyes of our understandings and they were opened, and the glory of the Lord shone round about, 

"And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the right hand of the Father, and received of his fulness; 

"And saw the holy angels, and them who are sanctified before his throne, worshiping God and the Lamb, who worship him forever and ever. 

"And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Regotten of the Father — 

"That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

Thank the Lord that Joseph Smith saw and conversed with the Redeemer, that the Redeemer of the world was introduced to him by God our Father. Thank the Lord that somebody else, in addition to Joseph Smith, has left us his testimony that Jesus is the Son of God, and that the voice from heaven bore record. Thank the Lord for the gospel. 

"And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us — 

"That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness; 

"That through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him." 

These passages came to my mind as I was listening to the remarks of Brother Winslow Farr Smith. I want to read just a few words for the benefit of all Latter-day Saints, from the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same. 

"For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever." 

The choir and congregation sang, "High on the mountain top." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Lewis R. Anderson, president of the Manti Temple and former president of the South Sanpete stake. 

The Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 



