Morning 
08 04 1923

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

I sincerely desire, my brethren and sisters, that during the few moments which I may occupy this morning, the exercise of your faith in my behalf may enable me, through the blessings of the Lord upon whom I depend, to present properly the thought which I have in my mind at this time. I shall read first from the twelfth chapter of St. Mark, beginning at the thirteenth verse: 

MEANING OF CHRIST'S ANSWER TO THE PHARISEES 

"And they sent unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, to catch him in his words. 

"And when they were come, they said unto him, Master, we know that thou art true, and carest for no man: for thou regardest not the person of men, but teachest the way of God in truth: Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not? 

"Shall we give or shall we not give? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye me? bring me a penny, that I may see it. 

"And they brought it. And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? And they said unto him, Caesar's. 

"And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's." 

In looking for a text upon which to base the brief remarks which I expect to make, I thought of these words of the Redeemer of the world. They are simple words and to the superficial observer have little import except to impress upon one the fact that inasmuch as Israel at the time was tributary to Rome, it was necessary to recognize her sovereignty, and render submission to the system of taxation which she might impose. A more careful analysis of this scripture, associating it with other words spoken by the Redeemer, and the example of his life give it a deeper and far more important meaning. It may be paraphrased and made to read: Render unto man that which belongs to man, and to God that which pertains to him. I wish to make it read as I desire to interpret its meaning: Render allegiance and submission to the laws of men in civil government, and to the laws of God in that which pertains to the Kingdom of Heaven. 

NATURE OF CIVIL AND RELIGIOUS LAWS 

I suppose that at a very early period of the existence of man, it was discovered that for the proper protection and development of society it was necessary to enact laws, and delegate to individuals authority to administer and enforce them. Violation of these laws subjected the transgressor to penalties, more or less severe, as the offence justified. 

The outward expression of religion is the act of worship, by which we show our faith in a supreme being, to whom we owe allegiance and service. Since the very beginning of history, in so far as it pertains to the present race of mankind, communication has existed between our Father in heaven, and his children who are here upon earth. At times direct communication may have been interrupted, but always to be reestablished, that the purposes of the Almighty might not be frustrated. 

Certain fundamental laws have been given to man, through obedience to which he may be in harmony with the will of the Father, or out of harmony, as he obeys or rejects the requirements which are made. These requirements are not enforced by compulsory means, the penalty being the loss of that which might have been gained through obedience. 

In contradistinction of this the civil law demands obedience whether we will or will not, and if we refuse, physical force is applied to enforce submission. Briefly stated obedience to civil law is compulsory, obedience to the law given by the Lord is entirely optional. For violation of the former, man is answerable to the law which he, himself, has created; for violation of the latter, man is answerable to his Maker. 

PROPER RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE CHURCH AND THE STATE 

I know of no other question which has so disturbed the peaceful relationship which should exist between neighbors, communities and nations, as has the erroneous and perverted opinions which have prevailed regarding the proper relationship which should exist between the church and the state, and the application and effect of the laws given by the Lord, and those enacted by man. 

It is plain to one who is familiar with the written, and spoken, word of the Lord, that there has not been, and is not now, justifiable cause for the misunderstanding, but notwithstanding this fact there has always been conflict. You who are familiar with the world's history know that there have been times when the state has waged unrelenting war upon the church, and you are also aware that the church has waged more relentless war, if that were possible, against those who differed from its views, or refused submission to its interpretation of the spiritual law. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF CONFLICTS BETWEEN THE CHURCH AND THE STATE 

The conflict between the church and the state has not been more vicious, or devoid of mercy, than has that which has prevailed between people who were professors of religion, and professing to follow the same Master. 

In 1487 the head of one church, notwithstanding the fact that he had assumed the name Innocent, ordered the extermination of the Waldenses, and France, in obedience to the decree, drove from their homes, to find asylum in the Alps, or killed people who were among her best citizens, because they dared differ from others in their religious views. 

The massacre of St. Bartholomew will never be forgotten, and must sometimes be atoned for. The church sent the Duke of Alva to the Netherlands with full authority to exterminate all who were not orthodox in their faith and religious practice. 

No human pen will ever write, no tongue can tell, the story of suffering and injustice which, because of difference in religious faith and practice, has been inflicted upon the Hebrew people. Driven from the Promised Land, the home of their fathers, they have been denied the right of citizenship, and refused participation in the political and business activities of the world. They have been ruthlessly slain. Jewish mothers have looked on in anguish while the tongues have been torn from the mouths of their children, their hands severed, and bodies mutilated because they refused to renounce their faith, or deny the God of their fathers. 

Whatever their mistakes may have been, however much the responsibility for their suffering may rest upon them, I know of no parallel of faith in, and devotion to, an ideal, comparable with that manifested by the Jewish people during the past 1900 years. That they have survived it, and retained their nationalism as they have is one of the miracles of the age. That the Lord will recognize their sacrifices, and, in his own time and way, restore them to their former place in his favor is certain, for he who is definite in power to accomplish has declared it. 

Religious fanaticism drove the Puritans from the old world to the new, where they hoped to be free from bigotry and persecution, and they were hardly established here when they burned innocent women who were accused of witchcraft, and drove from their communities men who differed from them in their interpretation of the scripture. 

It was because of difference of opinion regarding faith and worship that the Latter-day Saints were driven from the state of Missouri, and their possessions confiscated, to find temporary asylum in Illinois, from which state they later migrated to these mountain valleys, where they hoped to find peace and opportunity to worship the Lord in their own way. 

CONFLICT THE RESULT OF IGNORANCE OF LAW 

I have frequently, in view of recent events, asked myself this question: Have we, modern people, who live in the most enlightened and progressive period of the world's history, with the experience of the past to guide us, and knowledge of the future, as it has been outlined by the prophets who have lived before, overcome this needless, unjustifiable, erroneous conception of the proper relationship which exists, or should exist, between the church and the state? Do we properly differentiate between our obligation of obedience to civil law, in the administration of temporal affairs, and our obligation to the church, which represents divine law, given for the purpose of preparing men for future glory and exaltation in the kingdom of heaven? Where conflict exists between the two, it is clearly the result of either ignorance, or wilful misinterpretation of both civil and ecclesiastical law. 

THE LORD HAS SPOKEN PLAINLY ON SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL AFFAIRS 

With the opening of a gospel dispensation the Lord has always spoken plainly, defining the duties of those who accept his word, in regard to both spiritual and temporal affairs, and after defining our duties, and the obligation which is upon us, leaves us to accept and perform, and thus gain the future or present blessings which are predicated upon observance of the law, or reject, as we may choose. His word to us upon this important question, in the present dispensation, to which I wish to call particular attention is no exception. 

HIS WORD UPON THIS IMPORTANT QUESTION 

In the very early history of the Church the right relationship which should exist between the church and state was raised, and in order that there might be no misunderstanding in regard to this important question the following was adopted and published, and has been the recognized attitude of the Latter-day Saints since that time. I read from section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

"We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society. 

"We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. 

"We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same, and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice, should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people, if a republic, or the will of the sovereign. 

"We believe that religion is instituted of God; and that men are amenable to him, and to him only, for the exercise of it, unless their religious opinions prompt them to infringe upon the rights and liberties of others; but we do not believe that human law has a right to interfere in proscribing rules of worship to bind the consciences of men, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion; that the civil magistrate should restrain crime, but never control conscience; should punish guilt, but never suppress the freedom of the soul. * * * 

"We believe that every man should be honored in his station, rulers and magistrates as such, being placed for the protection of the innocent, and the punishment of the guilty; and that to the laws all men owe respect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror; human laws being instituted for the express purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations, between man and man; and divine laws given of heaven, prescribing rules on spiritual concerns, for faith and worship, both to be answered by man to his Maker. * * * 

"We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government, whereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members, as citizen, denied. 

"We believe that all religious societies have a right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, according to the rules and regulations of such societies; providing that such dealings be for fellowship and good standing; but we do not believe that any religious society has authority to try men on the right of property or life, to take from them this world's goods, or to put them in jeopardy of either life or limb, or inflict any physical punishment upon them. They can only excommunicate them from their society, and withdraw from them their fellowship." 

CAN A BETTER BILL OF RIGHTS BE FOUND? 

I ask you, my brethren and sisters, I ask the people of the world, where can a better bill of rights, defining the proper relationship of the Church and the State, the civil and the ecclesiastical authority, be found, than that which I have read? Can error or justifiable objection be found in it? 

The Latter-day Saints believe that the coming of Columbus to this continent was part of the divine plan by which this land, which had been held in reserve, might become a place of refuge, and asylum for the oppressed and down-trodden of all nations, that freedom of worship, and exercise of conscience, in righteousness, might be enjoyed by all people. We believe that the Lord inspired the framers of our government to give us our legislative, executive and administrative system of government, by which our laws are enacted and enforced. This system, having been given of the Lord, it is not strange that the administration of our civil affairs corresponds so nearly with the organization of the Church, and still differs so greatly in the one essential feature. 

CONTRAST BETWEEN CIVIL AND RELIGIOUS LAWS 

Our civil laws are enacted by Congress, that body being governed, in framing the law, by the Constitution of our country; by our state legislatures under authority of congress, and our precincts and municipalities under authority granted by the state legislatures. The officers who administer these laws are chosen by the voice of the people. The laws enacted by our precincts and municipalities, and the power of the lesser judges and officers who enforce them are limited in regard to both territorial jurisdiction, and power to inflict punishment. Legislative laws have jurisdiction over all of the people of the state, while congressional laws must be obeyed in all parts of the republic. 

Decisions rendered by precinct, municipal or district judges are subject to review, on appeal, and may be carried to the supreme court, whose decision is final. To each of these courts authority is given to enforce its decrees by compulsory means. We may protest, it may be contrary to our idea of right and justice, we may say that we will not submit, but it is all in vain, the civil law compels submission. It may impose heavy fines, and if we refuse to pay, take our property by force to satisfy its judgment. It may incarcerate us in prison, for life if the offense justifies, or even deprive us of life itself. 

In contrast to this, the laws which govern the Church are given us by the Lord our God. He is the author of them, he is our lawgiver. He has revealed to us the order of Church government and designated the officers who are to administer its affairs. The ward organizations, with their limited administrative powers, the stakes with their enlarged jurisdiction, and finally the presiding authorities, who have jurisdiction over all of the affairs of the Church, have all been given us by the Lord. 

WHERE CIVIL AND RELIGIOUS POWERS DIFFER ENTIRELY 

The men who administer the affairs of the Church are its priesthood, the word signifying, collectively, those who are chosen and ordained to perform sacred religious functions. The powers delegated to this body of priesthood, chosen to administer the affairs of the Church, while similar to our civil administration, differs entirely from it in the manner of administration, let me read: 

"Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

"Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

"That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

"That they may be conferred upon us, is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood or authority of that man. * * * 

"Hence many are called, but few are chosen. 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile." 

I have read from the Doctrine and Covenants of the Church, section 121. 

Again I ask you, my brethren and sisters, can any just criticism be offered to this plain declaration regarding the prerogatives and rights of the priesthood? Can anything be wrong which is accomplished by persuasion, by long suffering, gentleness, by kindness and love unfeigned? Where are we to find a definition of the authority and functions of the priesthood superior to, or even the equal of that which I have just read. If it exists my attention has never been called to it. 

THE SYSTEM OF CHURCH COURTS 

It is true that a system of Church courts has been given, and judges provided whose duty it is to watch over the Church, to hear cases where differences may exist between Church members, and to take cognizance of cases where the rules governing the conduct of members, whose acts may be un-Christian, immoral, or opposed to justice and righteousness, are concerned. 

This system begins with the teachers, who are expected to be familiar with the lives and conduct of the members of their wards, and who seek to induce, by persuasion and love, those who may have departed from the way of the Lord, to return to it. Where members refuse, or neglect to be governed by the council of the teachers, their case may be taken to the bishopric, and if they fail to reach a satisfactory adjustment may be carried to the high council, and from there appealed to the First Presidency. 

These Church courts, while corresponding closely to our civil courts, differ entirely from the latter in this respect. Whether it be the decision of a bishop's court, a high council or the First Presidency, no effort is made to enforce the decree contrary to the will of the accused. Disinterested men hear the case, there are no lawyers to interpret, or misinterpret the law, the accused has the right to appear and speak in his own behalf, and to introduce evidence, after which the decision is rendered. If the accused refuses to submit to the findings of the court, the only penalty attached is the withdrawal of the hand of fellowship, or excommunication from the Church, after which he is permitted to go his way in peace, so far as his conscience may permit peace to dwell in his soul. 

THE CIVIL LAW COMPULSORY, THE CHURCH LAW VOLUNTARY 

The purpose of this review, brief and very imperfect as it is, is to call your attention to the fact that the civil law is given for the protection and control of our temporal affairs, while the Priesthood is conferred upon us for the control and development of the Church: that the former differs from the latter in that one is compulsory, the other entirely voluntary. To the civil law all men must submit, regardless of race, creed or condition, while to the priesthood man may submit or not, as he may choose. 

When arraigned before Pilate one of the charges brought against the Redeemer was that he was guilty of sedition, in that he had declared himself to be a king. Yes he answered, but my kingdom is not of this world. It was not a menace to the kingdom of Herod, or the empire of Rome. His was the kingdom of heaven, and had nothing to do with the kingdoms of this world, except that he taught his followers to be obedient to them, but the people, failing to distinguish between the temporal and spiritual could not comprehend. 

SUMMARY AND APPLICATION 

So, my brethren and sisters, I reach this conclusion: That it is the duty of each member of the Church to honor and obey the law of the land, and sustain the men who are chosen to administer it, in so far as they do so in righteousness and justice. That the Priesthood is conferred upon us for the development and control of the Church of Christ, and that it cannot be legitimately used for any other purpose. That whenever we use it for the promotion of personal interests, to gratify personal pride, or ambition, or apply it by compulsion or restraint, we are upon dangerous ground, and not in harmony with the word of the Lord. My conception is that the exercise of the Priesthood can only be legitimately used where the purpose is to provide equal opportunity for all, in the sphere occupied by each member of the Church, and special privileges to none, except as men may have merited honor and distinction through devotion to the work of the Lord. 

Do not understand me to infer that men holding the Priesthood are not entitled to participate in all of the activities of the state, and enjoy any and all of the emoluments to which citizenship entitles them, but this participation, and the honors which may come to them should be the reward of merit; and the influence of the Priesthood, as such, should not be used to accomplish their personal desires. 

Neither do I wish to infer that the Priesthood should not be exercised in the promotion and development of the temporal interests of the people. It is a poor system of religion, indeed, which treats only with the salvation of the souls of men, while it leaves their bodies to perish. 

What a simple thing it is, and yet how vitally important. If the people of the world could only be taught obedience to this doctrine, to willingly honor and obey the law of the land in the control of civil affairs, leaving all men to answer to the Lord in matters of faith and worship, each having decent respect for rights and opinions of his neighbor, thus rendering to Caesar that which belongs to Caesar, and to God that which pertains to his Kingdom, peace would soon prevail throughout the earth, Christ's Kingdom would be established, and the will of the Lord would be done on earth, as it is done in heaven. May that day be hastened, is my humble prayer, through Jesus Christ. Amen.

The choir sang, "An angel from on high," duet by Lola Leonard and Hyrum Christensen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The following note was read by President Heber J. Grant, after explaining that Brother Smith went out to ascertain how the crowd in front of the Bureau of Information was hearing while President Ivins was speaking: 

President Ivins is being heard by about four thousand people as plainly as you are hearing him. His voice carries to the Valley House corner, but you can't catch the words. — George Albert Smith. 

I have a note from President Edward J. Wood, announcing that he was detained on account of a storm and railroad accident. For Brother Wood's benefit I will say that we started at the head of the list of stakes and have heard from about one-third of all the stake presidents, each talking ten minutes. 

We will now hear from Brother Wood for ten minutes. 

ELDER EDWARD J. WOOD 

(President of the Alberta Stake of Zion) 

I appreciate very much the privilege of being with you this morning, and am sorry I was detained Friday and Saturday. Those living in remote places more fully appreciate the privilege of meeting together with the general authorities of the Church than you who live here in the center stakes of the Church. 

I have listened with interest to the remarks of President Ivins, and have thought of reading from the Pearl of Great Price, the first chapter of the Book of Abraham: 

"And, finding there was greater happiness and peace and rest for me, I sought for the blessings of the fathers, and the right whereunto I should be ordained to administer the same; having been myself a follower of righteousness, desiring also to be one who possessed great knowledge, and to be a greater follower of righteousness, and to possess a greater knowledge, and to be a father of many nations, a prince of peace, and desiring to receive instructions, and to keep the commandments of God, I became a rightful heir, a High Priest, holding the right belonging to the fathers. 

"It was conferred upon me from the fathers; it came down from the fathers from the beginning of time, yea, even from the beginning, or before the foundations of the earth to the present time, even the right of the first-horn, or the first man, who is Adam, our first father, through the fathers, unto me. 

"I sought for mine appointments unto the Priesthood, according to the appointment of God unto the fathers concerning the seed." 

I am always impressed, in attending these general conferences — and it is very few that I have missed during the last twenty years — with the thought of how much greater power we would exert if we but fully followed the example set by Abraham, if we would think so much of our calling in the Priesthood that we would know that in it there is great happiness, peace, rest and blessings of the fathers, if we would only righteously seek for these blessings. Not only did Abraham seek for these blessings for himself, but he sought to be ordained to administer the same. If we had the faith that Abraham had, at all times, the Lord's blessings would be poured out upon us. I am sure that the general authorities of the Church, with President Grant at the head, have this same faith; but if we, throughout the various stakes of Zion, from Canada, where I live, to Mexico in the South, would seek in all righteousness the happiness, the peace, and rest and the contentment that comes from the Priesthood; and then not be satisfied with this, but seek in all humility to administer these blessings, and explain these privileges to those with whom we labor, how much greater would be the progress of the work in which we are engaged! 

I have spent many years in the islands. I have noted the extreme faith of our Polynesian Islanders. They seem at all times to seek for the right to preach the gospel, to administer in the ordinances thereof among their fellow people. I have seen the sick healed. I have noted the extreme faith, the perfect faith which became a knowledge to many of them, even before they joined the Church by baptism; how they would set the example to many of us of the fact that through faith comes knowledge. 

I remember on one occasion one of our sisters said that a certain member of the village she lived in had a very sick child. The parents did not belong to the Church, but they had heard the doctrines of the Church as preached by the elders. She asked that we come and administer to the child. The child looked like it was dead; and when I told her that it might be too late, she asked me if I had the right to administer to the sick. I told her, yes. She said: "Why do you hesitate? If you will just lay your hands on the child it will recover." We were so struck with the extreme faith — the knowledge of this good sister — that we administered to the child. 

We left the village shortly after and did not see her for several months. While on another island one afternoon, to show you how the Lord works in a marvelous way to bring to the attention of the people his doctrines, I saw a group of natives off under the trees. They were cutting cocoannts with a long knife. It was in the early days of the Church, away back in 1889. At that time we had been persecuted. I thought I was being led into a trap, when all at once I noticed the natives surrounding me. I was alone. I wondered what might take place. All at once a woman stepped out from the group of natives. She offered me her hand and spoke to me, but I did not remember her. Then she called a child, sat the child on the stump of a cocoanut tree, and bore this testimony to the people: "This child of mine is a living example of the power and mission of the Church which this man represents. I am the daughter of the head chief. I invite this missionary to come to our village." They all paid very kind respect while she preached the gospel as I had never heard any other native do. Such knowledge, such extreme faith, I marveled at. I followed her to her village. She called the village together, and we had a very pleasant evening, and it was late in the night before I retired to bed. 

In the morning I felt something on my neck, and I slapped it with my hand and I was bitten by a centipede, — a very deadly, poisonous insect there. My hand commenced to swell and the natives thought I would surely die. After a few moments, this good woman (none of them belonged to the Church) heard of my trouble and she came to me. She said: "Why, Mr. Wood, you administered to my child, administer to yourself and you will be healed." I had some consecrated oil and I administered to my hand. The people crowded around me. My hand had swollen to a terrible size and the pain was intense. This woman stood by, and when I looked at her I was filled with that feeling that comes from the love and respect of the natives one to another. The swelling commenced to go away, just as a person would take a cloth off his hand, and I was all right. She bore that testimony to the people again that she knew positively that the Lord had restored again his Church, and with it the former blessings. She then longed for the people to join, so that they could preach to other towns and other villages. 

I am pleased to bear this testimony that I am sure the faith among the Latter-day Saints, as of old, is increasing. I pray with you, that like Abraham we may seek in all diligence and all humility the right to administer these principles and these ordinances among the children of men, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I would like to ask the people who are outside of this building to quit whispering and talking to one another, for the benefit of those who would like to hear what is going on in this building. There are a great many people outside who are anxious to hear, and those who are talking and carrying on conversations are preventing them from having the privilege of doing so. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

(Presiding Patriarch of the Church) 

It is a very inspiring sight, indeed, to behold the multitude gathered here in the tabernacle, and then to see the gathering on the outside where they are listening to the voices of the speakers, through a little device which the Lord has inspired in the minds of men to teach a very simple truth; and I desire to bear testimony to that truth, and am grateful for the privilege of doing so. 

Ever since our early infancy, as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we have been taught to pray to our heavenly Father, knowing and feeling and believing that our prayers would be heard and answered. Hundreds and hundreds of our members bear testimony that the Lord has heard and answered their prayers. I, too, know that the Lord lives and that he does hear and answer our prayers. And now, through a simple little device which the Lord has inspired in the hearts of men, it is my faith and my testimony that the Lord is going to teach the world that he actually can and does hear our prayers, and hears the prayers of those who seek him in faith, for faith is a wonderful power in the world. When we are in tune with our Creator, with our Redeemer, and seek him in faith, we are wonderfully blessed, and our prayers are heard and answered; and this simple truth is going to be made so plain and so positive that no one will be left in doubt. 

I am grateful, too, that we are given our agency — another wonderful but simple truth which the Lord has made plain to us. In the lines of poetry written in our hymn book, two verses read as follows: 

"Know this, that every soul is free 

To choose his life and what he'll be; 

For this eternal truth is given, 

That God will force no man to heaven. 

"He'll call, persuade, direct aright, 

Bless him with wisdom, love and light; 

In nameless ways be good and kind, 

But never force the human mind." 

I was attending a quarterly conference of one of the stakes of Zion a few years ago, when the entire conference was characterized by testimony bearing. Both men and women, holding different stations in the stake, were called upon to bear their testimonies. At the close of the conference a good brother who had been out of the Church for over thirty years, came to the president of the stake, with tears in his eyes, and said: "President, I have stood it just as long as I can and I can stand it no longer. At your first opportunity I want to be baptized again. I have been out of this Church for thirty years. My children have grown up around me, many of them following my teachings and my example, under the influence of the spirit of apostasy. My grandchildren are being taught the principles of the gospel, and I rejoice in the fact that they, as well as some of my children, are coming back into the Church and receiving its blessings. I regret that I have been out of the Church so much of my life; and while I have nourished a grudge and hard feelings, yet I have known in my heart that this is the Church of God. Now I regret those actions. I regret the lives of my children, that they have been nourished largely in the spirit of apostasy; now, for the remaining years of my life, I want to live in the Church and change my life that it may conform, to the teachings of Christ, that I, too, with this multitude who have borne their testimonies, may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord and receive forgiveness." He was afterwards baptized. His children also, many of them, turned from their ways of apostasy and came into the Church. A glorious privilege, a blessing coming again to that household. 

I rejoice in the blessing of our agency that when we are moved by the spirit of truth, and our testimonies are so enlarged within us that we are directed along the lines of conduct and action which bring us in keeping and in touch with many glorious privileges and blessings. 

I rejoice in my membership and association with this multitude of men bearing the holy Priesthood. No place else in all the world can you go and see a sight such as I behold this moment — the faces of men bearing the holy Priesthood gathered together in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, all with an undoubting testimony that the Lord lives and that this is his work. 

I rejoice in this wonderful privilege and being numbered with you in this glorious work. I would to God that all could understand the simple truths that we secure through the testimony of the Spirit, for it burns within our hearts, and makes known to us the truth. Let me admonish you, my brethren and sisters, to cherish that little monitor that is within you, for it will guide and direct you in the ways of truth and of correct and right living. 

I regret that there are many among us who are not as loyal as we should like to have them. It grieves me and it grieves my co-laborers, and I am sure it grieves the Lord, when word comes that our fellows have been untrue to trusts imposed upon them or in them; and we, every one of us, know that it is wrong when we are untrue to a trust, or break a sacred confidence. I pray that God will continue to be mindful of us as his children, that we may hearken unto those still small whisperings that they may guide us always in the paths of virtue and right and loyalty to trust; that we may be fit instruments in the hands of God to fulfil his purposes in the earth; and do it without embarrassment to him or to his work. When any of us are caught in the snares of temptation and fall by the wayside, it not only hurts us individually but it hurts all of us. I pray that the Lord will continue to be mindful of us that we may be more loyal in the future than we have been in the past, loyal to our callings and to our responsibilities; although we are growing in number, and today we seem to be present in goodly number, yet we are a handful, as it were, in the eyes of the world. We are only a few in number compared to the great host in the world, and we must remember and know that where the Lord requires responsibility, he expects us to be loyal and true to it. Therefore the responsibility is upon our shoulders as gathered Ephraim, living here in the land of Ephraim, in the tops of the mountains, in the midst of the everlasting hills, where the Lord has selected a gathering place and named it through the mouths of his holy prophets, both ancient and modern. "This is the place," and here it will be required at our hands, not only by our words but by our every day conduct. When we fall by the wayside the world sees us because their eyes are open upon us, and they are watching the actions and the words and conduct of the little handful of people that God has gathered into the mountain tops in these the last days. 

I pray that the Lord will continue to be watchful and mindful of this people, that we may be loyal and true and faithful and earnest, seeking day by day and laboring day by day to fulfil God's purposes, for where much is given much is required; and with that love of the truth, with that testimony which has been in my heart ever since a youth, I pray that God will be mindful oi us and that he will continue to inspire, bless, sustain and honor those who are called to take the lead and to direct: that God's work may continue to grow, and that those to whom responsibility is given, in whom trust is imposed, may be loyal and true, and equal to the responsibility, and receive the blessings that the Lord has prepared for the faithful in the House of Israel in these the last days. 

May the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, in your homes, in your labors, in all your righteous undertakings, inspire you and give you faith, devotion, humility and power to know and do the will of God; and by following the promptings of that "little Monitor" within you, it is your right to know. And if you will listen and hearken unto its promptings, I promise you that you shall know, and shall have courage and faith to do the right and hold steadfast and true to the faith, that it shall not be necessary to go back and count your steps in regret; but rejoice in the blessings that have been promised to you as descendants of Father Abraham and especially the chosen of the Lord, being, most of us, of the house of Joseph or of the lineage of Ephraim who was especially chosen and especially blessed. May God help us to appreciate and live worthy of these blessings as they are being made plain to us every day of our lives. May the peace of the Lord be with us and be with his people wherever they are, whether gathered or scattered. I pray for these blessings; and in the name of the Lord bless this great conference, — those who preside and those who hearken and listen, as members or as officers. May God bless you all according to your righteous needs, both temporally and spiritually, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

I regard it as a distinctive honor to be invited to speak to this large congregation in this, the Sunday morning, session of our annual General Conference, where every seat is taken in this large tabernacle and hundreds of people are standing, eager as I suppose, to hear the word of the Lord as it shall fall from the lips of his servants. I realize that those who have assembled in conference are among the most faithful of the Latter-day Saints. At the same time I realize that there are thousands of men and women in the Church who are just as faithful as those who are here assembled, but those who are of little faith are not wont to make great sacrifice to come to the meetings to hear the servants of the Lord. I do hope that by some means the excellent instruction which has been given during the sessions of this conference may reach that class of people. 

THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS ARE WELL TAUGHT 

In the primitive Church there were given officers for specific purposes, as there are officers given to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today: "And he gave some apostles, and some prophets; and some evangelists; and some pastors, and teachers; for the perfection of the Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come in the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ." The Latter-day Saints are well taught. We have the things of God as they have been given through his servants in days that are past, recorded in these standard works of the Church — the Holy Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. These books are before the Latter-day Saints with a commandment of the Lord that we shall search them, for in them we think we have eternal life, and they are they which testify of God and of his truth. If we, the Latter-day Saints, were to read the scriptures as our Father in heaven desires that we should do, we would be better informed in regard to his mind and will concerning us. We would receive strength of spirit to live more fully the commandments which he has given us, and by the living of those commandments we would obtain the blessing of eternal life. It seems necessary that there should be officers and authorities in the Church to speak frequently of these things which are written, because we neglect to read them as we ought to. 

BY WORKS AND NOT BY FAITH ONLY ARE WE JUSTIFIED 

There is a proneness, I am sure, on the part of many of the Latter-day Saints, to be hearers of the word and to be satisfied without doing the things which the Lord has commanded us, which in our thoughtful moments we know are intended for our blessing and salvation. It was always so. When our Savior had finished, practically, his Sermon on the Mount, he reminded those whom he had been addressing, that not all those who cry, Lord, Lord, should be saved in the kingdom of heaven, but those who do the will of our Father in heaven, and he likened those who heard the word and would not do it unto a foolish man who built his house upon the sand, that when the rain descended and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon the house, it fell, and great was the fall thereof; while those who heard and did the things which he taught were likened unto a wise man, who built his house upon the rock, that when the rain descended and the floods came and the winds blew and beat upon that house, it stood, for it was founded upon a rock. 

We find James, "the Just," and a "pillar" of the Church at Jerusalem, teaching: 

"Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls. 

"But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves." 

And further James said in explanation of this principle: 

"What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? 

"If a brother or sister be naked and destitude of daily food, 

"And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? 

"Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. 

"Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works; shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works. 

"Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well; the devils also believe, and tremble. 

"But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead?" 

"Was not Abraham, our father, justified by works, when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? 

"Seest thou faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect?  

"And the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness; and he was called the Friend of God.

"Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only." 

TOO MUCH DEAD FAITH IN THE CHURCH 

Brethren and sisters, I feel that there is too much dead faith in the Church. Those who have spoken in this conference, have a living faith in God and that which he has revealed, and they represent a large class of the Latter-day Saints. God bless them for their faith and faithfulness; but there is a great deal of dead faith, and those who possess it are deceiving themselves. 

Faith is the first principle of revealed religion, the foundation of all righteousness. All our unrighteousness is due to the want of faith. If we had the faith that we ought to have as Latter-day Saints, there is nothing that need be done that we could not do. There is nothing that God has commanded us that we would not do; and we should remember that it is not the profession, it is not the intellectual assent unto principle, it is not the form that is going to save, it is the doing of the things which the Lord, through his gospel, has prescribed by which we may attain to glory and exaltation. Faith in itself will not save us. Knowledge in itself will not save us. Men have to have knowledge in order to be condemned as well as to be saved. The Latter-day Saints are well taught, I say, and if they will do as well as they know, they will obtain salvation; and if they do not do as well as they know, condemnation will certainly follow, for this gospel which we have received is as a savor of life unto life and of death unto death, unto those unto whom it comes. We have the authorities of the Church, they are here to explain to the children of men, in the Church and out of the Church, the things which are necessary to he done by them for their salvation, but men and women who will not obey the commandments of God when they hear them and understand them will scarcely be expected to be obedient unto the advice and counsel of the servants of God. Many there are, as I have already said, who will do so with glad hearts, and will reap the reward. I would to God that all the members of the Church would do so and be consistent and receive the blessings which our Father in heaven has so generously to give to his faithful children. 

NEED OF DOING THE THINGS WE KNOW 

We have need of being impressed with the necessity of doing the things which we know we ought to do, and by the preaching of the gospel we may be thus impressed. Then the Spirit of the Lord attends us, as it has done in the various sessions of this conference, the people who hear may, by that same Spirit, know that these things are of God, they know the voice of the Good Shepherd, even though it be manifest through his humble servants. The Lord has said: "Whether it be by my own voice, or by the mouth of my servants, it is the same," and the true and consistent Latter-day Saint regards it the same. Let me read in conclusion a few words: 

"And whatsoever they shall speak when moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation." 

So we bear our testimony that we do speak, not of our own strength, and our own wisdom, but by the power of God made manifest by his Holy Spirit. I promise you that if you will heed the counsels which are given you by the servants of God, you will be walking in paths which are straight and which will make for joy, happiness and hope in this life, and eternal life in the world to come. I bear my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, to this effect, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.

The choir sang, "They that sow in tears shall reap in joy." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Junius F. Wells, and the Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 