Afternoon
08 04 1923


ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I have had a great many reflections; many thoughts have come into my mind during this conference. I realize that I can only mention one or two this afternoon. 

THE WORLDS ARE A MEANS TO AN END, NOT THE END ITSELF. 

There comes to my mind an expression in the Pearl of Great Price, in the vision of Moses, which was given at a time when Moses was caught up into an exceeding high mountain and saw God face to face and talked with him. The Lord showed to Moses the "workmanship of his hands," and Moses beheld the world, and all the children of men to the latest generations. 

And the Lord said to Moses: 

"For behold there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man, but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them.

And it came to pass that Moses spake unto the Lord, saying: Be merciful unto thy servant, O God, and tell me concerning this earth and the inhabitants thereof, and also the heavens, and then thy servant will be content. 

And the Lord God spake unto Moses, saying: The heavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine." 

We are informed by astronomers that some of these worlds are so large that they would fill the space occupied by our sun, and extending out to the orbit of Mars, far beyond the orbit of the earth on which we dwell. Such, they say, is the case in regard to the great star in the constellation of Orion. While reflecting on this matter the thought comes to mind that notwithstanding the countless number of worlds and the great magnitude of many of them, they are a means to an end, and not the end itself. The Father is creating worlds for the purpose of peopling them — placing upon them his sons and his daughters. We are informed in section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants, that by and through the Son of God, the "worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

MAN THE MOST IMPORTANT OF GOD'S CREATIONS 

We learn from these scriptures from which I have read and from other revelations from the Lord, that man is the most important of all our Father's creations. In the same vision given to Moses, the Father said: "And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof, even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words. For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

GOD'S LOVE FOR MANKIND

From this, and other scripture, I say, we learn that the great work of the Father is to bring to pass the salvation of his children giving unto each that reward which each merits according to his works. I feel most assuredly that our Father in heaven is far more interested in a soul — one of his children — than it is possible for an earthly father to be in one of his children. His love for us is greater than can be the love of an earthly parent for his offspring. In another part of this record we are informed that when the Lord spoke to Enoch and showed to him the nations of the earth and explained to him the nature of the punishment that should befall them for their transgressions of his commandments, that the Lord wept and showed his sorrow in tears for their disobedience. Because of this, Enoch marvelled and thought it strange that the Lord could weep. 

Here is the passage: 

"And it came to pass that the God of heaven looked upon the residue of the people, and he wept; and Enoch bore record of it, saying: How is it that the heavens weep, and shed forth their tears as tne rain upon the mountains? 

"And Enoch said unto the Lord: How is it that thou canst weep, seeing thou art holy and from all eternity to all eternity? 

"And were it possible that man could number the particles of the earth, yea millions of earths like this, it would not be a beginning to the number of thy creations; and thy curtains are stretched out still; and yet thou art there, and thy bosom is there and also thou art merciful and kind forever.

And the Lord answered: "* * * Behold these thy brethren; they are the workmanship of mine own hands, and I gave unto them their knowledge in the day I created them; and in the Garden of Eden, gave I unto man his agency; 

"And unto thy brethren have I said, and also given commandment, that they should choose me, their Father; but behold they are without affection, and they hate their own blood." 

MAN MUST BE REDEEMED ACCORDING TO LAW 

These are reasons why the Lord wept and why the heavens wept. 

I was asked by a brother one time if a man could be perfectly happy in the celestial kingdom if one of his children was not permitted to enter there. I told him that I supposed that any man who was so unfortunate as to have one of his children barred from the celestial kingdom would, of course, have feelings of sorrow because of that condition; and that is just the position our Father in heaven is in. Not all of his children are worthy of celestial glory, and many are forced to suffer his wrath because of their transgressions, and this causes the Father and the whole heavens to have sorrow and to weep. The Lord works in accordance with natural law. Man must be redeemed according to law and his reward must be based on the law of justice. Because of this the Lord will not give unto men that which they do not merit, but shall reward all men according to their works. 

THE WORTH OF SOULS GREAT IN THE SIGHT OF GOD. 

In my preaching I have always tried to be consistent and to be careful, keeping in mind the things that I have said here this afternoon, knowing the worth of souls. The Lord made the statement, in one of the revelations given shortly before the organization of the Church, that the worth of souls is great: 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God: 

"For behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh: wherefore he suffered the pain of all men that all men might repent and come unto him." 

Knowing this, and realizing as I think I do the fact that the human soul, — and by that I mean the spirit and body combined — is the most important of all the works of God, I have tried to be careful in my teachings only to express those things which are true and which can be proved by the revelations of the Lord, fearing lest I should teach something that was not true and which might affect my brother and my sister and cause that they might depart from the path of truth and righteousness. 

THE GOSPEL PLAN NOT EASY FOR THE WAYWARD. 

I have never been able in my teachings to make the gospel plan appear easy; that is, to hold out hopes to those who are indifferent, to those who are wayward, to those who wilfully break the commandments of the Lord and will not hearken unto these truths when every opportunity is given them to obey the truth. I have always tried to impress upon the people the fact that the gate is strait and the way is narrow which leadeth unto life and few there be that find it, — in reference to the celestial kingdom of God. I know that the Father will save all the workmanship of his hands in the three great kingdoms, the Celestial, the Terrestrial or the Telestial, except Sons of Perdition. But only the righteous, those who are just and true, shall enter the Celestial Kingdom. 

OUR DUTY TO LABOR FOR THE SALVATION OF MAN 

Now, if the worth of souls is great, then we ought to be engaged in the saving of souls; and I feel that it is the duty of every man holding the Priesthood not only to strive to save himself and his immediate family, but it is his duty to labor in that Priesthood for the salvation of all men; and this responsibility rests not merely upon those who hold the Priesthood, but upon all the members of the Church who know the truth. 

For a moment or two, however, I desire to reverse this picture; and the reason that I do is because of the remarks that have been made here concerning the doctrines of false teachers in the world — men who stand up before the congregations of the people, telling them not to believe in Christ, that he is not the Son of God, that he did not rise from the dead, that he did not atone for the sins of the world. 

DENYING CHRIST A FEARFUL RESPONSIBILITY. 

Now, brethren and sisters, let me, if I can, impress upon you this thought: If the worth of souls is great as I have shown, and our joy shall be great in heaven with those we may be able to bring unto the strait and narrow way, what will be our feelings if, through any teachings of ours, one soul is barred from the Celestial Kingdom? If that which we have taught and practiced shall destroy the faith of one individual so that he does not accept the truth and that fact is made known unto us when we stand before the judgment seat; — then, let me ask, how great will be our sorrow, how great will be the condemnation which we will merit in that we have barred, through our influence and through our teachings, one of the children of our Father from entering into eternal exaltation? I tell you that these men who stand up and say that Jesus is not the Christ, that he was a great teacher, but not the Son of God, the Only Begotten of the Father, and thus lead many to deny the power of the resurrection and the divinity of Christ, are taking upon themselves a most terrible responsibility that should cause them to fear and tremble. I could not stand it to know that I had taught an untruth that would lead people to destruction. And when these men realize what they have clone and that, not only their own souls have not been saved, but they have been the means of destroying the souls of other men, leading them away from truth and righteousness, I tell you that it shall be hard with them, and their punishment shall be most severe in eternity. 

MEN SHOULD TEACH WHAT THEY UNDERSTAND. 

I mention these matters that our attention may be called to that which is our duty; and that a man should not teach that which he does not know to be the truth. The revelations of the Lord have been given unto us for our salvation that we may understand and walk in the light, that we may teach others and impart unto them the same instructions that we receive, that they, likewise, may receive salvation; for I am satisfied that our Father in heaven would, if it were possible, save all men and give unto them celestial glory, even the fulness of exaltation. But, he has given unto man his agency and man is under the necessity of obeying the truth according to that which is revealed in order to obtain the exaltation of the righteous. We are not walking now by sight, as we did before we came into this world, but the Lord expects that we shall walk by faith; and walking by faith we shall receive the reward of the righteous, if we adhere unto those commandments which are given for our salvation and that men may again come back, through the resurrection from the dead into the presence of the Father and the Son. 

THE BEST IS THE FULNESS OF THE FATHER'S KINGDOM. 

I know that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world, that he came into the world to take upon him the transgression of every soul who would repent; and that we, through our repentance and our faith and our acceptance of the principles of the gospel, shall receive full salvation through the shedding of his blood and through the atonement which he brought to pass that we might receive these blessings. Moreover, I know that all men shall be redeemed from death, because men are not responsible for death, therefore Jesus Christ has redeemed them from death through the shedding of his blood. They shall rise in the resurrection, every man to receive his reward according to his works. We who have received the truth of the everlasting gospel ought not to be satisfied with anything short of the best, and the best is the fulness of the Father's kingdom; and for that I hope and pray we shall live and set examples in righteousness to all men that none may stumble, that none may falter, that none may turn from the path of righteousness, due to anything that we may do or say, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

A CONDITION OF THE COVENANT TO ABRAHAM 

On each day of this great conference, and I believe at every session, the name of the great patriarch Abraham has been mentioned, and whenever I have heard it I have thought in part of that for which his name stands — Abraham, the man unto whom the Lord spake when again the world had gone to apostasy, the man with whom he made covenant and established the gospel. There had been apostasies before and a great apostasy was then in progress, when the Lord spake unto him, making covenant with him, definite, sure and blessed; among other things telling him that through him and his posterity all nations of the earth should be blessed. This was one of the conditions of the covenant, that he and his posterity should serve the true and the living God, the God who spoke unto him, Jehovah. 

THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL, WORSHIPERS OF JEHOVAH 

The world was pagan, heathen and idolatrous, and the Lord would have some few at least whom he could call his own. Therefore did he establish his covenant with Abraham, and later he affirmed it with Isaac and again with Jacob whose children are known by the honored title "the children of Israel." One of the characteristics of that chosen people — for chosen they were and are — was and is that they be worshipers of the living God, not the gods of men, not the idols that men may fashion with their hands, nor the fantastic deities that men may hatch out in their minds as vague conceptions without bodies or parts, without place — but the God of love and the God of fear, the God than whom there is none other in the proper sense and usage of the term. 

Consider the situation. All the rest of the world, I repeat, had gone after idols, and Abraham and his posterity came to be distinguished amongst the nations of "Jehovah worshipers." That was one of the characteristics by which the children of Israel were known, even during their Egyptian bondage, though they themselves sometimes forgot it in part, by which they were known throughout the scenes of the exodus, by which they were known after their establishment in the Promised Land, by which they were known even during the time of their great transgressions, for even when the people as a nation had become recreant there were amongst them many who had not forgotten the God of their fathers, and who did not turn aside after Baal or Ashtoreth, nor after the Egyptian Apis, or any of the rest of the mythological deities. 

THE IDOLS THAT MEN WORSHIP 

The idols that man makes and which he sets up and worships are the workmanship of his hands or mind. The God of our spirits, verily the Father of our spirits, is no God of man's creation. He created  us, and calls upon us to worship him and to obey his commandments. Israel was a peculiar people of old, and has remained a peculiar people both in the gathered and in the scattered condition, and that was one of the signs by which they were distinguished from their heathen, pagan, idolatrous contemporaries, and by which they are distinguished from their heathen, pagan, idolatrous contemporaries today. For, mark you, idolatry never was more rife, and paganism was never more widespread than in this very year of our Lord, 1923. Men may not now put their golden idols or their images of silver, or brass, or iron, or wood, or stone, always up upon pedestals, and physically kneel down before them and worship them. Gold need not always be cast in the form of a calf after the pattern of Apis to be verily the god of man. 

ISRAEL A SABBATH-OBSERVING PEOPLE 

There were other signs by which these people, who were called after the name of that living God, were distinguished. One of them was that they observed every seventh day as the Sabbath of the Lord. Even the heathen nations had their fast days, but such were instituted by men for the purpose of gratifying the lust of men, and the conceptions of men as to ceremonial and show. The Sabbath of the Lord our God is not a creation of men. Jesus the Christ is Lord of the Sabbath, and Israel amongst the pagan world was characterized as a Sabbath-observing people. Did not the Lord say through Moses, again through Nehemiah, and again through Ezekel and through others of the prophets — This is a sign between the children of Israel and me? It shall be a sign between me and my children through all generations forever, that they shall observe my Sabbaths. 

Pagan sabbaths were holidays, not holy days. Though the two terms come from the same root, there is a vital distinction between them at the present time. The Lord chided the people of old because they had polluted his Sabbaths, and how had they polluted them? Not always by continuing their worldly work, not always because they did not cease their toil, but because they made the Sabbath a day of pleasure and of license and of indulgence that was evil, and forgot to worship the Lord their God specifically on that day of rest. We are not required, nor are we permitted, if we obey the law of God, to be idle. We should be active and in service, but Sabbath-day work should be directly the service of God and not the secular and wage-earning service of man. 

TITHE-PAYING ANOTHER CHARACTERISTIC OF ISRAEL 

There was another prominent distinction, in that those ancient Israelites, even before they came to be a nation, and later as a nation, were peculiar amongst the peoples of the earth by being tithepayers. They were a tithed people. Perhaps some scholars may say that even the Egyptians practiced the law of tithing. Yes, in a certain way they did, and other pagan nations have done the same, but to all such tithe paying was a law that they had established amongst themselves, and that they put into operation through compulsion. They did not practice the law of tithing because it was required of them by the Lord, but they themselves evolved the idea. They found it a convenient method of taxation. It was not holy, it was not sacred unto them, but in early days the Lord made it plain that His people, to be acceptable unto Him, must be tithed, and everything they had was to be tithed. 

THE LAW OF SACRIFICE CONTRASTED 

Now, the law, very often called the Mosaic law, was in course of time superseded by the gospel, the gospel restored through the ministry of Christ — it had been upon the earth before. The gospel had been given to Adam with the ordinances essential to salvation. It had been given to Noah, it had been given to Abraham, but it was brought again by the Christ after a long period of partial apostasy, during which period the chosen people were living under the lesser law, but that lesser law, the law of Moses as it is called, was not destroyed by the coming of Christ. He said he came not to destroy it, but to fulfil it, and it was fulfilled, indeed superseded by the gospel. The gospel included and includes everything in the law of Moses that is required for the salvation of men. But the outward ordinances and training exercises peculiar to the law of Moses were largely done away with, for the schoolmaster had been in a manner efficient, and had brought his wilful, recreant, ofttimes stubborn pupils to a partial understanding of the higher law. Many of us think that with the passing of the law of Moses, the requirements of sacrifice passed. Nay, nay, the law of sacrifice is in operation today: but it is not accompanied by the outward form and manner of offerings that were characteristic of that ordinance in the day of Moses and during the Mosaic dispensation. 

THE PRESENT A DAY OF GATHERING 

The present is the day of gathering, when Israel are being assembled from even the outermost parts of the earth, when the Lord has reached out his hand again to gather his people. This work is in progress at such a rate that soon shall the ancient prophecy and promise be realized, as voiced by Jeremiah: "Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that it shall no more be said, The Lord liveth, that brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt; 

"But, The Lord liveth, that brought up the children of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the lands whither he had driven them: and I will bring them again into their land that I gave unto their fathers." 

THE GOSPEL OF CHRIST RESTORED IN THIS DAY ELDER 

In this day of gathering the Lord has restored the gospel of Jesus Christ, and he has done it in the way predicted, the way, his way, and therefore the best way to make it most impressive. He requires of Israel today those same signs and symbols of their professions, of their confessions, that were required of them of old. His people today, if they are his people indeed, must be worshipers of the true and the living God; not worshipers of some conception of ars immaterial being, a nondescript nothing that fills all space and can nowhere be found, but a living God, after whose physical, mental and spiritual likeness man has been created. God the Father is such a being, as has been made known to us by revelation of his very person; and Jesus Christ is such a being. Both Jesus Christ and the Father have been seen and heard in this day and age. 

THE CHOSEN PEOPLE OF GOD MUST OBSERVE HIS SABBATHS 

If we be the people of Israel, the chosen people of God, as is our high profession, we must be thus characterized. Then, whatever shall be the fancies and fantasies of the world, let us be true to the living God, the God who with his Son Jesus Christ, was manifested to the youthful seeker after truth, afterward the Prophet Joseph Smith. We accept the God of our fathers in all literalness. We find that we can come much nearer unto him by that acceptance. We, the chosen of God, must show forth those distinguishing works specified by him. Are we observing his Sabbaths? Where do we stand, oh Israel? Is the reproach to come upon us? Are we polluting that holy day by pandering to our own lust after pleasure, after our own laziness, or perchance, giving ourselves up to the pursuit of wealth on that day? It is the Lord's day, not ours. He has given us six, but the seventh is his, and he demands that we shall recognize it as his and devote every hour of that day to his service. How do we stand, where is that sign showing forth in our lives and in our work as individuals and as families? Is there a sign over your door, oh Latter-day Saints, showing that you are strict observers of the Sabbath, or have you been swept away by this tide of apostasy that is ever seeking to engulf? 

TITHING A SIGN OF THE GREAT BROTHERHOOD OF GOD 

Are we showing forth this other sign of the great brotherhood of God, the sanctifying of our means by setting aside the Lord's tenth as sacred, and as holy? We have no right to use it, it is not ours, it is the Lord's. Let us be true to our colors, to our covenants, to our station as representatives of the living God, his children, his covenant children, I pray, in the Lord's name. Amen.

Brother Jacob Nichols sang a solo entitled, "My King."

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and Officers of the Church, and by unanimous vote of the assembly, they were sustained in their various offices and callings, as follows: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Charles W. Penrose, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthony W. Ivins, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot 

James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith 

Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards 

Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney 

Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay 

John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors of the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Patriach as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

FIRST SEVEN PRESIDENTS OF SEVENTY 

Seymour B. Young 

Rulon S. Wells 

Brigham H. Roberts 

Joseph W. McMurrin 

Jonathan G. Kimball 

Charles H. Hart 

Levi Edgar Young 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Charles W. Nibley, Presiding Bishop 

David A. Smith, First Counselor 

John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant, as Trustee-in-Trust, for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. Wm. Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant 

Joseph Fielding Smith 

Charles W. Penrose 

David O. McKay 

Anthony W. Ivins 

John A. Widtsoe 

Willard Young 

Stephen L. Richards 

Rudger Clawson 

Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney 

Arthur Winter, Sec. and Treas. 

COMMISSIONERS OF EDUCATION 

John A. Widtsoe 

Stephen L. Richards 

Richard R Lyman 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS 

Adam S. Bennion 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp 

John C. Cutler 

Peter G. Johnston 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor 

Edward P. Kimball, and B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

Tracy Y. Cannon, Asst. Organists 

John J. McClellan, Organist 

George C. Smith, Sec. and Treas. 

And all the members of the Choir. 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson 

AUXILIARY ORGANIZATIONS 

The Officers and General Board members of the Auxiliary Organizations — the Relief Society, the Deseret Sunday School Union, the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association — were unanimously sustained as at present constituted. 

We regret that the state of Brother Orson F. Whitney's health is such that he has not been able to be with us during this conference. We are delighted to announce that he has very greatly improved since his return from Great Britain, and we hope that in the near future he will be able to take up actively his labors among the people. 

We regret also the absence of Brother Reed Smoot from this conference. He came from Washington, hoping to be present with us at the conference meetings, but he was called back on important business pertaining to our country. We are all proud of the very splendid and wonderful record that he is making at the Capitol. 

Elder Andrew Jenson, one of our Assistant Church Historians, is on a vacation and has gone on a visit to South America. He is at this time on top of the Andes. He wanted to be kindly remembered to the good people at this conference.

ELDER CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

(Presiding Bishop of the Church) 

This is a very wonderful gathering; and I believe that those who have attended the meetings of this conference have been well paid. I don't remember having attended any conference for lo, these many years, where I have been so thrilled in my spirit with the remarks of the brethren, the testimonies of the divine Spirit, and the singing as well, and the prayers that have been uttered, as at this conference. 

THE CHURCH IS OUT OF DEBT 

For the short time that I shall occupy I should like to turn from the feast of spiritual matters with which you have been fed, to the temporal. First of all I want to congratulate you, my brethren and sisters, and the whole Church, for to it I extend congratulations, also and especially to the Trustee-in-Trust of the Church, on the fact which was announced by the President on Friday — that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is entirely out of debt. This result has been accomplished much more quickly than I had ever hoped it could be. I did hope that I would live long enough to see the Church once again out of debt; but I thought, in the very nature of things, it must take several years. Now, in a year and a half from the time the Trustee-in-Trust was compelled to borrow large sums of money to save certain institutions in which the Church and the people of the Church were largely and directly interested, that debt has been wiped out. Now the Church has enough means to pay every dollar, and more than enough, and it is entirely out of debt, except for little current matters of a few dollars. I praise the Lord with all my heart for this great blessing; and I hope that never during my lifetime, will I see, or be under the necessity ot seeing, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will ever be in debt again. 

STAY WITH THE FARM 

At the opening session of our conference our President gave us a splendid talk on practical affairs, advising the Saints to stick to their farms. Too many people who are reared on farms say, "Well, I want my children to have a better chance than I have had. I've had to work pretty hard, and I think we will move to town where the children will grow up and be educated, and they will have it a little easier than we have had it — than father and mother have had it." Well, now, there is such a thing as a man working too hard, and many of us, many of you farmers, do work altogether too hard. I was brought up on a farm myself, and I had to work very hard, and many of you in these times, I am sure, work too hard. There is wisdom in working; but, after all, isn't work a good thing? Is is not written that "in the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat thy bread." I don't think it is a good thing to instil into the hearts of our children that they should find some soft snap, or easy job, which does not require much work. Let me say, my brethren and sisters, that the man with a nice little farm — not too large, but large enough — out of debt, is the king among men. He is an example to us all. He produces possibly all that he and his family require to live on; what clothes they need he has a chance to get for himself and family just as well as anybody else. And I heartily endorse the counsel of President Grant, to stick to the farm. It is good, sound counsel. It is wrong to run off into speculation; to get our farms heavily mortgaged so that we finally have to get up and leave them. The counsel to secure good, comfortable homes for our families; to own our own homes, and to keep out of debt, has been the counsel from this stand from President Brigham Young down to this very day, and it is just as good and sound advice today as it was in the days of President Brigham Young. 

LET US FOSTER THE RIGHT KIND OF EDUCATION 

Then, again, I think at times that we are too anxious that our children should shine in educational matters. I am a friend of education; I have always felt the lack of schooling, for I never had any. So I am proud when statistics are read, as they were here the other morning by our President, showing the excellence of the work of our schools and the large number of children attending our colleges and universities. But sometimes I think that even as there is reason in working, so also there is reason in schooling. We ought not to go school-crazy. When a boy goes through the eighth grade and then the high school, then three or four years in a university, and then in a finishing off school, or something of that kind, the boy is twenty-five years old. There is a quarter of a century of his life spent in educating him. Somebody else has worked for the food he has eaten, and for the clothes that he has been supplied with for a full quarter of a century, which has been all spent in giving him education. He comes back home and he knows a lot; bless your soul, he can tell you pretty much about everything, but he doesn't know how to do scarcely anything. (Laughter.) I believe it would be better if our children did not have quite so much book knowledge, and had a little more practical knowledge of hard work, being taught how to do things. If they knew how to make an acre of land produce double what it has hitherto been producing, wouldn't that be something to be proud of? I remember riding from here to Kaysville a few years ago with Brother John R. Barnes, a very splendid practical man, whom most of vou will remember. We were talking about raising sugar beets, and I said, "Brother Barnes, how is it you can afford to raise sugar beets on your land here in Kaysville, land worth three or four or five hundred dollars an acre, raising ten, eleven, or twelve tons of sugar beets." "Oh, bless your soul, Brother Nibley," said he, "I could not afford to farm that way. My land has to produce twenty and twenty-five tons of sugar beets to the acre; that is the way I farm." Now, if his land could be made so productive, can't yours, if it is cultivated in the same intelligent manner? We can increase production. President Grant emphasized the fact that the producer, the man who produces something, is the man to be looked up to, and we take our hats off to him. The man who merely makes his living by speculating and never produces anything, is not the kind of man, after all. 

TEACH THE YOUNG PEOPLE TO BE THRIFTY AND SELF-DENYING 

Another thing — and I see by the clock I must hurry — how many children are there who are taught the habits of thrift and saving in these days; taught to deny themselves? Why, they don't know what self denial is. They go to picture shows four or five or six times a week. Do they save anything? Do you tell them: "You can go to a picture show once a week, and not any oftener"? Why they would think, that is awful. "Oh, you are just persecuting us." I want to say that it would be infinitely better if they could be restrained from going to excesses in amusement. You do not learn very much at picture shows, anyhow. There are some pictures that are educational, but most of the pictures that I have seen would make the angels weep! (Laughter.) They are not worth looking at; nothing but trash. Then, your children would be better at home. Teach your children to put that money in the bank and deny themselves something. I want to say, brethren and sisters, that in the process of education, if you put them through the eight grades, then through the high school, and then send them on a mission of two years or more, you will find the mission infinitely better, as an education, than all they will get at any school; unless, indeed, it is some one person here and there, one in a thousand, who has some special faculty or aptitude in some given direction, who should be trained. With these exceptions, I think a mission is better than excess of school books — the missionary education is the best in all the world. 

IMPORTANT ITEMS FOR GIRLS TO KNOW 

Teach them to be saving, to stick to the land. Teach the girls what girls should be taught. I don't care how much money we have, the girls should be taught how to work and earn their living; how to make a batch of good bread; how to make a bowl of good soup: what to do with baby when it has the colic. (Laughter.) They don't know. Where is there one in a hundred who is taught these things? Oh, bless your soul; oh, no, not that, but only book learning! Why, these are some of the most important things in the world for a girl to know. If I were a young fellow seeking a girl to marry I wouldn't care whether she could tell me all about these book things — how far it is, say, from here to the moon — what do I care about that? What I would want to know is: "Can you make good soup?" (Laughter.) "If you can't you're not the kind of a girl I want." 

YOUNG MEN AND WOMEN SHOULD MARRY 

Another thing: I think that we should be taught that our young people should marry. This way of putting marriage off until you are twenty-five or thirty years of age, or longer, is all wrong. Young folks claim that it is because they have not the means to get married. Haven't you any faith? Won't the Lord open up the way, if you try to keep his commandments? Well, that is one of his commandments. Why not have some faith and then work, and get the girl to consent and share it with you in the work — to be a real help meet, not altogether a help eat. (Laughter.) I once heard of a young fellow who had married a girl — she had a fair education, but he got tired of everlastingly eating baker's bread. One day he said: Dearie, I wish we had some real biscuits like my mother used to make." She said: "You can have, I guess. If you will buy a sack of flour I will put it to soak tonight." (Laughter.) 

CONCLUDING ADMONITIONS 

My time has expired. Stick to the farm. Render obedience — willing obedience, loving loyalty, to the counsel of the President of this Church. Stick to the farm; stay with your land; teach thrift; teach the principles of the gospel by sending your sons and daughters on missions when you can, for it is the best education in all the world. I bear witness that this is the work of God; it is not man's. I thought here today if we were dependent, this great organization, if we were depending, upon the wisdom of man to manage it, my goodness, what a fix we would be in! The Lord God Almighty is at the head. He it is who is managing and directing, and all honor and glory and power to him, forever and ever, through Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

MODERATION THE MARK OF A GENTLEMAN. 

There is an old saying that "Moderation is the mark of a gentleman." I have thought that with certain limitations that attribute might consistently be applied to and accepted by Latter-day Saints. It is our excesses which give us our chief concern and trouble. Moderation begets tolerance, and tolerance lies at the foundation of sympathy and charity. These qualities underlie love, which is the crowning attribute of both men and God. I wish it were possible for all of us to enjoy in moderation the splendid things which God has given to us. Nearly every good thing can be carried to excess. Good practices often become bad practice by too frequent indulgence, just as has been pointed out here this afternoon. 

We have had most excellent counsel, with reference to the manner in which we should conduct our affairs. We have been admonished to be thrifty, to be saving and to keep out of debt; and yet I do not interpret these instructions to mean that we should necessarily forego all the comforts and the privileges which life affords. I remember one of the last sermons delivered by our late President Joseph F. Smith. It has always stayed with me. I recall that he said in substance, that it was not intended that the Latter-day Saints should be a poor people. He said that the righteous should inherit the earth and that the good things of life, those which are really worth having, should come to them who keep and obey the commandments and the laws of God. 

WE SHOULD LIVE WITHIN OUR MEANS 

I take it that when our President wisely counsels us against going into debt for the purchase of those things which are called luxuries, he desires that we should live within our means, that we should be moderate in the comforts which we try to secure for ourselves and our families; and yet, I assume that he does not intend that we should be deprived of all the fine things which have come from invention and from inspiration to man as I verily believe it to be, for the comfort and the convenience of mankind. I thought as he spoke of the automobile, that he would not advise us to give up entirely this splendid vehicle which serves such good purpose in so many different lines of endeavor; and yet I gather that it is prudent and wise for us not to indulge in the purchase of these vehicles to such an extent that we burden ourselves with obligations and put ourselves under bondage, against the counsel which has been given for years and years to the Latter-day Saints. I am thoroughly converted to the thought that people who operate automobiles waste as much as one half of the legitimate cost of the operation of these machines. I go about the country and I see farmers who have bought cars, — some expensive and some less expensive — operating them without proper care. Lack of proper care results in dreadful loss, because of the nature of these vehicles and because it costs so much to keep and maintain them in proper repair. 

I gather, too, that many men might support their families in more of luxury and comfort if they would but use reasonable care for the things which they have and the things which they acquire. 

THRIFT AND ECONOMY. 

As I understand it, therefore, it is not only in self denial and in forbearance to purchase the things which we desire, that thrift and economy consists, but in the proper preservation and use of the things with which we are blessed; and I would urge upon my fellow members of the Church a more careful and thoughtful attention to all these various items that go into our economic life and that feature so largely in our successes or in our failures. 

THE PRINCIPLE OF CONSECRATION 

It is the excesses of the rich that accentuate the poverty of the poor, and if those who are largely possessed of this world's goods would be more moderate in the use of their possessions, they would be able to make larger contributions to the alleviation of the suffering and degradation of the poor; and I take it that if one of the great principles of our faith were properly and adequately observed, that we would have very little difficulty about these excesses. That is the principle of consecration. If we were to consider all the property which the Lord has given to us as coming to us in the form of trust property which we, as stewards, are to use for the advancement of his work and the establishment of his kingdom, even though all of that property is not turned in to the coffers of the Church, it would surely be devoted to worthy purposes. I regard the obligation upon the members of the Church to use everything which the Lord has given to them for the advancement of the Lord's work as being equally obligatory as the law of tithing itself; for I can not think that a man has done his full duty by the Church and to the Lord when he simply contrihutes one-tenth of his income or his interest annually. I think that he ought to proceed upon the assumption that every good thing which God has blessed him with is to be used by him under the inspiration of God's Holy Spirit for the advancement and the establishment of this work. And how shall the work be established? I say that it shall be established at least in large measure by every man so building up and maintaining the institution of the home, that the Church is really made up of an aggregation of the finest homes which may be found any place over the broad face of this earth; and any man who does so proceed will find great comfort and joy in the use of the funds and the means which God has given to him, for he will know that all these things that come to him have really been returned to God; because there is no way by which they may be returned to him except by using them in the advancement and for the welfare of his children. 

LET US USE AND ENJOY ALL GOOD THINGS WITHIN OUR MEANS 

Therefore, my brethren and my sisters, I would urge that we be careful, that we be moderate, and that we avoid the excesses which have been mentioned in this conference. 

I know that it is the disposition of the leaders of the Church to foster and cultivate refinement, beauty and art, and all of those good things that make life more worth living. I do not believe for a moment that there is any member of the presiding councils of the Church who would have our people return to those days when women were deprived of the necessary conveniences in homes. I cannot think for an instant that it would be advantageous to dispense with the modern systems of plumbing and sanitation which have rendered our homes and communities far better places in which to live; and I cannot think that there is any desire to do away with the proper things that we need to carry on our lives in a way that is compatible with the spirit of the gospel and its teachings. 

All that we need to do to feel comfortable and to feel good in our hearts is to live according to the advice of the brethren, — within our means, — to avoid excesses, and to let moderation and reason dictate the course and the policy of our lives. 

God grant that every man and every woman may have the inspiration to which they are entitled by good living for the guidance of their lives; and that they may know how to act under all circumstances. That blessing will come, I believe as I stand here, to everyone who keeps the commandments and follows the counsel of the priesthood of the Church. May his blessings attend us during the season when we shall be confronted with temptation, when we shall be beset by all the various practices of the world which call for our indulgence, that we may have the power to resist, that we may never compromise the truth, but that we may enjoy the goodness and the gifts of God, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT

President Heber J. Grant asked that if Elder William A. Morton, lately returned from a mission to Great Britain, was in the congregation, for him to please come to the stand. Elder Morton was in the congregation at the Bureau of Information, heard the call, and appeared before the congregation. 

ELDER WILLIAM A. MORTON 

I heard the president call me when I was standing at the Bureau of Information. As you know, I have just returned from another mission to Great Britain. I would have been perfectly willing to have stayed another year, yes, ten years, if the authorities of the Church had desired me to do so; but I am very glad to be back in Zion. 

A man on hearing an Irishman boast of his country — before the Home Rule bill was passed, said to him, "What makes you think so much of Ireland?" The answer he received was, "Other lands." What makes me think so much of this land? Other lands. What makes me think so much of this people? Other people. What makes me think so much of my religion? Other religions. Sister Morton and I have been in other lands, among other people, and we have come back with a far greater love in our hearts for Zion and her people than we ever had before. 

I remember reading in the Doctrine and Covenants what the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that lying spirits had gone abroad in the earth. A large number of them have taken up their residence in the Old Country. A minister who returned some time ago from a visit to the United States, delivered in his church an illustrated lecture of his trip, and what do you think he told the people? That when he was in Salt Lake City he was given a banquet at which he sat beside the mayor, who was the husband of three wives. (Laughter.) And the audience believed him! (Laughter.) That was published in a daily paper. I immediately wrote the editor, asking him if the minister had been reported correctly. He answered that he had, and I then denounced the statement as a malicious falsehood. I told the readers of the paper that I knew the mayor of Salt Lake City; that he was at one time a member of my Sunday school class; that he is not and never was a polygamist. Then the minister had to tell another lie, in order to prop the first one up, for, as you know, a lie cannot stand alone. He said he did not refer to the present mayor, but to a former mayor. I wrote the editor of the paper, telling him that there has not been a polygamist mayor in Salt Lake City for thirty-eight years. Think of a Methodist minister telling such falsehoods! 

Another minister, a minister of the English Church, told the people of England that when "Mormons" get tired of their old wives, they take them into the desert, leave them beside a spring, and bring them provisions from time to time. (Laughter). He said that he himself had rescued quite a number of young women from the clutches of "Mormons." Think of that out of the mouth of a consecrated minister of the Church of England! And thousands believed him. Why? Because they would rather believe a lie than the truth. 

My time is up. I thank God with all my heart and soul for the Gospel of Jesus Christ which I embraced in my native land thirty-five years ago. I love this work, I love this people; I would rather live here on bread and water all the days of my life, than to live in the palace of the king. I pray God to help us to be grateful and thankful and to appreciate his blessings, because I know that if we are faithful in keeping his commandments his blessings will continue to flow unto us. God bless you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Today is Sunday; the hour is 3:45 p. m. I am reminded that at this very hour, Sunday, April 7, 1918, one day more than five years ago, I was presented to the General Conference, by President Joseph F. Smith, as the new member of the Council of the Twelve. 

THE VALUE OF PERSECUTION 

It hardly seems possible that in these days, when information as to the world is so generally published, and when practically all the people, in all the countries of the world are able to read this information, the people of one of our great civilized countries can be induced to accept as true the intensely false statements to which Elder William A. Morton in his remarks has just referred. Is it not necessary for such assertions and statements to be made in order to fulfil the predictions which are so clearly and numerously made in the holy scriptures? For example: "And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end shall be saved." (Matthew 10:22.) "Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution." (II Timothy 3:12.) "Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake; for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." (Matthew 5:10-12.) "Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for so did their fathers to the false prophets." (Luke 6:26.) The great Master himself, said: "If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye be of the world, the world would love his own; but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you." (John 15:18, 19.) 

THE WELFARE AND TRAINING OF OUR YOUNG PEOPLE 

I shall attempt to place additional emphasis upon two subjects that have been discussed by many of the speakers during this conference. One is the arousing of additional interest in the training and welfare of the young people of the Church. The other is the importance of having Latter-day Saints remain in this section of the country and of rearing their families generally on the farm. 

Marvelous transformations have taken place since that memorable day in July, 1847, when Brigham Young and his band of noble pioneers looked over the mountain tops into this great valley, and said: "This is the place." The great pioneer leader looked with the vision of a prophet. He spoke the truth. "This is the place." Not the place for making the most money, perhaps, not the place in which the greatest amount of luxury can be found; but it is the chosen place for Latter-day Saints. It is the place where struggles must be met — those struggles which make men and women. It is not gold or silver, nor is it what these can purchase, that is most desired by Latter-day Saints. What we want is sons and daughters strong in the power to resist; sons and daughters with high ideals and exalted ambition, for these give joy and satisfaction which no amount of money can purchase. It is in these young people — our most valuable asset — we are most interested. 

AN ILLUSTRATION FROM BABSON 

Is not Roger W. Babson our greatest statistician? It is he who says he was visiting the home of a famous manufacturer, who took him out to his farm and showed him his cattle. Above the head of each heifer and cow was the pedigree. The most careful record was kept of every animal. He had a blue print in his library at home of every one of these animals. Later in the evening — it was during the Christmas vacation — a young fellow drove up to the house in a fancy automobile, and he came in and asked for the manufacturer's daughter, in order to take her to a party. Not liking the looks of the fellow very well, after the couple had gone out, Mr. Babson said: 'Who is that chap?' The father replied: "Oh, I don't know, just some friend of Mary's." Mr. Babson says this father had every one of his cows blue-printed, but he didn't even know the name of the man who came to get his only daughter, and who did not deliver her until two o'clock the next morning. That man was neglecting the welfare of the human soul — the world's greatest asset. 

As I have said before, this may not be the place to find the greatest amount of money, or the greatest quality of luxury; but it is "the place" designated by divine Providence for the Latter-day Saints, and it is the place where, with divine help and guidance, we are struggling to produce the best men and the best women that can be produced in any part of the world. I believe "this is the place" for accomplishing this great end. 

THE VALUE OF THE MISSION FIELD AS AN EDUCATOR 

Intensely interested as we are in developing to the highest degree the virtues of our young men and young women and also their talents, may I add a little emphasis on what Bishop Nibley has already said, and also Elder Stephen L. Richards, that I regard the experience in the mission field as a great educational asset to any young man. While my lifetime has been spent almost entirely in the school room, either as student or teacher, I am of the opinion that for the average young man time spent in the mission field is, even for him, more valuable than an equal amount of time spent in the school room. Character certainly is worth more than education without it. Young missionaries who go into the mission field make an intense study of the life and example of Jesus Christ. I ask all good people everywhere if the amount of time ordinarily spent in the mission field could be devoted to any more worthy or helpful work. If you have to choose between sending your children to school for higher education, or sending them into the mission field, I say, choose the latter. 

THE M. I. A. - GIVE SUPPORT TO THIS HELPFUL ORGANIZATION 

Since I happen to be one of the general superintendency of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, I am naturally intensely interested in the welfare of the young people, and especially the young men. I appeal for you to give the Mutual Improvement work your earnest, honest support. Your boys are calling for you. They need your help. "Of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these: It might have been." What greater anguish can come into the human heart than that which results from regret? Be close to your son. Put your arms around him. Enjoy his affection and enjoy his confidence. It is this sort of spirit we are encouraging in the Mutual Improvement organizations. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." 

THE "M" MEN

At Richfield a few weeks ago my heart was filled with pride at seeing our "M" men, a portion of the Mutual Improvement Association, give the Sunday evening program for the M. I. A. meeting. Every detail was arranged by these young men. Thus we are aiming to give at home a training similar to that received in the mission field. That is, we are aiming to give that training that takes a young, laughing, silly boy, and makes of him, as the mission almost always does, a fine, dignified, glorious man. 

THE FATHERS AND SONS' AND SCOUT ACTIVITIES 

Scout work is a portion of the Mutual Improvement program. We desire to make our stake and ward officials give to this portion of the program the same good support they do to other portions of our work. In this city, during the last two weeks, I have attended three banquets given by the scouts and their fathers. This intimate association of fathers and sons cannot do otherwise than result in doing great good. What can give greater uplift than to have boys in the most critical moments of their lives intimately associated with, and positively guided by, their fathers and their mothers? 

The subject assigned to one of these scouts, and put in the language of the modern boy, was: "My Dad — My Pal." It was thrilling to see that bright-eyed little chap with head erect, his hand on his father's shoulder, tell the great group of fathers and sons assembled that he and his dad were chums. When at the close of the banquet contributions were solicited for buying a truck for the scout troop, some men gave one dollar, a few gave five. This little fellow came forward and put down a check and said: "My dad gives twenty-five dollars." 

MOTHER, THE BEST SCOUT OF ALL 

A fine looking, dark-haired Scandinavian mother was sitting at another table, and by her side her little son. This boy was asked to respond to the toast: "Mother, the best scout of all." You ought to have heard his story. The little fellow, somewhat frail in body, was as light in complexion as his mother was dark. With quivering lips he said: "During all the days of my boyhood my mother has taught me to. pray. Sometime ago I went down to Utah Lake with a group of my companions on a swimming trip. We were carrying on one contest after another. I found myself actually exhausted, when I saw one of my little friends and companions in deep water, drowning." There were many strong men with strong hearts in that audience. All listened in breathless silence to the simple narrative of this little scout. The hearers could not hold back the tears, when the little fellow said: "And, remembering the teachings of my mother, that, under all conditions, I should place my trust in divine Providence, I uttered a prayer, placed my trust in Him, then went forward and saved the life of my little friend." That is the spirit of the scouts. Scouting is a portion of our M. I. A. program. 

HIGH IDEALS IN TWO SLOGANS 

In the L. D. S. Church we have every doctrine, every principle, every practice, every element, that tends to make men and women better, happier, stronger, cleaner. In the language of the Boy Scouts, we are struggling to do our duty to God and to our country. We are struggling to make good citizens, for only out of good citizens can good Latter-day Saints be made. We are striving to make better men and women than are made or can be made elsewhere. We expect to accomplish this greatly desired end by living more strictly in conformity with the teachings and example of Jesus Christ, than do others. Our slogans are an indication of our standards. One of these is: "We stand for the non-sale and non-use of tobacco." This year's slogan is: "We stand for a pure life through clean thought and action." With these high ideals we are going forward with faith in divine Providence, expecting to produce a generation of people better than any the world has known. 

The Lord bless you. Be interested in the boy. Give him a fair share of your time. Give him your confidence. Do not be satisfied until in your ward there is an efficient troop of Boy Scouts in which your son can be trained. Give splendid support to this portion of our Mutual Improvement work. You cannot know what real scouting is until you have at least one Eagle Scout in your troop. The Lord bless you. Amen.

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

While listening to Bishop Nibley I thought of some quotations from a book, a copy of which was sent by the Presidency to the 1775 misionaries of our Church, in all the world. This book is entitled Fundamentals of Prosperity, and the author is Roger W. Babson. I brought it here to hand to a friend after the meeting, and not for the purpose of reading from it, but some of the things that have been said this afternoon have caused me to turn to the book, and I desire to read some things from it, and to make a few comments: 

"The need of the hour is not more legislation. The need of the hour is more religion. More religion is needed everywhere, from the halls of Congress at Washington, to the factories, the mines, the fields and the forests. It is one thing to talk about plans or policies, but a plan or policy without a religious motive is like a watch without a spring or a body without the breath of life." 

"Why is it that most of the able men in our great industries came from the country districts? The reason is that the country boy is trained to work. Statistics indicate that very seldom does a child, brought up in a city apartment house, amount to much; while the children of well-to-do city people are seriously handicapped. The great educator of the previous generation was not the public school, but rather the wood box." 

There is hardly an individual in all the Church who has not some responsibilities. We have ward teachers, two of them for every block in all the Church. In addition, we have two Relief Society teachers for each block. There are a bishop and two counselors in every ward. There are from fifteen to twenty high counselors in every stake. Responsibility develops people. I want to read just a word on responsibility, from Mr. Babson's book: 

My little girl has a black cat; about once in four months this cat has kittens. Opposite our place is a man who has an Airdale dog. When that dog comes across the street and that cat has no kittens, the cat immediately "beats it" as fast as she can, with the dog after her. But when that dog comes across the street and that cat has the responsibility of some kittens, she immediately turns on the dog and the dog "beats it" with the cat after him. It is the same dog, the same cat, and the same back yard; but in one instance the cat has no responsibilities and in the other case she has. Responsibilities develop faith, vision, courage, initiative, and other things which make the world go round. 

I will read a comparison between the people who settled North and South America: 

Just before I went to Brazil I was the guest of the President of the Argentine Republic. After lunching one day we sat in his sun parlor looking out over the river. He was very thoughtful. He said, "Mr. Babson, I have been wondering why it is that South America with all its natural advantages is so far behind North America notwithstanding that South America was settled before North America." Then he went on to tell how the forests of South America had two hundred and eighty-six trees that can be found in no book of botany. He told me about many ranches that had thousands of acres under alfalfa in one block. He mentioned the mines of iron, coal, copper, silver, gold; all those great rivers and waterpowers which rival Niagara. "Why is it with all these natural resources, South America is so far behind North America?" he asked. Well, those of you who have been there know the reason. But, being a guest, I said: 

"Mr. President, what do you think is the reason?" 

He replied: "I have come to this conclusion. South America was settled by the Spanish who came to South America in search of gold, but North America was settled by the Pilgrim Fathers who went there in search of God." 

Friends, let us as American citizens never kick down the ladder by which we climbed up. Let us never forget the foundation upon which all permanent prosperity is based. 

That foundation is religion, faith in God and determination to serve God. Our fathers came here for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and for nothing else. 

Again, I say to the Latter-day Saints, that we can rear better citizens and better Latter-day Saints upon the farms than in any other place. Mr. Babson goes on to say that over thirty per cent of all the great men in the industries today have come from the farms, or are sons of poor preachers. 

May the Lord bless the people of Zion. May we keep his commandments in a way and manner that all men, seeing our good deeds, our honesty, our integrity, may be led at least to respect us, whether they believe in our faith or not. God bless you. Amen.

The choir sang, "Then shall your light shine," and the congregation sang the "Doxology." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Peter G. Johnston, of the general auditing committee. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 