Second Overflow 
08 04 1923

ELDER DAVID A. SMITH 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric) 

"No one can assist in this work except he shall be humble and full of love, having faith, hope and charity, being temperate in all things." 

I am sure, my brethren and sisters, that those of us who have been fortunate enough to attend this conference and to hear the testimonies of the men who are on the firing line of this work, have rejoiced in the words spoken, for their words have been filled with love and the spirit of truth and humility. They have manifested a desire to labor willingly and unselfishly for the advancement of truth and righteousness. I sincerely pray that for the few moments I stand before you, I may be blessed of God, that the words I utter may be guided by his Holy Spirit. 

It is a great responsibility to stand before the Latter-day Saints in conference assembled, and attempt to instruct them concerning their duties, or to expound principles of the gospel. I have been very much concerned for some time past and have tried to fix my mind upon some particular subject upon which I might be especially prepared, should I have the privilege of addressing the conference. Each speaker has given to me some thought, but not until today was I fully impressed that, as your servant, one upon whom rests the responsibility of helping to look after the temporal affairs of the Church, I should speak concerning these matters. 

Fortunately for me, I am a son of the soil, put to work in my youth tilling the ground to help provide food for a large family; one of the greatest experiences that can come to one. President Hinckley's remarks concerning the many opportunities to be found on the farm, recalled to my mind a picture of the conditions in the stakes of Zion as I have seen them, having had the privilege of visiting all but a very few. I think I can see an opportunity for greater development, for great cooperation and for the manifestation of the spirit of love in a greater degree. 

I am happy to find myself in harmony with the remarks of President Grant. I am reminded that those who have made a life study of agriculture tell us that in our country, especially in the valleys where sugar beets can be raised, we have an ideal condition for farming. We have not as yet taken advantage of it. We are farming too much land, taking from the soil our inheritance and sending it away for a mere pittance, and like a shiftless man who has had left to him a fortune, we forget that some day it may be used up, and go on day after day eating into the principal. Think of sending hay and other bulky products away from our farms, thus reducing the strength of the soil. We are told that the condition ideal is one wherein we may raise alfalfa, grain, corn for insilage and beets. These cultivated and cover crops fed to the dairy cow, the beet pulp being returned, preferably in the dry state after the sugar has been extracted, provide fertilizers that increase these crops year by year. Milk and eggs sold each day provide monthly cash income to maintain the family, and sugar beets provide means for taxes and general expenses. 

Many times have I gone onto the farms and found the poor old cow picking up that which had been left from the horses, and I remember one time going into one yard where I found four big cows, all four not giving more milk than one should give. I asked the owner why he did not get one good cow to provide milk for his family. "Well, it is too much bother to look after them. When these go dry I can turn them out on the range and go out and get a fresh one," was his reply. That man has never learned what it means to one to really love a cow. They will respond and will pay handsomely for kind treatment, but if left to stand in the wet and muck to their knees in the winter-time without shelter, we can not expect them to make a profit, for their feed must go to keep them warm and sometimes to keep life in them. 

Last spring, while on the way to attend a stake conference, I met a man on the train who said he had decided that no farm could be a success without dairy cows, and he was on his way to my destination for the purpose of buying dairy cows. I was surprised, knowing that the farmers of that district were depending largely upon range cattle, very few of them milking cows. After the conference I had a half day to wait for my train. I visited the implement dealer, the banker, the storekeeper, and found that the men who had the best credit were those who were milking cows. These were few, but they had learned the lesson and had no milch cows for sale. 

I am wondering if farming has not been too easy for us. To milk cows is confining. To look after poultry, for many of us is beneath our dignity, and we dislike to be tied down in this way. The sale of milk, eggs, poultry, hogs, when properly marketed, brings cash returns. Nearly all of these are by-products of the cow. Hay, grain, ensilage, beet pulp, fed to cows, carefully bedded with the straw produced, provides a fertilizer which, when put back into the soil enriches it and provides strength for increased crops. It seems to me only a matter of a short time until these conditions will be forced upon us as they have been in other parts of the country. 

Let us stop sending our hay and other crops containing the life of the soil away from the farm. Many times over the railroad, paying a high freight, when that same produce could be sent out in butter, cheese, milk, eggs and sugar, bringing a greater return and increasing the invested capital of all concerned. 

Complete success cannot come through individual efforts. We must have cooperation. We must work unitedly for the welfare of all and not selfishly for our indivdual interests. I would like to see the time come when we can be filled with the spirit of love, every man feeling in his soul that success for him should mean success for his neighbor. President Ivins said this morning, we cannot look after the spiritual, leaving the temporal body to die, nor can we look only after the temporal, leaving the spiritual body to die; they must go hand in hand. The average production for this intermountain country, of sugar beets is eleven tons to the acre. I saw a farm a year ago where they raised twenty-three tons of sugar beets to the acre and across the road from this place was another where only ten tons were produced to the acre. These are conditions which must have attention if we hope to succeed. If every farmer who planted sugar beets last year had increased his crop one ton per acre, (as he could have done by fertilizing his soil and properly preparing his ground) it would mean nearly one million dollars for this people. 

Now I see that my time is up. I pray, my brethren and sisters, that when we go to our homes we will not be content to labor selfishly in our own way, but that we will look about us and ascertain the wishes and desires of our neighbors, that we meet with them and plan with them and work with them to do that which will be for the greatest good of all, remembering that to be successful temporally and spiritually we must have in our souls the spirit of love, filled with faith, hope and charity; faith in God; faith in his promises and his works; faith in man and faith in ourselves; hope for the future; charity, not a mere giving of means but that everlasting, enduring charity, that "charity that suffereth long and is kind, that envieth not, vaunteth not itself, and is not puffed up — that charity that does not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, and thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity but rejoiceth in the truth." 

Under these conditions it will not be difficult for us to know and be influenced by the Spirit of the Lord. Under this condition, working hand in hand with one another, we will be in a position to receive the blessings of God, promised to his children. And I fully believe that many blessings have been withheld from us as a people because of our unwillingness to labor unitedly, both for our temporal and spiritual welfare. God give us strength, wisdom, and love that we may go on and on in the great work in that fellowship that should be found in this Church, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

(Of the Presiding Bishopric) 

No doubt all have been deeply impressed with the variety of subjects that have been presented during this conference. It seems to be the sincere desire of all the speakers to bless, advise, counsel and instruct Latter-day Saints to reach a higher plane, both in temporal and spiritual development. The music has been inspiring. It, no doubt, has reached our very souls and has been sung by those who feel what they sing. The music of the Latter-day Saints is not hired to create effect, but is a part of the congregational worship. 

It is not what we hear that benefits us so much as the thoughts which sink deep into our soul, that ring out, not only in our ears, but which become part of our life's habit that will benefit us. If we take home with us the counsel and instructions we have received, and develop in our hearts a fixed determination to follow that counsel and make it a part of our daily life, we shall develop as the Lord expects us to. 

On Friday, President Heber J. Grant referred to the great missionary work of the Church. He stated there were 1,775 men and women laboring in the nations of the earth and in this great country without any hope of earthly reward. They are suffering trials and sometimes distress that would appall ordinary persons. They go from door to door with the messages of the gospel, frequently have these doors shut in their faces; in many cases they struggle to acquire another language. The Lord blesses them so abundantly in his labor and ministry that in a few weeks or months they are able to do what others have not been able to do in years, that is, express themselves in a foreign tongue. And it has been a constant comment and marvel to the people of the world of the rapidity with which the Latter-day Saints acquire a foreign language. 

Many people have an idea that success in life is measured by dollars and cents; others by the acquisition of lands and cattle and sheep; others by the accumulation of stocks and bonds. But there is in the gospel something far more substantial, far more important than success measured by dollars and cents or the things of the world. And one outstanding feature of the Latter-day Saints is the great work that is being done by its missionaries in all parts of the world; by their exemplary lives they teach the world that there is something in "Mormonism" different to other religions. The leaven of the gospel is slowly vitalizing the theories of men concerning Christianity. Not only that, there is the great development that comes to the missionaries themselves. They may come home without the gratification of having made converts, but they do a wonderful work for themselves by obtaining a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the most priceless thing a man or woman can obtain. 

It is not necessary that the Latter-day Saints should measure their success in the world by the numbers who embrace the gospel, although it is always gratifying to know that others have received with glad hearts the message of the gospel that has come to us. But the Father, when he appeared to the Prophet Joseph, thought one man was enough to show himself to, that he might be a new witness for God. 

I was talking with a man the other day who had just received a letter from his son, breathing the spirit and power of the gospel. The father said: "Yes, that one letter alone has paid me for all the labor, the expense and all the effort that we have made to keep that boy in the mission field." Let us keep a constant stream of young men and women in the missionary field. Let every ward do its full share in warning the world by sending missionaries to proclaim the gospel message. Let us not measure the work of the Lord in terms of a pocketbook, but measure it in terms of eternal life that will come to our young people who perform their part and remain true to the covenant of the gospel. 

Perhaps I ought to say something on temporal things, for my duty and calling is to minister in all temporal things. President Grant has more than once expressed his desire that the Latter-day Saint should get out of debt. We are on the eve of another era of prosperity. Whether it is permanent or not only time can tell. The nations of Europe are still struggling and trying to lift their heads out of the chaos caused by war. They are unable to purchase the necessities of life, much more import luxuries, and even necessities from other countries. Our present wave of prosperity may not be permanent; it may be that in the providence of the Lord there will be an era of good time for this country which will equally affect the Latter-day Saints and will enable them to get out of debt. So I want to urge my brethren and sisters to take the advice of the President seriously and make an effort to rid themselves of the bondage of debt. 

Some of my brethren and sisters say they are tied up so tight with debt that they do not know which way to turn. Well, there are only four ways to change that situation. The first is, to earn more. Some of us can't do that. The second is, to spend less. Most of us don't like to do that. The third is, to dispose of our assets, and with our equity in our unencumbered assets pay our debts. But I want to give you a fourth method of paying your debts, and that is to pay your tithes and offerings in the season thereof. If we will tithe all that the Lord gives unto us, that belongs to us, and do it in the season thereof and at the time we receive it, the Lord has said that he will bless and prosper the land for our sakes. And there are hundreds of ways by which the Lord will bring about circumstances and conditions where our debts will be lighter and more easily paid, and funds come into our hands when we observe the law of tithing. 

Let me illustrate this by telling you an incident that occurred a few days ago. A certain well-known brother whose father has gone to rest — a great man in this Church, a man who has left a name and a fame that will never be forgotten — was on the non-tithepayers list. I spoke to him about the payment of his tithing. He said he could not possibly pay because he had promised to pay the bank where he was owing a large amount, his full check for his pay for that month. I said, "You have no right to promise that to the bank which belongs to the Lord. There is where you make the mistake. You have taken the Lord's money and applied it for your own purposes and thus deprived yourself of a blessing." He replied: "What shall I do?" I said, "If it were my case, I would pay my tithing and trust to the Lord to find some way to help me out of my difficulties." He stood a little while, uncertain what to do. I went back to my desk. He came in and said: "I will do it," and he went to the proper department of the office, paid one-tenth of his check and stood outside on the front steps wondering what to do. While standing there thinking of some kind of an excuse, a man came to him, who had owed him money for a number of years and said, "I have been looking for you for a day or two. Here is that $25 I owed you years ago." That was the exact amount of his tithing. 

Now I don't wish to leave an impression that the Lord will give to you or me just as much back as we pay him on tithing. Don't go away with that idea. But I do want to appeal to the Latter-day Saints to sit down with themselves and their conscience once a month, find out what the Lord has given to them, their interest, and tithe it first of all. Then the blessings of the Lord will surely be on the 90 per cent which he has given us to use according to our good judgment and discretion. 

If we will live the commandments of the Lord, we are entitled to his blessings and the promptings of his Spirit, which will bring gladness and happiness to our souls. 

A solo entitled, "The Lord has risen," was sun by Mrs. Mark Gardner. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

One week ago today Easter was being observed throughout all of the Christian countries in commemoration of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. I think, perhaps, this event could not be commemorated at a more appropriate time when all nature is bursting into a newness of life after the deadness of the cold winter months. But I think it would be better if the date were fixed definitely on some particular day, instead of being movable as now, ranging all the way from the 22nd of March to some time in April. I like to think that Christ's resurrection really occurred on the 6th of April. I don't know whether such is the case or not. Christmas is another day that we are pleased to celebrate in commemoration of the birth of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I do not think that there are any two events that have transpired in the history of this world that ought to be commemorated more than these particular two, and I like to think that both events occurred on the 6th day of April, the very day upon which the Church of Jesus Christ was organized, just ninety-three years ago. 

But, be that as it may, it doesn't make so much difference on what day we may choose to commemorate these important events that have taken place in the history of the world, in the coming of our Savior and in his glorious resurrection. But the all-important thing is this, that we do sense the importance of these events themselves, and that we have an abiding faith in their purport and believe with all our souls that Jesus Christ was born of the Virgin Mary, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, and is therefore the Christ, the Son of the living God. It is also important to believe that during his lifetime he promulgated the plan of life and salvation, and taught the children of men as no one else has ever taught them the glorious principles of eternal life. It is also important that we should believe with all our souls that he gave his life as a ransom for the sins of the whole world, and that his precious blood was spilled as a means of saving mankind from the fall. It is also important that we shall believe with all our souls that on the third day he rose from the dead and overcame death and the grave, and became the first fruits of the resurrection. These are the important things: The observance of these two holy days in commemoration of our Savior's marvelous birth of the Virgin Mary, and his miraculous resurrection from the dead, is quite general throughout all Christian lands and among the various so-called Christian churches. Is it not, therefore, most remarkable, indeed astonishing, that many adherents of these churches, while celebrating the days with great enthusiasm, are losing their faith in the events themselves, even denying the immaculate conception, the divinity of Christ, and the reality of his glorious resurrection; and that prominent ministers of these churches making such denials should be applauded and permitted to retain their pulpits. Surely the time has come, spoken of by Paul in his epistle to Timothy, "when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears," etc. 

What a wonderful thing is life! Things that live are very different from things that are dead, such as rocks, minerals, gold, silver, copper, etc. Things that live, "move and have a being," they take nourishment, they grow and they die. In these characteristics they differ from things that have no life. Biologists in their endeavors to solve the problem of life have put forth many theories that have had a tendency to undermine the faith of some, while strengthening the faith of others, and while many interesting and valuable observations have been made relative to evolution, at the end of all their investigations they find themselves just as far as at the beginning from understanding the real problem of life itself; and in their published works, it is usually admited that "we do not know the origin of life." What is this thing that they call life? We see it manifest, the world is teeming with life. It is here upon the surface of the earth; we find it in the air only for a few thousand feet up into it, and a few hundred feet down into the interior of the earth and out in the oceans, teeming with life, but beyond these limitations they know of no such thing as life. And this world upon which we live teeming thus with life, at one time we are told was a molten mass, that the heat was so intense that nothing could live on its surface or anywhere about it. All things were dead, could not live. The things that are dead differ from the things that live. Things that live have motion. It may only be a blade of grass moving its little roots down into the soil, or it may be a creeping insect, or the animalculae that we cannot behold with the natural eye, or it may be in the beasts of the field, or it may be man, but life is everywhere aparem in the world. They can not account for it. It is preposterous to suppose that there is such a thing as spontaneous generation. 

Then, whence came life? The answer is in the Bible: "In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth," and all things that in them are. "The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God." I know, as I know that I live, that God lives and that he is my life, for in him I live and move and have my being, and without him I could not live, nor could anyone else live. He, then, is life. Does that correspond with the testimony of the Savior? You will remember when Lazarus died and Jesus heard of it, and came, Martha said to him: "Master, if you had been here he had not died," and the Savior said: "I am the resurrection and the life, and he that believeth on me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. Believeth thou this?" he said to Martha. "Yes, Lord, I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." Do you believe that, Latter-day Saints? That is the faith that we should have. He, then, is the resurrection and the life. 

We live because of God, and without him there would be no life. Does that not also correspond with the revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith? I quote from Doctrine & Covenants 88:15, 16, 17: "And the spirit and the body are the soul of man. And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul. And the redemption of the soul is through him who quickeneth all things." By whom then came this redemption? Not by you or me; oh, no, but through him who quickeneth all things — who causes the grass to grow and everything to bloom, and all this teeming life to be and live. He is the author of life itself; he is the resurrection and the life. Do you believe that? Latter-day Saints believe it. It is inscribed in their own hearts; it is in the faith that we have received through the restoration of the gospel and the witness of the Spirit that we have received by the laying on of hands. Then let us live so that we may enjoy the sweet companionship of God's holy Spirit that bears witness to the truth of what I have said, and God help us to believe it with all our souls, and commemorate these holy days and seasons in the full faith that God lives and that he sent his Only Begotten Son, that whoseoever believeth in him should not perish, but obtain eternal life, which I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

To begin with, if the brethren and sisters desire me to run smoothly and make no breaks, it will be advisable to keep awake until I finish my speech, as it requires exceeding grgat faith to put into practice what you preach, and it calls for much faith to believe what you teach. For me to be my natural self is somewhat dangerous, and to be original would cause the very air to resound with criticism. I fully realize that brevity, and to the point, should be added to the virtues. Horace Greeley used to say that the way to write a good editorial was to write it to the best of your ability, then cut it in two in the middle and print the last half. I am going to follow this suggestion. 

Brevity, and to the point has been the instructions given by President Grant. This counsel has been adhered to and is unusual and very gratifying. There have been many speakers and the Spirit of the Lord has been given to men who are not included among the general authorities of the Church, which is very encouraging to the people. I do not think as a people we have any special use for presidents of stakes, or bishops of wards, who are not directed by inspiration. Without the guidance of the Holy Spirit we cannot fill our appointments. 

I have been thinking of a subject for a considerable length of time, and I have the idea fixed and fastened in my mind. If we as Latter-day Saints will do our own thinking and search the revelations of the Lord, it will help us out of many of our difficulties. Therefore, I ask that you give careful consideration to some of the ideas I wish to convey. Elder B. H. Roberts has lately published a tract, for use in the Eastern States mission, entitled: The Lord Hath Spoken. The contents of this pamphlet is very interesting and instructive, as I have read it. 

Many testimonies have been given during the conference by the brethren saying in no uncertain way, "We know that God lives." This to me is only the beginning of our recognition of the great loving Father for his children, "as no living soul can move, or wake, or open the eyes," that he does not see the self-expression of God's goodness and graciousness for his offspring. I have little hesitation in saying this is what parents should teach children before teaching them to pray and even children should grasp the idea "that God lives." 

They say that almost everybody has one big idea. It may come suddenly to your mind by inspiration, and the question arises: what do you do with it? You put it in definite form and develop the gem of truth. To get a true conception of God is the biggest idea I have ever tried to comprehend. 

The second big idea is: "Have you found God?" 

St. Paul, when he spoke to the men of Athens, said that they might seek God, if perhaps they might grope and find him — yes, though he is not far from any one of us. We are the offspring of the living God, and as our heavenly Father is not far from any of us, he cannot be very far distant from me. 

Our pioneer fathers and mothers, as it was with the prophets of the Old and New Testament, had suffered disaster after disaster —  they knew — they had found God. They had tested the truth for themselves. 

These leaders, seers, and teachers had no fear. In their anguish and tribulation they said: "Let it roll. The Lord will fight for you. Stand still and see what he will do. His arm is not shortened, neither is his strength diminished. Trust in the Lord and be doing good, so shalt thou dwell in the land and verily thou shalt be fed. O, how great is the goodness which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men. Be of good courage and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that have hope in the Lord." 

What is in the future? How far can we see ahead of us? Some of us cannot see the length of our noses, but the prophets have warned us of the danger that menaces us. We must be prepared and get our feet planted upon the ground, because we don't know, I don't know, what test is ahead of us. The gospel of Jesus Christ has had to be preached with tears and beseechings, sufferings, adversity and persecution from one generation to another. No generation accepted it because their belief in material power was so dense that they lost faith in the spiritual. We have to talk of the temporal. Temporal things have to be attended to, or we all would starve to death, but we must not place the temporal before the spiritual, for if we do, you can look out for disaster and trouble. No man can save the nation, or a people when they get the temporal first and forget the spiritual. I went on a mission for two years, and I came home and I loved everybody, but I hadn't been home long before I partook of the environment. No thinking man or woman can be free from deep forebodings, however optimistic we try to keep ourselves, with this crisis in world history. Fear has crept into the hearts of men. You talk to them, and see for yourselves. I think many of the Latter-day Saints are greatly frightened. You don't know what is going to happen. Time must be close at hand when we shall need a living testimony and knowledge for ourselves that God lives and that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. Have we found God? Have we found him strong enough, so that we are stripped to the skin? — then we cry out: "I will rejoice in God. I will joy in the God of my salvation." Elias Kimball and I worked for the Lord, and we gave the very best effort we had while in the Southern states and when we came back we went over the hill to the poorhouse. We hadn't a penny left, but we loved God. We had found him, and I still rejoice in God. 

I am going to read you something that was said three years after I was born. That is a very long time ago. It seems to me like a hundred years. A prophet of God said it, and it is coming true every day, but it has taken a long time to fulfil the prophecy. In the year 1856 — Heber C. Kimball said: "We think we are secure here in the chambers of the everlasting hills, but I say to you, the time is coming when we will be mixed up in these now peaceful valleys to that extent that it will be difficult to tell the face of a Saint from the face of an enemy of the people of God." Can't you see its fulfilment? You cannot tell a "Mormon" from a Gentile unless you know them. I have stood on a corner of Main street to prove the fulfilment of this statement, and I have taken out my watch for one hour, and I am a pretty well informed man as to faces. I have lived here all my life. I am pretty well known among the people. I only saw a very few that were "Mormons," and I wasn't right sure of them. "Then, brethren, when that time comes, look out for the great sieve, for there will be a great sifting time and many will fall, for I say unto you there is coming a test, a test, a test, and who will be able to stand?" That was just what our father kept saying. Father came up to the house, and he said in the presence of my mother, who lived there: "O, the test, the test, the test, who will be able to stand?" My mother replied: "Brother Heber, what is the test?" "I don't know, but only those who know that Jesus is the Christ can stand." 

Brethren and sisters, I am about to conclude: If you will think about what I have said don't get fearful — be like those old prophets. This is God's work; God is at the helm. He will take care of us no matter what our troubles are. We will never be shaken, if we know that Jesus is the Christ. It is a wonderful thing to know. I know there is something that prophesies to my soul that this is true because I have a light, if you can only get it lighted. A manifestation of the Spirit of God is given to every man and woman and child and I know that there is something that prophesies to my soul that this is true because I have tested it. I have not finished my work yet. I think I look as if I had had some experience. I haven't got much knowledge, but I have enough, all I need to know is that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I am able to demonstrate that I know that God lives. I hope the Lord will be kind to me and not leave me to forsake him. I don't think he will, unless I do wrong, but no one knows how safe he is. My father said that his election had been made sure, and just before his death an angel appeared to him and told Heber C. Kimball, "Your work is finished." His work was completed, his election was made sure. We don't hear much about that now-a-days. 

I pray in your behalf that you will not allow yourselves to be shaken, but if you desire to have faith in God and in this Church you have got to work, and you have got to make sacrifice, and the time will come, just as sure as you live and breathe and have a being, when you will not only say that you are willing to place all upon the altar, but you will do it. I am ready now. I haven't got very much, but everything goes. I will stake my all. 

The Lord bless you. Amen.

The names of the General Authorities of the Church were presented for acceptance by Elder Seymour B. Young as presented in the Tabernacle meeting and by unanimous vote sustained. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

I think, my brethren and sisters, that the one great duty confronting us today is to teach the gospel in our homes, to our children. While we have our many teachers in the various auxiliary organizations of the Church, yet the greatest teacher a child can have are the parents. If you will turn to the sixth chapter of Deuteronomy, you will find words of wisdom, and the admonition of the Prophet Moses to teach your children the laws of God: 

"Now these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments, which the Lord your God commanded to teach you, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go to possess it: 

"That thou mightest fear the Lord thy God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son, all the days of thy life; and that thy days may be prolonged. 

"Here therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it; that it may be well with thee, and that ye may increase mightily, as the Lord God of thy fathers hath promised thee, in the land that floweth with milk and honey. 

"Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord: 

"And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. 

"And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: 

"And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. 

"And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes. 

"And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house, and on thy gates. 

"And it shall be, when the Lord thy God shall have brought thee unto the land which he sware unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give thee great and goodly cities, which thou buildedst not, 

"And houses full of all good things, which thou filledst not, and wells digged, which thou diggedst not, vineyards and olive trees, which thou plantedst not; when thou shalt have eaten and be full; 

"Then beware lest thou forget the Lord which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage. 

"Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, and serve him, and shalt swear by his name. 

"Ye shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the people which are round about you." 

Among the ancient Jews, the parents began to teach their children Bible verses as soon as the children could understand. One of the first things that Jesus learned in the little home at Nazareth was the first verse of the Shema, the national confession of faith: "Hear, O Israel, Jehovah is our God, Jehovah alone." Other verses from the law and the prophets would be learned one by one. 

During the French revolution while the Reign of Terror in Paris was striking fear and hate into the hearts of every citizen, the French Assembly, by vote, discarded the Christian religion, and set up "The God of Reason." Then terror did reign. People lost all reason; the higher standards of morality were forgotten; sin reigned supreme. Fortunately for France, Napoleon Bonaparte restored the Christian religion by edict. But, alas, from that day to this, "the God of Reason" has prevailed too much over the living God of Love, the Father of us all. In our homes, we can have the Spirit of God only as we think of Jesus Christ and live as he has asked us to live. It is man's soul that Christ is looking for; and the great thing that Christ did first was to find his own soul. Out of the carpenter's shop at Nazareth came a personality infinitely greater than any made by myth or legend, and one destined to reveal to the human race the real beauties of life, the Fatherhood of God, and the brotherhood of man. In our homes Jesus Christ should be our ideal, and you know that he waged war against vulgarism and the materialistic manner of living. Christ swept false systems away, and gave us a mortality based on the principle that his God and our God lives. His morality was sympathy, and he had no regard whatever for the dry, lifeless systems of his day. 

The song of Isaiah rings true today: "He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief; and we hid as it were our faces from him." 

We parents must teach Christ more and more to our children, and like the Jews of old, hang upon the entrance of our homes and write it in our hearts: "Hear, O Israel, Jehovah is our God, Jehovah alone." Long before the Jewish child could read, he was attracted by members of the family pausing before the doorway touching reverently the Mezuzah, a small, shining cylinder of wood or metal, kissing the hand that touched it, and then passing on. Later on, he learned that the Mezuzah was placed upon the doorway obedient to the divine command: "Thou shalt write them (the laws) upon the doorsteps of thy house and upon thy gates." Within the cylinder were the words of the Lord as given to Moses: "Jehovah is our God, Jehovah alone." Can we parents not become more and more the teachers of our children? With God's blessing I hope we may. Amen.

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

(Of the First Council of Seventy) 

I think I may voice the appreciation of this entire audience to the Jordan choir for the sweet music they have rendered to us this afternoon. There is an expression of ancient times that when other heavenly muses were called away from earth that music, a divine handmaiden, remained behind, self-exiled, for man's sake. 

I have only recently found my text for remarks for the few minutes that are allotted to me. They are to be found in the fifteenth chapter of Matthew. The Lord, our Redeemer, is rebuking the scribes and Pharisees, and he is teaching the doctrine that "not that which goeth into the mouth defileth the man; but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man." You will remember that the Pharisees complained of these men of God for not washing their hands, and it brought forth the rebuke from the Master that they were hypocrites, that they drew near him with their mouths and with the lips gave honor, but their hearts were far from him. He reminded them that they were violating the commandments of the Lord in not honoring father and mother, that they would withhold their substance by the use of the word "corban," it is a gift, and therefore did not honor nor sustain father and mother. Then he went on to say, when his disciples told him that the Pharisees were offended at what he said: "Every plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up." We have heard at this conference of some of these plants which our heavenly Father has not planted and which must be rooted up — those mentioned by President Ivins this morning in that learned address given by him. He enumerated some of the evils of the past, the result of civil plants being planted on ecclesiastical soil, and ecclesiastical plants on civil soil. The Junkerism of Potsdam, and the Kaiserism of Germany were plants that the heavenly Father did not plant, and therefore they had to be rooted up at the cost of so many billions of treasure and millions of lives. And so here are other plants in our own nation and in other countries of the world that are not plants that the heavenly Father has planted, and they must be rooted up. 

In connection with the words of the Savior that that which cometh out of the mouth defileth a man, on the very day that this conference assembled, on the 6th of April, a press dispatch gave an account of testimony in court of an officer of Los Angeles, a former I. W. W., who swore that it was the doctrine of the I. W. W.'s that the church was the greatest curse of the world, that there was no God, no heaven and no hell. He said other things that defiled him, as a witness, by merely recounting the beliefs and utterances of the members of his former order. It defiled the press to even repeat the sworn testimony of this officer. It would be desecration and blasphemy on my part even to repeat the things which that witness and the press published in reference to our Redeemer and Savior. 

Time would not permit this afternoon to enumerate the many things which you know are plants which our heavenly Father has not planted and which must be rooted up. On the other hand we may think of the many plants which he has planted, — the glorious principles recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants and in the Book of Mormon, and brought forth in connection with the restoration of the gospel, — all plants which our heavenly Father has planted and which need not be rooted up, — indeed, can not be. 

I heard praise today of our missioniary system; — praise for the accomplishments of our boys in the field. This is a true field of education. This missionary system is a plant which our heavenly Father has planted, and therefore, if the missionaries do their part, the results are wonderful. We almost need to be introduced to our boys as they come home, they have developed so rapidly. It was my joy yesterday to go into the afternoon meeting with my son whom I had not seen for two and a half years, serving in the mission field, as your boys and your girls serve. Those of you who have had similar experiences understand the joy of a father and mother who have these experiences. 

Speaking of this system of education, in this age, when all things are being tested anew, I am reminded of the fact that William George Jordan, the author of Great Truths, a book with which many of you are familiar, a book given away by the hundreds, if not by the thousands, by the president of our Church, — Mr. Jordan is framing an indictment just now against the educational system of our country. The articles are being published in The Forum, under the head of, "What Is the Matter with Education?" Two articles have been published in the March and April numbers and two more are promised. Already a very broad indictment against our present system of education has been formulated. It is yet too early for one to pass judgment upon the merits of this controversy, which will probably be participated in by some of the seven hundred thousand teachers in the United States, the best of whom may answer the various counts in his indictment. It is too early, with only a half of his indictment penned, to undertake to speak of the merits, just as one would not wisely venture to name his son after a living statesman, but would wait until his life's work is finished. However, I venture there will be some counts in this broad indictment, — an indictment that is altogether too sweeping — in which merit will be found. There will be time enough when the indictment is fully returned, and has been answered by the educators, for the American people to reach a verdict on the controversy; but I think the underlying secret of effective education, will be found to be the wise commingling of theory and practice such as obtains in our missionary system. The young missionary is applying in his life and in his teachings the principles of truth as he learns them. I am not making a plea for less preparation at home, but am trying to show the advantage of learning and having the practice at the same time. Time will not permit to develop even the theory of this great essayist, but in brief he says that man has seven lives — not in the same sense that a cat has been said to have nine lives, but he divides up the phases of life into physical, mental, moral or ethical, aesthetic or emotional, the civic life, the social life, and the religious life. He makes an appeal for the training and development of the senses which will enable one to properly respond in this life to these seven phases of life. 

Recently we have had throughout the Church instruction in the restoration of the Priesthood, a system which the Lord has devised, — the Aaronic Priesthood, which he planted when John, the son of Zacharias, laid his hands upon the head of Joseph and Oliver and uttered those beautiful words recorded in the 13th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. And the Melchizedek Priesthood was re-planted when Peter, James and John laid their hands upon Joseph and Oliver and restored a Priesthood named after Melchizedek, the great high priest, so-called to avoid the too frequent repetition of the precious and sacred name of Deity, — to be held sacred from too frequent repitition in the pulpit as well as elsewhere; the Priesthood after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son in the flesh, of the Father. We have learned of some of the sublime truths pertaining to these branches of the Priesthood. One of the sublime revelations on Priesthood closes with these words: "Wherefore, now, let every man learn his duty to act in the office in which he is appointed in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand." 

There is a very significant passage or verse, the 19th of the 136th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which I should like to read: "Zion shall be redeemed in mine own due time, and if any man shall seek to build up himself, and seeketh not my counsel, he shall have no power, and his folly shall be made manifest." This is from a revelation to the Prophet Brigham Young. There are other verses here of a practical nature. We might read with profit the remainder of that section in reference to care in borrowing and returning, in delivering to our neighbor lost goods, and a number of very practical things inculcating the principles of honesty and integrity, principles to be cultivated particularly among our boys and girls. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to serve him, help us to establish all the plants which our heavenly Father has planted, and assist us in uprooting other plants which he has not planted, is my prayer and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(President of the First Council of Seventy) 

My brethren and sisters: We have had a variety of speaking and speakers this afternoon, to whom you have listened, I have no doubt, with great pleasure, as I have. 

On Friday morning President Heber J. Grant made some remark; about the dedication of the Salt Lake temple, and referred to some persons who are still living that were among the general authorities of the Church at the time of the dedication Services. 

I heard President Wilford Woodruff tell of this incident connected with his ministry. He said that several years before the temple was completed, he was sitting on the east steps of the temple entrance and President Brigham Young came to him and said: "Brother Woodruff, take the keys and unlock the doors of the temple and let the people in." When President Woodruff awoke on the following morning, he wondered why he was commissioned to let the people into the temple, realizing that President John Taylor was at that time president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, But time passed along swiftly as usual. President Taylor passed away on July 25, 1887, to his eternal great reward, and about two or three years after his demise, President Woodruff, being President of the Twelve and consequently the presiding officer of the Church was sustained and set apart as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This occurred April 7, 1889. Four years thereafter, the temple was completed, April 6, 1893. President Woodruff then said:"I realize now that my appointment was proper, I have taken the keys, and I have unlocked the doors of the temple, and I have bidden the people to enter to our dedicatorial services." 

I am pleased to see that the Latter-day Saints are advancing along the lines of higher education. I observe during this conference the system of wireless telegraphy, or wave motions of sound that are spoken into a receiver or transmitter and carried to every part of the house. In speaking of this matter, a lady addressed me at noon time today, one of my acquaintances, and said: "Brother Young, I heard the speakers tolerably well inside the house — I was at the extreme end of the building — but when I stepped out through the open door I could hear with much greater distinctness than I could on the inside," and she thought the sound waves advanced irregularly, and it reminded me of our recent storms that we have had. The storms sometimes have a center of fierceness. In Salt Lake City the storm rages; out at Cottonwood, seven or eight or ten miles away, they scarcely know about having any storm at the same time, so that the storm waves gather and spread in cycles in different parts of the country. So it is with our sound waves that come through the transmitter into the great tabernacle during this conference, and by and by they will arrive at a greater perfection in transmitting sound this way to different parts of our great buildings, and the perfection will come with the experience that we shall gain. 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in our organizations. Doctor Winship, when he was here, speaking hefore the school boards of the state, made this remark: "The system of teaching the young people of the Latter-day Saints from the age of twelve years to the age of eighteen, is superior to that of any other community with whom I have been acquainted." That, now, is a very welcome compliment paid to the Latter-day Saints by a man who knew whereof he spoke. 

Recently I have observed that the physicians have again decided after thorough investigation of the power or principles or stimulating effects of alcohol — that alcohol is not a stimulant — you know we are trying to observe absolutely the system that will do away entirely with the use of stimulants from the alcoholic process. Now, they registered one hundred patients of typhoid fever. Fifty of them were given stimulants in the way of alcohol, because certain physicians recommended that it be given as a stimulant to aid them in their recovery. Thirty-five per cent of that fifty died under the stimulating process. Out of the other fifty who had no alcohol, thirty-five of them recovered. It has been proved that the Latter-day Saints, when they took the stand for absolute prohibition, and as they are teaching it today, went on the side of the right, they had the right view of the matter, and by this means they are safe-guarding the rising and growing generations of our children. I am glad to be a Latter-day Saint. I rejoice that I have fellowship among my brethren and sisters. 

I want to say this for the information of some who are here and maybe don't know that the recent amendment of Senator Reed Smoot has brought into the circle of pension receivers about two or three hundred more. There are certain rules yet that we cannot quite reach with all of the legislation that has been enacted in favor of the pensioners of the Indian wars of Utah, but Senator Smoot has again introduced another bill of protest which is more sweeping in its character, and those who are deserving of pensions and who will be left out at the present time will only have to wait a little longer. When his new bill becomes a law I think it will take in all that are worthy of the pension claim. 

My brethren and sisters, I pray the Lord to bless you. I feel in my heart glad to be with you today, and I pray that the spirit of your mission, fathers and mothers, may rest upon you constantly, that you may be indeed not only parents to your children, but friends to them, and actual associates with them and get into the deeper recesses of their hearts by your kindness and your solicitation for their welfare, and let them feel that you love them, that you love them dearly, and that you have their interest at heart all the day long, and thus you will easily bring your children into lines of greater perfection as they advance in life, preparing them for the great events that are to transpire in the future, and fitting them to take the places of their parents in the leadership and membership of the great societies of the Church, and thus making good your parentage in the rearing of your children in the fear of the Lord. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

The choir and congregation sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder James I. May, of Honeyville, Utah. 


