Afternoon
06 10 1925


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

PRESIDENCY OF THE PRIMARY ASSOCIATION REORGANIZED 

We will now present the General Authorities and the general officers of the Church and of the auxiliary associations for your support. Before doing so, however, I wish to announce that Sister Louie B. Felt who, for forty-five years, has faithfully and diligently presided over the Primary General Board, has requested that she be released from those labors; and her counselors, Sisters May Anderson and Clara W. Beebe, will naturally be released with her. These sisters are releasd with our love and blessing and with our sincere thanks for their very splendid labors. Sister Felt not only has presided for forty-five years, with dignity and energy and for the benefit of these Associations, but she was also, as I remember it, the president of the second Primary Association organized in the Church, which was in the Eleventh Ward of this city. 

Sisters Louie B. Felt and Counselors were released as the 153 

Presidency of the General Board of the Primary Association, with a vote of thanks. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and the General Officers of the Church as follows. All were sustained in their positions and callings by the unamious vote of the conference: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH ' 

 FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rey L. Pratt 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CUURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

154 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS 

Adam S. Bennion, and the General Church Board of Education as now constituted. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John C. Cutler Peter G. Johnston 

- TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Tracy Y. Cannon Frank W. Asper 

George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Clarissa S. Williams, President Jennie B. Knight, First Counselor Louise Y. Robison, Second Counselor with the General Board of Relief Society as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Gen'l Supt. George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Gen'l Supt. with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Martha H. Tingey, President Ruth May Fox, First Counselor Lucy Grant Cannon, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, President Sadie G. Pack, First Counselor Isabelle S. Ross, Second Counselor 155 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I rejoice with you in all that has transpired and been said during this conference. I have never believed, since I have been active in the Church, that God gives to man fear. 1 know that God gives to you power and love and a sound mind when you are under the influence of the holy Spirit and have the spirit of your office and calling. I appreciate the fact, perhaps better than some men do, that it is very difficult to be understood. God's declarations to the children of men (it is self-evident from what has been said during this conference) are misunderstood by many of his children, and they misinterpret them. The Savior, the Son of the living God, came upon this earth and went through all his sufferings and did the things he saw his Father do, but he was not understood. He was misinterpreted, and some of his children did it conscientiously, no doubt, and some very wickedly, Joseph Smith, a prophet of God, a man whom I have honored all my life — I was taught it by my father in my childhood — see how he was misinterpreted! In the Southern states, when I was presiding over elders in that mission, I told them, "You want to make friends, but when under the influence of the Spirit of God, you testify that Joseph Smith is a prophet, it will bring you all the trouble you can endure." I found that true, butx among God's children we found good people who would be willing to accept the gospel. All great men have been misunderstood. So I conclude that to be misunderstood is greatness; that is, if you speak the truth. 

I want to tell you in a few words that there is nothing in the world that the wicked dislike so much as the truth, and if you will tell the truth under the influence of the holy Spirit you will have to have faith in God and realize that you are in his service. I have a paper here — I did not write it for this conference as I never like to read, but sometimes I have to do it in order to make myself clear — it is the impressions of J. G. Kimball. You ought to know who I am by this time : 

"It is not difficult, in fact it -seems to me natural — it is just as natural as water running down hill, to accept God's own declaration of truth as it has been revealed and to uphold and sustain the prophets as mouthpieces of God. It is not difficult for me, I do not know anything else. I have never been taught anything else. The very foundation of the Church of Jesus Christ is faith in God and in his Son Jesus Christ, and one of its chief corner stones is authority. The perfection of righteousness is implicit faith in God, in his revelations, in his disciples, and in their teachings. The very essence of goodness is not to doubt, as doubt is sometimes the very opposite of faith. It could not be otherwise, as it is easy and natural for Latter-day Saints to accept God's declaration, as given through Joseph Smith the Prophet, as the word of God, and to sustain all GENERAL CONFERENCE  who are mouthpieces for God. We make the further claim that the elder of the Latter-day Saint Church is also called of God, and his commission is from above and his position is eternal." 

I set elders apart, assisting the brethren-almost every week. I never hesitate when placing my hands upon those young men, to say, "You have been called by divine authority through the presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." I try to impress them that they were not called by the bishop, or by the presidency of the stake, they were recommended and their names were sent in properly endorsed; but they are all called by revelation, just as I was in 1883, among a body of missionaries. I was the only one in that whole number of men who was not ordained a Seventy, as my first mission in the south was filled as an elder, I enjoyed the same spirit and the same blessings that the Seventies enjoyed because I was called by the same authority, and the spirit of my appointment went with me. 

An elder is sent out not to represent his personal views or the views of the people, but to proclaim the truth as it is revealed. He is not chosen as a spokesman for the people, not just as a messenger, but the bearer of a message to the people. 

We reach the final conclusion that this is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the gospel of Jesus Christ restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. The religion that we advocate is Christ's religion, not "Mormon's religion"; that is, it is the word of God. We do not teach for doctrines the commandments of men. 

That is my testimony. I do not think I have to get myself all exercised and all wrought up and tear my lungs all to pieces to impress you, after forty years of labor in the ministry. Notwithstanding all my mistakes and blunders I have had this testimony from the beginning, and the beginning was in the Brigham Young Academy, under the teaching and instruction of Brother Karl G. Maeser. President Grant told us last evening of a spot of ground he will never forget. And it impressed me with a feeling which never can be blotted out — my experience as a pioneer in Bear Lake when I went into that log meeting house and heard Brother Maeser talk, and he was talking about the gospel, I shall never forget, though I have never remembered what he said, but I know how I felt, and my brother Elias and I, and our mother with us, made as great a sacrifice as I have ever made to go on a mission, when we moved from Bear Lake down through Evanston and through the deep snow by team, and not by railroad or auto. It took us three or four days to reach Provo. We went to school. 1 attended two years and my brother Elias went three. 1 am telling you this because I have felt, as I have not felt for a long time, the inspiration through the prophets of God when they concluded to send out a thousand missionaries; and i,t seems that some 'of our people did not understand President Grant, they got the idea that they were sending them all to South America. It is a mighty good 157  that they did not do so because it would have created persecution. If you ever rush a thousand missionaries into a place I will tell you legions of devils will turn loose and drive them out. You have got to go in by degrees. I know that. That is what happened to Heber C. Kimball and those great missionaries in England, when they fell as if dead, and for one hour they laid there and had a vision and heard the trampling of feet of legions of devils or evil spirits. The devil always kicks up a row. I remember in President Roberts' day, when they began to persecute us and drive us out of the South — I remember when Brother Roberts was coming home with an emigration and I was left in the office. Letters came from all over the mission in 1884, one of the terrible years of the South, "What shall we do?" I wrote to President Taylor and asked him what I should do? He only wrote a few lines, "When they persecute you in one place, flee ye into another." I wrote that hundreds of times, when the mob was after the elders, "Flee to another place, and just as soon as you can, come back." But if they drive you out and tell you never to come back, if you do go back they will kill you just, as they did the brethren in Cane Creek. They told them not to go back, but they needed a resting place, and they killed them. I know, I was in the mission. 

Brethren, what I want to talk to you about a few minutes is my own experience. I know more about myself than any man, living in the flesh. I am getting pretty well acquainted with myself. I am surprised sometimes at the things I do and say, more than you are. I remember after I went to school I came home and went to Bear Lake. I came down here on a little business which I happened to have with William C. Spence, of the President's office; he said, "Brother Kimball, President Taylor sent you a letter calling you on a mission, and he is disturbed because you have not answered." I said, "How could I answer it, when I never got it?" "Well, you'd better go in and see him." I went into the President's office, the first time since I was a young boy with my father, and I met that great and wonderful prophet. I said, "President Taylor, I never received your letter." "Well, Brother Kimball" (he was so kind, he thought so much of Heber C. Kimball and that made him think a lot of me), "you cannot go now." I had been praying for it, I had been asking the Lord why I could not go. My mother had been praying that God would send me out. I said, "President Taylor, give me one hour and I will give you my answer." I went out on the street, and the first man I met was Bishop Thomas Jenkins of the Seventh ward, who had been to Bear Lake and I knew him. I said, "Brother Jenkins, will yau sign my note for a hundred dollars?" "You bet, I will." So we went down to the Deseret National Bank and he endorsed my note, and I came back to the office with one hundred dollars in my pocket, and I said, "President Taylor, I am ready." I went on that mission. N;o greater blessing has ever come into my life. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

That is the first time I ever saw Elder B. H. Roberts. No greater favor ever comes to a man than to be called on a mission. I met a nephew last night, one of Heber C. Kimball's grandchildren. He said, "Uncle Golden, when I was a young fellow"— he is now a High Councilor in one of the stakes — "you came to me and said, 'Are you ready for a mission ?' I answered you as I should not have done, but the greatest mistake I have ever made in my life was that I did not respond at that time and have you present my name." 

There is a little story in connection with this that I want to impress you with. 

I remember when we arrived at Chattanooga, Brother Roberts sent me and a son of an apostle into Virginia. When our visit in Chattanooga was over, and we had paid our expenses I had ten dollars. When we got to the end of the railroad I said to my companion : "Let's ride in a carriage, it will be the last time we will ever see one." I did not know that I was a prophet, but it came true. When we reached our field of labor we lay around there for about three weeks. I said to my companion, who was from the Brigham Young Academy, "Let us go up into the woods and see if we can sing," (I couldn't carry a tune, I never tried to sing in the Academy), "and let us go up and learn to pray." We did not have any audience, only those great big trees. And I said "Let us learn to preach." I would advise young elders to do that before they start out and not practice so much on the people; we practiced on the trees. So I prepared myself and occupied the time. My companion was prepared, and we sang. We made an awful mess of it, but after a while — and that is another testimony — God brought the tunes to us, and we could sing the songs that we had listened to in the Academy. Then I preached. God was kind to us and he loosed our tongues and we found we were able to express the things we had studied. I rem'ember my companion was dismissing. We had our eyes shut and our hands up. I thought he would never get through; and when he said, Amen, we looked back, and there were four men standing behind us with guns on their shoulders. I said to my companion, "That is another lesson, from this time on in the South; I shall pray with one eye open." 

So, I will conclude my remarks by saying that I filled that mission. Brother Roberts and Brother John Morgan are my witnesses that I completed it, although I was broken down with malaria. But I came home with an honorable release; it was in 1884 that I came home. I worked in the Mutuals, started in Bear Lake with the elders. I wound up as superintendent of the Mutuals. I traveled from Evanston to Soda Springs in snow and cold weather, and suffered. By the way, when I went on my first mission I told President Taylor, "If you will let my brother Elias stay at home, I can fill my mission." That put the idea in his head, and Elias was called right after I was, and we both went, we left our cattle and our horses and everything we had. 159 

Then came my second mission. There was no noise about it, word just came, "You are called to preside over the Southern States mission, and Brother Spry will take you down and turn the mission over to you." He did, and he did it mighty hurriedly, too, and left me to preside. During my first year I came home with an emigration, and while I was trying to comfort my wife who was sick, Brother Roberts wired me to come down and be ordained as one of the First Council of Seventy. They never asked me, they never consulted with me, they just sent for me, and I have been in this Council thirty-three years. I filled my mission. One day Brother Reynolds and I came out of the Council meeting, and when we got to the gate, he said, "Brother Kimball, you are released, and your brother Elias is appointed." The two of us spent ten years in the south and when we came back we didn't have a thing but our families and our lives. 

The Lord has been good to me. No man in the Church has been favored more or treated more kindly than I have. I have got all that I have deserved and a good deal more. My brethren and sisters, that is my testimony. I have been among the Seventies for the past year. My health was not very good last vear. I have never allowed a Sabbath day to pass me, if I could make an appointment, that I have not been among the Seventies. I am acquainted with the Seventies. If you want Seventies to go on missions I can speak for them. If you call them they will go, but if you want them to stay home they will do so, and so will L I will go on a mission if called. I am not just talking either, God knows it, and I know it. I would go if I were brought back in a casket, and I do not know but I would be tickled to death to have it come that way. 

I have never been more greatly impressed than by Colonel Bryan, a man of the world who died fighting for God and testifying as far as his knowledge went. What more can any man do? That is the way I feel. I shall stav in this work. I uphold it. Inasmuch as you need a thousand missionaries for six months' missions there will be no trouble in getting them. I have asked hundreds of Seventies and had them stand on their feet and asked, "How many of you have filled missions?" (They would stand up). "How many of you have not filled missions?" "How many of you have never been asked to go on missions?" And I am astonished at the hundreds and hundreds of the Seventies who have never been asked to go. They may have been considered by the prsidents of stakes and bishops. But if you want a man to go on a mission, call him. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, to bless the authorities of the Church, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I have been very greatly impressed during the meetings of this conference with the wonderful drama that has been enacted on the stage of this earth upon which we dwell. It has been said by a Latin scholar that history is the witness of time (Historia, testis temporum est), and it seems to me that there is nothing that is more indelibly imprinted upon the history of the human race than the purposes of the Almighty, that there is a Providence over all, and he is guiding and directing the destinies of his children. I think it has been made plain that this history, if we are to properly understand it, begins before the foundations of this earth were laid; that we who dwell upon the face of the earth today, counted as we are by many hundreds of millions, and those who were before us, even from the very beginning of time, have at one time dwelt in that primeval world in the presence of our Father in heaven as his children; and the scenes that are now being enacted are in pursuance of the great plan that was evolved by him in the very beginning, in that primeval state that we read about in the holy scriptures, when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy. Then and in that pre-existent state, as it is now, there were differences among the children of God, there were some who were noble and great and good; there were some who were evil and had many weaknesses, and fell far short of doing the things that were necessary for their own progress arid exaltation. But in the midst of all the children of God, when the plan was announced, there were some who fulfilled their first estate, not all in equal degree, but they were different, some of them were great and noble and were chosen to be the rulers among men. There were some who were choice, though in lesser degree, who were worthy of some distinction, and still others who were not so worthy, yet all of them having fulfilled their first estate were permitted to dwell in mortal life upon the earth, and they were known of the Almighty and he was interested in the welfare of them all. 

Among the great ones, as we have been told, was Abraham. Abraham was a man whom God loved; and he, too, loved the Lord, and the Lord knew him. He knew that he would keep his statutes, that he would obey his commandments, and not only that but he would teach his own children after him. It is through that lineage that we today have the knowledge of the true and living God. It is through that lineage that a record has been preserved among the children of men, giving a history of the dealings of God with his children. Those that were more favored because of their faithfulness in that pre-existent world were the ones that were to come through the lineage of Abraham, for the Lord blessed Abraham and promised him that in him and his seed should all the nations.of the earth be blessed. Those who were faithful to a marked degree in 161  pre-existent 'state were privileged to come in due course of time through that lineage, the children of Abraham. What greater privilege could a child of God desire than to be numbered among those whom God permitted to come through that lineage, that should bring into this world and preserve among the children of men a knowledge of the true and living God that they might be taught in his ways ? 

In the progress of this human drama the Lord delivered his chosen people out of their bondage in the land of Egypt, directed and guided by a great prophet of God, Moses. He brought them out into the wilderness and endeavored to eradicate from among them the idolatrous ideas they had imbibed in the land of Egypt. And the Lord took his servant, the Prophet Moses, up into the mountain and delivered unto him the word of the Lord regarding the plan of life and salvation. The tablets upon which it was written, when he came down from the mount and saw them worshiping the golden calf, were broken into pieces in the anger of that mighty man of God. He was called again up into the mount and brought back with him the law of carnal commandments, that men might repent of their sins and avoid the evils of the world and be schooled that they might disseminate among the inhabitants of the world a knowledge of those principles that had within them the power of God unto salvation. 

And in further process of time, after having sent so many prophets, whom they stoned and persecuted, came the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, to restore anew that great law, the law of grace, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, that the world might not be without it and the children of God might be saved, and might be brought to repentance and prepare themselves for that eternal glory that was thought out and planned from the very beginning. Notwithstanding the rebellious spirit that manifested itself throughout all these ages, there has been committed to that lineage a knowledge of the things of God, and of him who was indeed the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Great promises were made unto that lineage, and I am going to read just a little from the scriptures, to be found in the forty-ninth chapter of Genesis. Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, whom the Lord named Israel, who became the father of the twelve tribes of Israel; and that great and mighty man, when his days began to draw to a close, called around him his twelve sons and bestowed upon each in their order his blessing, to be fulfilled upon their heads, and to Joseph he gave this blessing: 

"Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well; whose branches run over the wall." 

And later in that same blessing said he: 

"Even by the God of my father, who shall help thee; and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under." 

I have ofttimes thought, what can these references mean?" GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Here is a family, a lineage, a seed scattered among the children of men, by which all the nations of the earth are to be blessed. That was the blessing that was given to Abraham, and the Lord gave him a promise, and led Moses into the promised land, which was to be the land of their inheritance, the land of Palestine, the land of Judea, the Holy Land. This was the land that was given unto the seed of Abraham to be an everlasting inheritance unto them. But here we have him pronouncing the blessing upon the head of Joseph : "Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well; whose branches run over the wall." What did it mean ? Did it not mean that this blessing was being realized when father Lehi left the shores of old Arabia and crossed the great waters, even the mighty Pacific Ocean, and landed probably on the western coast of Chile in South America, in Valparaiso? One would almost think that father Lehi and his family had suggested the name, for that was the valley of Paradise. Surely they felt that under the guidance they had received they had come to the paradise of God, Valparaiso, the valley of Paradise. Here then, it seems to me, although vaguely stated, might be a fulfillment of this promise unto Joseph, whose branches, but not all of the house of Joseph, ran over the wall. Rather vague, perhaps, but let me read another paragraph following, wherein it says : 

"Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee; and the Almighty, who shall bless thee with the blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under." 

Here then is another inference. What else could it have referred to than the land of America, standing as he was at that time in Egypt, saying that his branches should run over the wall, and that the blessings of heaven above and of the deep that lieth under should be given him. He seemed to have understood at that time that the world was round, and that that part (which is now America) that lieth under was to be the land of Joseph. Even this may be considered a somewhat vague reference. But let us read on. It would seem that there was a determination to banish all doubt from our minds when we read these words pronounced upon the head of Jeseph,. for it says here : "The blessings of thy father," (that was Jacob, called Israel) "have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors." Who were they? Abraham, and Isaac, the blessings that were pronounced upon them, and the giving to them of that land of promise, — Palestine, Judea, — to be an eternal inheritance to the seed of Abraham. But here was something above and beyond pronounced upon the head of Joseph. Said he: 

"The blessings of thy father (Jacob) have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors, unto the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills." 

O, how plain it would seem; the vagueness disappears; But that pertained to the house of Joseph : Let us read on : 

"The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills, and they shall be on the head of Joseph and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren." 163 

And here we are in the land of Joseph; and through the interposition of the Almighty, his purposes are written in the pages of history, wherein he has sent the seed of Abraham all over the world, that all the nations of the world are to be blessed in his seed. The Jews are to return to the land of their inheritance, but Joseph must be gathered upon the land of Joseph, which is North and South America. And so we are gathering them from the countries of Europe. Those who came with father Lehi were mostly the children of Manasseh, the son of Joseph, but most of those who have been scattered in the different nations of the earth are the children of Joseph through his son Ephraim, and these are they who hear the voice of the good Shepherd and are being gathered to the land of Joseph through the ministrations of the elders of Israel in these days, and in whose veins flows the blood of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and of Joseph; for they belong to the tribe of Joseph. Have our patriarchs not prophesied upon our heads, O ye children of Israel, ye sons and daughters of Zion, have we not been told that we were the children of Abraham through Joseph and Ephraim? And so, I say, the children of Ephraim are being gathered upon the land of Joseph, a choice land above all other lands, extending from the north pole to the south pole in this great western hemisphere. 

I rejoice therefore in having the opportunity of doing my little part in the bringing about of this great work, in carrying the message to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and in gathering into the fold the children of Abraham, by bearing the message of life and salvation, searching them out wherever they may be. I accept, as Elder Ballard did, the call that has come to me, and I rejoice in having the opportunity of playing a small part at least in the opening up of that great work in the southern hemisphere among the children of Lehi, and I hope and sincerely pray that the Lord will qualify me for that mission. I rejoice in the companionship that we have in Elder Ballard, an apostle of the Lord, a witness of the Lord Jesus Christ. How I feel to uphold and sustain him, and will endeavor to assist him with all my might that he may be able to accomplish all that the Lord would have him do in this great mission. I rejoice in the companionship of Elder Rey L. Pratt, whom I have learned to love as my fellow laborer in the Council to which I belong, and in my association with him. With the help of the Lord I desire to go and discharge myself of the duty that now lies incumbent upon me; and in this labor I hope and pray that we may have the faith and prayers of the Latter-day Saints, that the purposes of the Almighty may be furthered, and that in that continent where the gospel has not yet found a foothold, there may be an opening, that the children of Israel, the descendants of Abraham, the descendants of father Lehi, may be brought to a knowledge of the truth and rejoice in the blessings of the gospel of our Master, and I pray for this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I need the sympathy and faith of this audience and the blessings of the Lord if there is to be fulfilled during the short time that I stand before you the earnest prayer in which you joined this afternoon, that the spiritual feast might be continued. I trust that it may not be marred, but that if possible it may be added to. 

John, in his first general epistle, uses this language : 

"For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us." 

It has been made clear by the remarks of the brethren during this conference that there are two classes of witnesses, the first, the Divine witness, as spoken of very clearly by Elder Whitney, and also by other speakers during this conference, and human witnesses, mentioned particularly by Elder David O. McKay. The first great class is illustrated in the last chapter of Moroni, which is the last chapter in the Book of Mormon, wherein we are told that by the power of the Holy Ghost the truth of all things may be made known unto us, and the formula is given for obtaining the power of the Holy Ghost as that witness — by prayer to God the Eternal Father in the name of Jesus Christ, with a sincere heart, with real intent and with faith in Christ. 

Human witnesses are provided for as shown by the twenty-seventh chapter of II Nephi. The importance of this class of witnesses is emphasized by the promise of the three witnesses and eight witnesses in support of the divinity of the Nephite scriptures. In the scriptures we have human as well as divine testimony to support the truth. 1 appreciate both classes of evidence. I am impressed with the testimony of Mary, the mother of the Master. Her testimony is recorded in holy writ in language that has always thrilled me when I read it. Of all the witnesses except the great testator, the Holy Ghost, it seems that Mary, the mother of Jesus, should know as well as anyone the divinity of her son. Her testimony is recorded in the first chapter of Luke, beginning at the forty-sixth verse, when she realized that she was favored above all women, as the angel had informed her. She exclaimed: 

"My soul doth magnify the Lord and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. 

"For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden; for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. 

"For he that is mighty hath done to me great things; and holy is his name." Elizabeth, her cousin, had the same witness. She knew that Mary was greatly favored above women. The same divine testimony came to Joseph, and he understood the honor that had been bestowed upon him and upon his espoused. 

A little later, Simeon was privileged to perform the law, and when he takes the babe in his arms he feels that the honor is sufficient for him; that he is now ready to depart. He exclaims, "Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word, for mine 165  have seen thy salvation, which God hath prepared before the face of all people, a light to the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel." 

There was also the promised son of Elizabeth to testify to the coming of the Master, the voice crying in the wilderness, calling to repentance and anouncing that there came one after him whose shoe latchet he was not worthy to stoop down and unloose, He who was to baptize with fire, as he, John, was baptizing with water. 

Then there was Jesus' marvelous ministry. At twelve years of age, the boy in the temple asking and answering questions with the wise men. Later the matchless Sermon on the Mount, after hearing which the people were astonished because he taught them not as the scribes, but as one having authority. Then his wonderful ministry of which a ruler of the Jews, Nicodemus, could say to him, "Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher sent from God for no man could do the miracles that thou doest except God be with him." 

And yet after all testimonies of Jesus' ministry we have reached an age when study and scholarship seem to darken these great truths. Those of us who have accepted as a reality the introduction of the Son by the Father to the Prophet Joseph, the revelation upon which the restoration of the gospel is founded, can scarcely realize the darkened condition of the minds of some so-called Biblical scholars. I am not in the habit of repeating things that are not constructively helpful, but it is not enough to be satisfied ourselves, but we have the duty of assisting the world to come to a knowledge of the great truths which we rejoice in. There were published in some of the recent magazines of international value the remarks of a professor of one of our great institutions, upon this subject of the divinity of the Master — a man who had written a good deal concerning Jesus, and yet who seemed to become more darkened the more he wrote, because in an article in the Hibbert Journal, on Jesus, he asserted that the divine incarnation is alien to the teachings of Jesus Christ and to those of the original disciples, and that we cannot longer regard the teachings of Jesus as of unique authority or of permanent validity. These critics profess to give greater weight to> the so-called synoptical gospels, Matthew, Mark and Luke, than to the writings of John or of Paul. Since reading this assertion of this professor I have re-examined the sayings of Jesus as recorded in some of the synoptical gospels, particularly Matthew, to see whether it was possible that I had been mistaken all this while in the thought that these gospels did give indication that Jesus proclaimed that he was the Christ. We have had some of these instances testified to during this conference. The answer to the question that he asked his disciples as to whom men said he was — the final answer of Peter, "Thou- art the Christ, the Son of the living God," and the reply of approval by the Master, when he said, "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." 

And yet in the light of such scriptures there are so-called proGENERAL CONFERENCE  who will declare that it is alien to the teachings of Christ that he claims incarnation, or to be the Messiah of the world. 

I have noted many passages of scripture, particularly from Matthew, that indicate he was more than mortal. For instance, in the raising of the boy with the palsy, when he said: "Thy sins be forgiven thee," and then, reading the thoughts of the Pharisees, questioning that he had that power, he asked them whether it was easier to say, "Thy sins bje forgiven thee," or, "Arise and take up thy bed and walk?" He performed healings under cricumstances that one could not doubt that he had the power also to forgive sins. 

When the mother of Zebedee's children came to him and asked the privilege for one of her children to sit upon his left hand and one upon the right, he told her that privilege was not his to bestow, but was the right of his Father. 

He spoke of ascending in glory. 

I shall not take time to refer to any considerable number of these instances, but just a few to illustrate how presumptious and blasphemous it would have been for the Savior, had he been a mere mortal, to have assumed the authority and uttered the words that he did, in the authority of his high calling as the Messiah and the Redeemer of the world. He spoke of the time when the Son of man shall come in his glory and all the holy angels with him. "Then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory, and then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world." Again, at the time of his crucifixion, "Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels?" And then the circumstances of the administering of the holy sacrament to his disciples, and the concluding commission to them : "Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have given you, and lo, I am with you always even unto the end of the world." What presumption would it have been to so speak, if he had been merely human? 

These professors shy at the teachings of St. John, although his gospel has been called the most influential book known to the literature of the world, a book, by the way, which is replete with testimonies pertaining to the divinity of Jesus. Let me quote a few of these : 

"I and the Father that sent me." 

"Ye neither know me nor my Father." 

"That which I have seen with my Father." 

"He that hath seen me hath seen the Father." 

"I am the Light and the Life of the world." 

"I came forth from the Father, and have come into the world." 

"The glory which I had with thee before the world was." 

"The Word was made flesh." 

"In whom dwell all the fulness of the Godhead bodily." Many more expressions along this line, are found which time will not permit to call your attention to. But there is much, particularly 167  the writings of John, in support of his claim of Messiahship, which some modern writers, in the sterility of their learning, seem to take pleasure in denying There is a type of mentality which seems to think it an indication of freedom and independence on their part to deny the most vital and well established truths. 

The testimony of the divinity of Jesus by the Prophets of old, you are no doubt familiar with. The expression of Isaiah taken from the ninth chapter of this prophet: "For unto you a child is born, unto us a Son is given, and the government shall rest upon his shoulders, and he shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace." 

May the Lord help us to cherish this precious testimony which he has given unto us of the Prince of Peace, this Mighty God, our Savior and Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen, 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

This conference has been one of joy and pleasure to me, and I have listened with appreciation to the doctrines, teachings and instructions of my brethren. These meetings give us all new life, new vigor, a new outlook, new thoughts and new resolves; and I believe that we shall go home from this conference filled with the bread of life. 

When President Grant announced the great missionary movement and the call for one thousand mature men to go on missions for short terms, it filled my soul with gladness. I saw these vigorous, mature men, able defenders of the gospel, accepting this call, coming to Salt Lake, being set apart under the hands of the servants of God; I saw them arriving in the various fields of labor, receiving counsel and advice from their mission presidents; then going forth to the villages, hamlets, and the great cities of this land, and perhaps of other countries, preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ and crying repentance to all people. 

I saw these devoted men, and perhaps women, knocking at the doors of the people's homes, offering tracts, soliciting entertainment, sometimes being rebuffed and sometimes welcomed; delivering tracts which convey the gospel's message to those who will open their doors. I saw them on the street corners, addressing evershifting and changing congregations; in the civic centers, in the parks, upon steps of public buildings; and, in fact, wherever the police will permit them to preach. I saw these men, happy and thankful for the privilege of raising their warning voices once more to the inhabitants of this and other lands. 

As a result of this preaching and tracting the hearts of some will be truly touched by the message of the gospel; some will stop and listen; others will invite the missionaries to call; still others will hear the message through their friends. A few words will sink GENERAL CONFERENCE  the hearts of some of the listeners, and they will want to hear something more of this work. They will attend the little meeting places, sometimes a rented hall, sometimes a small chapel owned by the Church, and now and again a nice building. 

This work has been done by the bearers of the gospel thousands of times. Men will say to themselves and to one another : What shall we do? They will hear the message through the servants of the Lord, and some few will accept it and become valiant defenders of the truth in their own communities. They will receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, and this will drive out of their minds, if they will but permit it, all sectarianism and dogmatism from which the world is suffering today. 

Then I thought: It is probable that under the inspiration of the Lord our brethren have called this multitude of men to labor on these short missions so that our great nation may be once more warned. 'During the last few years there has been a slipping away from religious ideals and spirituality in the missions. Great controversies have been waging. Only recently this happened in Tennessee, and prominent men have shaken the people's faith in a living God and in the fundamental teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ and his atonement and the resurrection. Is the Lord sending out our brethren to warn these people to hold fast to the truth and to acknowledge the redemption and saving power of Jesus Christ? 

So, in my opinion, a great mission will be accomplished. It will stand out as an epoch in the history of this Church because of the mighty effort that will once more be made to call all the inhabitants of this nation and other nations to repentance. 

I had in mind this afternoon to say a few words concerning the poor, but time will not permit me to express all my thoughts. In Section 52 of the Doctrine and Covenants there is a statement given by the Lord, which startled me for a moment when I first read it: "And remember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same is not my disciple." Is it possible that in our haste and hurry and in the rush of life we have not digested this thought? It may be that some have said to themselves that the poverty and misery people suffer is usually brought upon them by their own folly; but King Benjamin in giving his final message to the people of Nephi says this: "Perhaps thou shalt say: the man has brought upon himself his misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him of my food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just." But that good man said unto them : "Whosoever doeth this, the same hath great cause to repent." It is a common habit for us to express ourselves in that way. 

I will also quote you a favorite passage of Bishop Nibley's from the writings of the Apostle James in the New Testament : "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit 169  fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." 

Then, our Lord and Savior, when talking to the lawyer, made two definite propositions : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself." 

I hope we shall all go home, thankful to the Lord for the abundant harvest, for the way the land has been blessed, for the opportunity that has come to the people of the Lord to get out of debt; and with all these blessings we shall not forget the poor, the sick, and the afflicted. If only our people could remember that even ten cents a day each month would do so much and if each church member would give this amount, the bishops would have in their hands each month $50,000. Then widows "could be provided with homes and some of the comforts of life, and we could give more intelligent service to the sick, the afflicted, and all those who need our help. We are not doing enough of this. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to remember our responsibilities to live up to our privileges and to keep his commandments, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

INTRODUCING ELDER REY L. PRATT 

If this were a picture show or some silly thing we could laugh at, we could stand it for two hours and a half and perhaps three, but if we should run ten or fifteen minutes over the time today I expect many of you would get up and go out. 

Before the close of this conference I desire to hear the testimony of Brother Rey L. Pratt. I desire this grandson of Parley P. Pratt who was one of the greatest of all the great writers of inspired hymns in our Church, and one of the great preachers, to bear testimony to us before departing upon his mission to South America. And if there is anybody who cannot stay until Brother Pratt gets through, I would be much obliged to them if they would leave now. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to have the opportunity this afternoon of standing before you here and bearing my testimony concerning the divinity of the gospel of our Lord and Savior, which has been restored to this day and age in which we live. I am indeed happy to have been deemed worthy to be the least of the three chosen to go into the land of South America for the purpose of establishing a mission there, and opening up in that land the work of the Lord for the preaching of the gospel to our Father's children who reside there. Particularly am I happy, my GENERAL CONFERENCE  and sisters, in the thought that the gospel is to be carried to more of our Father's children in the house of Israel, verily the Lamanite people, who reside upon this land of America; and my heart has been thrilled, my brethren and sisters, with the sure and faithful teachings of this conference. 

I realize that I am going into a southland, that I shall pass over the tropics, that I shall go through the lands where monkeys dwell, and I rejoice in the testimony that has been given unto me that I do not have to consider them the cousins that I am going to preach the gospel to. I am of the house of Israel through Ephraim, according to the patriarchal blessing that I have received, in which I believe implicitly. The people that we go to preach to are of the house of Israel, of Joseph, through Manasseh principally, also with a sprinkling of the blood of Ephraim among them. They are our brethren and sisters, they are our blood relatives, they have an inheritance upon this land, they are heirs to the gospel. The Lord has foretold in words of plainness this day that has now dawned upon us, and for which I do most truly thank him. 

If I may impose upon your time just a moment or two I should like to read from the Book of Mormon a number of predictions that to me seem to be fulfilled now. Of course, the work is all before us, and I do not undertake this work with my brethren in the thought that we are going down there to have particularly a good time, in the sense in which many deem it a good time, but I realize fully the responsibility of our call and the enormous amount of work that it will take to bring about the prophecies of the Lord that I should like to refer to here this afternoon. If you will turn to the first chapter of the 2nd Book of Nephi, you will find recorded the following : 

"And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made an end of teaching my brethren, our father, Lehi, also spake many things unto them — how great things the Lord had done for them in bringing them out of the land of Jerusalem. 

"And he spake unto them concerning their rebellions upon the waters, and the mercies of God in sparing their lives, that they were not swallowed up in the sea. 

"And he also spake unto them concerning the land of promise, which they had obtained — how merciful the Lord had been in warning us that we should flee out of the land of Jerusalem. 

"For, behold, said he, I have seen a vision, in which I know that Jerusalem is destroyed; and had we remained in Jerusalem we should also have perished. 

"But, said he, notwithstanding our afflictions, we have obtained a land of promise, a land which is choice above all other lands; a land which the Lord God hath covenanted with me should be a land for the inheritance of my seed. Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children forever, and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord. 

"Wherefore, I Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord. 

"Wherefore, this land is concecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which 171  hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if iniquity shall abound cursed shall be the land for their sakes, but unto the righteous it shall be blessed forever. 

"And behold, it is wisdom that this land should be kept as yet from the knowledge of other nations; for behold, many nations would overrun the land, that there would be no place for an inheritance. 

"Wherefore, I Lehi, have obtained a promise, that inasmuch as those whom the Lord God shall bring out of the land of Jerusalem shall keep his commandments, they shall prosper upon the face of this land, and they shall be kept from all other nations, that they may possess this land unto themselves. And if it so be that they shall keep his commandments they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to take awa} r the land of their inheritance and they shall dwell safely forever. 

"But behold, when the time cometh that they shall dwindle in unbelief, after they have received so great blessings from the hand of the Lord — having a knowledge of the creation of the earth, and all men, knowing the great and marvelous works of the Lord from the creation of the world; having power given them to do all things by faith; having all the commandments from the beginning, and having been brought by his infinite goodness into this precious land of promise — behold, I say, if the day shall come that they will reject the Holy One of Israel, the true Messiah, their Redeemer of their God, behold, the judgments of him that is just shall rest upon them. 

"Yea, he will bring other nations unto them, and he will give unto them power, and he will take away from them the lands of their possessions, and he will cause them to be scattered and smitten." 

My brethren and sisters, Lehi foresaw what would be the condition among his children if they would live in harmony with the commandments of the Lord that he had received for his children upon this land — that it should always be for them a land of security, the land of their inheritance, and that they should possess it unmolested by other people. But when they should turn away the reverse would be the case. History tells us that they turned away from the God of the land. They rejected Jesus Christ after his kingdom had been set up here, and behold the curse of the Lord has rested upon the land. I was in company with Elder Richard R. Lyman and Dr. George W. Middleton, only recently traversing the parts of Mexico where many important ruined cities lie, and it is marvelous to note the wonderful civilization that has once lived there, and it is marvelous to note how completely even the memory of them has been wiped out, and they are nowhere to be found. Were it not for the sacred volume of history from which I have read there would be no answer to the great riddle of those wonderful cities that were builded with such wonderful architecture in that land. Huge stones that we measured and calculated would weigh more than twenty tons, fitted closely together, having been brought a distance of three miles, and the joints fitted without mortar. So close are they fitted that the pen knife which we carried with us could not be inserted between the joints. This bespeaks a people who were mighty. It bespeaks also the fulfilment of the word of the Lord in regard to the destruction of this people. Prophets of that time, particularly Nephi the son of Lehi, foresaw GENERAL CONFERENCE  these things as a consequence of neglect among the people. What greater fulfilment of the word of the Lord could we desire? 

These prophets stated that they should be scattered and smitten by other people. Other prophecies in the book state that it should be the Gentile nations that should come in among them, that they should reduce this people to a remnant. The descendants of the builders of those mighty cities, my brethren and sisters, have verily been reduced to a remnant. Statistics given out by Jauregue, a statistician and historian of Guatemala, are to the effect that of all the native tribes south of the Rio Grande, since the coming of the Spaniards they have been reduced. nine-tenths. They have become a hiss and a by-word, they have become the hewers of wood and drawers of water for the Gentile oppressors who have come in amongst them. 

But I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the prophecy that I shall not take time to read, but merely to refer to, the word of the Lord that came to Nephi; you will find it recorded in I Nephi 13, wherein he saw all these terrible things that should befall his people, but he said that he saw that in the providences of the Lord he would not permit the Gentile nations to utterly overcome and wipe out the remnant of his seed, that should be among his brethren the Lamanites. Neither would he permit them to utterly overcome the seed of his brethren and wipe them out from the face of the land. If you will turn then to II Nephi 30, you will find wherein the Lord said that there should be a church established among the Gentile people, and a book should come forth. Many among the Gentiles should believe the words of the Book that was to be written, and they should carry it back to the descendants of those who wrote it, for their redepmtion, for it should contain the fulness of the Everlasting Gospel, and it should be preached among the descendants of those who wrote the book, and not many generations should pass away save they should become a white and a delightsome people again. 

Then if you will turn to III Nephi 21, you will find recorded there the time when we might look for the beginning of this wonderful work of restoration and redemption among that people who have been cursed of the Lord, and who have suffered so much and so long. Only those who have become intimately associated with them, my brethren and sisters, and have been touched by the ages of sorrow that they have wallowed through, know how they have suffered. And the Lord said that when these things should begin to come forth unto the seed of Lehi from the Gentiles to whom these things should be committed, and the seed of Lehi should begin to believe, then the Church, then the world, then all men might know that the Lord had set his hand to establish his work among that people, and to bring to pass his promises, and the great redemption that he had prepared for that people. 

I bear you my witness, my brethren and sisters, this afternoon 173  all solemnity, that I know that this is the work of the Lord, and for nineteen years have I labored in the land of Mexico and we have hundreds and thousands of valiant, true, faithful Latter-day Saints who believe the message of the gospel as it has been restored. They have not only begun to receive it, but they are now receiving it in considerable number. I wish to call your attention to the fact that so far this year already in the Mexican mission many pure-blooded Lamanites have been baptized. Yes, even more than were baptized during the ministration of Moses Thatcher, as president of the Mexican mission, with those who succeeded him; namely, August Wilson, Anthony W. Ivins, Heleman Pratt, Horace H. Cummings, and Henry Eyring. More have been baptized this year than were baptized during the ministry of all those men. 

So I have faith, my brethren and sisters, that the time has come, and I feel that our leader, under the inspiration of the Lord, has made no mistake in opening up the work in that land. I hope to play my part well. I have no desire other than to serve God by serving his children who need my services in that land or in any other land. I have dedicated my life to this work, I have given all upon the altar, and I have had to make sacrifices. As President Ivins said last night, we labor and we do sacrifice, and I have had it brought home to me that the Lord sometimes takes us at our word when we say we are willing to make sacrifices. I have cast my lot in that foreign land to sacrifice for this work, and I wish to continue faithful, my brethren and sisters, I wish to go with the faith and the prayers and the good will of my brethren. I know, as I stated in the beginning, that I only go as a helper. I am contented, I am proud, I am willing to go as an assistant in this great work of the Lord in that land. Oh, how my heart rejoices to think, as I picture now those great buildings that we visited the other day, that those who built them might now be smiling, they might now be rejoicing in the fact that God has moved upon his servants to call some others of his servants to go and bring the truth to their descendants, to call them out of their lethargy, out of their superstitions, out of the traditions through which they have wallowed all these generations, that there might come to them that faith, the greatest thing in all the world, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, upon which this work is builded, that it may be kindled in their hearts and burst into a flame, that they may become workers of righteousness. 

I rejoice in this great work. I pray for the blessings of the Lord to be upon the Saints at home and to be upon us who shall go so far away. I have brethren come to me and congratulate me upon my call, which I accept gladly, and they have said: "I wish that I could go. I wish I were numbered among those who are going to that land." Let me give you just one little hint. If you really and truly mean it, prepare yourselves for the work, for I think I can see, as this work begins to open up, the necessity for GENERAL CONFERENCE  calling, not of one thousand men, but of ten times one thousand men, to reach all of our Father's children who yet need the blessings of the gospel. Prepare yourselves by study. Prepare yourselves by getting out of debt. Prepare yourselves by shaping your financial affairs so that when the time comes you can answer, ''Aye, Lord, I am ready, take me, and do with me as thou wilt, in the consummation of thy great work among thy children here upon the earth." 

May the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, and bless us all in his service. My testimony to you is that God lives, that I know he lives, and that Jesus Christ is his Son, and that I, even I, in company with all of you, am made in his image and in his likeness. Oh, how I rejoice to know these things; oh, how I desire to keep alive in myself the faith that I have in Him, and how I anguish and how I grieve when I think of the possibility of that faith being destroyed in my children whom I am obliged to leave to the mercies of the schools of the age, the Church schools and otherwise, and know that there are conditions and that there are men who, if it were possible, are anxious to destroy that faith in my children. I love them as I love my life, but more than anything else, I desire that they shall keep alive the faith that is the foundation of eternal life, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. I bear you this testimony and invoke the blessings of the Lord upon us all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

TESTIMONY OF MILANDO PRATT 

"President Heber J. Grant, Beloved President: My bosom has swelled with exceeding joy in listening to the most interesting conference services over the radio, from my bedroom, where I have spent most of the time for the past nearly ten years, through a severe operation, followed by a prolonged, painful illness. I have heard distinctly all the tabernacle services, about three miles distant from my home. I am quite sure all the speakers were greatly inspired. Your brother in the Gospel, 

"MILANDO PRATT." 

Milando Pratt is a cousin of our last speaker, and a son of Orson Pratt who was one of the greatest writers and defenders of the truth that the Church has ever had. 

Brother Roberts reminds me that way in the 50's the grandfather of Brother Rey L. Pratt, namely, Parley P. Pratt, first carried the gospel to the land of Chile, in South America. 

ELDER JOSEPH BARLOW DEAD 

I overlooked announcing that Brother Joseph Barlow, counselor to the President of the Raft River stake, has passed away since our last conference. We extend to the family our sympathy. 

MISSIONS ESTABLISHED SINCE LAST CONFERENCE 

There have been established since our last conference the North Central States mission, with John G. Allred as President; 175  the German-Austrian mission, with Elder Fred Tadje as President, formerly president of the Swiss and German mission. 

NEW PRESIDENTS OF MISSIONS 

Six presidents of missions have been appointed as follows since last conference : J. Howard Jenkins as president of the N«w Zealand mission; Herbert B. Foulger, acting president of the Tahitian mission; John H. Anderson, president of the Swedish mission; Hugh J. Cannon, president of the Swiss and German mission; and Ernest C. Rossiter, president of the French mission. 

MISSION PRESIDENTS RELEASED 

Mission presidents released since our last conference : Angus T. Wright, New Zealand mission; Ole B. Peterson, Tahitian mission; Hugo D. E. Peterson, Swedish mission; Russell H. Blood, French mission. All of these released mission presidents have our love and blessing and full confidence, and also those who have been appointed. 

ABSENT 

There have been absent from this conference, as you know, Elder Reed Smoot, of the Council of the Twelve, in Washington, and Elder James E. Talmage, of the Council of the Twelve, who is presiding over the European mission. The reports from Brother Talmage are very encouraging and very satisfactory, and he is thoroughly enjoying his labors. The newspapers keep us well posted on the very wonderful and magnificent labors that Senator Reed Smoot is" performing in Washington. These brethren have our love and confidence and constant prayers for their success. 

APPRECIATION AND GRATITUDE EXPRESSED 

I feel to say on behalf of the Presidency of the Church that we are very grateful for the wonderful outpouring of the people during this conference. We are grateful for the light and inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord accompanying those who have spoken to us, and we give to the Saints the love and blessing of all of the General Authorities of the Church, and we echo the sentiment that has been uttered here, time and again during this conference, in the opening and closing prayers and in some of the remarks, that , the inspiration and spirit of this conference may be carried by the people who have been here to the various stakes of Zion. 

May God bless you one and all. May each and every one of us who have a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged, so order our lives that those who know not the truth, seeing our diligence, our faith, our humility, and our desire to serve God, may be led to investigate the truth that we have to bear to them. This is my prayer and desire, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

A sacred solo was sung by Walter Wallace, "Lift up thy heart." The congregation sang the Doxology. 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder John M. White, president of the Yellowstone stake. 

Conference was adjourned for six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing, assisted by B. Cecil Gates. Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Edward P. Kimball, Tracy Y. Cannon, Alexander Schreiner and Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic reports were made in the Tabernacle by Frank W. Otterstrom, assisted by Joseph Anderson; in the Assembly Hall by Frederick G. Barker. Owing to no previous notification being made of the overflow meetings in Barratt Hall, no provision was made for reporters for those meetings, each speaker furnishing his own synopsis. 

EDWARD H. ANDERSON INDEX 

Authorities Present 

Authorities of the Church, General 

Allred, Elder John G 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 

153 125 



Missionary Work a First Great Responsibility of the Church, 125 — Advantages in Missionary Work, 12S — None Who are Prepared to Go are Exempt, 128— The Responsibility of Caring for Our Membership, 127 — Need of Watchmen on the Towers of Zion, 127 — Let Us Keep Clean and Free from the Sins of the World, 128 — Prosperity Should Result in Salvation to Us and Our Children, 128— Concerning Going on the Mission to South America, 129 — Testimony, 130 — The Destiny of Zion Certain, 131. 

Who Can Draw the Line Between Spiritual and Temporal, IS — Joseph the Prophet, Though Spiritual, Had Much to do with the Temporal, 16 — Brigham Young was Gifted in Both Spiritual and Temporal Things, 17 — The Principle of Co-operation Applies to Both Religion and Business, 17 — Co-operation in Farming vs. Individual Effort, 18. 

Evans, Elder Abel John 41 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Authorities of the Church 153 

General Officers of the Church 153 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

A First Place Poem, 2 — A Tribute to President Penrose, 2 — William Jennings Bryan's Visit to Salt Lake City, 3 — Present at Historical Events, 4 — Visits Many Scenic Wonders, 5 — The Great Mission of the Latter-day Saints, 6 — A Central Thought Applying to Us, 7 — Worth of Great Souls in the Sight of God, 8 — Testimonies of Returned Missionaries, 8 — A Testimony of the Divinity of this Work, 8. 

Grant, President Heber J 10 

Missionary Calls, 10 — Opening of South American Mission, 10— Appeal for One Man From Each W'ard for Mission in the United States, 10 — Men of Means and Experience Wanted, 10. 

Grant, President Heber J 37 

Sympathy Extended to Those Who Mourn, 37. 

Grant, President Heber J 152 

Presidency of the Primary Association Reorganized, 152— General Authorities Officers of the Church, 152. 

Ballif, Elder Serge F. . . Bennion) Elder Adam S Bennion, Elder Samuel O. Callis, Elder Charles A.. . . Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q Clawson, Elder Rudger . . . GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Grant, President Heber J 169 

Introducing Elder Rey L. Pratt, 169. 

Grant, President Heber J 174 

Testimony of Milando Pratt, 174 — Elder Joseph Barlow, Dead, 174 — Missions Established Since Last Conference, 174 — New Presidents of Missions, 175 — Mission Presidents Released, 175 — Absent, 175 — Appreciation and Gratitude Expressed, 175. 

Hart, Elder Charles H 164 

Ivins, President Anthony W 19 

The Spirit of Prophecy vs. the Wisdom of Man, 19 — Character and Duty of Prophets, Seers and Revelators, 20 — Our Perilous Times Need the Directing Power of Prophecy, 21 — Difference Between Fundamentalist and Modernist, 22 — Whence Came Man and Whither Goeth He, 23— What is the Attitude of the Church on This Question, 23 — The Revealed Word of God to Us Conclusive Proof, 25 — The Pre-existence of Jesus Christ the Logical  Outcome, 26— Man Alone Endowed with' Reason, 27— Listen to the Word of God, No Truth Will Contradict It, 28. 

Jenson, Elder Andrew 51 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 155 

Knight, Elder John M 85 

Lillywhite, Elder John P 64 

Lund, Elder A. William 67 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 121 

A Trip to the Mexican Mission, 121— A Tribute to John J. McClellan, 122. 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 75 

McKay, Elder David 106 

Authorization of Christ to Witness of Him, 106 — The Reality of Christ as Deity, 106 — How We May Know God and Feel His Nearness, 107 — One Way, to Think, to Reason, 107 — Another, to Accept the Witness of Men of Integrity, 107 — Testimony of Men Who Saw the Resurrected Christ, 108 — The Modern Testimony of Joseph Smith, 109 — Three Witnesses Corroborate the Vision of Joseph, 110— The Witness of the Spirit, 111. 

Nibley, President Charles W 11 

Endorsement of the Missionary Call, 11 — Material Prosperity and Blessings, 11 — Caution to the People to Wisely Care for Their Wealth, 12 — Take Counsel Before you Invest in Presented Schemes, 12 — The Sound Counsel of Brigham Young Applies Today, 13 — Cultivate the Spirit of Thrift and Saving, 13 — Remember Your Obligations to the Lord, 14 — Counsel to the Young to Marry, 14 — Sacrifice for the Glory of the Lord and the Church, 14— We Are Engaged in the Lord's Work, 15. 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 57, 169 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr 92 

Richards, Elder George F 34 

The Saints Have the Courage of Their Convictions, 34* — The Danger of Losing Salvation, 35 — The Standard of Worthiness, 35 — An Individual Testimony, 36 — Our Accepted Principles Eternal, 36. 179 

Richards, Elder Stephen L .116 

The Nature and Value of Testimony, 116 — More Than Just a Mental Status, 117 — Great Spiritual Force, 117 — The Miraculous Change Wrought by Testimony, 117 — Testimony Comparable to Physical Force, 118 — The Blood of Israel Susceptible to the Influence of the Spirit, 118 — Is Testimony Susceptible to Proof? 119 — Testimony Produces Good Fruits, 119 — The Crime of Placing Obstacles in the Way of Obtaining Testimony, 120 — Let Not the Theories of Doctors of Philosophy Destroy Your Testimony, 120 — Testimony Inseparably Associated with Happiness and Joy, 120. 

Roberts, Elder Brigham H 143 

Shepherd, Elder Joseph R 60 

Smith, Elder George Albert 28 

An Important Subject, 28 — Two Creations Referred to, 29 —  The Latter-day Saints Have Another Witness, 30 — The Creation of Light, 30 — The Creative Periods ,31 — The Earth Prepared to Bring Forth Grass,, 31 — The Origin of Species, 31 — The Testimony of Modern Revelation, 32 — A Sure Knowledge of the Origin of Man, 33— No Doubt About Our Ancestry, 33— Our Mission, '33. 

Smith, Elder 1 Hyurm G 140 

Smith, Elder David A 98 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding Ill 

To Know God and Jesus Christ is Life Eternal, 112 — The preexistence of Christ, 112 — The Work of Christ to Bring to Pass Immortality and Eternal Life, 112 — Life Did Not Originate on the Earth, 113— The Faithful Promised Eternal Life, 113— Conditions Under Which Men May Secure Salvation, 115. 

Taylor, Elder John H 90 

Wells, John 167 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 160 

Whitney, Elder Orson F 100 

Divine Revelation, 100 — Man in the Image of God, 100 — Adam's Antecedents, 100 — -The Everlasting Gospel, 101 — The Dispensations, 101 — Neither Ape Nor Cave Man, 102 — Bryan Answered, 

102 — Not Dependent Upon Books, 102 — The Science of Sciences, 

103 — The House of Israel, 103 — Laws, Active and Obsolete, 103 — Modern Illustrations, 104 — The Church of the Living God, 

104— A Brave Fight, 10S— Truth the Eternal, 105. 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 135 

Testimony and Gratitude, 135 — Thrilled by the Call for Missionaries, 135— The World Needs the Light of the Church, 136— High Qualities of Leadership Caused by Perfect Doctrine, 136 — A System of Truth Leading to Perfection, 137 — -Can Perfection be Attained? 137 — An Aid to Physical Perfection, 138 — Smoking A Cause of Mental Deficiency, ,138 — The Gospel a Power Through Which Perfection is Achieved, 139 — A Newsboy's Proud Answer, 140. 

Wood, Elder Edward J *..... 72 

Wright, Elder Angus T 95 

Young, Elder Brigham S : 81 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 150 Read 

"Restoration of the Gospel" 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE 

"This book prepared by Elder Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, dealing with the important subject of the Restoration of the everlasting Gospel, should be read and its contents carefully considered by those who are seeking after truth. It treats the Restoration clearly, and places before the people many things that have not been generally considered heretofore. It will be a means of strengthening the faith of the youth of Israel and will impart information that is invaluable. May the spirit of truth accompany the work and rest upon all those who diligently read it with a desire to learn of and profit by the Restoration of the Gospel!" 

Joseph F. Smith, Jr. PRICE $1.00 POSTPAID 

A HELPFUL BOOK IN THESE TIMES OF CONTROVERSY 

Science and Belief in God 

By FREDERICK J. PACK 

A discussion of Certain Phases of Science and Their Bearing Upon Belief in the Supreme Being. 

$2.50 POSTPAID 

The One Volume Bible Commentary 

Edited by 

THE REV. J. R. DUMMELOW, M. A. 

Queen's College, Cambridge 

THE COMMENTARY ITSELF 

Line by line the Bible is here commented on — Nearly eleven hundred pages wherein the student in a moment can find concise yet comprehensive notes on any passage in the Scriptures. The entirely unprejudiced scholarship with which these comments are compiled has received tribute from critics of all denominations. CLOTH BOUND $3.00 

Deseret Book Company 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

P. O. Box 1793 

Do You Know what Brigham Young Taught? 

The course for the Priesthood Quorums for 1926 will be the 

Discourses of Brigham Young 

This book is now in press and will be ready about January 1, 1926. Watch for definite announcement, or send us your order now, and we'll send the book C. O. D. when it is ready. 

ANOTHER NEW ONE THAT IS WORTH WHILE 

The Fruits of Mormonism 

FRANKLIN STEWART HARRIS and NEWBERN I. BUTT Author of "Scientific Research and Human Welfare," etc. 

This study grew out of a demand for the real facts concerning conditions among the Mormons. The authors have had the best possible opportunity for making personal observations in every part of Mormondom and they have spent a number of years gathering material for this book. No attempt has been made here to determine the truth or falsity of Mormonism as a religion. The authors have been concerned to discover the accomplishment and condition of the Mormons as regards social welfare and as compared with other peoples of the country. The chief sources used are the reports of the United States Census Bureau and the official reports of various state, county, and municipal agencies. 

Successive chapters deal with the effect of the philosophy of Mormonism on the lives of its members; education and the development of leadership among the Mormons; the Mormons as colonizers; their attitude toward the government; their patriotism; their charities; their health; motherhood, marriage, and divorce; insanity and crime. PRICE $1.75 POSTPAID 

WHAT DID JOSEPH SMITH KNOW ABOUT SCIENCE? 

Read: 

Joseph Smith as Scientist 

By JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

"In the life of every person, who receives a higher education, in or out of schools, there is a time when there seems to be opposition between science and religion; between man-made and God-made knowledge. The struggle for reconciliation between the contending forces is not an easy one. It cuts deep into the soul and usually leaves scars that ache while life endures. There are thousands of young people in the Church today, and hundreds of thousands throughout the world, who are struggling to set themselves right with the God above and the world about them. It is for these young people, primarily, that this book has been written." 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

The Home of Worth While Books * 44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 







