Morning
04 10 1925

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I think the hymn to which we have just listened is entitled to the place it occupies in our hymn book, namely, the first hymn — the place of honor. It was written by the late Apostle Parley P. Pratt : 

A FIRST PLACE POEM 

"The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled! The dawning of a brighter day, Majestic rises on the world. 

"The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine; The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine. 

"The Gentile fulness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand; Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed of sin, Shall in their promised Canaan stand. 

"Jehovah speaks; let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live, His mighty arm is making bare, His cov'nant people to receive. 

"Angels from heaven and truth from earth, Have met, and both have record borne; Thus Zion's light is bursting forth, To cheer her children's glad return." 

I earnestly desire the faith and prayers of. this vast audience to assist me in that which I may say to you today. I sense the great responsibility of addressing so large an audience — for this building is filled to overflowing — and I desire that my remarks shall encourage and bless the Saints here assembled. 

A TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT PENROSE 

Since we last convened in general conference one of the great and faithful laborers in the Church has departed this life — the late 

President Charles W. Penrose. Perhaps no man in all Israel has written more in defense of the people than Charles W. Penrose, and I believe that the literature from his pen has been more widely distributed than the writings of any other of our leading men. He spent nearly twenty years of his life as a missionary in his native land. As I announced at his funeral, during the last nine months that I presided over the European mission we distributed about eight million pages of the writings of Charles W. Penrose. I have been thrilled by his discourses from this stand, from my childhood days until the time of his last public address. He was inspired in his utterances, and he had the capacity and the ability to make plain the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as perfectly as any of our speakers that I have ever heard. We also rejoice from time to time in listening to the inspired hymns that he has written. We moUrn his loss, but we rejoice in the wonderful record of labor and service that he made in the spread of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ at home and abroad. 

WILLIAM JENNINGS, bryan's visit to salt lake city 

At one of our general conferences some years ago we were honored with the presence of Senator Owen from Oklahoma and Honorable William Jennings Bryan. These gentlemen remained until after the conference session, when an informal organ recital was given in their honor. Perhaps a hundred or a hundred and fifty people were present and following the recital, requests came from different parts of the small audience that Senator Owen and Mr. Bryan make some remarks. They did so, and from the press reports of the occasion we read the following: 

HIS ESTIMATE OF "MORMONISM" 

"Mr Bryan said the truths he had heard expounded there that day he should endeavor to carry with him throughout life, and he believed that through him many people might hear the truth concerning 'Mormonism,' for he would endeavor to give an exposition of what he had heard in plain truth to the people with whom he associated. Mr. Bryan said he had been undecided about coming to Salt Lake. He had been asked to speak in Los Angeles Monday, but he had obeyed a whim almost and had come to Salt Lake. He did not know why, but now he said he believed it was providential. At any rate he said he had heard truths uttered that impressed him deeply, and he knows that he is better equipped to perform his work in the world for having heard 'Mormonism' expounded. Particularly was he impressed, Mr. Bryan said, with the 'Mormon' belief in the personality of God. It is a beautiful belief, he said, and one by which the world might profit. He referred to the application of the gospel in the lives of the 'Mormon' people, and said such principles applied to the problems of the world would in very deed solve the difficulties with which the world is beset. 

He referred to the single standard of morality, as expounded by one of the speakers, and said that in very truth that is a principle that might well be applied to the lives of all men." 

HIS LAST SPEECH SHOWS HIS PERFECT FAITH IN GOD 

The publishing house of Revell & Co. have published a book containing the last address of William Jennings Bryan, which address was prepared for the celebrated evolution case in Tennessee, but was never delivered. I have had the privilege of reading and rereading the book. It shows that he had perfect faith in God our heavenly Father and in my judgment it is a very strong defense of the divinity of Christ and of the Godhood of our Father in heaven. 

I had the pleasure of visiting with Mr. Bryan, after his remarks following our conference, and he said that he was expected to deliver three speeches in California before leaving, but that he believed the world at large would get more benefit from what he had learned in our conference than the people would have received had he remained in California and delivered those three speeches. He promised to send me a little pamphlet containing his ideas about God. After reading it I remember saying to my family that William Jennings Bryan ought to be a Latter-day Saint, because many of his views were in perfect harmony with our faith. Every Latterday Saint upon the face of the earth believes in the individuality and personality of God our Father, and of the Lord Jesus Christ. A man who does not so believe has no right to be called a Latter-day Saint. Every Latter-day Saint believes absolutely that God conversed with Joseph Smith, and introduced to him the Lord Jesus Christ as his well-beloved Son. 

PRESIDENT GRANT PRESENT AT HISTORICAL EVENTS 

During the past six months I have had the privilege of visiting in California and meeting with the Saints there. I had the pleasure of being present at the official opening of Zion's National Park in southern Utah, and of attending the general conference in June of the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement association, and also the Primary association. That great celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement association was one of the grandest that we have ever had. It was a marvelous outpouring of the youth of Israel upon the streets of this, the central city of Zion. The parade was an honor to the Mutual Improvement association and a credit to the Church. I believe that special credit for that parade was due to the insistence of Junius F. Wells, the man called originally by Brigham Young to organize the Young Men's Mutual Improvement association. For the very splendid and orderly way in which it was conducted, credit is due to Governor Mabey and to each and every one of those on the committees. Credit is also due to the various people who took part in speaking, singing, or giving orations or the various contests, musical and otherwise, at the conference. My heart was filled with gratitude and thanksgiving to know that we have today one hundred thousand young men and young women in these Improvement associations interested in laboring with zeal and energy for the advancement of the work of God. 

I had the pleasure of being present at a celebration in connec with the great dam that is to be erected at American Falls, where millions of money will be expended and a vast empire redeemed through utilizing the waters of the Snake River. It was also a pleasure later to attend the Burley stake conference. Saturday evening I held a meeting at Oakley at which thirty odd per cent of the people of Cassia stake were in attendance. I first visited that section of the country forty-four years ago this fall, when it was only a branch of the Grantsville ward of the Tooele stake of Zion, numbering perhaps a hundred and fifty to two hundred and fifty Latter-day Saints. There are now in that section of the country a number of stakes of Zion, among them the Twin Falls stake. The city of Twin Falls has over eight thousand inhabitants. None of our people were located there at that time, but I rejoice in the wonderful growth of our people and others in redeeming that section of the country. 

I was requested to go to Pocatello and dedicate an amusement hall — a fine large building. I thought back to the time when I first went there and met with just a handful of Latter-day Saints in a little rented hall, and when I contemplated the fact that there are now six organized wards of the Church at Pocatello, and thought of the wonderful growth of Latter-day Saints in that section, I rejoiced in the material and spiritual advancement of the people there. 

VISITS MANY SCENIC WONDERS 

I was requested to send a speaker to hold a meeting at the West entrance of the Yellowstone National Park the Sunday evening that I was at Pocatello. I made several efforts to secure a speaker to go there, but all those to whom I applied were engaged. So I decided to drive from Pocatello myself Sunday afternoon, and attend the meeting at West Yellowstone. The next day and the day following I had the privilege of going through the Yellowstone Park, and then driving down to Driggs, where I held a meeting Tuesday night. Yellowstone Park can be reached from here in a night's ride on the train and the scenery there is among the grandest in all the world. 

Upon my return home Thursday I found an invitation from my son-in-law to climb Timpanogos the following Saturday, which I did. From the top of that mountain, the view of Wasatch, Utah, and Salt Lake counties, the cities therein, and other sections of the country in the distance, is one of the grandest that my eyes have ever beheld. 

The following Sunday night I left for the scenic wonders of southern Utah, reaching Cedar Monday morning with President Ivins and wife, Sister Grant and my niece. We visited Cedar Breaks and Zion canyon, and the next day going to the Grand Canyon, or at least to the V. T. ranch in the Kaibab forest. We saw between two hundred and three hundred deer that afternoon as we were traveling to this ranch. The next day we visited Point Sublime and saw the Colorado river and that wonderful gorge in which you could drop about one hundred Grand Canyons of the Yellowstone. It is twelve miles wide and one mile deep as compared with the gorge thirteen hundred feet deep and two' thousand feet wide at the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone. It is a sight that beggars all description. It is a marvel; it is a wonder! We drove that afternoon to Kanab and in the evening held a meeting with the Saints. I rejoice in the fine meeting house that they have erected there. 

The next day we visited Bryce Canyon, and I was more charmed wjth it than the first time I visited this, one of the scenic wonders of the world. The next morning, Friday, September 11, I parted with Brother Ivins; he returned to Salt Lake by way of Fish Lake, and I returned to Cedar City via Cedar Breaks and was present in the afternoon at the opening of the bridge over Ash Creek, which connects with the Black Ridge. I had the privilege of traveling over the road fifty-nine years ago, when the wagon in which I was riding jumped from one black rock to another, seldom finding any ground to light upon. On that old route which was selected by the pioneers who first went into St. George there is now, over the Black Ridge, one of the finest dirt roads that I have ever had the privilege of motoring over. It is a real delight to travel upon it. The bridge over Ash Creek is certainly a very creditable structure indeed. 

In my travels (in Europe) from Scandinavia on the north to Italy, on the south, and from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, in Hawaii and in Japan, I have witnessed many wonderful scenes; but if they were rolled in together they do not compare with the Yellowstone and these wonderful sights in southern Utah — Bryce Canyon, Cedar Breaks, Zion Canyon and the scenic points from the north rim of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado. 

THE GREAT MISSION OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Saturday and Sunday following the opening of the bridge over Ash Creek I attended the Parowan stake conference and enjoyed visiting there with the Saints and taking part in one of the conferences. 

I rejoice in the wonderful growth in all the stakes of Zion from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, and in the increase of interest and faith on the part of the Sa'ints throughout the world. I rejoice that there is a cry for more missionaries, from all parts of the world. The one great mission of the Latter-day Saints at home and abroad is to preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, to preach the individuality and personality of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to preach the restoration again to the earth of the plan of life and salvation. There is nothing that qualifies a man so much for preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as to study the revelations that the Lord has seen fit -to give us in our day. In them he says: 

"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. * * * 

"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. * * * 

"What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and earth pass away, my word will not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same. * * * 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength; that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. * * * 

"And now, verily, verily, I say unto thee, put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good — yea to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously; and this is my Spirit. 

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy. * * * 

"Seek not for riches but for wisdom; and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. * * * 

""Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me so it shall be done unto you; and if you desire, you shall be the means of doing much good in this generation. * * * 

"Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap. * * * 

"Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I am the life and the light of the world. * * * 

"Say nothing but repentance unto this generation. Keep my commandments, and assist to bring forth my work, according to my commandments, and you shall be blessed." 

A CENTRAL THOUGHT APPLYING TO US 

This last revelation from which I have read was given to Hyrum Smith, the brother of the Prophet Joseph. He was martyred with Joseph Smith, as you all know, in Carthage jail. 

I wish to emphasize one passage in this revelation : 

"Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap." 

So that it applies to you, to me and to all the Latter-day Saints. The central thought in this revelation is that we are to keep the commandments of God. It is reiterated in this one revelation some three or four or five times, that the duty was upon Hyrum Smith to keep the commandments of God and to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

The previous revelation from which I quoted was given to the father of the prophet. I will repeat the words of that part of it, as I did before, and I wish to emphasize it with all my heart: 

"Behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." (As I look at this marvelous audience and think of the people on the outside, who are hearing what I say, as well as the audiences in Barratt Hall and the Assembly Hall, surely I can say that this revelation, given to the father of the prophet and the patriarch, has been literally fulfilled.) 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day." WORTH OF SOULS GREAT IN THE SIGHT OF GOD 

I am well aware of the fact that it is tiresome to any audience to listen to a speaker when most of his time is occupied in reading; but when I contemplate the fact that my words uttered here today will be published in The Deseret News, which goes into the homes of the Latter-day Saints from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south; when I realize that what I am saying here is to be published in a conference pamphlet, copies of which will be sent to the missionaries all over the world, then I am far more anxious to have the words of the Lord and the Savior of the world published in this address than to make remarks myself. I desire therefore to read what the Savior said : 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

"For, behold, the Lord, your Redeemer, suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

"And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. 

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! 

"Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! 

"And now, if your joy shall be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me! 

"Behold, you have my gospel before you, and my rock, and my salvation. 

"Ask the Father in my name, in faith believing, that you shall receive, and you shall have the Holy Ghost, which manifesteth all things which are expedient unto the children of men. 

"And if you have not faith, hope, and charity, you can do nothing." 

This quotation is from the 18th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. 

TESTIMONIES OF RETURNED MISSIONARIES 

It fell to my lot two weeks ago today to sit upon the stand in the Assembly Hall and listen to the testimonies of five young men who had just returned from missions, and then listen to the testimony of James H. Moyle, the father of one of those young men. My heart was thrilled with the testimony they bore, and their undoubting knowledge that God lives, that Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, the Savior of mankind, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the true and living God, and that the gospel, commonly called "Mormonism" by the world, is in very deed the plan of life and salvation again restored to the earth. 

A TESTIMONY OF THE DIVINITY OF THIS WORK 

I rejoice in the absolute knowledge which I possess, of the truth  contained in section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants, which is known among us as "The Vision." I have been thrilled with the testimony there borne by the Prophet Joseph Smith, as I have repeated it itme and time again; and if it were repeated every day of my life, as I supplicate God from day to day, it would do me no harm : 

"This is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us —  

"That he came into the world, even Jesus, to. be crucified for the world and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness; 

"That through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him; 

"Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him." (Thank God they are few and far between.) 

"And now, after many testimonies which have been given to him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father. 

"That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." | \; 

When preaching to those not of our faith, in different parts of the world, I read, whenever I have the opportunity, the articles promulgated by Joseph Smith known as the 13 Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I rejoice in reading them and in testifying to those who know not the truth that in very deed those articles have been vindicated; that we believe in God the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and I testify to the world that we know that they live, because they appeared to Joseph; that we believe men must be called of God, and we know that they have been called of God in our day, because the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ ordained Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. We believe that men should receive the Holy Ghost, and we testify to all the world that they have received it in this Church. I rejoice that all the gifts and graces, that were enjoyed in ancient days — the speaking in tongues, the interpretation of tongues, the healing of the sick, and kindred gifts as enumerated in the Articles of Faith, are enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints all over the world, wherever this gospel has gone. I rejoice in the wonderful faith and knowledge of the Latter-day Saints regarding the divinity of this work. I am thankful beyond expression that wherever this gospel has gone, in answer to humble, faithful prayers, God has given to individuals all over the world a knowledge of themselves concerning the divinity of this work. What kind of men and women should we be, as Latter-day Saints, in view of this wonderful knowledge that we possess, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God? We should be the most honest, the most virtuous, the most charitable-minded, the best people upon the face of the earth. 

That God may help us to live up to the knowledge we possess, that we may grow in the light and knowledge and testimony of the gospel, and that our lives shall be a bright and shining testimony of the divinity of this work in which we are engaged is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

MISSIONARY CALLS 

President Heber J. Grant made the following additional remarks at the close of his opening speech, concerning missionaries, and missionary calls decided upon : 

OPENING OF SOUTH AMERICAN MISSION 

One announcement I intended to make, which undoubtedly all of you have seen in the paper, is that Elders Melvin J Ballard, Rulon S. Wells and Rey L. Pratt, have been called to go to South America and open a mission there. 

APPEAL FOR ONE MAN FROM EACH WARD FOR MISSION IN THE UNITED STATES 

In addition to opening a mission in South America, as the President of the Church and the Apostles, we desire to make an appeal to the Latter-day Saints throughout the Church, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, that a special effort be made to secure in every ward, from among men of mature years and sound judgment, who have had experience in the preaching of the gospel, one missionary, and where possible more than one, who is financially able to go forth and labor in the mission fields of the United States, Canada or Mexico for at least six months, at his own expense, both going and returning. 

MEN OF MEANS AND EXPERIENCE WANTED 

Since there are a thousand wards in the Church, this would mean a thousand or more men of experience to perform this labor. We feel that men who have been prospered and blessed should be ready and willing to respond to such a call. We know more than a thousand, more than two thousand, have been so blessed. Many of them may have come to this land without a dollar. Some may have borrowed the money to come here. The parents of some of them were perhaps assisted by what was known as the Perpetual Emigration Fund. Many of these men are now worth twenty-five thousand, fifty thousand, one hundred thousand, and some more than one hundred thousand dollars. We ask, in view of the wonderful material blessings which God has bestowed upon them, that they be  proclaim this gospel, and if they can stay longer, all well and good. 

Many of them have gone on trips, time and again, for three and four months, for pleasure only, and spent large sums of their money. Now we want during the coming year to have the greatest of all the great missions that the Church has ever had, given to the people of the world by one or two thousand men who have been thus wonderfully blessed financially — men of experience, ability and testimony. We believe, in view of the wonderful harvests that will be of such great benefit to the people in all sections of the country where the Saints are located, that we are not asking too much when we, as the Pre'sidency and Apostles of the Church, make this great appeal for missionary service. 

The choir and Hyrum Christensen, and Alvina Ridges, grand daughter of Joseph Ridges, builder of the Tabernacle organ, sang the hymn, 'An angel from on high," after the hymn had been announced and read in full by President Heber J. Grant. 

PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

Sensing very deeply this great responsibility, I approach it in humility and with a desire in my heart that I may be assisted by your faith and by the Spirit of the Lord. 

ENDORSEMENT OF THE MISSIONARY CALL 

I wish to endorse most heartily the remarks of our president. He has given an outline of the .great work in which we are engaged — the "marvelous work and a wonder" which the Lord said, through the prophets in olden times, that he would bring to pass in the latter days. 

I believe it will be an easy matter for the Latter-day Saints to comply with the president's request to send out an additional 1,000 missionaries to the United States and Canada and probably some to Mexico, to labor for six months, or longer, if the missionaries feel that they would like to remain longer, and many of them will, no doubt. I believe it will be the greatest missionary effort that has been put forth in the history of the Church, and no man can foresee the great good that will be accomplished thereby. Some of the wards, many of them indeed, can easily spare two or three mature, competent, capable men who have had experience, and who will not only be willing, but glad to go. We may therefore have considerably more than one from each ward, in which event there will be more than 1,000 missionaries. 

MATERIAL PROSPERITY AND BLESSINGS 

I rejoice very much in the growth and development of this great work. I am thankful to the Lord for the privilege of assistready and willing to respond to the call of the Bishops of their wards and the Presidents of their stakes to go out for six months ing in it. I have been thankful for that high privilege all the days of my life, and I have tried in my weak way to assist wherever I have been called. 

President Grant has referred to the wonderful productivity of the soil during the past season. We have never experienced anything like it in our history. The earth is fairly teeming with riches, in its products of every kind, and they are bringing fair prices. May I turn from the very splendid spiritual talk that the president has delivered, to the material things for a few moments. "Mormonism" comprises both the temporal and spiritual; they go hand in hand, but the spiritual is first. If for a few moments, therefore, I talk about temporal things, I hope you will pardon me and that that advice and counsel may not be lost. 

CAUTION TO THE PEOPLE TO WISELY CARE FOR THEIR WEALTH 

What are we going to do with these great blessings of the earth that the Lord has given and is giving us this season? I was told only a week or two ago that down at Delta, and over in the Vernal country also, where they were threshing alfalfa seed, in fact, wherever it was known that a farmer had a little surplus money, certain individuals were swarming like vultures, seeking to present every sort of scheme imaginable to try to separate that farmer from his money. They were going to make him rich "quick." All he had to do was to invest his little surplus in some scheme which this glib talker could portray in glowing terms, and it would make him rich. The talker did not know how to make himself rich — of course not — but he was going to make the farmer rich. 

TAKE COUNSEL BEFORE YOU INVEST IN PRESENTED SCHEMES 

I have had some experience with this class of people, and with such schemes. I have been fooled myself more than once, though once ought to be enough for any man. I have tried mines, and I have tried oil — not the flow that Andy Gump pictures, but oil spouting from the ground, assuring riches quickly; and I have been fooled in every one of them. It is my advice, my counsel to you, my brethren and sisters, that you "pass up" the people that come with these get-rich-quick schemes. Otherwise you will be deceived; and you will be disappointed; you will lose your money. If you have surplus means to invest^and I hope you will have, consult the president of the stake, consult the bishop of the ward, consult your banker. Usually the banker in a community is a safe man to consult in respect to investments. There are plenty of safe and sane investments that may be made on which you can be absolutely sure and certain to receive a fair return. So my advice, my counsel is to turn away from men who are trying to make you rich over night. It cant' be done. 

THE SOUND COUNSEL OF BRIGHAM YOUNG APPLIES TODAY 

President Young used to counsel the Saints in his day to invest in something that they knew about, such as land, cattle, sheep and the like. "Make your investments," he said, "in something you know about, and keep out of mining." The time, he said, had not come to develop mining. Mining, of course, is a legitimate business, we cannot do without the minerals and the precious metals. The world could not get along 1 without copper, lead, zinc, tin and other minerals; even silver and gold are needed also. President Young's counsel at that time was, as you may read in his sermons : "You, brethren and sisters, who will stay here at home and attend to your farms, look after what you have, I promise you that you will be richer and better off than if you go away hunting mines." 

Brethren and sisters, that counsel is just as sound today, to the Latter-day Saints, as it was the day President Young gave it. It is good sense yet. Let me say here that "Mormonism" is good sound sense. I know of investments that have been made in coal mines which have not turned out very satisfactory. Some fellow comes along, and he has a coal mine prospect. If you will only invest your money in a coal mine you are sure to get rich quickly. 

. Well, people invested up in Cache valley and in southern Utah. What is the result? Hundreds of thousands of dollars were frittered away and lost in that way. That is not good judgment, nor does it show good sense. And this is not only the case in coal mines; we have communications come to the president's office sometimes about "dream" mines. Some brother or sister has dreamed about a mine located in a certain place, and it is a sure thing, because it has been "revealed." Well, now, don't take any stock in such "revelations," they will not "pan out." You will only be disappointed. Save' your means and use them wisely. If we have means, and we owe any debts, our first duty is to pay our debts. If we owe a mortgage, for goodness sake wipe out the mortgage before we buy a new car. It is fine to have a new car, and I rejoice to see the many thousands that are parked in the streets around this block. Every street seems filled with automobiles. I am glad you have them, but don't buy any new cars while there is a mortgage on the home or on the farm. 

CULTIVATE THE SPIRIT OF THRIFT AND SAVING 

Try to economize, try to save. We have almost lost the spirit of thrift and saving. We hardly know what it is. Our children run wild to picture shows. It is only 25 cents to attend a picture show, and there are only four or five children, and they only go three or four or five times a week, and the money is gone, frittered away. What good has been done with it? "Well," one says, "do you want the children to be shut up and not have any amusement?" No, people will have amusement; children need it; but we are going to extremes foolishly, spending money in excess of our means. We do not save; we have lost the old-time spirit of New England thrift or of Scotch thrift. We don't know what it means. 

REMEMBER YOUR OBLIGATIONS TO THE LORD 

Then there is another debt that we will owe this fall, not to our neighbors, but to the Lord, who has given us this wonderful harvest. Will we remember and pay our tithes and our offerings to him, to help build up this work? If you could see the stack of applications for the building of meeting houses all over the world, you would realize that we will never get more than is needed. There will always be more applications, I believe, as this work grows and extends, than there will be means in hand to fill them. We cannot do better with our tithes than build good church edifices for the Saints to worship in, places where our young people may meet, instead of running here and there, wasting our money. 

COUNSEL TO THE YOUNG TO MARRY 

When boys and girls arrive at the age of manhood and womanhood they should be counseled to marry, to settle down and raise families. That is the very purpose of our being here. We are sent to this earth to pass through this stage of experience, to bring to pass the work of the Lord, and to make it possible for the spirits that are waiting to come and tabernacle in the flesh, to have the opportunity. So it is much better for the young people to get married and settle down rather than to be running hither and yon, spending their means, not knowing how to save, or how to curtail expenses. But today the tendency is, not only here but all through the country, to put off marriage. "We haven't means enough," they say; "we haven't saved enough." Well, a good young man and a good young woman, working together, can save money anywhere and any time, if they will only make up their minds to do it. All it needs is work, application and saving. Just five words spell prosperity, success and happiness — five words only — and they are these : "Spend less than you get." 

SACRIFICE FOR THE GLORY OF THE LORD AND THE CHURCH 

Brethren and sisters, shall we not sacrifice for this work? Are we losing the spirit of sacrifice that existed in the Church in years gone by? Are we forgetting what our fathers and mothers did, and the sacrifices they made? Are we not willing to respond to the call of the president and to work in the spirit of sacrifice for the glory of the Lord and the credit of his Church, that it may be built up and made glorious? Let us make this place the best there is in the world, as I believe it is now, in point of citizenship. A community of this kind, without a single beggar of our membership on the street, is the best I know of. A community of this size, with as low a death rate and as high a birth rate (although not high enough), is a community that I don't know the like of anywhere in the world. So the Lord is working through us and is making us a little better; but we are forgetting, I fear, that spirit of sacrifice with which our fathers and mothers built up this country and passed through all the struggles and trials incident thereto. I hope we will try to impress that spirit upon our own minds and upon the minds of our children. 

WE ARE ENGAGED IN THE LORD'S WORK 

The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may he bless Zion. The Lord will comfort Zion, and will establish his kingdom. He is doing it. It is not the presidency and apostles, the seventy and bishopric, the presidents of stakes and the bishops of wards who are doing this great work, let me tell you. They are faithful servants, willing to be used, willing to help, willing to devote their lives to the upbuilding of the kingdom; but it is the Lord God Almighty who is building up this work, caring for it and leading it; and his power of leadership is just as strong in it today, through the president of the- Church, as it ever was in the history of the Church. The Lord Almighty lives. He is the only true and living God, and we believe in him, and in Jesus Christ whom he has sent. May that faith in him and in his Son and in the Holy Ghost be increased in our hearts, and may we turn our hearts and minds to him and say: "Lord, take me and use me. I will devote myself and my energies to the upbuilding of thy cause and kingdom in the earth." I humbly pray that we may be endowed with this spirit, and I ask this blessing and all blessings upon this Church, upon this people, and upon this nation as well, and those who administer its affairs, as well as upon all the nations of the earth, where righteousness is sought, where the people desire peace on earth and good will towards men. I ask blessings upon all, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters, this is a tremendous gathering of Latter-day Saints. I trust that by the aid of the radio my_ voice will reach you. 

WHO CAN DRAW THE LINE BETWEEN SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL 

In times past, and perhaps to some extent up to the present time, criticism has been offered against the leaders of the Church for being engaged in business affairs. It is said, by some people, perhaps even by some who are in the Church, that the General Authorities of the Church ought to be devoted entirely and wholly to spiritual affairs, and not be engaged in temporal affairs, or in business. I think the stand is taken through a misunderstanding. I am of opinion that, if the leaders of the Church should withdraw entirely from business affairs, the purposes of the Lord concerning Zion would fail. I grant you, brethren and sisters, that the spiritual takes the precedence. It is of greater consequence than material or temporal things, but who among us has the wisdom to draw the line between the spiritual and the temporal, and to say where the spiritual ends and the temporal begins? I am sure that I haven't that wisdom, and really I don't think it can be done. 

JOSEPH, THE PROPHET, THOUGH SPIRITUAL, HAD MUCH TO DO WITH 

THE TEMPORAL 

About a hundred years ago the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, and in those early days, a leader was needed who had eminent spiritual talents and ability. It was necessary that that man should be in constant communication with the heavens, and should have the gift and power of revelation, that by this spirit he might declare the will of God to his people. He would necessarily occupy a parallel position to that which was held by the Apostle Peter when the Lord said to Peter that he would give unto him the keys of the Kingdom of Heaven, that whatsoever he should bind upon the earth should be bound in heaven, and that whatsoever he should loose upon the earth should be loosed in heaven. Such was the spirit and power and gift that rested upon Joseph Smith. The Lord said to him in a great revelation, Sec. 132 of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"And verily, verily, I say unto you, that whatsoever you seal on earth shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever you bind on earth, in my name and by my word, saith the Lord, it shall be eternally bound in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you remit on earth shall be remitted eternally in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you retain on earth shall be retained in heaven. 

"And again, verily I say, whomsoever you bless I will bless, and whomsoever you curse I will curse." 

And so, in this manner, the keys to the kingdom of heaven were delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Shall we say that he was spiritually minded? Yea, verily, for he had to do largely with spiritual things. The Lord said to him that his strength was not in temporal things, but in that which was spiritual. Nevertheless — and this is a thing I want to emphasize at this point — nevertheless the Prophet Joseph Smith had to do with temporal things. He with his associates founded the city of Kirtland; he founded the city of Nauvoo, which was sometimes called "Nauvoo the Beautiful." Truly it was a beautiful city, and surely it was a modern city. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, was a member of the first city council of Nauvoo. When the Nauvoo Legion was organized Joseph Smith, the Prophet, was elected Lieutenant General, which position he held until his death. He had occasion many times to counsel the people in temporal things, as well as to deliver to them the great spiritual commandments of God. Where can you find a separation there? Where is the line between the temporal and the spiritual? 

BRIGHAM YOUNG WAS GIFTED IN BOTH SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL THINGS 

When Brigham Young was called to lead the Latter-day Saints out of bondage, out from Missouri, out and away from Illinois, and away from Nauvoo the Beautiful; to lead that people into the  wilderness, it was needful, I apprehend, that he should be endowed with high spiritual attainments, that he could counsel the people for the welfare of their very souls. It was needful also, surely it was needful, that he should have a practical view of life, that he should have some knowledge of temporal things and temporal conditions, and such was the case. Let me tell you, brethren and sisters, as Joseph Smith the Prophet was the man of the hour in his day, surely Brigham Young was the man of the hour in his time — a man of destiny, who led the people across the plains under the direction and inspiration of the Spirit of God. Brigham Young was a great leader of men. He brought them into these mountain vales, and here it was that he, with his associates, founded a great commonwealth. Cities and towns sprang up and were laid out in a spirit of wisdom and_ most excellent judgment. Look at Salt Lake City, with its wide streets, and noble shade trees, with ample room for turning around and getting through. Great foresight and wisdom were exhibited in the founding of Salt Lake City, Ogden and Logan on the north, Provo on the south, and other cities and towns. It was under the direction of Brigham Young that this intermountain region was pioneered and colonized. He had superior temporal gifts and superior spiritual gifts. Brigham Young was one of the first to recognize the advantage of cooperation. But he was not the first in this great latter-day movement. Joseph Smith the Prophet was the first, because he gave the people, by the gift of revelation, the principle of the United Order, which is a very high and advanced form of cooperation. Cooperation you might say is the lesser law. The United Order is the higher law. The Lord declared in unmistakable language that if we would become one in heavenly things we must also become one in earthly things, but when that will be I do not know. Cooperation is a step in that direction. President Brigham Young and his associates, the apostles and others, preached that doctrine both loud and long. All the day long and all the night long for years, the people were advised to come together and combine, and cooperate in their business affairs, in handling temporal matters, building grist mills, building woolen mills, in manufacturing sugar, in establishing a life insurance company, banking and in carrying on the mercantile business. This they have done. 

THE PRINCIPLE OF CO-OPERATION APPLIES TO BOTH RELIGION AND BUSINESS 

It will be conceded, I think, by those who are familiar with present conditions in Zion, that the business of these enterprises and institutions has been wisely administered, and the tremendous strength and power exerted- by them are due mainly to the principle of cooperation. The principle of cooperation enables us to live rapidly and accomplish much in short periods of time. It might be illustrated in this way. One hundred men can accomplish as much in one day as one man can accomplish in one hundred days. 

The cooperative principle applies as logically to farming and fruit raising as it does to banking and the mercantile business, or the manufacture of sugar, or the insurance business. 

Dixie on the south has long been regarded as a somewhat desert country, dry and unproductive. Brethren and sisters, that is a fallacy. 

CO-OPERATION IN FARMING VS. INDIVIDUAL EFFORT 

At a priesthood meeting in St. George the other day, at which I was in attendance, several brethren, notably bishops, gave their experience regarding the matter of fruit raising in such places as Hurricane, LaVerkin, Santa Clara and St. George. By actual test on their part it was found that one acre of a hundred Delicious apple trees would produce four hundred bushels, which if sold at $1.90 per bushel would bring $760. — that one acre of Jonathan apple trees would yield fourteen hundred twenty-eight bushels, which if sold at $1 per bushel would bring $1,480. That an acre of apricot trees would bring $1,093. That an acre of 100 trees of French prunes, dried, would produce a value of $2,048. That an acre of 160 pear trees would produce a value of $1,012. That one acre of grape vines would produce a value of $556. Remember these figures were taken from actual tests. With wise and intensive cultivation it can be done. What is needed in Dixie as in other places in Utah, and other parts of Zion, is a united effort among the farmers and fruit growers, a careful grading of fruit, and the establishment of packing houses at convenient places by the fruit growers where they could bring their fruit, and from which places it could be shipped in carload lots to the market. In this matter cooperation means success — individual efforts often lead to failure, or partial failure. 

The Lord bless you and prosper you, brethren and sisters, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang: "Watching over Israel." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Henry H. Rolapp, of the Church auditing committee. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p: m. 


