Afternoon
05 10 1925


ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

I am humbled in the presence of this vast assembly. It is the earnest desire of my heart to make at least a small contribution to this great conference of the Church. I recognize, however, that I can hope to do that only through the aid of our Father's Spirit, and I sincerely pray that I may have his Spirit to guide and direct me in the remarks which I shall make. 

THE NATURE AND VALUE OF TESTIMONY 

I, with you, have listened with great interest and profit to the testimonies which have been borne during this conference, and I have sat under the spell of the inspired words which have fallen from the lips of those upon whom the Spirit of God has been operating. I have thought of the value of testimony, and I should like, with your indulgence, to discuss for a few moments the nature of testimony. What is the testimony of Jesus Christ? I do not have reference to a differentiation between and among the various terms of scripture which are used to designate the testimony of Jesus. I am not particularly concerned that in some instances it may be called the gospel, or faith, or the Holy Spirit, or the Comforter, or 117  the Holy Ghost. It is the nature and essence of this Spirit which brings conviction to the hearts of people that has brought me to think and reflect upon it. 

MORE THAN JUST A MENTAL STATUS 

Is it more than just a mental status, a psychological phenomenon which may be changed with the state of a man's mind, today believing and knowing, and tomorrow forgetting and denying? Has it constituency, essence, and force? These questions have given me food for much thought and reflection. I am persuaded that the testimony of Jesus is something indescribable, but nevertheless some real tangible thing that has force and power, something which serves, when once taken into the structure of a man's life, to work therein a transformation, to change some of the vital elements which are part and parcel of his life. 

GREAT SPIRITUAL FORCE 

Great physical forces themselves defy the efforts of science to fully describe and comprehend them. Science has not given the constituency *of gravity. What is light? What is electricity ? What is heat? As I understand it, we know these great forces of nature only by the effects which they produce. We see their manifestations and we conclude that they exist, but can we describe them? I believe that with all the advancement made in the processes of scientific research and investigation they are yet mysteries to the intelligence of man. Is it unthinkable that just as light, heat and gravity are great forces of nature, bringing to bear upon the whole universe the results and manifestations of their power, that there may be in the world of men a force somewhat comparable, coming from God, which takes lodgment in the very beings of men and there brings about these transformations, these remarkable manifestations, not at all incomparable with those manifestations that come from the operation of the physical forces. 

That a transformation is worked in the being of a man into whose heart comes the testimony of Christ is beyond all question. Examples are so numerous that they would, of course, not bear extensive repeating at this time. 

THE MIRACULOUS CHANGE WROUGHT BY TESTIMONY 

When Saul received into his heart and soul that something which we call a testimony, was he the same man who before had persecuted the Christians. No, he was a changed man. All his ideals, his conceptions, his works were changed by something that came into his life and wrought a miracle within it. When our missionaries go out into their fields of labor, stand upon their feet, and there proclaim the testimonies within them, do they not give expression to a force, a power, which has been operative within the very structures of their lives, and does GENERAL CONFERENCE  that very force in some way go from them to others to work a miracle? Is it just what they say, or the description which they give of the gospel plan, or their appeal to reason, which touches the hearts of this one and that one, out of great multitudes, and brings someone to say: "I know what they have said is true?" Or is there a transfusion in some indescribable way of a thing of essence from the personality of that humble servant of God into the convert that makes him feel and know? What is it that causes a man who has strayed from the path of truth, who has been inactive in the Church, after years, perhaps, of waywardness, when all at once confronted with the necessity of defending the faith, prompts him to rise and stand up like a man and say : "After all, I know the gospel is true"? Has there not been something ingrained within him that stays with him, a very integral part of his makeup ? 

TESTIMONY COMPARABLE TO PHYSICAL FORCE 

Sometimes I have thought that testimony, this something which has such tremendous force and power in the life of a man, is not uncomparable to those antitoxins which science has discovered to procure immunity from disease. I doubt not that but a few years ago if the world had been told that there were ways of warding off yellow fever, typhoid, smallpox and other highly contagious diseases that there would have been general disbelief. Today these are proven facts. The mere injection of a serum into the blood will procure a substantial immunity which has saved the lives of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people from these diseases which once mowed down the human family in great epidemics, as the machine would mow dowh the ripened grain. May there not be something akin to this in the form of testimony that is injected into the very blood of a man, which wards off the disease of sin and makes a man immune from those microbes that come from the hand of Satan, scattered about among the human family to encourage wrong-doing and departure from the established course of righteousness? I do not know that such a comparison is proper or illuminating, but this I do know, that sin is disease and that the testimony of Christ procures immunity from that disease. Not that man is deprived of his agency, but that while he reacts and responds to the great force and power of testimony, disease in the form of sin has no power over him, and into his life there comes a protection against a more dreaded disease than any of those contagions which have been mitigated by the discoveries of science. This protection, this immunity from disease and sin, is open to all. 

THE BLOOD OF ISRAEL SUSCEPTIBLE TO THE INFLUENCE OF THE SPIRIT 

It seems to me, however, that there runs in some blood strains a higher susceptibility to the refining and saving influence of testimony than in other strains. I don't know that I understand it, but 119 

I have thought that the significance of the "blood of Israel" is that there is in that great blood strain, following the blessings and promises of God, a susceptibility to the influence of the Holy Spirit, that does not run in other strains. Science has made some rather remarkable discoveries upon the inherited traits and qualities that go with blood strains. I have been reading of late some very interesting material with reference to the development of that phase ' of scientific research. It is pointed out that experiments conducted on very large scales demonstrate beyond substantially any doubt that intelligence is inheritable, and, we with our training, can readily believe it. It would not take much to convince us that there descends from father to son tendencies and traits which make for or against the improvement of the race. These very things are said to run in the blood itself. I believe that testimony runs in the blood. I believe that it is inheritable, and that the tendency to faith may descend from father to son. It seems to me that Paul had that in mind when writing to Timothy, he said in substance : "I do perceive in thee the faith that was in thy grandmother Lois," thus recognizing that this tendency to faith, this susceptibility to testimony, courses along in the very blood strains of the race. 

IS TESTIMONY SUSCEPTIBLE TO PROOF? 

Is this that we call testimony susceptible of definite, tangible proof? To me it is. I recognize that by the use of my ordinary senses, — hearing, smelling, seeing, and touch, I demonstrate the existence of things. I prove to my satisfaction their materiality and the operation of the laws of nature so far as I know them. To me the operations of the Spirit of God within the structure of my life are as tangible, as susceptible of definite, concrete proof as the operations of many of the laws of nature. When I respond to this that I call my testimony, my heart warms, my body thrills. I feel the tingle of it. A satisfaction, a peace, a contentment, a joy that transcends description, envelops me. It is the proof to me that it is there, and so I assert it is susceptible of tangible proof and demonstration. Is it susceptible of scientific analysis? Yes, if the scientist will apply the test which is prescribed to demonstrate its truth. We may say to any scientist, to any man who inquires, just what God has said: "If you do my work and my will and keep my commandments you shall know whether it be the work of God or man." Are we justified in taking any other method than the method prescribed to determine the existence of testimony? I leave that thought for the reflection of those who would test the actuality of a testimony, for I know that it will come to every one who applies the prescribed method of attaining it. 

TESTIMONY PRODUCES GOOD FRUITS 

This testimony which is such an actuality always produces good fruits. Its results never vary. I know that it is said that 

120 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

monstrous and terrible crimes have been committed in the name of religion. That may be true, but I say that no crime and no offense against the justice of God has ever been committed under the influence of the testimony of Jesus and the Spirit of God. Men who have professed religion in organized or individual capacity have been guilty of heinous sin, but they were not under the influence of the testimony of Christ when they committed such sin. Testimony always brings to pass those things desirable for the race, because it is consistent with truth, being the very spirit of truth. 

THE CRIME OF PLACING OBSTACLES IN THE WAY OF OBTAINING 

TESTIMONY 

This testimony is acquired by many with difficulty. I suppose that we often wish that it could be more easily obtained, and that it would come more generally to the people of the world, but God in his providence has made it somewhat difficult of attainment. Being so difficult to acquire, it seems to me to be a very serious thing to place one obstacle in the way of its attainment. I have wondered how it is that men who profess great learning and intelligence can throw an obstacle into the way of him who seeks the acquisition of this testimony. It may be that it is often done innocently. It may be that those who destroy faith are not fully aware of the consequences of their acts. If it be so, I trust God will be merciful to them, but I cannot think but that the Lord will hold responsible any man or woman who has increased the difficulty of another to obtain this light, this testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ. 

It is a matter of great regret that in our schools and colleges there are those who pass under the designation of educated men and women, who seem to rejoice in the destruction of the testimony and the faith of young people. I warn them that a persistence on their part to destroy faith and to keep this great thing we call testimony from reaching the hearts of students, young men and young women, will constitute an offense in the sight of God for which they shall be held accountable. 

LET NOT THE THEORIES OF DOCTORS OF PHILOSOPHY DESTROY YOUR 

TESTIMONY 

I could wish that the faith of our young folks were so well established as to give them security, even in the face of these dangerous situations. We can say to them, God has revealed the truth, that truth will never change, all the discoveries of science will in the end but serve to confirm it. Therefore, young men, young women, keep your minds open, do not forsake the wisdom of the ages for the theories of a Ph. D. 

TESTIMONY INSEPARABLY ASSOCIATED WITH HAPPINESS AND JOY 

I thank God that I have a testimony. It is the greatest possession of my own life. It is inseparably associated with all that 121  for happiness and joy. It contemplates with me everything that really makes life worth living — my intelligence, my priesthood, my relationship to God, to man, to my family, — all comes from this testimony, that God has been good enough and kind enough to implant within my soul. I know that it exists. I know that it has essence, that it is a real thing, and that it will always be in me. I do not know that I will always respond to it as I ought. I pray to God that I shall always have the courage to do it, because I know that it will always lead me to right and to happiness. 

I pray too that everyone may feel the full import and impress of this great and wonderful blessing that God has given, a testimony of the Christ. Would that all. of our young people could know just what happiness it brings and just how it enriches their lives. May the Lord in his mercy make it possible for every young man and every young woman to receive a testimony of Jesus Christ as a bulwark against sin and danger and-temptation, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A soprano solo, "Calvary," was sung by Mrs. Edna Stromberg. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

The virility of the Church is the testimony of which Brother Stephen L. Richards has just spoken. We have in the mission field thousands who are giving their time and paying their own expenses, and preaching the gospel — because in their souls there burns this satisfying and impelling testimony. I predict that many of our older and more experienced church members who have this same testimony burning in their hearts will respond to the appeal that has been made by President Grant to go for about six months into the various parts of the United States and our neighboring countries at their own expense and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. What but this testimony could induce people to render such a service ? 

A TRIP TO THE MEXICAN MISSION 

I returned recently from an extremely interesting trip with President Rey L. Pratt and Dr. George W. Middleton through the Mexican mission. Our neighbor on the south is a country with great resources and unusual possibilities. The climate, especially in those great valleys around the City of Mexico, is neither too warm nor too cold. The temperature rarely reaches 70 degrees and very rarely gets as low as 60 degrees. No provision is made for heated buildings, artificial heat being unnecessary. The history of the country thrills with romance. The ancient ruins of temples, cities, and palaces, showing a knowledge of engineering and construction which it is well nigh impossible to explain, has an intense interest to all of us who are familiar with, and interested in, the Book of Mormon. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The president of this mission is thoroughly filled with a love for the Mexican or Indian people who reside in our neighbor republic. Average people have hardly a greater interest in their blood relatives than has President Rey L. Pratt in the Mexican people. An eloquent speaker, he knows their language more perfectly than many of them know it themselvees. 

You who have sons and daughters in that mission have reason to be proud of them. They are dignified, business-like, earnest and unselfish. They are carrying to the people of Mexico lessons in sanitation, agriculture, and even in ventilation. They are helping to build churches; and, more important than all else, they are carrying to them lessons in honor and honesty, truth, virtue, and faith, which constitute the gospel. 

a tribute; TO JOHN j. mcclellan 

While I would like to say more about the Mexican mission, I shall not do so now because I feel that this occasion demands that I say something concerning the life and accomplishments of my friend, and yours, that master musician, the late John J. McClellan. I little thought six months ago when, in conference, we were stirred by the strains of the great organ, operated under his skillful touch, that he would not be here today. 

It is twenty-nine years since he came to Salt Lake City. A little more than thirty years ago he and I were boys together in Ann Arbor, Michigan. I was a student in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University, and he was studying in the Michigan School of Music. I have sat at the end of his piano by the hour, thrilled by the story which his music told. In those days he was kind enough to say that my enjoyment of his music was his greatest encouragement. 

His heart was deeply and truly religious as well as musical. Once when a group of voung people in that college city were holding a testimony meeting, I said, "John, will you play for us?" Thinking I had asked him to pray, he arose and poured out the genuine fervor of his soul in a prayer that touched our hearts. 

At twenty he led the Catholic choir in Ann Arbor. He composed the mass presented in that great music center on Easter. He not only led the choir and prepared the parts for the singers, but also arranged the parts for the orchestra. Elsewhere this achievement would have been greatly to his credit, but it was unusually so in that great musical center. 

The Columbian organ, constructed for the World's Fair of 1893, and secured by the Michigan School of Music, was the first great organ on which McClellan played. His teacher was Professor Stanley, and when the professor himself could not appear at recitals, McClellan was his substitute. Even in those, his boyhood days, he thrilled the audiences which filled University Hall. 

Shortly before his death Elbert Hubbard cancelled his reservations to hear McClellan play. Later in the Fra he wrote : 123 

"If any man has the spirit of old Bach it is this man McClellan. He is a wizard of the keys. 

"I thought I had heard organ playing before, but the exquisite modulations, the tones and tints of sweet sounds that this man produces cannot be described. They must be heard — and more, they must be felt. McClellan does not play with his hands and feet; he plays with his heart and head, and the keys respond to love's caress. Only high intelligence, sympathy, and superb imagination can produce such music. 

"What Paderewski is to the piano, McClellan is to the pipe-organ. 

"The 'Mormons' make great use of instrumental music. Their choral societies deserve to rank as a pattern for all America." 

When his death was announced, telegrams and letters of sympathy came to his family from England, France, Germany, even from Japan and the islands of the sea. Wherever people are found who are interested in music, there it seems John J. McClellan is not only known but loved. 

A letter to the professor himself from one of his students in France, which came after his death, says in part : 

"We have quite a little colony here, and you are often the subject of our conversation. We are all intensely interested in your welfare. . . Dupre gave a recital on the new organ recently. It was of course a great performance. He talked to us after the concert and inquired especially of you. He expressed deep interest in you personally, in your work and asked to be remembered to you most sincerely." (Dupre is one of the world's greatest organists.) 

The secretary of the Municipal Band of Long Beach, Calif., writes : 

"Mr. McClellan was known to nearly every member of this band, and they admired and esteemed him for his high character and they felt honored in his friendship. In his personal and professional life he has left a monument in which his family and friends may take the utmost pride. . . . Many in Long Beach have been looking forward to the time when we might have a new auditorium, with John J. McClellan seated at a wonderful organ exercising the magic of his musicianship on the keyboard in the style in which he had so few peers." 

Mr. H. C. Bush wrote from Chicago: 

"He was. a genius in his personality as well as in his art, and his light shone brightly all over this broad land. . . He was ambitious beyond his physical strength, and like a good soldier, he died fighting." 

Wrote one tourist from West Virginia: 

"John J. McClellan was born with the soul of a genius and the heart of an artist. Probably a million people heard him in Tabernacle recitals. As one of the million I attended a recital eight years ago. I acknowledge therefore a debt which I can never repay." 

King Albert of Belgium was so pleased with his music that he decorated McClellan with the order of the crown.- He never played games, he was not interested in football, no one ever saw him dance. He devoted himself exclusively to his art. He and I were young men together in the old Salt Lake stake when it covered all of Salt Lake County. On many occasions while I was stake superintendent of the Mutuals he went with me to do the playing, Thomas Ashworth to do the singing, and B. F. Grant to do the speaking. The GENERAL CONFERENCE  houses in Salt Lake County were never large enough to hold the multitudes who came out to attend. 

He was always ready to render service. The last time I saw him it was to ask if he would be willing at an irregular hour and on an unusual day to give a recital for the members of the American Society of Civil Engineers. As usual he answered promptly, "I will." As I left his studio with William R. Wallace I said, "He is not able, nor will he be, to play at that recital. He is not well. I fear we may never hear him play again." 

While I have not seen him since, the words he handed me on that occasion concerning the great organ, I used in a public address. Among other things he wrote: 

"The organ in every department is well nigh perfect. It is one of the world's greatest — a master instrument. For tone it has no equal. Notables from all over the earth, including four Presidents of the United States, Senators, Congressmen, the nobility of Europe and the king and queen of Belgium have been entertained by its music. It is used in more public affairs than any other dozen organs. It has a corps of five organists who use it daily." 

I have been told by many who have had experience in the mission field that without exception they find friends in those who have heard the great organ. And not tens of thousands, but hundreds of thousands, during his twenty-five years of service, have heard this instrument. To me it is a source of keen regret that I was too far away to attend his funeral. How appropriate that the services were held in this great, this historic building, every fiber of which has vibrated with his divine music. How appropriate that the great organ should be draped and should, during his funeral, be silent. 

While he has held no official position, yet for hours before the funeral hundreds came to take a last look at that friendly, intelligent face from which had come so many smiles and looks of kindness. When the hour for the funeral arrived, this great building was packed. The multitude came to do honor to a genius, a gentleman, a friend. 

This man's father and mother were pioneers. He was purely a product of the "Mormon" Church. A commanding personality, a courtly manner, a disposition affable and charming, his life was full of love, laughter, and sunshine. The tenderness of his heart and the refinement of his mind, were expressed in his music. His eyes were always full of smiles. 

May heaven be good to the wife of my lifelong friend. May kind Providence remember his excellent son and his charming daughters to enable them always to remember the virtues of their talented father. May kind Providence comfort the heart of his widowed and pioneer mother, bringing comfort to her who bore him, and who, mother-like, was devoted to him, with the fondness of unceasing love, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen, 125 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

I desire very much to say a few words upon this important occasion about the great responsibilities which rest upon the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There is no more important responsibility than that to which the President of the Church has referred, in issuing the call during this conference for men who have already rendered missionary service, who are at present qualified to preach the gospel, to re-enter that field and assist the youth of Israel who are at present laboring as missionaries of the Church, particularly in the United States missions, to discharge this great responsibility which is resting upon the Church. 

MISSIONARY WORK A FIRST GREAT RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CHURCH 

I rejoice in my heart that this call has come, for it has been a dream of mine about which I have talked a good many times. Only six months ago I recall it was the theme of some remarks which I made in the conference. I do hope that the call shall be answered by the able men of IsraeL that we shall recognize that God has placed the responsibility upon this Church to give to all flesh the news that he has spoken. I hope that this responsibility will be accepted by all classes. I have said, upon this point, that I believe the doctors and the lawyers might do well to consider responding to such an invitation, and that they owe something to the men of their own profession whom they can reach better than any one else, to carry the message of the gospel to them. Likewise men in the business professions whom we have excused from long-term missions, they may, with profit to themselves and without injury to their business, accept of this invitation to render service for a shorter period of time. 

ADVANTAGES IN MISSIONARY WORK 

I believe that every man who responds to this call will prolong his life. There is nothing so invigorating to the health, so uplifting to the spirits of men, as to preach the gospel. I believe that the money spent will be well invested in the good health that shall come, in the prolongation of life. 

While it has been a tremendous sacrifice on the part of parents particularly to send their sons and daughters into the missionary field, a constant and continual drain upon their resources, a drain that probably no other community on earth could stand, and we could not stand it were it not for the blessings of God; nevertheless, I have never met in my associations, with hundreds of parents of missionaries, a single one who has ever regretted the money he spent in sending missionaries into the field to declare the gospel message. So far as the personal advantages to the missionary are concerned, I am sure that the money never could have been spent to equal advantage. If a young man had been sent to a college, or given a training in any other field, it would not have brought him GENERAL CONFERENCE  large personal advantage as his missionary experience. It has developed those finer qualities of the mind, faith, confidence in one's self, as well as confidence in God, and has given him the opportunity to study human nature and to be able to succeed in winning those who are opposed to his views, and that in itself is a valuable asset to any man, when his missionary experience is concluded, I care not what his business may be. 

In addition to that, the valuable testimony, about which we have heard, can be obtained in the missionary field as nowhere else. It is worth more to any young man in Israel to have in his very heart and soul a burning conviction, a knowledge that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ, than to be possessed of much wealth and to be dfcvoid of this blessing. There are few, indeed I know of none, who have gone into the missionary field to discharge this obligation and have done their duty who have not been endowed with an abiding testimony that God does live, and that Jesus Christ is his Son. This in itself is worth everything. Indeed we have proved, in our missionary experiences in this Church, that it is more blessed to give than to receive; for if we have given to the world —  our time and service — that has been a blessing to mankind, and it has returned with added blessings upon our heads. We have been enriched as communities by the breadth and depth of understanding, and have become cosmopolitan in our conception of things because of the varied experiences that these returning missionaries bring from all lands; for, the best of all lands is brought back to us. In addition to that, we are discharging the great obligation that God has placed upon us, to bring to his sons and daughters the light and the knowledge of the eternal truth, preparing them to come back into his presence and to rejoice in the restoration of the everlasting gospel. 

NONE WflO ARE PREPARED TO GO ARE EXEMPT 

In responding to this call, I trust that bishops of wards will not excuse themselves. Perchance, one may go. Perchance, it may be possible that one of the stake presidency may respond, and indeed no one should feel himself exempt. It will be profitable to respond, to any who shall accept of this invitation. We need you, we need your strength in this cause. In addition to that, let those who are in need of assistance be helped if necessary by the cooperation of their brethren, because the responsibility is upon each ward to furnish at least one of these brethren, the kind the President has been calling for, and by a cooperative effort on the part of every one in the ward it may be easily possible to help one who could not go without assistance from his associates. I want to invite you also, my brethren and sisters, to prepare yourselves for a continuation of this work, for while the call now is but for a short period, in the ensuing year, I hope and I trust, that the number we are asking for shall continue to go into the missionary field. Men of the class 127  are asking for are the kind of men we need to strengthen young and inexperienced men in the mission field, and to carry the gospel to the people whom it is difficult for these young and inexperienced men to reach. 

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF CARING FOR OUR MEMBERSHIP 

Now the other point, the other responsibility that I have in my own mind, and about which I feel great concern, is the responsibility of taking care of those who come into the Church, all those who are born heirs of the gospel, children of the Latter-day Saints, keeping the flock within the fold, training them, preparing them for the future work which God has for this Church, and to prepare themselves for his coming. I feel great concern that we shall be successful in saving our own. I observe in our own Church records that we have had, so far as births are concerned, nearly four times as many children born to Latter-day Saint parents as all our baptisms number in the world, and that has been true for each of the last several years. While our baptisms in the world have been good — indeed they are a little better each year — we have nothing to complain about, so far as they are concerned, but the future growth and strength of this Church depends upon our ability to save our own. I feel that there is no greater responsibility placed upon us than to feed the sheep and to feed the lambs, and to keep them within the fold. 

NEED OF WATCHMEN ON THE TOWERS OF ZION 

I would like to say to the presidents of stakes, the bishops of wards and leaders in Zion, that there is need of the watchmen who are upon the towers of Zion, to exercise themselves vigilantly just now, a little more so perhaps than we have found it necessary heretofore. Yet it has always been necessary to be alert and active if we would preserve the flock. But by reason of conditions that obtain in the world, just at this time, I feel that we need to guard our flock against the inroads of the wolves in sheep's clothing. For, so far as the world is concerned, it is very evident to me that we have reached what I call the age of self-indulgence. The experiences through which we are passing reveal the fact that there is a spirit of indulgence in the world that leads men to the violation of the law in order to gratify appetite. The statistics of the United States Government reveals the fact that so far as the consumption of tobacco is concerned it has increased four hundred per cent, in the last ten years. It has doubled in the last two years, and the most sorrowful item they call attention to is the fact that perfumed cigarettes, manufactured to be sold to women, has shown the greatest increase in consumption, and that they cannot be manufactured in quantities sufficient. to satisfy the demand. The cost of tobacco alone, in the United States last year, was a little over three billions of dollars. The increase in the consumption _of tea GENERAL CONFERENCE  coffee has also gone forward, to say nothing of the violation of the Eighteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States, prohibiting the manufacture of and indulgence in alcoholic beverages. Men know that these things are contrary to our physical health, contrary to the peace and the safety of our nation; but the appetite is stronger than the will. Passion and desire rule in many quarters today. Men in positions of trust and confidence, in ever-increasing numbers have shown a lack of fidelity and trustworthiness until surety rates, guaranteeing the honesty and integrity of men in business, have been doubled in the last two years. I could go on calling vour attention to these things indicating what I say, that the spirit of the age is the spirit of selfindulgence, and it finds its final expression in self-degredation, in the violation of the law of God, in the committing of sexual sins that are destroying the life of men and women. 

LET US KEEP CLEAN AND FREE FROM THE SINS OF THE WORLD 

I am not an alarmist, nor do I see anything, particularly just now, that would indicate that there is a serious condition in the Church of Christ, but I see outside the storms that are gathering. I see the influences that are at work. The Lord said that he gathered us into these stakes of Zion to preserve us against the storms when they should break forth without measure upon the inhabitants of the earth. These storms are reaching us. Their influence will come. Individuals will come with their pernicious doctrines that will destroy, if listened to, the faith of the Latter-day Saints. I am anxious, therefore, that the young men and young women of Israel shall keep clean and undefiled from the sins of the world. The greatest evil that is threatening us, yes, and threatening the world, is the evil of immorality. So I am pleading with you that if you want to keep these boys and girls able to receive this witness and testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, we must keep them clean, morally clean, and we must adhere to our standards. For we have been taught — I received it from my mother's knee, you have heard it, you men of Israel, from your childhood —  that next to the crime of murder itself is the crime of sexual impurity, and that rather than to be found guilty of these things we would better be found dead. Let us therefore adhere to this, our high standard, and we shall survive the storms, no matter how severe they become. We can save ourselves and save these young men and young women of Israel. 

PROSPERITY SHOULD RESULT IN SALVATION TO US AND OUR CHILDREN 

I rejoice in the bright prospects that are before us, so far as crops are concerned. That is good, that is splendid. It is of importance as a means, however, to a glorious end, and the glorious end is the salvation of ourselves and the salvation of our sons and daughters. 129 

I wish to read a few words on this point from the Lord Jesus Christ, given to the early elders of this Church, and equally applicable to us in this present time. I am reading from the 16th Section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, a revelation given to Peter Whitmer, Jr., in the month of June, 1829 : 

"Hearken, my servant Peter, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer. 

"For behold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the earth. 

"And I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone — 

"For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth- unto you. 

"Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given unto you according to my commandments. 

"And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father." 

There is nothing in all this world that can be compared to the value of a human soul, redeemed, sanctified, and made worthy to receive the blessings of God our Father. There is no investment which you men can put your money or your time into that will pay you so well in time or in " eternity as to invest in a human soul, whether that shall be in the missionary field or at home, in the care of those precious ones who have come under our supervision. We have already heard scripture in this conference, from the Lord Jesus Christ, wherein he declares that the worth of souls is great in his sight, and if we should labor all our days and as the result of that labor bring, save it be but one of those precious souls, how great will be our joy! I know that I need not convert you to the fact that this is a true doctrine, but we constantly need to be appealed to, to be willing to give ourselves and our means in the accomplishment' of this, the greatest work there is in all the world. 

CONCERNING GOING ON THE MISSION TO SOUTH AMERICA 

My brethren and sisters, I respond to the call that has come from the Presidency of the Church, to leave home and loved ones and my native land, to go with Brother Wells and Brother Pratt into the great South American country. I do not ^o with any feeling of elation that it is going to be a great pleasure Trip; I go in fear and in trembling, trusting in the Lord, knowing that we shall be utterly helpless, save the Lord shall be with us. I have felt in my soul that the time would come — and I thank God that it has come — that that great country may hear the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe that it, too, is Zion, as the Prophet Joseph Smith has told us. I believe that it is altogether fitting and proper that more than half of the missionaries of the Church should be in the United States missions; for it is unto this land, the land of Zion, that the spirit of gathering has called Israel from all over GENERAL CONFERENCE  earth. They have been coming here, and here are the majority of our converts. As I recall it, three years ago one million two hundred fifty thousand people were permitted to come into the United States, and the quota was full. Yet, at that time, twentyfive million people applied to come. Since then, however, the government has seen fit to further reduce the privileges of immigration to this country, until today only three per cent, of the foreign population of any nation in this country, in 1900, may now come in, which means that not more than about two hundred thousand can enter this land in any single year from all nations of the earth. Where are they going? According to the evidence that I am gathering since this call came, millions of them are going to South America. I have hoped and prayed that we shall find that there, too, the spirit of gathering has called men and women from all nations of the earth. They are there in large numbers from all nations, and if God is willing to open their hearts and bless us with the ability to reach them and carry the message of the gospel, it is our desire that they who are from the Gentile nations may also, with others, have this privielge of hearing the message of the gospel and come into the fold of Christ. I know not what purpose God may have in their being in that great southland, the other part of Zion. These matters will all unfold in the Lord's own due time. And then it may only be the beginning of that other glorious work that we are anticipating shall come, for the Book of Mormon came to us, not for our sakes, but especially for the sons and daughters of father Lehi, who have dwindled in unbelief. May the day speedily come that this revelation shall also go forth in that land to the millions of sons and daughters who have the blood of father Lehi in their veins, that the day of their redemption may come. 

TESTIMONY 

May God bless the Saints at home, that they may preserve in the fold safely these precious ones that have been given to us, that they may be ready in preparation for the further extension of the Lord's work, and may his work go forth, that his kingdom may come, that all men may hear and the hones;, obedient souls may have a witness and a testimony that he lives. I know with my brethren that God lives, as surely as I know that I live. My testimony is not based upon books. It has come to me by the revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ to my spirit, through the manifestations of the Holy Ghost upon my soul. In the thirteen years I have already spent in the missionary field there have come to me innumerable witnesses and testimonies of the truthfulness of this great work. I know that Christ lives as well as I shall know it when the veil of his tabernacle shall be parted, and he shall be revealed, when I may have the privilege of hearing his voice and looking upon his face, or be invited as he did invite the Nephites to come up and touch him, to see and handle his hands, to feel the prints 131  the nails. If that shall some day be my privelege, as I hope it shall, I shall not know any better then than I know today, that he lives, that he visited the Prophet Joseph Smith, that he did restore his gospel, and that what the world knows as "Mormonism" is indeed the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

Knowing this, there is no sacrifice too great. To leave father, mother, houses and lands, the world and all things for it, is not too big a price to pay for the thing that is the most precious and the most glorious. 

THE DESTINY OF ZION CERTAIN 

God help us that we shall keep in our hearts, burning sacredly, the desire to fulfil these great obligations that rest upon us, that Zion shall arise and shine, for her destiny is as certain as the rising of the sun. If only we keep the commandments of God, every promise shall be verified, and fulfilled upon our heads. May God help us to do it and speed the day of the redemption of all his sons and daughters, and bring the ungodly and the sinners to repentance; for they shall come to repentance, if not through the preaching of the gospel, through the judgments of Almighty God, for he is speaking, and he shall speak to the nations until they shall hear. God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and his peace be with Zion and all her interests, at home and abroad, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen'. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding -Bishop of the Church 

In occupying this important place, my brethren and sisters, I greatly need your faith and sympathy that I may be able to say something that shall be of profit. To that end I desire to enjoy the light of the Holy Ghost. 

I would like to read a few words to which President Grant referred in his opening remarks of the conference. The Prophet Micah, in speaking to the people of Israel, and calling their attention to the things which the Lord desired of them, wherein he stated that more than their sacrifices and offerings of rams and oil, the Lord desired their hearts, he made the following statement : 

"He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbh'- with thy God?" 

I would like to read also a portion of that which President Grant referred to — that brief but important revelation given to Joseph Smith, the father of the Prophet: 

"For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he pe'risheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence." 

In the important responsibility that has come to me I am sensible of the consideration of my brethren. I cannot express to you the appreciation I feel of their confidence and the confidence which I feel the Lord has in me. My only desire is that I may be worthy of that confidence and the confidence of all of you, my brethren and sisters, and of all the members of this Church. In accepting the place that has been assigned to me I realize the high standard which has been set by Bishop Nibley and his counsellors. I am glad to have the privilege of working with his associates, Bishops David A. Smith and John Wells, and all of the members of the department to which I have been assigned. I realize the great work that is there to do. I appreciate what has been done, the care and attention and the accuracy of the work, temporal largely as it is, that is assigned to that important department of the Church. 

I desire with all my heart to do my part, to give the very best that is in me to advance this work, and if it were possible to even increase the care and the efficiency in looking after every interest that shall be intrusted to us in that department, to magnify the callings that come to us, and in every way to promote sympathy, kindliness, love and good will among all the members and officers of the Church. That is my only desire. I have never sought any office in this Church. I have always desired, since the years of my maturity, to endeavor to help in the building up of the work of the Lord. Since I have been able to appreciate the responsibilities of life and of the Church I have endeavored to labor and to live constantly with this expression in view contained in this revelation given by the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph, to his father — to labor "with an eye single to the glory of God." 

We were reminded yesterday afternoon by President Ivins and Brother George Albert Smith of the fact that we are created in the image of God, and that when the Lord created man he gave him dominion over all things of the earth. As stated by them, man is the only creature who has within himself the power of reason and of initiative. Men cannot lift themselves off the ground by their own boot-straps, but they can lift themselves out of their condition, mentally, spiritually and physically. 

There is an opportunity for every man and every woman upon the face of the earth to grow, to develop, to progress. Every one of us can testify of that because all of us, directly or through our parents or grandparents, have accepted the gospel out in the world — have accepted that clear call that has come to us of the truth — and have had the power within ourselves, through the blessing of the Lord, to grow and increase in knowledge and power and understanding and faith in all the things that are true and divine. 133 

We have been enabled to grow and to break away from the influences and the traditions of life which have interfered with the progress of man through the centuries. 

The Lord has given man dominion over all things, though we may some of us think that we have not very much dominion, so far as the things of this earth are concerned. Some of us are very grateful when we have the opportunity to enjoy and to call our own a very small portion of God's earth. If we have a home of our own some of us think we are very fortunate, and some even haven't that much. We may think that we are far removed from that condition, when man had dominion over the earth and over all things pertaining thereunto and when he could look to the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills and call that dominion his own. But every one of us has a certain portion of the things of life and of this earth which the Lord has given to us. 

We may not consider, or man may not always consider, that it comes from the Lord. They may forget that "the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof," but if we realize our relation, if we sense our position, we cannot deny the fact that all that we have and all that we are comes from him. If we appreciate our responsibilities we must recognize the fact that we are only stewards here upon the earth, that we cannot take from this earth anything of a material nature; that all we can take from here is that which we have stored up in our minds which has helped to develop us, the qualities which we have acquired and the service that we have rendered. For the material things will remain. They will be of no beneifit to us hereafter. Unless wisely used they may prove a curse, not only to us but to our descendants. 

What is our responsibility? What is the responsibility of men generally? All men should recognize their stewardship in all that they possess, whether it be little or great, whether it be of a small nature or whether their wealth amounts to millions. Some men in the earth today are recognizing that fact. Some of those who have acquired great fortunes through business transactions and in other ways, have recognized, in a measure at least, their accountability and their stewardship. They have given and are giving large amounts of their fortunes for the welfare of humankind, for research and investigation which shall inure to the benefit of the human family, and for the promotion of greater and better conditions of health and of peace and of general welfare. The obligation is upon everv one of us, that we should ourselves have constantly in mind this important injunction, that we labor "with an eye single to the glory of the Lord." The laborer, the farmer, the miner, the clerk, the professional and business people — all can put their very best thought and effort each day into the work that is before them, with the incentive to better qualify themselves and to achieve all in their power for the promotion of God's work and the welfare of his children. All that we do, all that we have GENERAL CONFERENCE  all that we are is the Lord's — not only our means but our time — as has been expressed here today by Apostle Ballard and has been expressed previously by others of the brethren. We should not be content with one mission, but if we have the means and if we labor "with an eye single to the glory of the God," diligently and faithfully and wisely, the Lord will bless us and will increase our store and our means, and enable us to give- more time, greater talent, greater energy, to the advancement of his purpose. We shall then not be content with preaching the gospel on one mission only, abroad, but we shall be'laboring continually here at home, as well as abroad, and by our testimony and our teachings, as well as by our lives and examples, evidence that we realize our responsibility, that we appreciate the opportunity that has come to us, and that we are striving to exemplify these things in our lives. 

Let us, every one, endeavor to impress upon our children, boys and girls, the thought that all that we have and all that they have belongs to the Lord and that they should not claim these things selfishly. If we have that spirit in mind constantly and if we strive to impress upon those who come after us, that they should use their means and their time, with the purpose in view to be of the greatest benefit and blessing to the work of God, and to the promotion of the welfare of mankind, then shall we have joy and satisfaction. We shall increase in these qualities which shall make us most nearly the men and women that God would have us be. 

May the Lord bless us and help us that we may grow in the knowledge of these things! May we constantly have this in mind, that we shall be willing to serve the Lord and be prepared to give to him not only one-tenth of our means, not only one-tenth of our time, not only one-tenth of all that we possess, but that if it should be the Lord's will we shall be prepared to consecrate our properties, in the assurance that we should receive our stewardship and be dealt with in justice and integrity and in propriety for our welfare and progress and development and for the welfare of all human kind, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The hymn, "High on the mountain top," was sung by the choir and congregation. 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Joseph K. Nicholes, President of the St. George stake. 


