Overflow
04 10 1925



ELDER SERGE F. BALLIF 

Formerly President of the Swiss-German Mission 

My beloved brothers and sisters, I feel very humble and weak this morning in standing before this great congregation of Latterday Saints, and I trust that the words uttered in the prayer may be realized. 

I am very thankful to my heavenly Father for the knowledge and testimony that I have of the gospel of Jesus Christ. There never has been a doubt in my mind from my earliest infancy of the divinity of this work in which we are engaged. I take this book, the Bible, from cover to cover, as an inspired word, inspired of the Lord, and I have been taught all my life to believe it. Notwithstanding all that may be said by the scientists, I never have discovered anything in my life in the Word of the Lord that is not a part of all true science. I believe it with all my soul; I believe it is the science of all truth, and if we have the Spirit of the Lord with us when we read this book, we will be able to know beyond all question of doubt that it is the Word of God. 

I was a little surprised, this morning, in reading the morning paper, to see my name announced as one of the speakers in this conference, this morning. 

I have just recently returned from a business and pleasure trip throughout Utah, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington, and I also went over into British Columbia. In all the years of my life I do not believe that I ever saw the country so prosperous as it is at the present time. I never saw such crops of wheat throughout the northwest, such crops of alfalfa, of beets, and fruit as I have seen during my travels the last few weeks. And I was thinking that we all should feel that the Lord is mindful of this people. He has blessed the earth for our sakes, for our good; for we are all his people, all his children — we may not all see alike, but at the same time we are all the children of the Father — and he pours out his blessings upon us. And when he does that, he does it for the purpose that we will use these blessings to accomplish good. I hope that this will be a warning to our people that they should be mindful of these blessings and take care of the things that the Lord is blessing us with. I appreciate, beyond my power to say, the blessings that have come to me. I enjoy them and I appreciate them, and I want to show my appreciation by serving the Lord and keeping his commandments. And the only way I can do it, is by being mindful of the Lord's goodness to me, and doing my full duty in keeping his commandments and obeying his laws. What a wonderful thing it would be today if all the people this year should remember the Lord, not forget him at this time of prosperity! It is easy to remember him when we are in distress, in famine. Remember the Lord in the day of plenty. Remember that he has opened the windows of heaven and has poured his blessings upon us. Now, let us be good stewards and take care of what the Lord has given us, and pay our tithes and our offerings, and the Lord will continue to bless us. 

Since coming into the room I have thought of this passage of scripture, which I am going to read to vou. I believe in all the principles of the gospel. We have been preaching them now for practically one hundred years: faith, repentance, and baptism, and many of us — perhaps all of us present today — have rendered obedi

ELDER SERGE F. BALLIF 39 

ence to the first principles of the gospel. I remember so well that beautiful, matchless sermon of the Master's, the Sermon on the Mount. After he had concluded that sermon he spoke to the Saints as follows : 

"Judge not, that ye be not judged. 

"For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. 

"And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 

"Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and behold, a beam is in thine own eye? 

"Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye." 

I think of this for myself very often. I would like to judge my brethren and sisters righteously and justly. I think that we are too often prone to judge harshly. O, it is a beautiful thing to be kind and charitable and judge righteously in all affairs pertaining to our everyday lives. This gospel of faith, repentance, and baptism to me does not end when we have been born again, but it goes on throughout our daily lives, and what we build here, we will inhabit; what we sow here, we will reap, just as surely as the Lord lives. And we cannot deceive the Lord, because the Lord is just and will mete out unto us justice in the fullest measure, and I believe, my brethren and sisters, that we should be careful in judging one another not too rashly and too quickly. Be careful and wise in your judgments. 

"Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." 

I believe those words with all my heart; I think they are all true. And I do not believe that I can sit down in my home and pray and ask the Lord to help me, and then, if I go out on to the road in my daily life in business, that I can deceive the Lord, if I am not honest and just with my fellowmen, do not pay my tithes and offerings, and am not honest in my daily labors. I believe that a true Latter-day Saint is true in every respect, and lives up to his professions in every respect. That is the doctrine of the Master, that we shall practice and live up to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that the world may see our good works, judge us by them, and glorify our Father in heaven. 

"For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened." 

How are you going to knock? "Seek and ye shall find." My brothers and sisters, the Lord is not going to give us anything that we do not work for. We can sit here and prav for a thing, but faith without works is dead, and in all avocations of life, in my daily business, in my daily work, I commend myself every morning to the Lord. And O, how thankful I am for the teachings of my dear old mother! I can remember very well when I was a little boy, when my mother called her family about her knee and we prayed. We did not pray to an unknown God but to our heavenly Father. And I can testify to you that our heavenly Father hears and answers prayers. I know that just as well as I know that I am living, and I know that he will answer the prayers of all his faithful and humble servants who seek him honestly and diligently. 

"Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? 

"Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? 

"If ye, then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?" 

Ask him in faith and he will bless you. He often blesses us, I think, more than we are worthy of. He is kinder to us than we are in many instances to our neighbors, to our brothers and sisters. 

"Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets." 

I believe in that, I believe in every word of it. I never would ask a man to do a thing for me that I would not do for him. I was president of the Swiss-German mission in 1903. For about six years and a half I presided over that mission, but I always had this in mind that I would never send a man to do a thing in the mission field that I would not do and did not do myself. I believe in that principle, I believe in justice, and whatever I ask a man to do I am willing and feel that we should all be willing to do ourselves. That was the teaching of the Master. 

"Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat; 

"Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it." 

I was thinking of this scripture during my last travels. I was in the city of Portland, I was in the city of Seattle, and a great many of the large centers, and the first thing I looked for was the "Mormon" Church, the Church which claims to be the only true Church upon the earth, and I believe that absolutely, but in those large cities I had to hunt around as if for a needle in a haystack to find our people. I found them in Portland, but not in Seattle. I could not find them in many other places. No doubt they were there. I was there only a short time. But in visiting among those people I could see their condition — not that I condemn or blame them; they are living up to what they know, to what they understand perhaps to be right — but O, what a power it would be if the gospel of Jesus Christ could be made known to those people. In the city of Seattle I felt as if I would like to stand up on some high hill and proclaim the gospel to the people of Seattle. I believe they are a good people and are ready for the gospel, and it will be given them. 

"Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. 

"Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 

''Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth not forth good fruit. 

"A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither Can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 

"Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. 

"Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. 

"Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall ehter ihto the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." 

Now, my message to you, by brethren and sisters, is to do the will of our Father which is in heaven, and you will find in the gospel of Jesus Christ restored in our day, the true and unadulterated gospel of Jesus Christ. I have no apologies to offer for the gospel restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know, and have always known, and bear testimony to you that I know, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, that he was the instrument in the hands of the Lord in establishing his Church here upon the earth. And I want to testify to you that I know beyond all question of doubt that all those prophets who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph Smith have been prophets, seers, and revelators, called and inspired of the Lord. And the man who stands at the head of this Church today, I want to bear witness to you, holds the keys; and when God has a message for this people, I promise you that that message will come through the proper channel. God bless you. Amen. 

A double mixed quartet, consisting of Elders George H. Durham, John T Siech, Sisters Ada Thompson, Aurora Hiatt, Jennie Thompson, Mrs. George H. Durham, and Elder Harrison E. Jenkins and June Sharp, sang, "The sermon on the mount." 

ELDER ABEL JOHN EVANS 

Of the Presidency of the Alpine Stake 

My beloved brethren and sisters, I presume an apology is due from me for coming into the meeting late. I have been a subscriber to the Deseret News, and a reader of it for fifty years, but the notice that was published there escaped my attention and for that reason I was called from the congregation in the large Tabernacle by President Grant this morning, and I rejoice exceedingly this morning that I have been counted worthy to occupy a few moments of your time in this conference. I feel great diffidence in arising to address you, for I have long since learned that no elder of this Church can interest the Latter-day Saints except he be guided by the divine influence of our Father,^ and therefore I beseech of you an interest in your faith and prayers for a short time. 

I rejoice in this great Latter-day work, and bear witness to the remarks made by Elder Ballif that I heard after coming into the building. That great apostle of the Gentiles, Paul, in writing to the Corinthians, made this remarkable statement: "Eye hath not seen nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man, the things God hath laid up in store for those who love him." And then let me add that "those who love him will keep his commandments." I sometimes fancy that perhaps we are not as appreciative of our membership in this Church as we ought to be, for when we remember that no person can occupy a position of trust in this Church without first becoming a member thereof, and that all these blessings and these wonderful experiences that we are permitted to enjoy and by reason Of participation, in which our souls become enlarged, our vision extends, and we are better able to appreciate and see the handiwork of our Father. We realize that all these matters grow out of our membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I can say for one that I have been in the Church all my life, and at no time, during that entire period, have I been better satisfied, had more assurance, or ever felt in my mind more determination to continue to the end than I do this day. I thank God for that. It has been my privilege to traverse land and sea to the old world to preach the gospel, and I have sought in my humble way to explain the principles of our doctrine. I have borne my testimony in private homes, upon the street corners, and in assemblages of people in halls, bearing witness of the divinity of the restoration of the gospel anew — not a new gospel but the old gospel introduced and ushered into the world while we have been permitted to live in it. O, what a wonderful thing it is, and when we contemplate all the great multitude and millions of people extant upon the earth, we realize that but few in comparison have had their hearts touched and their souls lit up so that they have received a witness of the divinity of this great latter-day work. When I contemplate the condition of my own father and mother; and when I refer to that, it is not from a selfish standpoint, because many of your grandfathers and grandmothers were under the same condition — my father belonged to no church, he took very great delight in going and putting ministers to rout. He was a great reader of the Scriptures and could put them all to rout by the Scriptures themselves. When he heard a man by the name of Hanshaw had come to preach the gospel, he and his father went there for the very purpose of exploding the things that he would put forth. When he heard that witness, though in broken sentences, and with a stammering tongue, bearing witness that the Lord had revealed anew, that the Lord had come himself and brought his Son and introduced him to that boy, in answer to prayer, that he was to restore that lost gospel that had been obliterated from the earth for so many years, it touched his soul, and not a word came from his lips. And when they were going away, my grandfather said to him, "Abel, how is it you did not pitch into this man?" He said, "Father, that man has the truth, and I shall not be found fighting against God." And I think, as I understand it, that he was the second man bap in Wales. He devoted ten years of the best of his life from the time he was 25 years old to 35 years old in preaching that gospel in his native land. He then came out here to Utah, under trying circumstances, and endured the common hardships incident to pioneer life in Utah, and then was called from the Great Tabernacle without previous notice and sent back to his native land, and after a year and a half of service, laid down his bones in that land for the gospel's sake. 

My mother, a girl of twenty years of age, never met my father until they were on the sea. She left the home of her father and mother, who were dear and good people, because her heart had been touched with that divine message, and went out into a world among strangers, knowing not where she was going, except that the voice had called and she had heeded it, "Come out of Babylon; the great Babylon is falling." When I think of these things, I wonder sometimes, my brothers and sisters, if we have been as true to them, if we have been as faithful to the trust and heritage committed to our keeping as we should be, when they endured what they did in these trials and circumstances! 

So I rejoice in this great latter-day work, and my mind reverted back to a passage of scripture when Brother Ballif was reading this great Sermon on the Mount, considered and accepted as among the greatest sermons ever delivered to humanity. The closing part of it came to my mind : When ye read these things, if you accept them not you will be as a man that built his house upon the sand, and when the winds blew and the rains descended and the floods came and beat upon that house, it fell, because it was builded upon the sand; but those who hear these words of mine and do them, I will liken unto a man that built his house upon the rock, and when the winds blew and the rains descended and the floods came and beat upon that house, it fell not. Why? Because it was built upon a rock. I want to bear witness to this congregation here this morning that this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is builded upon the rock. And when the winds blow, as they have blown in the past, when the rains descend, as they have descended in the past, when floods come, as they have in the past, it will not fall, because it is founded upon a rock. All the persecution, drivings, scourges that have been put upon this people have left them standing firm, and unmoved from their mooring, because God is at the helm. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we should rejoice in this work. If there is one principle that has sunk into my soul and over which I rejoice, as much as any that has come into my life, it is because I am sure beyond the question of a doubt that men and women will be rewarded according to the deeds done in the body. If that is true, it should be an incentive to you and me, in every walk in life, to see to it that we shall give to the world, to our friends, to our Church, to our God, the best there is in us. That is the way it appeals to me. We might deceive our bishop, brethren and sisters, we may deceive his counselors, we may deceive our neighbors, but let me assure you that you cannot deceive God. The Lord has told us that we should* pay one-tenth of our interest annually into his storehouse, that the means may be provided for the Church that it may be carried on properly in conformity with the plan he has instituted to carry out his work. I wonder if we are doing it. If we are, then we are justified; if we are not doing it, we are not, for it is a most gracious and just law, the most equitable perhaps ever instituted in the world. If a man only earns $100 a year he is only required to pay $10; if he earns a thousand dollars, $100; $10,000, then a thousand. It is equitable, it is distributed properly and justly. And O, what a blessing it is that this system has come into our midst, that the Lord has revealed it anew in the Doctrine and Covenants, the law that was carried out anciently. You remember what the Lord charged his people with when he said, "This whole people have robbed me." If they were robbing God then, if we are doing the same thing now, we are robbing him now. Do you want to rob him, my brethren and sisters? I take it that you don't. But sometimes we lack just a little faith. 

It seems now that the world is moving mighty rapidly; we must have automobiles, we must go to places of resort, we must dress in fine linen. That seems to be the rule, but I want to tell you and warn you now that there must be a curtailing in these things, that our hearts may turn to God and his purposes and his work in the world; for we are the salt of the earth, and don't forget it, and on us rests the responsibility of preaching this gospel to the nations of the earth, that all people may be warned to repent and come unto the Lord. That is our mission. And then in addition to that we are expected to gather in the genealogy of our ancestry, that we may be bound back to father Adam, for they without us cannot be made perfect, nor we without them. This is our responsibility. Will we discharge it? Each one must answer for himself? 

May God help us to do it, my brethren and sisters, to see the light and then walk in it, for I bear witness that this is the work of the Lord. Joseph Smith was divinely called by the Father, and I have not any more doubt that the Father and Son appeared to Joseph Smith and that the Father instructed the Savior, and the Savior delivered the message to Joseph Smith, than I would have, had I heard it, because God has borne witness to me. You remember in the case of Thomas, when the Savior was resurrected and Thomas would not believe, unless he could see the prints and thrust his hand into the wound, this is what the Savior said wheu Thomas did see him, "Come hither, Thomas, and put your fingers in the prints, thrust your hand into the wound." Then he said, "Blessed art thou, Thomas, for thou hast seen and believed; but more blessed are those who have believed and not seen" — because of the witness and the divine impression of the Holy Ghost. 

May God help us to do these things, my brethren and sisters, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ADAM S. BENNION 

Superintendent of Church Schools 

My dear brethren and sisters, I sincerely trust that the time I may occupy may be occupied under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. This is the first time that it has come to me to address a congregation in General Conference. I have sat through these conferences now for six years with a sort of safety, a safety akin to the security of the man who refused to take out any insurance because, he said, he had never died yet. And then, as a thunderbolt out of the sky comes the call from the tabernacle to come over here to join with you. I trust that I may catch the spirit of this gathering, that the spirit which has prompted both Brother Ballif and Brother Evans may be mine, to join with you in the spirit of that wonderful sermon, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled." I would that we might so hunger and thirst this hour and not be disappointed. 

My testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ grows with the years. It is stronger as I gain more experience. I am more grateful every day that I live that I belong to this Church. I find such evidence of its truth and its divinity that I am proud, though proud in humility, for my membership in it; and, like the brethren who have preceded me, I have been a member in it all of my life. I was born into it and therefore cannot claim the distinction that attaches to conversion, but the longer I am in it the more grateful I am for my membership. Very many times of late I have been running through my consciousness to discover the reasons for that gratitude. The subject is altogether too big to be launched here in its entirety; I find evidences at every turn, but there have been running through my mind of late thoughts which go back to California. As a matter of fact, they center in an experience that I had down in the University of California. The men on the faculty of the University of California used to make the observation frequently that in view of the fact that I had come from Utah perhaps I knew something about the Mormons, and when I said, yes, I was from Utah, and made the second revelation to them that I was also a Mormon, without an exception, when they heard that word they used to exclaim, "O — , O, you are a Mormon!" It has been exclaimed so many times that it began to get into the center of my interest. Just last summer, as we climbed up Timpanogos, a visiting teacher, who was giving work in the Alpine summer school, took occasion to make an observation with reference to God and his concept of Him, and as he explained that his idea of God, of course, was an intangible sort of being, not a being at all, for that matter — a great universal force — he looked up and caught the expression, I suppose, on my face, and said, "O, I suppose I should not have said that to you, because you are a Mormon." As I thought of those "O's" so many times I decided that I would work out a little answer, and so now, when any of my friends say, "O, you are a Mormon?" I say, "O, yes, I am." And I am going to leave you, if I may enjoy the spirit of this gathering, a few of the O's which go into my little scheme of answer. 

I take it we have gathered this morning that we may think through anew the gospel plan, in order that we may build up our own testimonies. For want of a better scheme, I would like to hang a few ideas about this little scheme which I call the O's of Mormonism. 

The first O that makes me grateful for my membership in this Church is the O of Origin. A noted writer, who has produced one of the outstanding books in religious education in this country, says that he is not very much concerned about origins, that the origin of a church does not bother him; he does not ask, "How did it get started?" but his test of a religion or church is, "What will it do for its members?" I grant you — and I hope to say something about that before I am through — I grant you that what a church does for its people really is a great test of a religion, but I am not prepared to go the full limit and sav that origins do not make any difference. I find that is not true; this is a day of origins. I have been reading and rereading again that book by Dr. Wiggam, "The New Decalogue of Science," and the whole foundation is a foundation of origins. He says that men and women become what they become essentially because of their birthright; given a noble family, in all probability out of that parenthood you will have worthy children; given inferior parenthood, and the chances are you will have inferior children; it is all largely a matter of origins. He opens one of the chapters in that book with the famous declaration that this has become a wonderful country very largely because it had its origin in a foundation of wonderful people. He pays them the tribute to say that they shot Indians through the porthole with one eye but that they taught the Bible to their children with the other; they lived on parched corn, it is true, but they preserved their parched learning, which centered in their idea of God. And America has been builded as a great commonwealth because America had a great origin. Wherever I turn, I find that origins count tremendously. I have just had the good fortune to enjoy this same trip that Brother Ballif has described, and along the way I have been struck with the thought that along with other wonders, the water supply throughout the Northwest is a very great source of satisfaction. Their water supply is pure, because its origin is right. It arises in the mountains. Very many cities in this great country of ours have the problem of a water supply, because they lack that origin. It is  to improve upon the water that nature gives us. Origin! we could spend the hour on origins. No breeder of animals but knows that he will produce the kind of stock that he breeds to. He knows that at every turn he will get in kind, and the kind of stock he raises will be determined by the origin of the stock. No man ever chooses a wife but he is tremendously impressed with the importance of origins. I cannot conceive of a man's going forward to say, "I have come to that time when I want a helpmate; I do not care at all about origins; I will just find an available girl, and quite apart from her family history and all else I will choose her." I have discovered that men of discernment choose out of worthy families. I am grateful to the comment of a brother-in-law who gave this humorous but tremendously helpful hint — I wish I had the genius to pass it on to the boys — he said, if he could give advice to boys he would tell them when they came to pick a helpmate, to find a worthy mother, and take any one of the daughters they could get. He was impressed that there is a tremendous force in origins. And yet some of our good friends would say that in this most vital of concerns in life, religion, the thing that binds us here and hereafter, which links up between time and eternity, it does not matter what the origin may be. I am glad to belong to a church that claims as its origin a revelation out of heaven announcing the voice of God Himself and His Son to declare His prophet, as was declared unto those of old. And that is the kind of origin I want my Church to claim. All Latter-day Saints may be grateful this morning that we belong to a church that has its origin in that divine pronouncement. The pronouncement was followed by others and with an ushering in of the power of the Priesthood and the giving of the keys of this last dispensation. Mormonism rises or falls upon that tremendous platform, that in its origin it goes back to God the Father and the Son. We could spend the morning on origins. I am simply throwing out a few hints for your more mature thinking, when you shall have left this conference. 

Much has been said in the writings of this Church about our wonderful second O. I want to say only a word about it. The second O is the O of Organization. It was said a number of years ago that the two most perfect organizations in the world were the German army and the Mormon Church, and as I have said to my friends rather jocularly of late, "We knew what has happened to the German army; I presume we have a pretty clear claim to the title." But I do not say it boastfully. This Church has a wonderful organization. It. is possible for a message to go forth from the President of this Church to all the stakes of Zion, out through the wards, and within a week there can be aroused the membership of more than half a million, to any word that shall be proclaimed. It was the pronouncement during all the time of the war, during the campaign of enlistment, in the raising of funds and supplies, that it was marvelous how this Church could respond. But I am not interested in that aspect of organization so much as I am in another. Not one of your speakers here this morning had announcement other than he may have picked up through the paper, and I suspect all of us were alike in not having yet read that issue, many of us being out at an early meeting long before this one was called. There are speaking at the sessions of this conference men who have had no previous notification. That lies within the genius of our organization. It is a very wholesome thing. I sometimes wish it might be extended. Nobody can be feeling absolutely safe today, because it may be his good privilege to occupy this same position. Going back to that same California experience : I took a good friend of mind down to our service at Oakland, and when the service was over he inquired, "Is that the kind of service you have regularly?" I said, "In general, that is the plan." 

"Will that man speak next Sunday?" and I said, "No, he won't speak next Sunday." 

"Who will?" v "I don't know." 

"Well, who will sneak the next Sunday?" "I don't know." 

"Do you mean to tell me that you have men speak there who are not regularly appointed to do so?" I said, "Yes, that is the scheme." 

Then he made the observation — and I think he had not been particularly struck by what he had heard that evening — "Don't you think you would get better sermons if you had one man deliver them all and if you would let him prepare them carefully?" 

I said, "I have just one observation to make in answer to that : I presume you might get a more finished product, but I will ask you which would make the stronger church — to leave all the sermons to one man and let him prepare them carefully, or to have a church membership any man in which knows that on Sunday he may be called to fill that responsibility? I will leave it with you as a question, which will build greater strength on the part of the members of our Church, your plan or ours?" 

He said nothing, but the next day he came over to my desk and said, "I have been thinking over your question ever since you asked it last night, and you win; yours will build a strength which cannot be built in the other plan." That is the genius of this organization. I am delighted when I think that there is no caste or class or family control in this organization. Nobody knows who shall be called next to responsibilities in wards, stakes, or general positions. The membership in this Church has in its own being the potentiality of its own leadership. Let me put it the other way, the strength of a democracy lies in the fact that its leadership is always inherent; given great numbers, you have the chance for great leadership. It can come up from within. I say the second great O in this Church  the O of Organization, and I am mighty happy in my membership in that organization. 

But, let me run on, because I should like to expose you for a minute or two to two other O's that you may think about them. The third O grows out of the second. It is very much like the second, except that it is a double-headed one. I have said very many times,' that it is as if it were a double link in a chain; the two segments always go together. I know of no way of separating them, and I should not want to if I could. One of the very great things that attaches to this organization lies in the fact that that organization presumes obligation on the part of all of the membership of this Church. And then I am struck with the companion thought — a man never encounters an Obligation in his life but he finds in it his Opportunity. Up in the northwest recently a young man was called into a bishopric, and under the suddenness of that call he felt depressed. He said* "I doubt that I shall ever be able to respond under this obligation." It occurred to me that the obligation that was placed upon him as a new bishop in this Church was the opportunity that opened the door to a great life for him. And at every turn in this Church I find that these two third O's go together. I call them the O's of Obligation-Opportunity. Nobody ever joined this Church because he anticipated having an easy time. I cannot imagine any one's coming into membership in this Church feeling that he was thereby opening the door of an easy access. The gospel of Jesus Christ, as taught by the Latter-day Saints, presumes obligation, and with it opportunity. From the time a boy is a deacon he is called to fill responsible positions, and from then on up until his declining years, he finds an office that is imposing obligation upon him. He is asked, and so are the women in this Church, to respond to calls, and no man living fully to his duty is free from obligation. 

There came into my office only within the last two weeks, a young man who had been called to go upon a mission to a foreign land. He came out of a familv that had not been well to do, and which had no funds to see him through the call. He had been working for two years to lay by a little sum to go to college, and there had come the call to go on a mission. He said, "It is the biggest obligation that has ever come my way, and I am wondering just what I ought to do. I have a mind to go through college. I would like to complete my training. I have saved enough. Should I go on a mission? I would like your judgment." 

In the face of that obligation, calling for the expenditure of all that he had saved during two hard years of labor, that boy was willing to lay his all upon the altar. I am happv to announce to this congregation that he has left for his mission and will have spent all of his savings under that obligation before he returns, but I promised him that that obligation will be an opportunity greater than he could get in any college in all the world. I say it as a school man, and I am as satisfied as I stand "here that there will come out of that obligation and his rising to it a blessing which will cause him to pronounce it not an obligation but a tremendous opportunity. And the Church at every turn offers them to you and to me. 

I see that I have run to within the margin of my time. I should like just to leave you with the fourth O of this little scheme, in order that you may run it through to your satisfaction. I must advert to the man I quoted in the beginning. After all, the test of a religion does lie in the kind of men and women it helps to make; so that my last O, of necessity, is the O of Outcome, or Output, if you prefer it. I am very happy to have my Church judged by the kind of men and women it produces. I have said it many times, and I like to repeat it, it is a tremendous challenge : if I could not discuss the gospel with friends, I would ask them just to do two things : let them find a representative group of young men and women who have been taught the gospel and have formed their habits of life under its inspiration; let them see that group of boys and girls as one side of the picture; and then let them find as they could in this audience this morning, men and women, silvered with years, who have spent their lives in the gospel, who have subscribed to its principles, who have loved and lived it; and I am willing to leave those two groups as my evidence to the world that this gospel is the power of God unto salvation. 

I am happy, as I stand here, to know that this Church has produced clean men and women. When our young men went up to Camp Lewis, through which place I have had the privilege to go within the last two weeks, fifteen hundred of them reported for examination, and out of fifteen hundred only three gave any evidence whatever of social disease. I am proud to know that Utah ranked with three other states in this Union, the cleanest states morally that sent boys to the front. I am willing to be judged by the fruit of the tree. I am glad to know that we have one of the highest birth rates in the world today, 33 to the thousand. A high birth rate almost always carries with it a high death rate. Though we have a birth rate of 33, our death rate is only 7 to the thousand, one of the lowest in the world. I read that with pride when I read that Frances' death rate is 17 to the thousand, with an infant mortality of 96 to the thousand — almost one in 10 born to die within the first years of its career. I am glad to know that we lead Europe. I have quoted France — 17 to the thousand; England follows, as I recall, with 11.6. Our death rate, in spite of our high birth rate, is only 7 to the thousand. We have a divorce record of which any people in the world could be proud. We have been charged with immorality, with a lack of standard of virtue, and yet I am glad to proclaim to the world that with all of our membership, numbering beyond a half million, there have been within the past year only 256 cases of divorce. I only regret them, but they constitute the barest fraction of a per cent of our total population. That kind of record cannot be held up to the world by a people whose lives have  been based upon sound principles. I am happy to testify that judged by its fruit, the gospel of Jesus Christ has produced worthy men and women. 

I -just find in that a tremendous challenge to all of us. I wish we had the power so to live that men and women seeing us could come, as they have come on hundreds of occasions, to marvel at this work. May I close with the thought that was given me in California as I met people there who had been converted to our Church. I took occasion to ask them what it was that brought them into the Church. First of all, thev said, they became interested in this gospel, because of the young men and young women who proclaimed its message. "Any church that will produce that type of men and women is a good enough church for me." God bless us with the strength to live this gospel, that wherever we go men and women will say of us that as members of that Church we are an Outcome that does honor to the Church. 

And so, my brethren and sisters, when my friends exclaim, "O, you are from Utah?" or "O, you are a 'Mormon'?" I say, ''O, yes, thank God that I am." And O that he would give us the power to live/to all of its possibilities, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON 

Assistant Church Historian 

I have been greatly interested in the remarks already made at this overflow meeting, and one thing that impressed me in the beginning was the singing of "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear." I also became very much interested in one of those O's that Brother Bennion spoke of — the Origin of Mormonism. 

It has been my privilege during the past two months to visit some of the so-called waste places of Zion, and adding these places to the list of those I have previously visited, I am now able to say that I am more or less acquainted with nearly all the places that have become sacred to the Latter-day Saints because of their connection with the early days of this Church. 

It was a pleasant task for me to visit Sharon, Windsor county, Vermont, where the Prophet Joseph Smith was born, and to then 'follow in his wake to the western part of the State of New York and there to enter that sacred grove (a remnant of an extensive forest), where the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith and gave him certain instructions about not joining the sects of the day, but to wait for further revelation. I also visited the old Smith residence, or the very spot where the angel Moroni appeared to Joseph Smith on that memorable night between the 21st and 22d of September, 1825, and then followed the young Prophet, as it were, to the hill Cumorah, where I have stood a number of times looking at the place where the angel Moroni showed the Prophet Joseph where the plates containing an account of the old inhabitants of this land, were hidden, from which plates Joseph afterwards translated the Book of Mormon. 

Then on my last visit I had occasion to go down to the Susquehanna River in Pennsylvania to visit old Harmony where the Prophet Joseph, after he had been driven by mobs from his parents' home, translated the Book of Mormon. The work of translation was done in the States of Pennsylvania and New York, but mostly in that part of the township of Harmony, which is now included in Oakland, Susquehanna county, Pennsylvania. I also had the privilege of visiting the place, or the vicinity, where John the Baptist appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery on the 15th day of May, 1829, and ordained them to the holy Aaronic Priesthood, and again, to visit the vicinity where the Melchesidec Priesthood was restored and where the voice of Peter, James and John was heard in the wilderness on the banks of the Susquehanna River between Harmony, Pennsylvania, and Colesville, Broome county, New York. 

It was indeed a blessed privilege to me to stand upon these holy places, for such they are classed with me. I have also been permitted to enter the Kirtland Temple in the State of Ohio, and to stand in the very pulpit where the Savior himself appeared on the 3rd of April, 1836, and spoke to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, telling them that he had accepted of the temple which had been built to his name by the Saints in the days of their poverty. It was in the same pulpit and on the same occasion that Moses appeared and restored the keys for the gathering of Israel from the lands of the north, the isles of the sea and from other places to which Israel was driven thousands of years ago. The giving of these keys to men in mortality meant the fulfillment of prophesy to the effect that God who scattered Israel will gather them again in the last days. The congregation of Saints in this building and the thousands and thousands of people congregated upon this Temple Block today, attending this General Conference of the Church, are here as a result of those keys given by Moses in the Kirtland temple on that memorable 3rd of April. On the same day, Elijah the prophet, who was taken up to heaven without tasting death, appeared to Joseph Smith and gave unto him the keys for turning the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to their fathers. And as a result of the restoration of these keys we witness today the work going on in the Temple for the salvation of not only ourselves but for our ancestors who have passed away without a knowledge of the true plan of salvation. It has brought love into our hearts for our progenitors and we hope the children after us will do their duty in continuing this great vicarious work. 

The visits to the earth of these holy beings and the restoration of the keys of the Priesthood is the origin of "Mormonism," the beginning of it. It is a known fact that water never rises above its source. All our mountain streams rise high up in the mountains and hills and they continue to run down grade, forming streams and rivers; thus a creek or river does not rise above its source. So with "Mormonism"; it must be traced to its source. The origin of Mormonism is revelation from heaven. God has spoken from his heavenly abode and restored unto the earth the gospel of Jesus Christ, with its Priesthood and authority. Based on such a beginning, we can boldly say that the doctrines taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are true and stand out in great contrast with doctrines taught by men. Joseph Smith was not permitted to "join the sects of the day because the preachers of these sects taught for doctrines the commandments of men; they honored God with their lips, while their hearts wer-e far away from him; they had a form of goldiness, but denied the power thereof. But the Gospel which the Latter-day Saints advocate and which has brought such grand and glorious results is different. It has also brought into the world some of the best men and women that can be found anywhere on God's footstool. These indeed are the fruits of Mormonism, or the restored Gospel of Christ. If it had not been for the divine origin of Mormonism, and the truths revealed to us from heaven — not by the cunning craftiness of men but revealed by God himself — our success as a Church would have been altogether different. Christ himself revealed to the inhabitants of the earth in our day his own religion, and that is why we claim that we possess Christ's Christianity — not a German- Christianity, not an American Christianity, not an English or Dutch Christianity, but Christ's own Christianity, which in its nature is today similar to the doctrines advocated by the Savior in that grand and glorious Sermon on the Mount referred to by a former speaker. 

During my late sojourn in the East it was my privilege to travel over the Pioneer trial. I passed over it the first time fiftynine years ago, as a little white-haired Danish boy traveling with ox teams, and to follow the same trail now and to see Chimney Rock and many other important and interesting points of interest made by heart rejoice and reminded me of the days of my youth. I was pleased to think that I, who in 1866, walked all the way from the Missouri River to Salt Lake City as a lad, now had the opportunity to go over the same trail in an automobile as one of the Church historians, for the purpose of locating that trail so accurately that our children and all generations to come may know what is meant by the old "Mormon Trail," and to a certain extent be made to understand how their fathers and mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers, made sacrifices for the Gospel's sake. Many of these weary pilgrims rest in unknown graves. There is scarcely a mile between Nauvoo, Illinois, and Salt Lake City, Utah, which would not have been marked by graves of the Latter-day Saints who fell as martyrs by the wayside, if a knowledge of their resting places had been preserved. There have been several classes of martyrs in this Church. Those who have been put to death violently by mobs number about fifty, and those who have died in the missionary field, like Brother Abel Evans' father, number about four hundred; these of the latter class sacrificed their lives while traveling in the different missionary fields preaching the gospel. And then more numerous than any other class of martyrs are those hundreds — yes, thousands — who died on the journey from Nauvoo to the west or later as emigrants from Europe died on the voyage across the ocean, on the passage up the Mississippi and Missouri rivers ,and on the plains while trying to reach the homes of the Latter-day Saints in the Rocky mountains. 

I visited Nauvoo^beautiful Nauvoo as it once was — with its old "Mormon" cemetery. It made me think of Palestine which once was a land flowing with milk and honey, figuratively speaking, but the people in that country transgressed the laws, changed the ordinances, and broke the everlasting covenant, and brought the whole country under a curse. Thus, when I visited Palestine, many years ago, I could scarcely see anything interesting there except reminders of the good old times that once were but are no more. The curse of the Almighty has rested upon that land ever since the day of Isaiah, of which its present barrenness amply testifies, though some changes for the better may have taken place of late years since General Allenby of the British forces took possession of the country. 

When I saw Nauvoo, once a beautiful city, with a great temple costing a million dollars — a city that covered almost the whole of the peninsular on which it was built, I felt sad to witness its desolation. Between New Orleans and the twin cities (St. Paul and Minneapolis) there is not a more beautiful place for the location of a city than Nauvoo. But what is Nauvoo today? A wilderness! I crossed the great Mississippi river, from Montrose to Nauvoo (which in years gone by had been crossed by so many of our people). I wanted to see Nauvoo once more, though I had seen it before; but on this, my last visit, I took occasion to visit certain places in and around Nauvoo that I never visited before. On my first approach to it, I wondered where the city was, for I wandered through the weed-covered streets, one after another, and only here and there saw a human habitation surrounded by weeds. On the banks of the river, where one of the old stone houses stood as early as 1839, I encountered thousands of vicious birds which swarmed around my head apparently with evil intent. And besides these there were millions and millions of flies — "Mormon" flies, they call them — though I think the "Mormons" had nothing to do with originating them. The people from the surrounding country do not like to visit Nauvoo for fear of being eaten up by flies, ravens and other vicious birds which circle around the visitor where there was once a high grade of civilization. Nauvoo, the Beautiful, is now a little  village. I came to the conclusion that a curse had indeed rested upon the place ever since the Saints were driven from there by wicked, bloodthirsty mobs in the memorable year of 1846. Some of the best houses in Nauvoo today are those erected by our people eighty years ago, among them the old residences of Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, John Taylor, Parley P. Pratt, Orson Pratt, Edward Hunter, and a score of others. Only a few houses of any consequence have been erected since that time. The beautiful Nauvoo temple is no more; not one stone is left upon another of that grand structure in which so many of the faithful Saints received their blessings before starting for the mountains. 

The "Jack 'Mormons'," who succeeded the Saints in Nauvoo came into possession of the city for almost nothing. The Icarians, a French community, came next and tried to turn the temple into an academy, but did not succeed. They split up almost entirely as an organized community while endeavoring to make Nauvoo their home. Then finally came a German population, the present inhabitants of Nauvoo. Germans are good pioneers, usually, and have made good in the United States; they are generally classed among the best settlers and most industrious citizens who have come across the Atlantic to America, but even they cannot flourish in Nauvoo. The blood of the prophets which was shed there, and many others of the Saints who were mobbed and killed by their enemies is crying from the earth against their murderers and plunderers. The Lord was vexed because of these evil deeds and has caused a blight to rest heavily upon the country. The same thing is true, more or less, of Far West, the country around Haun's Mill, and the Crooked river country, in Missouri, where the Latter-day Saints Once lived and prospered. 

In following the Pioneer trail from Nauvoo on the Mississippi river I visited Sugar Creek, where a number of women gave birth to children prematurely through being exposed to the inclemencies of the weather. Richardson's Point, where a number of our people lie buried. Chariton River, so well known to our people who crossed the plains in 1846 and following years, and Garden Grove, founded by the Saints in 1846, where many of our people lie buried in a "cow yard." This made my heart bleed. At Mt. Pisgah, Iowa, a monument has been, erected marking the graves of some 250 of our martyrs, who fell by the wayside through being driven away from Nauvoo in the dead of winter, these, exiles suffering as only few people have suffered in this western land. 

Continuing my journey I crossed the Missouri river to old Florence, or Winter-Quarters, Nebraska and there visited the old "Mormon" graveyard. What did I find there? A lonely spot where some six hundred Latter-day Saints lie buried under the sod — men, women and children, who could not stand the hardships of the journey any longer. Some of these martyrs were exiles from Nauvoo, while others had come up the Mississippi and Missouri rivers from the European countries. They took sick and died with cholera and other diseases, brought about by over exertion and privitations, and their bones are resting in the cemetery at Florence to this day, waiting for that glorious resurrection which awaits God's faithful sons and daughters. 

Now, my brothers and sisters, the origin and foundation of "Mormonism" is of such a nature that we can safely build upon it. Let us then be true to our God and to the gospel of Christ, true to our parents, to the pioneers of Utah and to the faithful Saints who died by the wayside. Let us ever remember that the origin of "Mormonism" is revelation from God, and that it is not a temporary organization, but rather what the late Patriarch John R. Murdock of Beaver, once said, when he referred to "Mormonism" as "the greatest thing a-going." Let us be true to our fathers' God and to every truth that we have espoused, and let us realize that we have within our reach the obtaining of a testimony, if we do not already possess it, to the effect that God is the founder of this work, that it is organized in the right way, and that it is expected of us to become the salt of the earth and to be a light and an example to all the world. Christ, addressing his disciples on the Mount said, "Ye are the light of the world * * * Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." This passage of scripture is also applicable to the Latter-day Saints. May God bless you, one and all; may we be true to our God, who is our fathers' God, true to our religion which is true Christianity, and true to every obligation which we have taken upon ourselves, and may we also teach our children to walk in the paths of righteousness, I sincerely pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The quartet sang, "What manner of man is this?" ' 

ELDER REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may be able to crowd into the brief ten minutes left, some few of the thoughts that have been in my mind this morning. I have listened very attentively to all that has been said, and bear witness to its truthfulness. I have been charmed by the beautiful singing of this session and particularly by this last rendition, and truly, my brethren and sisters, we might marvel and exclaim, "What manner of man was this that has wrought so much in the world and that we believe is to do so much in the future in shaping the destinies and bringing about the well-being and the salvation of our Father's children, even all that have ever lived upon this earth!" My thoughts have cen upon him and his great mission and the great faith that we should have in him. I will read to you from our Articles of Faith : "We believe that through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the gospel are : first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. ..." I will leave you, my brethren and sisters, to follow out the quotations and read what the others are, but I wish to dwell particularly this morning upon our belief that underlying all in this Church stands first and foremost faith in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It has been the moving power to all action -in all ages of the world. 

I would like to read to you here what Paul says in regard to faith: 

"Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. 

"For by it the elders obtained a good report. 

"Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. 

"By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts: and by it he being dead yet speaketh. 

"By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased Qod. 

"But without faith, it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that dili. gently seek him." 

I commend to your perusal, my brethren and sisters, Hebrews 11; that shows to us to be a fact what I have asserted, that all the great and mighty works of the prophets and apostles and the great men of old were guided and were wrought by faith. By faith they knew of a surety their status before God, they were able to serve him, they were able to keep his commandments. By faith Daniel was able to live in harmony with the teachings of his Israelitish parentage even in Babylon and become a mighty factor in shaping the destinies of that great nation and of his own people. And Moses was guided by faith. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and all the old worthies were guided by faith, and they did all they did by faith. It was by faith that Moses smote the Red Sea and its waters rolled back and the Children of Israel passed through dry-shod. It was by faith that they were not consumed by famine in the desert, but God sent them daily that which was necessary to sustain them and see them through their years of pilgrimage. 

Brethren and sisters, in this day reference has been made to the origin of this Church and its accomplishments and its privations and sufferings and persecutions that have been heaped upon it. What has been the underlying factor to all this that has been done in this dispensation in which we live ? By faith Joseph Smith, a mere boy, was able to bring down to earth the revelations of Almighty God for the redemption of his people, for the establishment of righteousness. By faith he saw the Father and he saw the Son, and he learned and has proclaimed to the world that we are in very deed in the image of our Maker. By faith he learned his status before the Lord and received further revelation through the angel Moroni. By faith he learned of all the restoration that was to be and was the instrument by which it was consummated in the earth. By faith he found the record of the ancient people who inhabited this land, and by faith he translated it and brought forth a new witness for God in this day and age in which we live. By faith he was able to establish the Church and perfect this wonderful organization of which has been spoken today. And by faith it has continued on down to the very moment of time in which we live. By faith he and his people were able to withstand the trials and persecutions heaped upon them, for they saw, over and above and beyond, Christ; and they knew ihe was a reality. They had faith in him as the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, through whom should be consummated the salvation of men here upon the earth. It was faith that made it possible for Joseph Smith to turn back and go to his certain martyrdom — for he knew where he was going; he said he was going like a lamb to the slaughter. But by faith he went and sealed his testimony with his blood. 

Bringing it down to the present day, my brethren and sisters, it is faith that is taking your boys into the world today to proclaim this same truth to the untold millions of our Father's children who are yet in darkness. It is by faith that the fathers and mothers sustain them with means to pursue their labors in the world. 

I marvel, my brethren and sisters, when we contemplate what a wonderful thing this faith is. The point I want to get to is this. We are living in a day and age and hour when all the powers of the adversary are combining to destroy faith in the hearts of men. Within the churches and without the churches, every device and every means that can be brought to bear is being brought to bear to destroy faith in the divinity of Jesus Christ, and from the pulpits of the world men who profess to be Christian ministers are doubting and boohooing the belief that Jesus Christ was in very deed the Son of God. They are endeavoring by all means to discredit his origin as the Son of our Almighty Father. And faith is being attacked from every standpoint — by immortality, by dishonesty, by unchastity — the young people, one after another, are coming to a point in many instances where they are face to face with the issue, "Is there anything in this or not?" And their faith is being assailed, their faith is being attacked. 

There were some O's referred to here today, and the last particularly struck my attention, "Opportunity and obligation" that rests upon us today in Israel. O my brethren and sisters, let us by every means within our power kindle, if needs be, and if it is there, keep alive, the faith of our young men and women. Do not let it  destroyed; do not let it be overcome by any sort of teaching which may be going around today. Have in your family circles prayer daily together, that they may witness the exercise of faith in prayer, that the blessings of the Lord may be upon your households. Teach your children the simple principles of the gospel as they have been received through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, for in nothing else is there safety in the world today. O my brethren and sisters, what the steering gear is to the automobile today, is faith in the life of young men and women. We are going at a headlong pitch. And did it ever occur to you what happens to an automobile when the steering gear is broken or defective and ceases to operate? Always, with that irresponsible speed with which the machine flies, it goes on to certain destruction. Did any of you, my brethren and sisters, ever lie in a trough of the sea, in a little vessel, with both rudder and sail gone? I have, for six hours, when the waves were slopping over everywhere. And I have thought that what the rudder or sail was to that little vessel — that would have saved us, and did ultimately when we got them into operation — so would be faith in Jesus Christ in the life of every young man. Did any young man, boy of yours or otherwise, ever come to you and show you with the look in his eye and the anguish in his soul, when he came asking, "Is there anything to this or not?" and you saw that somebody in some insidious, dastardly way had trifled with, and partly destroyed the faith in that young man's life? If you ever did, my brethren, you saw an object of pity, an object of sorrow, and it has been my good fortune and good pleasure to assist to kindle again and keep alive the faith in many young men, that has seemed to have been lost. And in many of them their faith has been attacked in associations here at home. I have been through sorrows in my life; I have laid parents, brothers and sisters and children away, and only God knows how I have loved them! I wonder sometimes if I love more intently than some people. It seems that my love for them makes me suffer, and the more I suffer the more I love them. I would rather they would all go and I could lay them away, with faith in God, than to have one of them become the richest man or the greatest ruler or the greatest intellectual man but without faith; for without faith he is without anchor, and without faith he has nothing to keep him in the path of duty, that makes for happiness, not only in the great hereafter, but makes for happiness and well-being here in this life in which we live. So that now then, when faith is being attacked in all sects and denominations and through all the schools, through the teachings of dubious science, science that after all is only a theory; hold to the faith that our fathers have cherished, I say, hold to the faith in Jesus Christ that is the foundation rock upon which we can surely build for a salvation in our Father's kingdom! The Lord help you to do so, the Lord bless the youth of Zion and keep them in the faith of their fathers, and keep us all, that we may work out our salvation in his presence, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "Guide us, O thou great Jehovah." Benediction, Elder Arthur F. Barnes, of Salt Lake City. 


