Second Overflow
04 10 1925


ELDER JOSEPH R. SHEPHERD 

President of the Logan Temple 

I feel very humble, my brethren and sisters, this afternoon in being asked to address you in this gathering. I sincerely ask that you may give me your faith and prayers, that I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord while attempting to address you. 

One of our Articles of Faith reads, "We believe all that God has revealed, all that he does now reveal, and we believe that he will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God." This principle of continued revelation is one of the prominent characteristics of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is distinctive, for while there are many good Christian people in the world who put great confidence and faith in the Scriptures, as they have been given to us in the Bible, yet a large proportion of them deny that God has communicated with his people since the days of the Saints of which the Bible speaks, and believe that there are none now who receive revelations from God the eternal Father, but that revelation has ceased and that we have all that is sufficient for our guidance in life contained in the Scriptures as they are bound in this volume called the Holy Bible. Is it any wonder, my brethren and sisters, that those who reject continued revelation should find among the many honest Christian people in the world such differing views concerning God and his  concerning us ? As we study the condition of Christian people today and note the differing views as expressed by their leading men, men who claim to be the teachers of the word of God to the people, noting the contention that exists, the widely varying views regarding God and his will, is it any wonder, I say, when they by their own free will and choice deny that God can speak to them today and that he has authorized servants to speak in the name of God and give his word concerning these things of which I have spoken ? 

Wherever the spirit of revelation exists there will be harmony, peace, and contentment, but where there is no revelation from God and where people will not accept revelation from God, you will find discord, discontent, and contention. One of the peculiar things that has been manifested in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, from the beginning up to the present time, has been the unanimity in which the people find themselves. It is seldom that you find anyone contending concerning the doctrine of the Church. It is seldom that you find anyone who is disobedient to the authority of the Church. The people are noted as being a united people. In fact, a great many people outside of the Church have rather felt to find fault with the "Mormon" people, as they call them, because of the unity that exists among them. They complained for the reason that the people were always willing to follow their leaders and to do as they were told. Rather a strange indictment to be brought against the people of God! And what is the secret of the unity of the people, my brothers and sisters? It is that they are actuated by the spirit of revelation, through its President and those who are sustained as prophets, seers, and revelators, but the membership of the Church is entitled to revelation also. The members as individual members are not entitled to revelation for the Church as an organized body, but the same spirit of revelation may be enjoyed by them for their own use, for their own blessing, and for their own support. Every man who stands at the head of a household in the Church of Jesus Christ is entitled to revelation for that family: — not for somebody else's family. Every member of the Church is entitled to revelation for his or her guidance, though not for the guidance of any one else. Every bishop is entitled to revelation for the direction of the affairs of the ward over which he presides, and so forth; every person according to his position; but there is not a member of the Church who is not entitled to the principle of revelation, and upon that principle does the strength of this Church stand, and so long as we continue to live in such a way as to receive revelation, my brethren and sisters, there never will be discord or disunity, because if was upon this very principle that the Lord founded his Church. 

Let a man stand up here before you and teach a false doctrine, something that is not true, something that is in opposition to the revealed word of God, and there is not one in the congregation but may detect it, if he or she is in possession of the Spirit of God, and the testimony of Jesus which is the spirit of revelation. Occasionally someone will say something — not very often; very seldom have I heard any one from the stand speak anything that was not perfectly orthodox, but occasionally there has been something a little of what we might call a little off-color, and immediately you would see everybody pretty nearly in the congregation looking toward one another. They can detect it in a moment. Why? Because they have the spirit of revelation and they can detect error, and they cannot be deceived in doctrine. 

Now, how may we have this spirit of revelation, my brethren and sisters? We may have it as a right by the possession of the Holy Ghost. And how may we receive the Holy Ghost? By first having faith in God and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the gospel of the Lord as he has revealed it unto us : repentance of our sins, being baptized in water for the remission of sins, and receiving the laying on of hands by one having authority for the gift of the Holy Ghost. And this Holy Ghost is the power and the means by which we may have constant revelation. 

There are some people, indeed there are a great many, in the world, who will not accept anything as a truth except it can be demonstrated to them through the five senses. It has to be proved to them by the wisdom and the skill of men, and if that cannot be done, they reject it. We are taught in the Scriptures that no man can say that Jesus is the Christ except by the Holy Ghost. Is it any wonder that we find the condition existing in the world today, when they will not accept the plan of salvation as laid down by the Savior himself ? On the day of Pentecost, when Peter, preaching to the vast throngs, declared unto them the gospel, and the condition in which the people found themselves at that time, convicted them in their hearts and they cried out, "Men and brethren, what shall we do to be saved?" They were told directly what they should do. They all believed or they would not have been convicted in their hearts, but as the next thing, "Repent of your sins, and be baptized for the remission of sins," and then they would receive the Holy Ghost. It is essential, my brethren and my sisters, that we shall have the Holy Ghost as our companion in order that we shall not be deceived and misdirected and that we may always know the truth from error. A thorough Latter-day Saint does not require some truth that God has revealed to be demonstrated by the skill and wisdom of men. He does not have to have it proved; he knows it. And how does he know it? By the power of the Holy Ghost. Upon one occasion Jesus, in talking to those around him, said, "Who do men say that I, the Son of man, am?" "O, some say this and some say that; some say that you are John the Baptist risen from the dead, or one of the old prophets come again." "But who say ye that I am?" What was the answer? "Thou art Christ, the Son of the living God." There was no hesitancy in that answer; it  positive and to the point. "Thou art Christ, the Son of the living God," said Peter, in answering. "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father who is in heaven. And I say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. ' r Now, you know there has been a great deal of contention as to what was meant by that. There is a large body that believes that it meant that the church was built upon Peter, but that was not it at all. It was that spirit of revelation that came from God to Peter, that made him say without any hesitancy, "Thou art Christ, the son of the living God." That is the rock upon which the Church is built. It is upon that assurance, that testimony, that witness, that spirit of revelation that comes from God directly to the individual. And that is the rock upon which this Church is built, my brethren and sisters, and I want to say to you that the testimonies of our brethren and sisters that are given in our fast meetings give evidence of the truthfulness of that statement, for the reason that that testimony, though it comes not through the teachings and wisdom and knowledge of men nor the scientific learning of the world, comes unadulterated as the mind and will of God to the conviction of the person bearing testimony, and they rise up and say, "I know that this is the work of God, that God lives, that Jesus Christ is his Son, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God." Now, that is a knowledge that never can be transferred from one man to another by that man's wisdom or knowledge; it can only come as the knowledge came to Peter, that Jesus Christ was the Son of God. 

We have as a people absolutely no fear of any discovery of scientific men. Men, under the inspiration of God, are beginning to find out little by little something that God has known for ages, but God may and does reveal truths that men have not vet understood. And simply because we or men cannot understand them is no justification why they should be rejected. Latter-day Saints under the spirit of revelation, may know whether Jesus Christ is verily the Son of God or not. No man can prove it that I know of by any of his learning or anything that he has found out. Unless we have faith in God, we cannot please him. Without faith it is impossible to please God. We must exercise faith, and the principle of faith, in and of itself, is a thing that is difficult for some men who have been scientifically trained; because they have been taught to accept nothing as a truth except it can be demonstrated by the wisdom and learning and skill of men. Above all of this, my brethren and sisters, is that blessing, that gift, that is one of the fundamental doctrines of the Church, the reception of the Holy Ghost that comes through obedience to the laws and the ordinances of the gospel; and as long as the Latter-day Saints shall be in possession of that gift, we need have no fear as to what the outcome of this Church shall be. And when men in the world, who claim to be Christians, will honestly accept of the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and submit to the ordinances of the gospel that the Lord himself has prescribed, they, too, may receive the Holy Ghost and then they may know and will know of the doctrine, whether it is true or not — and not until then. There have been some men, and probably women, converted, or at least becoming members of the Church simply because of the logic there was in it, because of the splendid evidences that are manifested by the people in their lives and in their homes. Some are attracted to it because of the wonderful government that exists in the Church, or because of its teachings regarding things pertaining to every-day life, because of the law of health that is taught by the Church, and for other reasons, all good. But the only reason, and the only thing that will keep any man or woman in the Church of Jesus Christ is to be in possession of the Spirit of God or the Holy Ghost, through obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. 

May the Lord help us, my brethren and sisters, to remain humble and faithful and true, and not be disturbed by what this man may say or what that man may say, or what this man may deny or what he may reject. Let us not want to prove that what God has said is true by comparing it with that which has been discovered by men. That is getting the cart before the horse. But let us have faith in God that what he has said is true, so that we can be able to say that God lives, that Jesus Christ is his Son, and that he did shed his blood that all might come back unto our Father in heaven, that we do know that this work is true and that Joseph Smith was a' prophet of God, not because of any reasoning or any proofs that men by their wisdom and judgment may give us, but because the Spirit of God, the Holy Ghost, bears witness to us in our souls that it is true, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The L..D. S. male chorus, Earl Martin, Irving Beesley and Wilford Leonard, then sang a selection. 

ELDER JOHN P. LILLYWHITE 

Recently President of the Netherlands Mission 

I am very happy to be associated with you here this afternoon and to be in attendance at this conference. I feel tremendously the responsibility resting upon one who is called to occupy this position, to bear testimony of the truth and to give evidence ofc the faith that we have in the gospel of Jesus Christ, but I rejoice in the gospel and in the many blessings that I have received through the same and pray God that the few words that I may utter this afternoon may be directed through his Spirit to the good of all those gathered here. 

The throngs that have come into the buildings on these grounds today and that are on the outside bear witness to me of  of the Latter-day Saints in the divine mission of the boy who knelt in the grove in Palmyra. I say these multitudes stand as a powerful witness and a beautiful tribute to "the man who communed with Jehovah," the man who spoke with God our eternal Father and with his son Jesus Christ in holy vision. The brethren and sisters who have come from near and far to be present during the sessions of this conference have come with a faith in the divinity of "Mormonism," a faith in the divine mission of the Son of God and the Prophet Joseph Smith. Otherwise you and I probably would not have come here to Salt Lake and been in attendance at these meetings. Our presence here is an evidence and a witness unto the world that the labors and the lives and the faith of the early leaders of this Church and the Saints, that faith that impelled them to make the march across the parching plains and over these rugged mountains into these valleys, that subdued the wilderness and made the desert as it were to blossom as a rose, has not been in vain; that they did not live in vain, but that their example, their faith has come down to us; and we witness to them and to all the world by our presence on these occasions that we are determined to carry on the work which they began, until the last son and daughter of God redeemable has been redeemed. The gospel of Jesus Christ is beautiful in every detail to the man and the woman who is willing to live it and keep the commandments that God has given us. There is no peace nor comfort nor cheer nor gladness that can come unto the souls of men from any other source, so great as that experienced through the gospel of Jesus Christ. To have a witness, a testimony of the truth, to know that God lives, to know that Jesus Christ was indeed his Son, and to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, called to open the work of this last dispensation, is greater, more glorious, than to be in possession of all the riches and wealth of the world. 

This gospel, this marvelous work and a wonder, that the Lord said was about to come to pass, is exemplified and fulfilled in the thousands who come here to receive the word of God from his living oracles in the Church today. The Master, on one occasion when he was preaching to the Jews and many of them had believed in his words and accepted the truth by reason of the miracles which he performed among them, said to those who believed in him, "If ye continue in my word, ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." And the Jews wondered what he meant, and said, "We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free?" Then the Master answered, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin. And the servant abideth not in the house forever: but the Son abideth ever. If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed." That is the message to the world today. This gospel message that is carried to the nations by the elders of this Church is to the believing of the world, those who profess to believe in the word of God. After it is explained to them and they accept it, they are told in the words of the Master, if they continue in this work, the gospel of Jesus Christ, faithfully keeping his commandments, observing the laws and ordinances, they shall know for themselves if the doctrine be true. Yea, "you shall know the truth," is the promise, "and the truth will make you free." And that is the freedom that the Latterday Saints enjoy today. It is not the freedom of riches, of wealth, it is the freedom of the truth, knowing that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, knowing that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, has made them free, free in the expression of the hope and the faith that they have in their existence here and hereafter. It is that freedom that is expressed in the lives of the missionaries, the young boys that are sent into the nations. They are not very far advanced in the gospel, not with a great knowledge of the principles of life and salvation, yet by their living, by the truth of the message which they are sent to bear to the nations, by abiding in the Word of God, they have learned the truth, and the truth has made them free, and they stand up in the meetings or on the street corners, whenever an opportunity presents itself, and declare unto the world that God lives, a personal being, that Jesus lives, a personal being, each separate one from the other, yet united in the things of God pertaining to the salvation of the children of men. They declare that they know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that the gospel called "Mormonism" is the gospel of Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation, given to the children of men. 

The world cannot bear that testimony. Then men and the women who have not accepted the word of God and who do not abide in the word of God cannot bear that testimony and say that Jesus is the Christ, with knowledge and with conviction. That belongs to the men and the women who have followed him in the path of the regeneration, who have been born anew in the kingdom of God and have received the Holy Ghost to lead them unto all truth, to make things known unto them, the things of God and the vital things of life; for that is the mission of the Holy Ghost. And as we were told this afternoon by President Shepherd, every man and every woman born into this Church through the waters of baptism has conferred upon them the gift of the Holy Ghost by men who are in authority to administer this ordinance; and if they are faithful, if their repentance has been genuine and sincere and they seek God in the humility of their hearts, they have a right to the gift of the Holy Ghost; and that gift is knowledge, intelligence, revelation; for he will take of the Father and of the Son and give it unto you, leading you unto all truth. That was the promise of the Master. So we are right when we say, if we know it, and feel it, and have received the gift of revelation, we know that God lives and that Jesus Christ is indeed his Son, the Redeemer of the world. 

I was thinking, during the remarks of President Grant this morning and of President Shepherd this afternoon, how many people are there in the world not of the faith of the Latter-day Saints who would stand up and say, if the Master appeared unto them or if he came and presented the question as he did to Peter, unto the apostles, "Who do men say that I am?" — how many would declare as Peter declared, "Thou art Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God"? I tell you, there are not many in the world who believe in that doctrine. There are not many men and women outside of the Latter-day Saints who will declare with conviction that they know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. They doubt it. Many of the men who are called to preach the doctrine of the Master deny his divinity and attribute to him another origin aside from his heavenly siredom. The Latter-day Saints, one and all, the thousands that gather upon such occasions as this, if the question were put to them and they were asked if they knew and could declare "with conviction that Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God, that our eternal Father in heaven, indeed, is his Father, and that he was born of the virgin Mary — every man and woman almost without exception would answer in the affirmative that they know it, because they have received the truth and have abided in the truth, and the truth has made them free. 

So I glory in the gospel of the Master, its message to. the world. This message is to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, that they must repent and turn to the Lord, keeping his commandments, obeying his laws, if they will have peace and escape the judgments which God has decreed shall be poured out upon those who forget God and forsake his ways. I pray that we shall ever be humble and prayerful, seeking constantly the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord in all our undertakings, in our everyday life, that our acts will be circumspect, that our lives will be clean before God and man, that the lives we live will speak more eloquently of the gospel which we have embraced than any words that we have power to utter. That this may be our desire, I pray through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER A. WILLIAM LUND 

Assistant Church Historian 

I feel keenly, my brethren and sisters, the position that I am called to occupy, and most humbly ask for an interest in your faith and prayers, that the few words that I may speak this afternoon may be spoken under the influence of the Holy Spirit. I am proud that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. I am proud of my father and my mother and the teachings that they have given me in my youth, and I do hope and trust that these teachings, which I know to be true, may always be uppermost in my life, because I realize that by obedience unto them I shall gain eternal life. 

When Brother Shepherd spoke to us concerning the faith of our fathers, I was proud, too, my brethren and sisters, that my ' grandparents on my mother's side were pioneers in this valley, that they came here in 1849, and helped to subdue the wilderness, that they were among the early settlers of Lehi and helped to build that place; that later my grandfather was one of those who helped to build up Sanpete County and became the president of the Sanpete Stake of Zion. I rejoice that my father was a pioneer of this state, that he came in the early days and helped to build up this wonderful commonwealth. I rejoice in the faith that he always exhibited, in the Church of Jesus Christ, of the knowledge that he had that this Church taught the gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation. I rejoice, too, in the faith that my mother has always exhibited, with other mothers in the Church, in sacrificing the association of her husband, the pleasure and friendship of her sons, by helping them go upon missions whenever they have been called by the Lord, our God. It is a sweet memory to me that faith has been planted in my heart by my parents for I realize that men and women grow old and cannot be with us forever. Our fathers and our mothers cannot always be here to guide us, but the truth, the gospel, that Brother Lillywhite has mentioned can be our guide, can make us free, and obedience to it will lead us back into the presence of our Father in heaven. 

The mothers of this Church, in the early days, sacrificed greatly for the advancement of this Church and of God's work. Many a time when the leaders of the Church have been called upon to go forth in the world to present the gospel of life and salvation unto the nations, these mothers have been left behind sick and with little children, some of them even in bed with a newly born babe, my own mother being one of these; but they never said not to go, when their husbands were called to go forth for the work of the Lord. Men went forth in the early days preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ without purse and without scrip, working their way by their own hands from Nauvoo to New York, or to whatever field they were called to labor, chopping wood, in fact, doing anything they could, to get a few cents on the way to pay their fare. They never. hesitated when God called them. They never said no, it mattered not what the circumstances were, under which they were placed. I do not believe that that faith is dead, I believe that today the faith of the Latter-day Saints is still that of sacrifice, that they will give of their time, that they will go forth and do God's bidding. I appeal to the young men and the young women here this afternoon to do what they are asked by the bishops of their wards. You cannot expect to gain a reward unless you do the thing that is required of you. You never saw a steam engine run without steam; luke-warm water will not turn the wheels. Neither will luke-warmness in the Church of God bring to you that joy, that happiness that is ours if we will work. We must love the work of God. 

The story is told of the great violinist, Ole Bull, that he loved his violin so well that he took it to bed with him, always had it with him. That love was repaid when he became one of the great masters of that instrument. So our love for the gospel of Jesus Christ should be taken with us always, that whenever we are called we are ready to do and ready to go; that we may be masters of the inclinations and passions that are in us as individuals, that we may control them and go forth, clean, sweet and pure, into the world to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. There is not a missionary who goes out into the world but that the prayers of his mother and his father ascend to God that he may go forth in humility, be clean and keep himself unspotted from the sins of the world. The Lord has instituted a way for you and for me to keep ourselves clean, and that way is going to our Sacrament meetings, going to the house of God, partaking of the Sacrament, remembering Jesus Christ, who atoned for us that we might come back into his presence. Go there faithfully and listen to the words of the men of God who are sent to give unto us the bread of life. If we do that we are prepared to meet the world, to meet sin, to know it and overcome it. 

This gospel which we have obeyed is the power of God unto salvation; there is no doubt of that in my mind. I have often heard President McMurrin, in bearing his testimony to the people in the Tabernacle and in other places, say that he knows that the gospel is the power of God unto salvation; I have that same testimony and I believe that every missionary who has been out in the world, who returns home and strives to do. the will of the Lord, will retain the wonderful blessings that are given to him in the testimony that he receives that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that this Church has in it the power of God unto salvation, this gospel that we believe and teach. 

We all look forward, the whole world I might say, to the coming again of Jesus Christ upon the earth. We look forward to that time when he shall rule and reign, and if he should come while we are living, my brethren and sisters, are we going to be prepared to meet him? 1 It is a question I ask myself, "Am I ready, so that I would be prepared to meet him, if he came?" We ought to take inventory of ourselves, especially we younger boys and girls in the Church of God, and find out if we are living according to his commandments. If not, we should then turn our lives in that straight and narrow way that will lead us unto God; for he is merciful, loves his children, and has given unto us that wonderful principle of repentance; that we may turn away from our sins, turn away from our evil ways, and gain, through the Lord's mercy a forgiveness of our sins. True it is, that we must have first obeyed the ordinance of baptism for the remission of sins, by one having authority to perform that ordinance, in order that we may get into the kingdom of God. But the Lord loves his children, and has given us also, the principle of repentance, that we may turn unto him again, as he wants us all to come back. 

Brethren and sisters, the Lord could shake this world and bring you and me upon our knees mighty quick, if he desired our return to him in that way. But he does not. He loves us and wants us to have our own free agency; he has given this to us. Even before we came here he gave us our freedom of choice. We chose in heaven whether we would serve him or follow the one who would not obey God's commandments. So we have that free agency now. We may choose good or evil. God wants us to choose the good, because we are his children, and he desires that we may be saved in his kingdom. For that reason he has given us these laws and commandments known as the gospel which is the plan of life and salvation. Whenever God has had a message to deliver to the people of this earth he has always sent his prophets before him. When the cities of the plains were to be destroyed he sent his servants to preach unto them and call them to repentance. So in these days in which we live, God has again sent the gospel message forth as a warning unto all the world before the end shall come. There is a way and only one way of going back into his presence, and that way, we testify to the world in all soberness, as members of the Church of Jesus Christ, has been opened by our  Father in heaven, through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, that boy who was called in his youth and who remained true to his testimony that he did see God and Jesus Christ, and that the Father spoke unto him, saying, "This is my beloved Son, hear him." The most glorious vision, I believe, that has ever been given in the history of man is this vision of the Almighty God and his Son Jesus Christ shov/ing themselves to this boy, Joseph Smith. 

Later angels came unto him and brought the authority of the holy Priesthood of God; because, my brethren and sisters, we know, if we will stop and think for one minute, that unless we have the proper authority, nothing can be done and be valid, whether it be in civil law or religious law. The Lord understood this and sent, to this Prophet, angels bearing the holy Priesthood of God. John the Baptist came on the 15th day of May in 1829, bringing the Aaronic Priesthood and bestowing it upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, giving unto them the right to baptize in the name of God for the remission of sins, giving unto them the keys of the preparatory gospel, also the right of visitation of angels. Some few weeks later, we do not know the exact date, Peter, James and John did come and give unto them the Melchizedek Priesthood, the power of God to act in his name in all the ordinances of life and salvation. In the Historian's Office we have, in the handwriting of Oliver Cowdery, the statement telling the story of John the Bap's coming, of \his ordaining them, and of Joseph and Oliver baptizing each other in turn after they had received the Aaronic Priesthood; and in his writing he states that Peter, James and John did come and confer upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood. There is the evidence, if. we need it, that the words of this man, this prophet whom we love and revere, are true. Other angels came bringing the keys of the different gospel dispensations — because this is the gospel dispensation of the fullness of times, in which all others shall be gathered together in one and shall be returned unto God by his Son in completeness. In order to do that there must be other keys given. Some of these keys were given on the third day of April, 1836, just one week after the dedication of the Kirtland temple, which dedication was witnessed by the people there that God approved of that temple. Even people of the city came and wondered what was going on at the dedication of this temple. 

On the third day of April, 1836, Oliver Cowdery and the Prophet Joseph Smith went into the temple to pray. As was their custom, when they needed light, whenever they wanted information, they went to God and asked him for it. They went into the temple on this day, and kneeling before the altar were asking God certain things pertaining to this kingdom, when a most glorious vision came unto them, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, appeared standing, as it were, upon a breastwork of gold directly over the altar, and he spoke unto them with a voice sounding as the rushing of great waters, saying: 

"I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. 

"Behold, your sins are forgiven you; you are clean before me; therefore, lift up your heads and rejoice. 

"Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name. 

"For behold I have accepted this house and my name shall be here; and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house." 

A wonderful statement from the Redeemer of the world. After that glorious vision had passed then came Moses the prophet of God, holding the keys of the gathering of all the Tribes of Israel, and he gave those keys to these two men. After that vision had closed, then came Elias, a prophet who lived, we are told, in the days of Abraham. Then, when that vision had closed, came the marvelous vision of Elijah, the prophet of God, of whom Malachi spoke, saying, that he should come before the great and the dreadful day of the Lord, who came giving unto these two men the keys of the sealing power, the keys of sealing the living and also the dead. 

It is a wonderful thing, that the Priesthood of God, and all its keys, have been restored to these two men and handed down, my brethren and sisters, by ordination according to the call and direction of our Father in heaven. My testimony is to you that every man, Brigham Young, and all those who have succeeded Joseph Smith, have received, by the laying on of hands of those in authority, these keys, and that President Grant has them today — every key necessary to turn the lock that will open the door into the celestial kingdom of God, if we will but obey and keep the teachings of this man who was called of God directly by revelation unto the apostleship, and, I believe firmly, by revelation placed at the head of this Church, and I know holds the keys of this Priesthood. Oh, how we ought to rejoice, as young men and young women, that we may grow up under such a wonderful influence and realize by the gift of the Holy Ghost, who testifies of the Father and the Son, that these things are true. 

In all soberness I leave with you my humble testimony that I do know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the living God, and that all the keys necessary for life and salvation are in this Church.. May it be our happy lot, my brethren and sisters, to gain eternal life, God's greatest blessing to man, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer. Amen. 

The L. D. S. University ladies' trio, composed of Sisters Nellie Priestley, Zella Benson, and Nellie Durham, sang, "Trust in God." ELDER EDWARD J. WOOD 

President of Alberta Stake and Canadian Temple 

President of Alberta Stake and of the Canadian Temple I feel that the time remaining belongs to Brother McMurrin. I am sorry we cannot give him longer; we all like to hear President McMurrin bear his testimony and preach the gospel, which he has done ever since I can remember. 

Like the rest of you, I always feel it my duty to respond whenever called upon. I have listened with interest to the testimony of the elders and the beautiful music rendered, and I rejoice also this morning in hearing the presiding authorities, as far as they spoke in the Tabernacle, especially when we were told by the First Presidency that each ward should furnish one missionary to go on a short-term mission — brethren with past experience. 

I come from Canada, as was mentioned by Brother McMurrin, the land of the north. I bring you glad tidings from some of the lost" Ten Tribes, and we are pleased to report everything in very good condition we think, in our three stakes in Canada; and also that the temple work is progressing very favorably. We find the person who goes to the temple most regularly is the one who goes to the Sacramental meetings and pays his tithing more regularly than anybody else. So my advice is that we always take a little time to go to the temple and work for the dead as well as the living. As always, I was delighted to be in the company of Brother Shepherd; I have felt for years the spirit of temple work. Speaking of the missionary movement, I feel keenly the value of temple work and missionary work this afternoon. I do not believe for a minute that the Church built the temple in the Hawaiian Islands only for the benefit of a few of the Sandwich Islanders. I have been on the Islands three times, also to the Samoan and Navigator Islands, and I love that people very much. I have heard President Smith say .he did not think that Utah and Idaho, or any of the North American colonies, or stakes, would ever be the permanent dwelling place of the Polynesian Islanders. I know how he felt. When I heard that Brother Ballard was appointed to open up the South American mission, with Brother Rey L. Pratt of the Mexican mission, and President Rulon S. Wells, I thought then of the many times that I heard President Smith say we have got to do something for the benefit of the Polynesian Islanders, to prepare them for the future, without assisting them or encouraging them to emigrate to Utah. When I heard of the building of the temple, this is what I thought: I think I see the stopping place for the Polynesian Islanders, a place to prepare them for some future work. But just as soon as I heard of Brother Ballard's being called to Buenos Ayres, South America, I thought, there is my hope. I believe firmly that the great hope and faith of the Latter-day Saints regarding the home of the ancient inhabitants of North and South America, the Lamanites and Nephites, will receive blessings on the Sandwich Islands, prepare the Samoan, the Maori, the Tahitian, the Hawaiian, and the Tongan in that temple to get ready for the opening up and the preaching of the gospel to their own countrymen in South America. It is just a delightful thought to me to feel that way. 

In the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord says : 

"And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

"And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them." 

In 1916 I was called to make my third trip to the Islands. The company, my old acquaintances and others were leaving Salt Lake. President Smith told me to be here at a certain time, that we might leave San Francisco on a certain boat. But I am a CanadianBritish subject, although born in Salt Lake, and they never knew it. I did not tell them. Let me tell you what happened, through the power of faith and prayer. There are a good many young people here, and though I do not like to mention myself, I want, above all things, that the young people, our boys and girls, our future missionaries, shall believe firmly in prayer. I was to leave at a certain time. I had sent to Ottawa, the Washington of Canada, for my passport, and it had not arrived in Cardston in time. We were fourteen miles north of the international boundary line. What should I do? The First Presidency requested that I be here at a certain time to report, to leave San Francisco at a certain time. Well, I told the Lord. Of course he knew it, but I always think, like any other father; he enjoys being told. If your children ever get anything they long for, they do not get it, generally, by asking just once or twice to show their parents they want it. It is not what we want but what we need. Our heavenly Father is willing to grant us, I believe, what we most need. I told the Lord I did not have my passport and I was to leave at a certain time. The Spirit said, just get ready and go. I did. I went to the boundary line, met the emigration officer, and he said, "How do you do, Mr. Wood? Where are you going?" "I am going to Salt Lake." "Where is your passport?" "I haven't any? "Why didn't you get it?" I said, "Ottawa did not get it here in time." He said, "All right, when you get it, send it to me." I came to Salt Lake. The passport was to be in Salt Lake by the time I was to leave, giving three days grace between the time I got here and the time I left. The first day it didn't come. I waited until the morning of the third day to be set apart. I did not tell President Smith or any of the presiding brethren that I did not have a passport. I was afraid they would say, "You had better wait and go on some other steamer." President Smith, when he set me apart, said, "Brother Wood, you will go with this company." When he said that a thrill went through my whole being. I did not have my passport. How could I go with the company? He said, "You will go with the company; you will perform the mission for which you are sent, and .you will return in safety." So we got ready. They all thought I had my passport the same as the others. We arrived in San Francisco, where I would have to present my passport to get my ticket, and then again on the steamer. We went to get our tickets. The emigration officer was very busy. He said to me, "Mr. Wood, you are in charge of this little company ?" "Yes." "Sit down here and give me some assistance." I sat down and helped him take the passports from all the other passengers. We did not get through that day. Tomorrow came. We met early in the morning. "Mr. Wood, you were here yesterday. All right. You are a British subject? Go right on board. Thank you very much. I have your passport." I thonght, "You haven't, but it is all right." 

I went on board the steamer . Two days out from San Francisco the purser said, "Mr. Wood, better come in and give me your passport with those of the rest of the company." All right, I said. We went into the purser's office, got talking about the gospel, when he said, "Well, if all you have said is true, you do not need a passport to go to preach to the nations of the earth." He never asked me for it. I read him what I read to you. 

I thought then, I am on the steamer,' but it may be harder to  off at Samoa., where I was to land. Out of about four hundred passengers there would be only fifteen or twenty for Samoa. "What will I do to get off?" So I prayed with the company that was going to the Samoan Islands, just a few of the elders. I told the Lord we had gotten by the Canadian officials and the United States officer at San Francisco, "and now comes the most severe test of all, the immigration officer on the Samoan Islands, where there are only a few, nothing to take up his time." When the steamer came up to the wharf there were the natives with whom I had been acquainted years before, when four of us were pioneers, and then later the same good old faithful Latter-day Saints. One of our elders had a Samoan band, one of the finest bands in the Islands, which came to meet me, and here I was: I could not get off. Could not? I knew if they learned I did not have a passport I would either be deported or taken on to Australia. Samoa is 2,100 miles south of Honolulu, Australia is 2,000 miles away from Samoa. I would have to be taken to Australia if I could not present my passport, and here were the natives trying to reach my hand, delighted to think I had come back the third time to visit them again, and some were crying, so overcome with joy, as their love is very great indeed for the elders from Zion. They will give all they have to help a missionary. They were making way, so that I could come down and shake hands and rub noses with them. Wouldn't it be a disappointment if I could not get off! So I told the Lord, "You have said, 'My messengers will go to the four corners of the earth;' here I am, no passport; help me now." Well, we lined up. Here was one immigration officer and there was another, and a lot of people in front of me. I did not know whether to come first, last, or where. So when we got right up to within the last man, the other immigration officer said to the man he was examining, "You are an anarchist." The man with me jumped up and went oyer and sat down and they had a few moments talk, and I was praying. After he got through he was very much irritated, very much out of patience. He said, "Mr. Wood, I have your passport; thanks very much; go right on." 

Brothers and sisters, I know it pays to pray. Young folks, attend to vour Sacramental meetings, go to the temple, perform work for the living and the dead. God bless all Israel, wherever they may be, is my humble prayer and testimony in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the California Mission 

It is almost time, my brothers and sisters, to bring this meeting to a close. I suppose there may have been some wonder in the minds of some of the people, especially those who heard the announcement made in the morning session by President Heber J. Grant, regarding Dr. George H. Brimhall, who was named as one of the brethren who would speak in this meeting this afternoon. Dr. Brimhall had made a promise to attend the funeral services of a friend in Provo, and for that reason was excused from being in attendance at this meeting. 

I have very greatly rejoiced in the testimonies that have been borne by our brethren. I have had the thought in my mind, what a wonderful blessing it is to be associated with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when all of these marvelous things that have been spoken of have taken place, and the Lord our God, in his mercy and kindness and in keeping with the promises that he made to holy prophets in ancient times, has revealed anew the everlasting gospel and sent from his presence holy beings to clothe mortal men with power and authority to legally teach the things of the kingdom of heaven, and to legally administer sacred and holy ordinances that are essential to the salvation of the children of men. We should be a most grateful people. No other people are possessed of such blessings as we enjoy. 

I hope that the testimony that has been borne, in relation to the virtue and power of prayer, may find lodgment in the hearts of the people, that not only young men and women may believe in this power, but that older men and women also may have the same belief, that they may understand and realize that God, our eternal Father, is a living, intelligent being, and that by means known only to him he is able to hear our humble petitions, and he has the power to bless us with the blessings that will be for our advantage. And I know that the Lord our God is hearing the prayers of his people. I sometimes think of what advertising would be done by some of the so-called healers in the state of California under like circumstances; for we have "healers" there, men and women who profess, through the power of prayer, to heal the sick, and they tell some very remarkable stories in relation to the healing that oftimes follows their ministry. And sometimes Latter-day Saints are disturbed because of hearing that somebody has received a blessing through prayer. I often think of the statement made to me by President Charles W. Penrose, when discussing this angle of the question, that there were healings taking place, and his answer was, "Well, what of it?" I was a little startled for the moment, but the more I have given thought to that answer the more sensible it appears to me. What of it? 

No healings that take place among the inhabitants of the earth, no matter who may be healed, take from us today the authority that was given by the sending of holy angels, that that authority might be conferred upon men. We have healings, marvelous healings, from time to time, in the state of California. It might sur prise people, because generally when people think of California thev think of pleasure, not of religion, not of prayer; and yet we have  men and praying women in California, Latter-day Saints, who believe in the ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the power and virtue of the authority that has been restored. One of those men is Bishop Thomas, who formerly lived in Idaho Falls. He went as a patriarch, at the call of a sister who was afflicted, not long ago, and she commenced to tell him that she was going to one of the "healers," a woman that has attracted great attention in the city of Los Angeles, and she wanted a patriarchal blessing before she visited this woman. The patriarch did not feel like giving her a blessing, just at that time, but he taught her the doctrines of the gospel, told her of the promises that had been made by the Lord our God through the holy Priesthood, that if any were sick they were to call for the elders of the Chuch and anoint with oil, and the prayer of faith should save the sick. This woman had been bedridden for four years, but she commenced to grasp the importance of the teachings that were given her, and then she sought a blessing, in the way appointed of the Lord, at the hands of Bishop Thomas, she was blessed by the authority of the Priesthood, and the next morning, before Bishop Thomas left his home, there was a rap at his door, and when he opened the door the husband of this woman was standing there and said, "Come out, come out, and meet my wife; she can walk." The woman that had not walked for four years was healed by the power of God. How such a thing would be heralded, if it had been brought about by one of these so-called "divine healers"! It is not heralded so much in the Church of Jesus Christ. Those are incidents in connection with the Lords' work that are transpiring all the time, and they are treasured in the minds of the people but are never advertised to the world for gain. 

I myself not long ago went to the Los Angeles county hospital, and I looked upon a girl who, in my own judgment was dying, and the doctors said she was dying. They had telegraphed to Salt Lake City for her father and mother to come. The father works over here in the Bishop's building. And at the girl's request, as she gasped out word by word with what seemed to be her dying breath, for the healing ordinance, we administered to her, and when I left her, to go to the railway station a mile or two away, I thought, I wonder if that father and mother coming in on the train within a few minutes will be in time to see their beloved daughter alive. When we returned, the dying girl had been healed by the power of God — not raised up to health and strength instantaneously, but that dying power that had seized upon her had been banished away, that look of death was gone, and she was able to converse with father and mother and she also was healed by divine power in answer to prayer. 

I rejoice in this authority that God has restored to men upon the earth. I know its value, I know its truth. I thank God that the ears of my own parents were saluted with this gospel message in their native land, and that in the mysterious providences of God and by his power and by the operation of his Spirit, they were brought to understand and believe the message of the gospel, and that because of their faith and their belief and their travels from afar, they gave me birth in the land of Zion. I rejoice in it. I praise the name of God for my birthplace here, in this choice land, and I believe, with all my heart, that this is a choice land. I believe that when President Brigham Young made the announcement, as he looked over this valley, "This is the place," that he made a declaration of greater importance than he himself comprehended. And as time has gone on and development has taken place, we have learned something of the richness of the soil here in this barren American "desert" — no richer soil upon the face of the whole earth. We have learned something of the richness of these mountains, teeming with their precious wealth — mountains of iron and mountains of coal, and mountains of copper and many other precious minerals. We are just beginning to learn something of the marvelous scenery of this country, and people are being attracted to our beloved Utah. 

We are preparing a stereopticon lecture to deliver to the people in the California mission, and we will probably have the hardihood to give that lecture the title, "Utah, the Wonderland of America." Some such title is necessary to carry over to the minds of people the thought that we have in our own minds that this is a choice, a marvelous, a wonderful section. We purpose to show the scenic beauties of Zion Canyon and other wonders. We ought to praise God that through his mercy and by his power and the inspiration of his Spirit the feet of our fathers were planted here, and we ought to believe that "This is the place." 

God help us to so believe, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." The benediction was pronounced by Elder F. F. Hintze, former president of the Turkish mission. 


