36
Afternoon
10 04 1932
President Heber J. Grant
10
117-124

None

None 

The Literary Digest of April 2nd, 1932, contains the following article: 

"THE DRUNKARD DISAPPEARING" 

"The tremendous army of the unemployed and down-and-outers seeking aid from the Salvation Army is almost entirely drink-free, and poverty from drink is a negligible factor in the current depression. 

"This is the testimony of Col. George H. Davis, in charge of the Salvation Army forces at Chicago, who backs up his opinion by the experience of his organization with more than a million cases of hard luck and poverty in the past few months. 

"Colonel Davis' statement was made to the Illinois Conference of Organizations Supporting the Eighteenth Amendment. It is offered by the W. C. T. U. in opposing the group now fighting Prohibition. 

"As it is issued by the Salvation Army, Colonel Davis's statement is, in part, as follows:

" 'Out of more than a million cases we have dealt with in the last sixteen months, there were only seventy-five bad cases of drink, and of moderate cases, only 500. 

" 'From October 11, 1930, to February 3, 1932, we helped 1,102,545 unemployed men. Of this number we found 99.92 per cent drink free. Having nothing to do, many of these men would have drunk to excess if they could get the liquor. 

" 'I did not realize the small percentage of drinking men that pass through our doors until I personally checked it up. 

" 'The number of women coming to our doors with a tale of being ruined by drink is less than 1 per cent of the entire number, whereas in former days it was a considerable proportion. 

" 'In our family welfare relief work in these days we seldom find need arising from strong drink on the part of one or other of the parents, whereas in the old days it was 90 out of 100 cases. In fact, poverty from drink has almost disappeared. 

" 'The old-time drunkard, the wets of the country notwithstanding, is gone. 

" 'Before Prohibition the Salvation Army would gather drunks by the truckload and busload from the saloons and park benches. Today one would have to search high and low in every American city to find at one time 100 men and women of the type the Salvation Army used to gather by the thousands under the rule of John Barleycorn.' 

"This agrees with the experience of Commander Evangeline Booth. As noted in these pages May 17, 1930, she said that before Prohibition the Salvation Army in New York would collect 1,200 to 1,300 drunkards in a night, whereas Prohibition immediately reduced the number to 400." 

PROHIBITION MEETING TO BE HELD IN TABERNACLE 

There will be held in this building next Thursday evening a Prohibition meeting, and the speaker will be Dr. Daniel A. Poling, a man of great renown. The meeting will commence at 7:30. 

I have heard Dr. Poling speak, and can assure you that he is one of the best speakers for Prohibition that I have heard. He was one of the speakers of the "Flying Squadron" that was started by the late Governor Frank Hanly of Indiana, than whom no more eloquent, magnificent defender of Prohibition and fighter against whiskey have I had the privilege of listening to. I hope that this audience is an indication of what we will have here next Thursday night. I would be delighted if it could be said that the greatest audience Daniel A. Poling ever faced was in the Mormon Tabernacle. It would give me great joy. 

I told Elder Charles H. Hart that I was going to steal his time today. It is the first time during my presidency that I have failed to ask all of the General Authorities to speak; but it being so near my birthday and wanting to throw bouquets at myself and talk about myself, and so on, I feel a little selfish. So I decided to take part of the remaining thirty minutes to read announcements, to present the Authorities of the Church, and to do the bouquet throwing. 

VACANCIES NOT TO BE FILLED AT THIS CONFERENCE 

I expect there will be considerable comment when I present the General Authorities, seeing that we are not going to fill the vacancy in the First Presidency nor call a man to succeed Brother Hyrum G. Smith as Presiding Patriarch. Some will say: Did you ever hear of such a thing? Yes, way back in 1880, fifty-two years ago next October, there was a vacancy in the Quorum of the Twelve that lasted for two years; then Brother Orson Pratt died, making two vacancies that lasted a little over a year. When President Brigham Young died there was no First Presidency for three or four years, and when President John Taylor died there was no First Presidency for several years. So this is not so new after all. 
Presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities 
and Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, who 
were unanimously sustained, as follows: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 	James E. Talmage 
Reed Smoot 		Stephen L. Richards 
George Albert Smith 	Richard R. Lyman 
George F. Richards 	Melvin J. Ballard 
David O. McKay		 John A. Widtsoe
Joseph Fielding Smith 	Joseph F. Merrill 
The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 
As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts 
Jonathan G. Kimball 	Charles H. Hart 
Rulon S. Wells 		Levi Edgar Young 
Joseph W. McMurrin 	Antoine R. Ivins 

I regret to inform you that Brother McMurrin is in a serious condition of health. I am sure he would have been delighted to be present with us, in fact I have a letter to that effect from his son. 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop 
David A. Smith, First Counselor 
John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant	 	David O. McKay 
Anthony W. Ivins 	Stephen L. Richards 
Willard Young 		Richard R. Lyman 
Rudger Clawson 	John A. Widtsoe
Joseph F. Merrill 	Adam S. Bennion 
Joseph Fielding Smith 
Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Joseph F. Merrill 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp 	Orval W. Adams 	John W. Hart 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Assistant Conductor; David A. Smith, President. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball 	Alexander Schreiner 	Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President 
Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor 
Julia A. Child, Second Counselor 
with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent 
Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent 
George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Superintendent 
with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent 
Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent 
Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent 
with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President 
Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor 
Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor 
with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent 
Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent 
Edna Harker Thomas, 2nd Asst. Superintendent 
with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

"Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying, 

"Master, which is the great commandment in the law? 

"Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

"This is the first and great commandment. 

"And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 

"On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." 

I endorse very heartily indeed the remarks made here by the last speaker. It shows a remarkable lack of love of our neighbor for Latter-day Saints, some of them holding high positions in the Church, to rush and get their money out of a bank in which the Church owns fifty per cent of the stock. It shows wonderful lack of loyalty, to say the least.  

DENOUNCES FALSEHOODS 

I remarked here the day before yesterday that the New Era came to my desk and found lodgment in the waste basket. Lo and behold, another New Era came to me, not only containing the same things as the one that landed in the waste basket, but also an open letter from a gentleman who had approached a man and tried to persuade him to certify to the fact that he was a go-between between me and a girl in Liverpool to propose marriage, which would have been certifying to an absolute falsehood. 

Jesse B. Stone is the man who sent me this New Era. I have a letter from the man whom Stone tried to get to sign this falsehood and he says that he informed Stone there was not a word of truth in the story. The lady that I am supposed to have been married to tried to come up here on the stand the other day. She has been in the insane asylum, and I think she was there before our friend Stone interviewed her at all. 

Now when the second New Era arrived I decided to read at least the headlines and then throw it into the waste basket, but after I read the headlines I decided to read part of the contents. 

"A rift in Commercial Mormonism." There is no commercial Mormonism and never has been. The Mormon Church upon many occasions has reached out its hand to help industries for the benefit of the people. There is no commercialism in that. This is something in the nature of a father, figuratively speaking, trying to help his children. 

"The beginning of the end." "One bank closes its doors and another commences to totter." 

I consider that an absolute falsehood pure and simple. With the help that can now be secured from the Reconstruction Corporation under the government there is no necessity for any bank whatever with its capital unimpaired, closing its doors. I do not know, but I think I shall ask an attorney if there is no law that will deal with a man and send him to the penitentiary who circulates falsehoods which might cause the failure of a bank. Of course the other bank that is to close it's doors, judging from this article, is undoubtedly meant to be Zion's Savings Bank. 

"In spite of all denials evidence shows that plural marriage is taught by the Authorities." In spite of all falsehoods by liars — I thought I wouldn't use that word, but really a liar is a liar, and perhaps once in a while it is wise to say so — in spite of every document printed, in spite of every statement to the contrary by any person on the face of the earth, the Authorities of this Church under the administration of Heber J. Grant as President, have never taught, have never encouraged, have never sustained any human being in entering pretended plural marriage. All these statements are pure and simple falsehoods. You all know that we have cut a great many people off the Church for entering into pretended plural marriage. I have had a letter from one who was excommunicated in which he wanted to know when the time would come when we would stop treating the best blood of the Church that way, namely, by cutting them off the Church. I answered: When people quit going into adultery, so to speak, and calling it celestial marriage, maybe it will stop, so far as they are concerned. 

I pledge myself here if any person will bring to us the evidence that any man or any woman belonging to this Church has entered into pretended plural marriage, that we will cut them off the Church. 

"When the Deseret Savings Bank, fostered by the leaders of the Church" — a falsehood. It was not fostered by the leaders of the Church — "and prominent members thereof whose financial ability was not questioned, closed its doors during February and that Zion's Savings Bank was harassed by depositors withdrawing funds until it was almost 'bled white' a situation was created, which brought home the realization that security of financial institutions functioning by means of Church funds are not as iron clad as certain quarters endeavor to make the commoner, not informed as to the real situation, believe they are." 

Zion's Savings Bank was not "bled white." The bank was open until nine o'clock at night during the run and would have kept open just as long as anybody wanted to come and get his money. 

"To save the Zion's Bank from closing its doors, the President of the Church was forced to rush two million dollars into its vaults, money which he had secured from a financial concern in the east for the purpose of financing the beet crop of the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company, and enable it to function another season, information which proceeds from a most reliable source." 

Heber J. Grant did not borrow a dollar in the East. Heber J. Grant did not know that Zion's Bank was in distress; he did not know there had been a run on the bank until he reached home; and Heber J. Grant did not go east to borrow money to finance the crop of the Sugar Company, because the Sugar Company financed its own crop and paid all of the people who had raised beets before there was a run on Zion's Savings Bank. The "reliable source" reminds me of what Josh Billings says: "Never judge a man by his relatives, he can't help them, they are crowded on him, but judge him by the company he keeps," and the reliable company from which this man gets his information is one of the crowd of falsifiers. I would like to use the other word. It is shorter and more emphatic, but I think I will let it go at falsifiers. 

I did intend to comment on a full half column, but I really think it is a waste of breath. 

FAVORS LAW PROTECTING SAVINGS BANKS 

I want to endorse what Brother Merrill said. I hope some day to see a law passed, and I have held this opinion ever since the year 1893 — nearly forty years — that no savings bank should ever be permitted by law to pay any depositor a dollar on his deposits except when it became due after proper notice. I do not think people should be permitted to put their money in a savings bank, and then rush and get it, when they know as well as they know they live if everybody else like themselves had heart failure, financially speaking, no savings bank on earth could exist, because a bank cannot pay interest for money and then keep it in vaults waiting for somebody to come and get it. I am sure even if there were such a law that any depositor would be given his money if he actually needed it. 

PERSONAL LOSSES 

I might incidentally remark that I owned $37,500 of stock in Zion's Savings Bank way back in 1893, which cost me $75,000, and Zion's Savings Bank was "bled white" figuratively speaking in 1893, because of the loss of confidence by the people who drew out their money; and I lost every dollar of my stock. I lost that stock at $140.00 a share and I had paid $200.00 for it. 

I thank the Lord for men like the late Isaac Barton who would not draw a dollar out of the State Bank during the run of 1893. I had thirty thousand dollars stock in the State Bank of Utah, and it was paid for, but I was borrowing money on Zion's Savings Bank and State Bank stocks in New York, with George Q. Cannon, Joseph F. Smith, John Henry Smith, Francis M. Lyman; Thomas R. Cutler and other loyal men, with which to build the first beet sugar factory ever built with American machinery in the United States. I lost $62,000, President Cannon eighty-odd thousand, Presidents Joseph F. Smith and John Henry Smith and Francis M. Lyman twenty thousand dollars apiece. We all lost our bank stocks with the exception of Brother Cannon. I was very glad that he was able to buy the stocks that we had to sell, his share of them at least, and did not eventually lose anything, but got the benefit of their subsequent growth. 

LATTER-DAY SAINTS FULFILLING THE LAW 

So far as these liars are concerned — they claim that Brother Ballard taught a woman plural marriage. It is a falsehood. This man goes on reiterating again that John A. Widtsoe has a plural wife — one more falsehood. There are so many of them that it is really a waste of time to refer to them. But let me say to these falsifiers that the work of the Lord is onward and upward. It is progressing and the majority of the Latter-day Saints are fulfilling the law that I have read here, namely, that their first allegiance is to God, and second, the love of their fellow men. There is no question about it in my mind. 

THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO THE VISION 

I endorse the necessity of living the laws of the Gospel. I rejoice in the Gospel. I am inclined to think that damnation is more or less in the nature of condemnation. The Gospel, according to the vision given to Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon, is as follows: 

"And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us — 

"That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness; 

"That through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him; 

"Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him." 

They are few and far between — very few. 

Again I rejoice that we are fundamentalists: 

"And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives!" — speaking of the Savior. 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — 

"That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

I see that I have occupied Brother Hart's time and my own too. I rejoice in the wonderful attendance we have had at this conference, in the faith manifested by the Saints, and in the most remarkable and splendid attendance that we had at our general priesthood meeting, the largest we have ever had at one of those meetings. 

CHARITY TOWARD ALL 

There is one more thing that I want to say: In preaching on the Word of Wisdom, or preaching about cards, or preaching about anything else along the line of the teachings of the Authorities of the Church, if anybody preaches without charity he is not preaching according to the laws of the Gospel. We have the following statement in the 121st section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 

"Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. * * * 

"No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

"By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile — " 

Something else however — 

"Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy." 

I am naturally emphatic in my talk, and I want to say to all of our young people that I hope they will never get the impression that because they fail to live up to the Word of Wisdom and other teachings of this Church there is any hatred in my heart towards them. I try to even love my enemies, to say nothing about the sons and the daughters of men and women who would readily give their lives for this cause. There is no section in all the Doctrine and Covenants from which I have quoted more often and that I have tried to live up to more perfectly than section one hundred and twenty-one, that wonderful revelation given to the Prophet of God while he was in Liberty Jail. 

God bless you one and all, is my prayer, and I do bless you by the authority of the priesthood of the living God that I hold and in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 
