27
Morning 
10 04 1932
Elder Rudger Clawson 
7
85-89

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I would that I had the gift of eloquence with which to give expression to the thoughts in my heart. But since I have no such gift I must be contented to speak as best I can, with the hope that if I speak the truth it will be sanctified for the good of those who are present and of those who are listening in. 

TESTIMONIES THRILL 

I have been deeply impressed and thrilled with the opening address of President Grant and with the sermons of the brethren which followed, and I have also been very deeply impressed with the singing of the choir and with the solos that have been given at this Conference, which have been inspiring. 

In listening to the spirited remarks and fervent testimonies of the mission presidents on Friday, I was thrilled and led to reflect with respect to the nature of their ministry and the responsibility resting upon them, which requires that they should carry the Gospel message to the nations of the earth, and particularly to this nation in which there are thirteen grand divisions, including the Temple Block mission, numbering in population considerably over one hundred million people. This responsibility requires that they should lift up their voices, calling the people of this nation and others to repentance, to reformation, and asking them to give heed to the teachings of the Gospel. 

They are to call upon the people to repent, which if they do will lead to the acceptance of the Gospel doctrines, even those of baptism and the laying on of hands. But the people must remember that repentance precedes baptism, and faith, the great foundation principle of the Gospel structure, precedes repentance. These thoughts and reflections passed through my mind. 

PROGRESS REPORTED 

On Wednesday last, the Council of the Twelve and the First Council of Seventy met with the mission presidents, who reported their labors in some detail, which showed that progress is being made in Gospel conversations, conversions and baptisms. They reported that the tithing in the branches of the mission fields for last year kept up very well indeed. 

It was shown that the Gospel message is being declared upon the streets of the various cities of the country, in halls and chapels, in the newspapers, and last, but not least, by radio. And thus the voice of warning is going out to the world. For remember that in speaking of these particular mission presidents I did not mention the presidents of other missions, numbering about fifteen in all. 

THE CHARACTER OF GOD'S WORK 

In respect to this very important matter, my mind rests upon a saying in the Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, which saying was mentioned by Elder Stephen L. Richards in his address yesterday, and also Rulon S. Wells; and it is this: "This is my work and my glory," said the Lord to Moses, "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

Truly, this is a wonderful saying. In just a single sentence we learn the character of the special work in which God is engaged, and are justified in believing that he could not be engaged in a greater work, and possibly there is no greater work. One reason is that man, who is the child of God, has within him the attributes of Deity, and he may become in time like unto God, his Father, in this work of salvation. The accomplishment of such an undertaking by our Heavenly Father involves the important work of salvation. You will remember the saying of Paul the Apostle, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation unto all who will receive and obey it. 

REVELATION EXPLAINS 

The word of the Lord given to Joseph Smith by revelation June, 1829, as follows, is pertinent to this important matter: 

"If thou wilt do good, yea, and hold out faithful to the end, thou shalt be saved in the kingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no greater gift than the gift of salvation." (Doc. and Cov. 6:13). 

Also the word of the Lord given to Joseph Smith by revelation in June, 1829, for the benefit of John Whitmer, indirectly emphasizes the value of human souls and calls attention to the importance of seeking their salvation. The wording of said revelation in part is as follows: 

"Hearken, my servant John, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer. 

"For behold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the earth. 

"And I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone —  

"For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth unto you. 

"Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given you according to my commandments. 

"And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father." (Doc. and Cov., Section 15). 

MORE LIGHT GIVEN 

In a further revelation from the Lord given to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer, in the same month, viz., June, 1829, greater light is thrown upon this interesting and most vital subject. Listen to these solemn, impressive words: 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

"For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

"And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. 

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! 

"Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! 

"And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me! 

"Behold, you have my gospel before you, and my rock, and my salvation. 

"Ask the Father in my name, in faith believing that you shall receive, and you shall have the Holy Ghost, which manifesteth all things which are expedient unto the children of men. 

"And if you have not faith, hope, and charity, you can do nothing." (Doc. and Cov., Section 18:10-19). 

DUTY TO PROCLAIM GOSPEL 

Permit me to call your attention to the fact that the prophets of old, and Jesus and his disciples during their ministry, were constantly engaged in preaching to the world, thus seeking the salvation of the people. They had received a dispensation from God and seemed to feel the weight of it. They had little of worldly goods but were rich in the knowledge of God and preached the Gospel in power. 

So it is in this age of the world. The Latter-day Saints received a dispensation of the Gospel from the Lord — even the dispensation of the fulness of times. Divine authority was sent down from heaven and sealed upon the head of Joseph Smith, by which he organized the Church of Christ among men. 

Having received from on high, without money and without price, the Gospel with its saving power, Joseph Smith and his people were in duty bound to give the Gospel to the world freely without money and without price, that all might have equal opportunity of securing the blessing of salvation, and that it might be said of God that he is no respecter of persons and that the righteous in every nation are acceptable unto him. 

RESPONSIBILITIES EXPLAINED 

The nature of the responsibility that goes with a Gospel dispensation is set forth forcibly in a revelation given to Joseph Smith the Prophet, in September, 1832, a portion of which reads as follows: 

"Behold, I send you out to reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come. 

"And whoso receiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up. 

"Whoso receiveth you receiveth me; and the same will feed you, and clothe you, and give you money. 

"And he who feeds you, or clothes you, or gives you money, shall in nowise lose his reward. 

"And he that doeth not these things is not my disciple; by this you may know my disciples. 

"He that receiveth you not, go away from him alone by yourselves, and cleanse your feet even with water, pure water, whether in heat or in cold, and bear testimony of it unto your Father which is in heaven, and return not again unto that man. 

"And in whatsoever village or city ye enter, do likewise. 

"Nevertheless, search diligently and spare not; and wo unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your words, or your testimony concerning me. 

"Wo, I say again, unto that house, or that village or city that rejecteth you, or your words, or your testimony of me; 

"For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to scourge them for their wickedness. 

"And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work, which shall be cut short in righteousness — 

"Until all shall know me, who remain, even from the least unto the greatest, and shall be filled with the knowledge of the Lord, and shall see eye to eye, and shall lift up their voice, and with the voice together sing this new song — " 

QUOTES NEW SONG 

I declare to you, my brethren and sisters, that this new song which I will read is one of the greatest songs that was ever written, and I have no doubt that it is a greater song than anything that ever can be written, because it sets forth the works of Almighty God and the consummation of all things. Let me read these words: 

"The Lord hath brought again Zion; 
The Lord hath redeemed his people, Israel, 
According to the election of grace, 
Which was brought to pass by the faith 
And covenant of their fathers. 

"The Lord hath redeemed his people; 
And Satan is bound and time is no longer. 
The Lord hath gathered all things in one. 
The Lord hath brought down Zion from above.
The Lord hath brought up Zion from beneath. 

"The earth hath travailed and brought forth her strength; 
And truth is established in her bowels; 
And the heavens have smiled upon her; 
And she is clothed with the glory of her God; 
For he stands in the midst of his people. 

"Glory, and honor, and power, and might, 
Be ascribed to our God; for he is full of mercy, 
Justice, grace and truth, and peace, 
Forever and ever. Amen.

BEARS TESTIMONY 

My brethren and sisters, when all this is accomplished one might well exclaim: "God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform!" 

I testify in all solemnity that the work in which we are engaged is the work of God, that Jesus was the Christ, that Joseph Smith was his prophet, and that Joseph's successors in office were and are prophets, even men holding the keys to the kingdom of God upon the earth; and I invoke the blessings of the Lord upon you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
