9
Afternoon
08 04 1932
Elder James H. Moyle 
100
25-28

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am happy in the work of the ministry, and pleased to say that our missionaries are in good health and active in their work. The past winter has been one of the mildest in the history of the East; while you have had so much snow here, we have had practically none. 

There are two features of our work which have greatly interested me, one — the enlargement of our radio activities. We have obtained two more free stations, one in Buffalo, where there are more people than in Utah; and the only station in Paterson, New Jersey. During President Grant's last visit, we secured the largest station in Washington, D. C. President Grant opened the service over it with an address, notable in the history of the Eastern States mission and the preaching of the Gospel over the radio. This makes eight stations over which we broadcast weekly. We have reports from over the mission, and from the East Central States mission, that President Grant was heard clearly. In Massachusetts, the bishop of the Reorganized Church at Brockton, with a number of followers, listened in. We are guaranteed that we can preach to people over that station from Florida to Canada. Thus, literally, the Gospel is being proclaimed from the housetops, as predicted in the Book of Mormon. 

Another event of marked interest to me is the opportunity that has been afforded during the past three months to preach to the Jews in their synagogues. The subject thus far has been the Relationship of Mormonism to Judaism. It was something of a remarkable experience to witness the interest which these educated Jews have manifested, and especially the Jewish students at Ithaca, New York, where the Cornell University is located. About a quarter of the students are Jews, and they, with their Rabbi, constituted substantially all of the audience which gathered in their synagogue. In fact, it was some of these young Jews that induced the Rabbi to invite me to speak to them. They remained after the service, wanting to learn more, until eleven o'clock, and then several followed me to the hotel. Two have since written letters, promising to visit me at the end of the school year, and inviting me back. 

As I say, we have now several invitations to speak at other synagogues and Jewish organizations, one at Newark, New Jersey, presided over by the father of one of the Cornell students, who was not only present at the Jewish synagogue at Ithaca, but it was he who induced his father to invite me to speak to the Newark Jewish Club over which he presides. 

I do not know of anything that presents a more marvelous and satisfying demonstration that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God than the fact that he, a boy not twenty-four years of age, translated the Book of Mormon, and published it to the world very shortly after his twenty-fourth birthday, and that that book should arouse the interest that it does among all classes of Jews. 

On the title page of the Book of Mormon — written by practically a boy — is found among other things, the remarkable statement that it, the Book of Mormon, was "to come forth by the gift and power of God * * * in due time by way of the Gentile * * * to show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their Fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever — And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations." 

Bear in mind that this was over a hundred years ago, that this country frontier boy, without education, and with only extremely limited opportunities of access to books or libraries, or contact with learned men, translated the Book of Mormon, which is now translated and published into sixteen languages, and about 50,000 of the same sold per year, with an ever-increasing demand for the same. 

That book, as previously outlined, and particularly in the prophecies found in Second Nephi, in the 30th and 10th chapters, foretells in unmistakable language, vital future events and conditions which have already been fulfilled, and still more which are being fulfilled. It says: 

"And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the Jews and Gentiles. For after the book of which I have spoken shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and sealed up again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall believe the words which are written; and they shall carry them forth unto the remnant of our seed. * * * 

"And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scattered also shall begin to believe in Christ; and they shall begin to gather in upon the face of the land." 

The Prophet then says that they of Jerusalem "who shall not be destroyed shall be scattered among all nations. 

"But behold, thus saith the Lord God: When the day cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am Christ, then have I covenanted with their fathers that they shall be restored in the flesh, upon the earth, unto the lands of their inheritance. 

"And it shall come to pass that they shall be gathered in from their long dispersion, from the isles of the sea, and from the four parts of the earth." 

fdcWhen the Book of Mormon was first published, there were extremely few Jews in all of Palestine, and they were not permitted the privileges of citizenship in that land, or the right to hold title to land, and were greatly mistreated by the Turkish government, of which Palestine was a part. In fact, the Jews throughout Europe, even including liberty-loving England, were denied many of the privileges and the freedom enjoyed by other people. 

All must know something of what has been taking place altogether subsequent to the publication of the Book of Mormon. 

In about a quarter of a century after the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, there commenced some real agitation among Jews for their restoration in Palestine. The first material effort in that direction was led by Baron Rothchild, in the 70's. That was personal, and the first organized movement was led by Baron Hirsch. Then followed an the 90's, and the early part of the twentieth century, the more general Zionist movement, which has become a real power in the world and influenced the British Empire. Since the great World War, millions and millions have been contributing, and Jews by the thousands have been aided in their migration to and settlement in Palestine and their establishment therein in making it a homeland for scattered and down-trodden Jews. 

Another notable fact, showing how clearly the youthful Prophet understood the hidden but foretold predictions of the prophets of the Lord, is shown in the first publication of the Church, other than that of the Book of Mormon which was published before the Church was organized, namely, the "Evening and Morning Star" printed in June, 1832, in Independence, Mo. In its first issue, setting forth its mission and the object of its publication, is the statement that it was to be "a Messenger of truth in these the last days, to present to the world the revelations and commandments of God which have been given, and those which may be given, etc., and good tidings of great joy to all — but more especially to the House of Israel scattered abroad, that the day of their redemption is near, for the Lord has set his hand again the second time to restore them to the lands of their inheritance." 

I would like to call your attention to the fact, that at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple in 1836, in the prayer of the Prophet Joseph, (found in the Doctrine and Covenants) among other most significant things he said: "We therefore ask thee to have mercy upon the children of Jacob, that Jerusalem, from this hour, may begin to be redeemed; and the yoke of bondage may begin to be broken off from the House of David; and the children of Judah may begin to return to the lands which thou didst give to Abraham, their father." 

Then in April, 1840, the Prophet called Orson Hyde and John E. Page on a mission to go to Jerusalem and there dedicate that land to the return of the Jews — at a time when they were not permitted ordinary civil or political privileges, including the right to hold land in Palestine. It took Orson Hyde a year and a half to get there, traveling without purse or scrip. The trials were so great that John E. Page failed on the way, and gave up the struggle; but Apostle Orson Hyde arrived on the Mt. of Olives, and in Oct., 1841, dedicated that land to the return of the Jews, praying, among other things, to the Lord "to remove the barrenness and sterility of this land, and let springs of living water break forth to water its thirsty soil, let the vine and olive produce in their strength, and the fig tree bloom and flourish. Let the land become abundantly fruitful and possessed by its rightful heirs; let it again flow with plenty, to feed the returning prodigals who come home with a spirit of grace and supplication. Upon it let the clouds distil virtue and richness, and let the fields smile with plenty; let the flocks and the herds greatly increase and multiply upon the mountains and hills." 

I see my time is up, but I commend to your consideration what we call in the mission "The Redeemed Hebrew," written by President B. H. Roberts in 1927. It sets forth in much greater detail the whole story, with quotations from the Book of Mormon, and the changed attitude of the Jews toward Christ, hundreds of thousands of whom are accepting Christianity. We are distributing that paper, and it is being read eagerly by thousands of Jews. You know that New York City is the great Jewish center of the world. I understand that about one-fourth or two million of the people living in and near New York City are Jews. At our street meetings they take this paper eagerly. It was printed in a Jewish-Christian periodical. The Jews are interested in it. It is a common experience to learn from well-informed Jews that they have read or are familiar with the contents of the Book of Mormon. 

Thus the work is going on, and may God bless it and those who are seeking to further the purposes of the Lord, is my desire in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
