11
Afternoon
08 04 1932
Elder Charles E. Rowan, Jr. 
127
30-32

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I appreciate the opportunity I have of laboring in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I bring you greetings from the Saints, the missionaries, Sister Rowan, and my family. I am happy to say that the missionaries are all well, enjoying the spirit of the Gospel, enjoying their labors, and getting great satisfaction from bearing testimony of the restored Gospel to the people of Texas and Louisiana. 

I find there are many faithful Latter-day Saints living in those states, and as missionaries we appreciate very much the splendid cooperation they are giving us in helping to disseminate the Gospel truths. Many of our best converts are being contacted through the very fine personnel of those who have membership in this great Church. 

It gives me great joy to report that we have fifteen branches, with a membership of eighteen hundred fifty-nine souls. We have five districts having a membership of thirty-six hundred five. Making a total in the Texas mission of five thousand four hundred sixty-four souls. We have thirty-four Sunday Schools, seventeen Relief Societies, and many Primaries. Our Primaries, however, you realize, are not entirely stable, because the lady missionaries establish temporary community Primaries, while they are laboring in the various cities; yet they are accomplishing a wonderful work. 

I am happy to report that the people in these states are very friendly and hospitable. It is a source of gratitude to me to find the confidence that the business and professional men have in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The conduct of our people whom they have met has thoroughly convinced them that those who have membership in this church are honest, honorable, straightforward, God-fearing men and women. I appreciate telling you, that many of the leading doctors in those states treat our missionaries absolutely free of charge because of the wonderful work they are doing. 

We are not quite so fortunate in giving addresses over the radio, since those in charge say: "We will be delighted, if you will pay, to give you a reduced rate, — but we expect money from all other churches and receive it; consequently you will have to pay to get on the air." Hence few radio programs have been given. 

During these hard times we are finding great consolation and solace in the words of the Redeemer of the world, wherein he said: 

"Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 

"Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. 

"For my yoke is easy and my burden is light." 

We are putting this to the test, my brethren and sisters, and I am frank to confess that the Lord is blessing his people with his Spirit. 

I believe that the Christian people generally throughout the world are depending more on the Lord than they have done in the past. I recognize and appreciate that the Lord has given us an invitation to come unto him and find rest to our souls, but I am also mindful of the fact that the Lord has said there is something of vastly more importance. He said, 

"Not every one that sayeth unto me Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my father which is in heaven. 

"Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? 

"And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you; depart from me, ye that work iniquity." 

So I say to you there is a certain way prescribed by Jesus the Christ through which his children must come unto him. The plan is outlined completely in our Articles of Faith. 

I am happy to be engaged in the work with my missionaries in calling upon mankind to repent. I find myself in perfect accord with this Church. I honor, revere and respect these prophets; I bear you my witness, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that I know that God our Eternal Father has spoken in this dispensation of time, that Jesus the Christ has reappeared and that Joseph Smith was an instrument in the hands of Almighty God in establishing anew the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I am also thankful to know that his successors have all held the keys of the authority to bind on earth and it shall be bound in heaven, and to loose on earth and it shall be loosed in heaven. I certify to you, in words of soberness, that President Heber J. Grant is a prophet, seer and revelator, and an inspiration to all who are familiar with his life. 

May I make one appeal before closing. Send us the names and addresses of your friends or relatives in Texas or Louisiana and we will be glad to get in touch with them. I want to thank the Bureau of Information, and all others who have furnished us with information. Your sons and daughters are well and happy. They are receiving testimony upon testimony that this is God's work. 

I pray God to bless all of us, that we may live and prove faithful to the end, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ our Redeemer. Amen.
