2
Morning
08 04 1932
Elder Charles A. CALLIS
3
13-14

None

None

When our beloved President was speaking, these words of the Lord came to me: "And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors." This is a continuing promise, fulfilled in the life and administration of every President of the Church. 

We are thankful for President Grant. His seventy-five years have been blessings to the people of God and to all the people among whom he has moved. 

One of the most comforting and sustaining thoughts and influences in our lives is the love that the Lord Jesus Christ has for us. I believe that in these dark hours of gloom and trouble he weeps, because of the distress that exists among the children of men. And what shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation? No. 

The testimony that Jesus is the Christ is the precious heritage of every faithful Latter-day Saint. How is this testimony secured? 

"This doth not spring from earthly soil, 
Nor from its wisdom grow; 
‘Tis not evoked by student's toil, 
Though years hath crowned with snow." 

This testimony comes through obedience to the principles and ordinances of the Gospel. The Lord says: 

"Therefore, in the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest. 

"And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh." 

A vision may grow dim with the flight of years, but the companionship and testimony of the Holy Ghost, that sustaining power that forever abides with the faithful children of God, no length of time can dim; no length of time can silence the voice which says: "This is the way; walk ye therein." No length of time can extinguish the lamp which is a light to our feet and a guide to our path. The testimony of the Spirit is clearest and strongest when we live close to God. 

The gift of the Holy Ghost is the spirit of revelation. This gift is enjoyed by the missionaries in their fields of labor, those splendid young men and young women whose sacrifice is sacred in the sight of God. Their loyalty to God and the Church leaders cannot be questioned. It is as firm as the rock of ages. These missionaries love their leaders. They are guided by that spirit of revelation which the Lord grants unto them for guidance in their own fields of labor, but not for the direction of the work of those who are in other parts of the vineyard. 

I testify unto you that as Moses possessed the spirit of revelation which enabled him to bring the children of Israel through the Red Sea on dry ground, so the spirit of revelation, the presence, the companionship, the guidance of the Holy Ghost is with our leaders, and they are leading us by that spirit. If we will follow them they will bring us through this mortal probation, into the celestial kingdom of God, therein to be the sons and daughters of our Heavenly Father and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. 

God bless our leaders. They are inspired of God, and we will follow them, with our Father's help, for he will bless the man who sustains those who preside over him. No man who has the gift of the Holy Ghost will ever be found criticising the oracles of God, entertaining a spirit of rebellion against them, or refusing to follow in their footsteps. 

This is my testimony, and I bear it in the fear of God and in humility of soul, and in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
