4
Morning
08 04 1932
Elder Wm. R. Sloan
97
17-18

None

None 

To face this body of representative men and women of the Church is indeed an inspiration, and to bear witness of this great work that we are engaged in, my brethren and sisters, is a joy unspeakable. 

I have rejoiced in my acquaintance with the leadership of this Church. I am thrilled beyond all words of expression for this acquaintance with them and bear witness that they are men of integrity and men of God. 

Last summer it was our pleasure to visit Alaska. We took the inland route, and you who have enjoyed that wonderful voyage know that the channels you go through, in many cases, are very narrow. One evening the pilot invited Sister Sloan and myself into the pilot room. As we sailed along the narrow channel he pointed out to us and said, "I want you people to note that just on the opposite side, on the right side of the boat [and the boat was moving very slowly] a few feet underneath the water, about eight or ten feet from the vessel, there is a great ledge of rock. Many a ship has struck the same and been sunk." Oh, it was a wonderful feeling of security and safety to know that we were under the leadership of a pilot who knew the course the ship was sailing. 

So it is an inspiration to know in this Church that God is at the helm, and that his servants are inspired, directed and led by his influence. Zion is growing. Let the world say what it will, do what it may, yet this work will go on and on unto a perfect day. 

The Apostle Paul in II Timothy, chapter 3, verses 1 to 5, said of these times: 

"This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. 

"For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, 

"Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, 

"Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God; 

"Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof; from such turn away." 

I admonish you, my brethren and sisters that this is a day that demands the best that is within us. God demands service of us and loyalty to his priesthood. Let us give it. 

I rejoice in my ministry in the Northwestern States mission. We have a wonderful mission. I believe our people are imbued with the spirit of the Gospel, so much so that they are trying to live it. I am happy to report that the tithes of the mission for the past year show a substantial increase over the previous year, and that the tithes for the first quarter of this year exceed the corresponding period of a year ago. 

We do a lot of good things up there, and God has blessed us. The honest tithe-payer and the men and women who observe the Word of Wisdom are being blessed, and it is an evidence of his promise unto his children. 

Last evening another blessed privilege was enjoyed by our returned missionaries. We made a call six months ago that our returned missionaries should enlarge their scope of activity, and we called our brethren and sisters who have filled missions and are now at home to all unite and go to the temple and there assist in extending blessings to the thousands and millions of people who are unable to help themselves. Oh, the thrill that came to my soul, and I sat almost speechless, as I met five hundred returned missionaries, their wives, and friends — all in the temple to do this splendid work, vicarious work for our kindred dead. 

This is God's work. I bear this witness. I give my allegiance, my brethren and sisters, to the men who preside over this Church. I love them. 

God bless you, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
