6
Morning
08 04 1932
Elder Miles L. Jones 
101
19-21

None

None

I am very thankful, my brethren and sisters, to be able to report progress in the East Central States mission, in which I have had the honor and privilege of laboring during the past three years. I am very pleased to state that the missionaries are enjoying good health, with the exception of one, who has been confined to his home for some little time, but he will soon be out again and be able to carry on his work. From time to time as I meet the missionaries who have returned home, I find that they have the missionary spirit with them still, and every one of them exclaims: "I wish that I were able to go back again and take up the work where I left off." 

President Grant has referred, this morning, to some opposition. If I recall right the scriptures say: "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake . . . for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." 

Persecution always has been, and perhaps always will be the heritage of God's people in the earth. I sometimes wonder if the change is almost too much, when I consider that today in practically all walks of life, and among all classes of people, we find those who are willing to listen to the message that we have, and to give consideration to it. 

I am very pleased to state that men of influence and women of influence, with whom we come in contact today, are giving consideration to the teachings of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and are agreeing with our teachings. So I am wondering if there is a little lull at the present time. But nevertheless, we are pressing on in the work, and as I hear those people express themselves it fills my heart with joy and thanksgiving to my Heavenly Father for the progress that is coming, especially in the East Central States mission; and from all reports, from all of the other missions. 

During the past year four hundred and eleven honest souls have entered the waters of baptism in the East Central States mission; and since the first of the year more, in proportion, have been baptized than in the previous year. The outlook for the coming season is very encouraging indeed. 

It may be that some who are under the sound of my voice today, both of the seen as well as the unseen audience, are earnestly seeking after truth, but have not as yet put themselves in a position to receive a testimony of the divinity of this great latter-day work. If there should be such, let me say to you, as I have said upon other occasions, that if you will go into your chambers by yourself, and there kneel down and pour out your soul to the Lord in humble prayer, he will not turn you aside, but he will cause a feeling to come into your soul that will bear witness to you of the divinity of this great latter-day work; and by following the admonition that will come to you, and complying with the commandments of the Lord, you, with us, may rejoice in the knowledge of this great latter-day work. 

I rejoice in the testimony that I have, because I do know as I know that I live that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Savior and Redeemer of the world, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of the Lord, raised up in this day and age of the world, for the purpose of establishing his work upon the earth for the last time, which will never more be thrown down nor given to another people, but will stand unto the end. 

I know that President Heber J. Grant and those who have preceded him as prophets and presidents of the Church are men of God, and that President Grant today is God's mouthpiece upon the earth; and if we follow his admonition and teachings God will bless us and prepare us for every emergency in life and for every calling that may come to us. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
