8
Morning
08 04 1932
Elder Arthur Welling 
102
22-25

None

None

I earnestly pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Spirit of the Lord may guide the few remarks that I may make, as has been the case with those who have preceded me. 

I know that my Redeemer lives, and that this is verily the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I am grateful for membership in it, and for the privilege of acting as a missionary abroad. 

"Go ye into all the world," declared the risen Lord to his disciples, "and preach the Gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned." (Mark 16:15-16.) 

Whatever the Savior may have meant by "damned," the responsibility of those thus commissioned to deliver the Gospel message to the world is here made clear and emphatic. Every missionary knows, however, that Paul may sow, and Apollos water, but only God giveth the increase; (I Cor. 3) and he knows that without this testimony of the Spirit there is no increase, never was, nor ever will be. It was the Master himself who, in answer to Peter's inspired declaration: "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God," said: "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock [Revelation] I will build my Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." (Matt. 16:16-18.) 

I testify to all the world that this Church is built upon the rock of revelation. Now as always, "not flesh and blood, but my Father which is in heaven" reveals its truth to men. Our task as missionaries is to bring the truth to the favorable attention of men in every possible way, and leave the rest to them and to the Lord. 

Now, a word about our missionary work. The North Central States mission, though comparatively young and numerically small, is approximately a thousand miles square, lying west of the Great Lakes and east of the Rockies, half in the United States and half in Canada. We have fifty missionaries, about twenty-six hundred members, and a population of approximately ten times the total membership of the Church in all the world. 

Our missionaries are well and busy and happy in their work. They are a credit to their parents and to the Church. So are our members. Last year more of them paid tithing than ever before in our history, and more of it than for any previous year except 1930, which was our banner year. 

Conversions and baptisms, however, though surpassing all previous records, come but slowly. Our people are honest, industrious, and I am sure, more than ordinarily religious; but there remains much to be done to bring them to an acceptance of the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ. As I think of these good people, and listen to the testimonies offered here, I wish, in the language of Philip to Nathanael, that they might all "Come and See." Philip, you remember, had reported to Nathanael: "We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see." (John;1 :45-46). Such is Mormonism's invitation to the world: "Come and see." 

Come and see what? First, I wish they might find here what I believe to be the greatest need of the world today; namely, a real faith in a real God, our Heavenly Father. This is the first essential of any worthwhile religion; and the second is adherence to the laws of morality, good old fashioned virtue and honesty and honor in the lives of men. These ought observers to find here. 

I would invite attention also to the organization of this Church, — led by prophets and apostles, — its hundred stakes and thirty missions calling into active service literally thousands of people in positions of responsibility, — its more than a thousand wards and branches with their tens of thousands of officers, — its multitudes of men holding the priesthood, and of men and women engaged in the various Auxiliaries of the Church, — all laboring gratuitously and enthusiastically for the welfare of others, under conditions best calculated to hold men always at their best. All my life I have been engaged, as student or teacher, in character education. In my opinion the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the greatest instrument known to man for the development of its members, for the character education of those who participate in its blessings. It is God's own plan "for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ." (Eph. 4:12.) All this I would have our friends to "Come and see." 

I would have them examine also the law of tithing operative in the Church. In these times of financial distress and perplexity of nations, when state legislatures, national congresses and parliaments, and international conferences are frantically wrestling with mounting deficits, let them inquire God's way of balancing the budget in his Church and kingdom, a device so simple and equitable as to require neither explanation nor justification, the ancient law of the tithe. 

The public budget in balance. I would have them observe how the individual poor and needy of the Church are cared for by the simple but effective device of the fast offering. Then might follow analysis of the benefits of the Word of Wisdom, and of our missionary system, etc. 

Thus, I believe, my brethren and sisters, that there is much in the fruits of Mormonism which should challenge the attention and command the respect of men. But after all these so-called fruits of the Gospel are of relatively minor importance, — a few acorns, so to speak, from the great oak tree of truth. It is the testimony that God lives, and that we are his children; that Jesus is the Christ, and that the Gospel is his plan of life and salvation; that his priesthood and authority are here; and that the promised gifts and blessings do follow the believers, — these are the fundamentals in the faith of the Latter-day Saints. All these and more are here if the world will but "Come and see." 

I sustain and uphold those who preside in this Church. I know that the priesthood is here; and that in the Gospel as here taught resides the power of God unto salvation. 

I am glad, I repeat, to be a missionary, and to assist in bringing this message to the attention of men. I pray God to bless the youth of Zion and keep us true to our heritage of truth; and may he bless the world, and in his own due time, bring to pass his righteous will and purposes in the salvation of the children of men. To all of which may he add his blessings, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.
