13
Afternoon
08 04 1932
Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley 
12
33-37

None

None

It is my prayer that the Lord will calm my spirit and lead me by the influence of the Holy Ghost. I am so new in my field of labor that I feel that I can hardly speak with the same assurance relative to the mission, that my associate presidents speak in regard to their missions. It was only late in January of this year that by divine appointment, by prophecy and by the laying on of hands, I was set apart to preside over the California mission. 

It was my great pleasure to be led into that mission and introduced to my labors and installed under the direction of Elder David O. McKay. As he traveled through that mission rapidly, spending some two weeks visiting all of the districts, the people flocked to hear him. Along his route the chapels were filled. The inspiration of the Lord was upon him. The Saints were built up in their faith. The Elders were instructed and given new high hopes, and impressed with the great responsibility that rests upon them, and entered into their labors with renewed diligence. 

But when the two weeks were ended, and I saw Brother McKay disappear through the gate at the railroad station, on his way back to headquarters, headquarters seemed farther removed from California, to me, than they had seemed just a day or two earlier. To me that two weeks was, of course, a schooling under a prophet. I have never quite understood, as I have read the history of the Church, the operation, in its entirety, of the school of the prophets. I have always thought that it must have been most remarkable. But I do know, in a measure, what it is to be schooled under the prophets. 

It has been my great privilege, all the years of my life, to be rather close in contact with the Authorities of this Church. My father was a president of a stake for twenty-five years, and I followed him as a stake president in the same locality for twenty-seven years. So in all those years, into our home — into my mother's home first and later, into my own home — came the Authorities of the Church, and thus I became acquainted with all of them as they traveled among the people to direct, admonish and bless them; and their coming into our home was a blessing. I have appreciated it all my life. I appreciate it more today, I think, than at any other time in my life. And as I stand here, thinking of what a blessing it is to be well born, to be born into the Church and kingdom of God, of goodly parents, today I bless my mother, today I bless my father, prince of a man that he was, carrying in his heart a reverence for the Authorities of this Church. I thank the Lord that his reverence for the Authorities carried over into the hearts of his children. 

I thought when the President was speaking this morning, that never have I heard in my mother's home, never have I heard in my own home any of the Authorities of this Church lightly spoken of. Oh, ye Saints, beware, if in your homes ye speak slightingly of the servants of the living God! Rather that our children should hear our lips uttering prayers that come from the heart; that they, the servants of God, in a world of wickedness and strife, shall be sustained and led and inspired, so that this people shall be and continue to be an exceptional people, chosen of the Lord and led by his servants. 

As I minister with my young brethren down in the California mission, and with the lady missionaries, oh, I stand before the Lord and express my gratitude for those young men and young women, clean and sweet and undefiled; that down in that country of rapid and continuous growth, down in that place where everything seems to thrive, they are not drawn away to the right nor to the left. They are not afraid. The courage that comes unto those young missionaries to stand up in defense of the truth, and declare Jesus Christ and his ministry, and the restoration of the Gospel, and the call of the Lord unto salvation unto all those who will hear it, — I say my soul thrills. 

It is a new experience to step down into that field of labor, among these young men and young women, just out of a class where I had been associated with high priests, mature and sweet, ripened in their experience; and to touch these young lives and to witness their giving of all that they are, the strength of their young manhood and womanhood, to the service of God; it is one of the greatest testimonies in all the world. 

As I have gone through that mission, that country, that beautiful country, from the summit of the hills down in and through the valleys, everywhere today it is a garden spot, following the rainy season. I have driven past the homes of the rich, the estates of the wealthy, and then walked into the homes and sat down with the meek, the Latter-day Saints; and I have questioned in my soul, I have queried: "When shall the meek inherit the earth?" Not now, that is certain. The meek are pushed aside. The grasping, the selfish — they rule and dominate. 

But if you wish to find sweetness, if you wish to find contentment, if you wish to find love, just assemble with the meek who love the Lord and keep his commandments, who love the children of the Lord. Then you will say: Blessed are the meek now, and what must their blessings be when they shall inherit the earth? For the earth and the fulness thereof belong to the Lord, and he who bought it, redeemed it and paid the price, opened the way for you and me to become sons and daughters of God. When he comes, when he rules whose right it is to rule, what will be our joy? The promise will be fulfilled, "The meek shall inherit the earth." Recently in going through that mission, I have gone into the mining camps, where thousands have found their livelihood heretofore. There is no whistle that shrieks now and calls men to work. The smelter smoke does not ascend from those smoke stacks, and their towns are like deserted villages. And I say in my soul: I wonder if this kind of experience will not bring to men's minds the invitation of the Lord, when he said unto the people: 

"Lay not up unto yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: 

"But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal." 

Uneasy is the head of the man of great estates and holdings today. That for which he has struggled, and from which he has hoped to inherit ease and comfort and the power and influence that come from wealth, is now threatened and is insecure. He is under anxiety today. No peace there. But I bear testimony that there is peace in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. 

It was my privilege not long since to go into one of our branches, and as I was met at the depot I was asked: "Did you know that Brother Allen had died?" 

"Oh, no. When was that?" 

"Just now, in the hospital." 

"All right." 

The fact of that death caused me to remain there for three days. For three days, here and there, in the parks, in the lobbies, in the stores, on the streets, I heard people speaking — not our people, as we have only two hundred and fifty of our people in that city. They said: "That Mormon, that man Allen, was a good man." There was a man that went about doing good. My soul rejoiced. 

Oh, the power and the influence of a righteous life! The president of a branch had died. He was a Latter-day Saint. 

I walked up to one place and I saw a magnificent building, and I said to Brother Johnson: "I wonder, while we wait, if we couldn't go through this institution?" 

"Surely, Brother Hinckley. They let me in there any time." 

At the head of the institution was a man named Seaman. I thought: "Perhaps that could be George A. Seaman's kinsman. I will go in." 

The first thing he said when I was introduced was, "Do you know President Allen?" 

"I have never known him, but I am here to be in attendance at his funeral." 

"Great was that man," said this head of that institution. "He came in here and held meetings with us." 

This is briefly the story that he gave: "All of the sects and the denominations are permitted to hold meetings in this institution on Sunday. When President Allen brought his people in," he said, "they prayed, they sang, and they preached the Lord Jesus Christ. We had been used to seeing them, when others were here, play cards and let the radio go on; but this room became a chapel when the Mormons held services here. But it stirred up opposition, and my board was petitioned to prevent the Mormons from holding meetings in this institution. What did your president say? President Allen said, 'No war, no contention with us. Our mission is peace. We have preached unto you the truth, and when you shut us out you shut out the word of God and the message of salvation.' Result: The inmates said: 'Where are those Mormons? 

" 'They are not coming.' 

" 'Why not?' 

" 'The Board has said they cannot come.' 

"Result: Five hundred people signed a petition and said: 'We want the Latter-day Saints to come in here and hold their service.' " 

The privilege was renewed and we continue to hold services there, and when the funeral of that righteous man was held the chapel was filled; the archway dividing two rooms was opened, chairs were put in; hundreds were there to pay their respect to the life of a righteous man. 

That is the kind of message that reaches the world when a righteous man manifests before God in daily life the fruits of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Down in the California mission, under the wise leadership of President Joseph W. McMurrin — perhaps the only mission where one of the General Authorities has been permitted to preside for years and years, covering a period of thirteen years — he has wisely established branches all over Nevada, Arizona and California. Twelve thousand people in their daily lives are manifesting unto the world the fruits of Mormonism, and they are leavening the lump. And while our missionary force has dropped from its high peak of two hundred and twenty in 1929, to fifty-nine now, and while the depression is forcing fathers and mothers to write daily: "Can you not honorably release my son or my daughter? We have gone the limit" — in other places, presidents of stakes have written to the president of the mission and said: "Send no Elder home for the want of funds. When they have reached their limit notify us, for in this stake no lady missionary and no Elder has ever returned for the want of funds." 

I bear my testimony to the quality of the men, the quality of the women, who minister in that mission. It is the choicest of the choice. I love them as I love my own sons and daughters. They are wonderful. I love those Saints, and I want to bear testimony that in that mission are some of the best Latter-day Saints I have ever known. And now in answer to this call for local missionary help the presidents of those branches have said: "We will give you help;" and I expect that a hundred or more will be installed and divinely appointed to labor part time to help in this emergency. 

I know the truth. I love the truth. I hope to live it to the end, and to be found worthy to sit down with my father and my mother, saved in the celestial kingdom of God. May this blessing be mine and be yours, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
