5
Morning
08 04 1932
Elder Elias S. Woodruff 
99
18-19

None

None

What a glorious privilege every Latter-day Saint enjoys through membership in this Church! The Holy Ghost, which emanates from the presence of the Father, and fills the limits of space, is available to every one who will seek it, and is particularly the heritage of the Saints who have earned the right to enjoy it by obedience to the ordinances of the Gospel. 

We are told that in the latter days false prophets shall arise, who might confuse some as to whether they were true or false. But the Savior said: "By their fruits ye shall know them," and in our judgment, we only need to apply that measuring rule to ascertain whether men are true or false servants of God. And greater than that, let us apply the rule to ourselves. The fruits of the Spirit, if they are enjoyed by you and by me, are love, joy and peace. When you have within your heart a burning desire to love your brethren and sisters, and particularly those who preside over you and direct the affairs of this Church, you may know that that is the influence of the Holy Ghost. 

If there is happiness and peace in your heart, as expressed in the joy of your life, you may likewise know that you are influenced by the Holy Ghost; and if you have peace and love within your soul, then you know that you are in the line of your duty. If you are disturbed in your hearts, if you are angry with your brethren, if you allow yourselves to criticise them, you are not happy, you are not at peace, there is no joy in your soul. 

What a glorious thing it is, brethren and sisters, to have this wonderful key by which to measure ourselves! I pray the Lord will bless his Saints, that they may always keep that in their hearts. I try, as far as I am able, to keep that message in the minds of the people in the mission where I labor, that they may be a happy people, that they may be a loyal and a lovable people, that they may enjoy the gift of that spirit which enriches the souls of men. 

I bear you my testimony that the Lord pours out his Spirit upon us in great power, that we feel its blessing, and that the hearts of the Saints rejoice in the testimony of the missionaries, and in their own testimonies, as they meet together to worship the Lord. They do sustain the First Presidency, the Twelve, and the other General Authorities of the Church. They sustain them in their hearts and in their souls. They sustain them by their actions. They pay their tithes and their offerings. They say their prayers. They attend their meetings. They strive to gain an understanding of the Gospel and continually improve in knowledge, to increase their testimonies. The Spirit burns in their hearts, and when we meet together we have some glorious meetings — not large meetings, of course, but we have small gatherings of Saints in our district and branch conferences, in which the souls of the people overflow with joy and happiness, and with love of each other. 

I believe I can say truthfully that there is peace and harmony existing almost without exception throughout the mission. The missionaries themselves are rendering faithful service. They are making their sacrifices, trying to curtail their expenses according to the incomes of their parents who are so distressed at home; trying to realize that the sacrifice of the parents is a wonderful thing; and they wish to make their parents feel that they appreciate it, and are trying to fit themselves to the conditions. 

You may be assured that so far as the Western States mission is concerned, your children, your sons and daughters laboring there, are all in good health, all in good habits. They are prayerful: they are humble; they are diligent in their work: and the Lord is blessing them greatly. His power is manifest among us, and we can testify continuously to his loving kindness and blessing. 

May God bless you. May God bless the work of the Church everywhere, and above all, his chosen servants who preside over it. and that we may follow their example and have the influence of the Holy Spirit to dwell in our hearts, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
