24
Afternoon
09 04 1932
Elder Levi Edgar Young 
48
74-77

None

None

I realize the responsibility this afternoon, for I not only represent the First Council of Seventy but the great mission here at the Temple Square as well. Presiding over this mission as I do, having been called by the First Presidency, I am glad to say something about the mission and also to bear my testimony of the truth of this Gospel of our Lord and Savior. Connected as I am with the University of Utah, I come in contact with hundreds of the boys and girls of this State and other States, and I feel that I appreciate something of the struggles they are making. 

Here at the Temple Square thousands of people come to us yearly. They come here as travelers, as tourists; and the Bureau of Information which has been erected for them is the place where they obtain literature and information concerning the doctrines of the Church. A different type of people come to us now as compared with those who came a few years ago. People came with criticism in their hearts and a great deal of hate of what we believe. But today it is seldom that people do not appreciate something of the beauty of the grounds, the greatness of the buildings, and above all, the message which we missionaries give to them. There are fifteen missionaries connected with this mission and they are a choice lot of brethren and sisters and are doing a wonderful work here. We try to approach all people with the attitude of mind as expressed by the old prophet Malachi when he said: "Are we not all children of the same God? Is not God the Father of us all?" 

Every day letters come to us expressing gratitude for the message that people have received, and I have in my pocket now a letter that I received only this morning from Dr. Teeling of London, a graduate of Oxford University and a representative of one of the departments of government in London. Dr. Teeling was our guest here for a few days and made a careful investigation of the history and the doctrines of the Church. He wrote us a very lovely letter thanking us for what he had obtained here and asking us to visit him in London. So we receive such letters every day. People are appreciative and we appreciate them. 

Not long ago some prominent students from one of the great universities of America came through. These students were on their way to Southern Utah to study the geological formation of the canyons. They came here and spent the day and I had the pleasure of taking them through the grounds and buildings, and as they went back through our little museum — which by the way one of the attendants of the British Museum says is one of the smallest museums in the United States, but for quality one of the finest — they read those lovely mottoes we have in the museum. There are fourteen. I want to read them to you because they were carefully chosen: 

"God created man in His own image, in the image of God created He him." — Genesis. 

"God ever works with those who work with him," is a saying of Aristotle. 

"Reverence for God is the basis of immortality." — The Talmud. 

"Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom."'— Doctrine and Covenants. 

"With malice towards none, with charity for all." — Abraham Lincoln. 

"Yea, truth and justice then will down return to men." — Milton. 

"My strength is of the strength of ten because my heart is pure." — Tennyson. 

"What a piece of work is man; in apprehension how like a god." — Shakespeare (Hamlet). 

"The grace of God is all powerful." — Stevenson. 

"The glory of God is intelligence. " — Doctrine and Covenants. 

"Reverence is the chief joy and power of life." — Ruskin. 

"Faith is happiness, illumination and strength." — Balzac. 

"A gentleman is a man of truth; lord of his own actions." — Emerson. 

"What is true and just and honest, all of virtue shall endure." — Browning. 

These students read these inscriptions, and letters came back from the university that they represented, asking that we send copies of them. In our conversation with one of the students, this remark was made, that "a people who profess a firm faith and belief in Jesus Christ and could accept the truths of the great philosophers of the world are certainly on the road to a greater faith and religion than any other people he has ever known. Said he: "There is a rare combination among you in your lives of heart and intelligence." 

So we feel that we are getting some results at this mission. The high and low, the rich and poor come to us, but with us there are no high, low, rich or poor. All people are children of God and they come here and take away with them something of the spirit of the Mission, something of the spirit of Christ, the spirit of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Now in speaking and thinking of the youth, we have great faith in the youth of the land, and faith in the youth of this State. Personally, the boys and girls in our State university and all other institutions of the State and elsewhere are to me fine types of character. Naturally they need directing and at times they do hear things that shake their faith in God to the very foundation. They hear expressions they cannot understand. They sometimes come with all the honesty of heart and ask what to do under certain circumstances. I have them almost daily in my office. But those girls and boys are precious souls, they are lovely characters naturally, and if they can only be touched with divine truth they will be honest, they will be truthful; if we can only get them to realize above all things that while it is good to know the truth, it is far greater to be a man or woman of the truth. So I feel encouraged when I meet them. Jesus Christ came into the world as described in the second chapter of St. Luke, he died for you and me, and the night before he went to his crucifixion he announced to his disciples and to all the world that he is the way, the truth, and the light. "I am the way, and the truth, and the light," said Jesus, and through him we come to the final understanding of life, a joyful understanding, and as a result of it a happiness that we are all seeking. This is life, and life eternal to live the Gospel because of an understanding of Jesus Christ and him crucified. It was an old prophet, Zachariah, who said: "I will stir up thy sons, O Zion, against thy sons, O Greece." That conflict between Greece and Zion began far back in the centuries and it is going on today. We mean by that the conflict between the people who have faith — God-given faith in Almighty God — and the people who without the faith are seeking truth by science and philosophy. What the youth need today is to be stirred to a knowledge of God; to understand that the sublimest thing of all life is the simple faith in God the Father, in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost — the greatest truth for you and me and yet the simplest. This is fundamental, and if the youth can only get to see that after all, civilization has always been based on religion and always will be, and that the religion of God comes from one great fundamental source, namely, revelation — God is understood through knowledge, God is known through revelation; and those two great principles, if they are known and can be seen and understood, the faith of the youth then will grow and they will always know that after all, morality, the richness of life, the sublimity of all things, lie in the simple Gospel of Christ. It is beautiful this Gospel, for truth is beauty, and beauty is truth. 

Now if we can come to know the youth, this buoyant youth, we will be better able to teach them, and their faults and failings will be eradicated one by one. They will stand supreme before God as his children, and be masters of selves and servants of each other. "I am the way, the life, and the truth," spoke Jesus. When we come to realize this greath truth, we will open our hearts more and more to the lesson that life has a meaning, and a meaning for good; that the moral world is governed by the purpose and a purpose of love; we will bend to God's will, and everything we experience will speak to us of a Father's heart. Let us look forward with hope and confidence and place our lives in the hands of God. My brethren and sisters: 

"We know the arduous life, the eternal laws 
To which the triumph of all good is given; 
High sacrifice, and labour without pause 
Even to the death." 

May the Lord bless us all, I ask in Jesus name. Amen.
