19
Morning
09 04 1932
Elder Fred Tadje
147
54-56

None

None 

The poet, on seeing weather-beaten trees, and remarking their shape and outline, wrote reflectingly: 

"Is it as plainly in our living shown, by slant and twist 
Which way the wind has blown?" 

The answer to this query is yes; we do, in our living, reflect the way the wind has blown. Every influence that we have known registers some mark upon us. Each one leaves its impress, and one day finds expression in our conduct or attitude. 

As you have heard, I come to you from the mission field, where it has been my privilege to associate with many of your sons. I have had the opportunity to observe them; to study their actions and reactions; to appraise their character. I have seen them in discouragement and in enthusiasm, in defeat and in victory, confused by problems, and triumphing over them. I have seen their works. I have recognized their efforts. I have looked into their lives — their souls were bared to me. I have known their faith; and I wish to say to you mothers and fathers of missionaries, there are no finer young men in all the world than those you send to us as missionaries. I congratulate you as parents, and I congratulate the Church for such splendid types of young people. Their character is an honor and a credit to you, for they reflect the influences that you have exerted over them. 

Just as surely as weather-beaten trees show the way the wind has blown, so do these young men disclose the kind of training they have received. In the lives of these young men we can see the shaping power of the Church and of the home, and the influence of their parents. 

One of the most potent factors in molding an individual's life is the power of example, particularly the example of the parents. The child naturally looks to his father as a perfect model. His son will copy his walk, his speech, his manners, his every action. Father is his model, his rock on which he stands. Unconsciously, perhaps, but nevertheless surely, the child patterns his life after his father. If the father is a man of faith and virtue, if he cultivates the good qualities, then every fine trait is accented in the child. But if he is careless and negligent, if his habits are bad, his influence, just as strong, is for the worse. 

Fathers and mothers, what a tremendous responsibility is ours! How vigilant we must ever be to guide our children right. How we must foster the spirit of faith and love in our homes. There it is that we can inculcate a love of the Gospel, an unshakable faith, in the breasts of our children. Let every influence be an uplifting one. Cultivate religious expression. 

I believe one reason why the Gospel means so much to me is, because it meant so much to my parents. We were brought close to the Gospel as children in the home. Not a day passed that some phase of the Gospel was not discussed. Family prayers were observed regularly, and then early in the evening, before any one was over-tired. The motto in the home was: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." The spirit of the home, the discussion of the Gospel principles, the family prayers, and above all, the example of the parents, who endeavored to live real Gospel lives, imbued a desire into the hearts of the children to serve the Master in whatever capacity they were capable. 

A father confided to me, at one time, that when his children passed through the critical period of their lives he had fasted and prayed a day every week for years, for divine help to rear his children properly in the Church. He wanted them to grow up in faith and in love of the truth. He said: "I cannot bear to see my children go astray, or disinterested in the Gospel. Should that happen it would shorten my life, and with the help of the Lord I will do all that lies in my power to instil into their hearts a desire to serve him." What a devotion to a righteous cause! Were his efforts in vain? Indeed not, for thus far his children are firmly grounded in the faith, and no matter what call is made upon them by the Church, they respond joyfully and whole-heartedly. 

I have three boys whom I love dearly. If I can inspire them with the same high faith that my parents bequeathed to me, if I can instil into their hearts a fervent love of God and his work, if I can be a worthy example in all things, then I shall be content. If I can create in them an earnest desire to know God's will and to do it, to serve him and to love his Gospel, then I shall be indeed gratified. Some day, I hope, they may take their place as missionaries, thoroughly qualified to carry on in the all-important work. And I hope that some future mission president, looking upon the lives of my boys, and of yours, may read in them the reflection of good influences and proper example. May he never see child-like faith dulled by parental indifference, or potential virtue marred by parental neglect. 

Let our every influence be for good. Let our example be a shining light to guide our children in the paths, of truth and righteousness. Let us bring the Gospel close to our children, that they may learn to know and love it, and that they may respond to its uplifting influence. 

My experience has proven that, generally speaking, the most faithful and successful missionaries come from families here at home where the Gospel receives first consideration. I have observed, too, that the families where the Gospel is the predominant thought are ever responsive to the call of the Authorities of the Church, no matter what sacrifice it might entail. 

Let us all place ourselves in tune with this great cause by making the Gospel a substantial part of our home life and training. I am exceedingly grateful for my membership in this Church. I prize more highly than I can express the privileges I enjoy as a bearer of the Melchizedek priesthood. My earnest desire is to be able to show my appreciation for my many blessings by rendering at all times, and under every circumstance, acceptable service in the sight of the Lord. This Gospel has brought me joy and gratification beyond description. I have tasted of the fruits of the Gospel, and I want to testify to you that I have found them most delicious. 

May the Lord continue to bless us all, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
