Second Overflow
08 10 1911

Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder George Albert Smith presided. 

The Murray choir, under direction of conductor W. F. Robinson, rendered the musical exercises. 

The choir rendered a sacred chorus, entitled, "Sing and magnify." 

Prayer was offered by Elder R. S. Collett. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

awake! my slumb'ring minstrel, Let my harp forget its spell; 

Say, O say, in sweetest accents, Zion prospers, all is well. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

It is my earnest prayer that the remarks I shall offer at this meeting shall be dictated by the good spirit. More than any other people on the face of the earth, the Latterday Saints should be impressed with the sense of duty. It will indeed be an unfortunate thing for this people if they ever, at any time, lose this sense of duty. We hear a great deal of talk in these days about our rights, rights we think we ought to enjoy. But, I believe that if we, especially the Latter-day Saints, would think more about our obligations than our rights we would be a happier, a more devout and a more grateful people. 

Of all the people on the face of the earth, we should be the most grateful, for we have received more light and truth concerning spiritual things than have many of our fel men. God has blessed us with the fullness of the gospel. The Prophet Joseph Smith opened the heavenly worlds to view, and unto us, by the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost, hath been revealed truths that are withheld from the people of the world who do not hearken unto the counsels of God. Indeed, the gift of the Holy Ghost is a strong proof that God is no respecter of persons, because to the poor and to the rich, the learned and the ignorant, if they believe and obey the gospel with sincere intent, is given the gift of the Holy Ghost, which "leads and guides into all truth." So then even the poor man who has never been in a university as a student may say, with Job, when given the Holy Ghost, "I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that in the latter day he shall stand upon the earth." He speaks from the heart, and this heart-knowledge is the most direct, the most convincing knowledge of the gospel that we can have. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is faithfully pursuing its mission of preaching Christ and Him crucified. That is our mission, and, with God's help, we are pressing along our way. 

It has ever been the case that when new light and truth have been introduced into the world, the powers of darkness have bitterly fought the introduction of that light and truth. "Mormonism" stands for the introduction of the whole truth concerning Jesus, the Christ. You will recall, in the days when Wycliffe and Tyndall were translating the Bible into the English language, that men and women might peruse the precious truths in that volume, the evil one stirred up the clergy against these men, against the work that they were accomplishing, and with the sword and with the stake they fought the introduction of the Bible into the homes of the people; but the work was accomplished. One of these men gave up his life in order that the Bible might be translated into the English language and introduced into the homes of the people. God's word could not fail, for Jesus said, "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life; and they are they which testify of me." That was the reason why Satan fought the translation of the Bible into the English language. His work, has ever been and ever will be, to fight the gospel and purposes of Jesus Christ. Men, philosophers, today ask the question, why, in the centuries past, did the clergy, above all people, fight the translation, — the diffusion of the knowledge the Bible contains amongst the people? We must look for the answer in the saying of the Savior already quoted : "Search the scriptures; * * they are they which testify of me," Satan did not want the people to search the scriptures, he wanted to keep the prophecies contained in the scriptures and the mission of the scriptures from being fulfilled. He sought to have the Bible withheld from the people, that they might be kept in ignorance of the divine sonship of the Son of God. The time came when men began to deny their God. 

Look in the world today at the number of ministers denying the divinity of Jesus Christ. They admit — and perhaps we ought to feel thankful for this gracious admission — they concede, that Jesus was a great teacher, a great man, but many of them deny His divinity, deny that he was the Redeemer of  world. God in His goodness and mercy decreed that He would raise up a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ, when men should begin to deny Him, a witness who might convince them that Jesus is indeed the Christ. God has caused to be brought forth another volume of .scripture, to testify to the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ. Men said that the canon of scripture was full. They said that God had ceased to speak to men from heaven, and they seemed to rest in this belief until : 

An angel from on high, 

The long, long silence broke; 

Descending from the sky, These gracious words He spoke — 

Lo! in Cumorah's lonely hill, 

A sacred record lies concealed. 

Joseph Smith, by the gift and the power of God, translated the Book of Mormon. What are some of the beautiful truths that the sacred Nephite record teaches? Shining as gems of spiritual truth, these two great heavenly truths stand prominent : The Book of Mormon establishes the truth of the Bible. The Book of Mormon declares that Jesus was and is the Christ, the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. A book declaring these two glorious truths is surely entitled to a fair and serious consideration. Compare the difficulties, the trials and persecutions that Joseph Smith suffered, in bringing forth the Book of Mormon, with the treatment and persecution that overtook Wycliffe and Tyndall, who brought forth the Bible in the English language, and the similarity is absolutely startling. The reason for the persecution in both cases is precisely the same, Jesus said, "Search the scriptures : for they are they which testify of me." Men began to lose  in God when "Lo, from Cumorah's lonely hill" was brought forth the Book of Mormon, that declares that Jesus was the Christ, and that men could not gain salvation except in and through and by the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the devil, knowing the power, knowing the light that was coming into the world, wielded all his powers in fighting that book, and its translator. Joseph Smith gave up his life as a martyr; his life was taken to satisfy the cruel unrighteous demands, and the hatred of those wicked men who persecuted him even to death's door. 

In a short time, not long hence, philosophers, scholars and statesmen will ask, why did the people fight the introduction of the Book of Mormon, which is such a glorious and a powerful witness for the Lord Jesus Christ? History will repeat itself, and this answer will be given : Jesus said, "Search the scriptures; * * they are they which testify of me." The Book of Mormon is scripture, it is the word of God, it testifies of His Son, and because of that, evil powers sought to prevent its translation, and the in-' troduction of that sacred book into the homes of the people. 

My brethren and sisters, the. efforts of the evil one will surely fail, for the angel said unto Joseph, "The knowledge that this record contains shall go unto every nation and kindred and people." The prediction made by the angel to the prophet of God is being fulfilled, and it will be completely fulfilled in God's own due time. 

We are told in the scriptures that the Bible and the Book of Mormon shall be one in God's hand for the confounding of false doctrine. It was said of Joseph, who was sold  Egypt, that he should "push the people together to the ends of the earth." By the Bible and the Book of Mormon false doctrine is being confounded; and as God has put them together — "one in mine hand" — we say "What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put as'under." The Latter-day Saints, imbued with the sense of duty, feeling that upon them rests the obligation to preach this gospel, will go forth by the power of God in the discharge of their duty, until the testimony of Jesus, which is the "spirit of prophecy" shall spread over the world like a sea of glory, until it covers the earth from pole to pole. To this mission, God grant that we may ever be faithful, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK. 

(President of Western States Mission.) 

The inspirational remarks of President Smith at the opening of the conference suggested to my mind this question : Is it worth while to be an exemplary Latterday Saint? Emerson said, "A man is relieved and gay when he has put his heart into his work and done his best, what he has said and done otherwise shall bring him no peace." I believe those words. 

In the missionary field we have opportunities for observing many things which do not ordinarily come to the attention of the people at home in the body of the Church and I call to mind an experience of recent date which will illustrate the point I would like to make : A professor of several years standing at the law school of Ann Arbor had moved to Colorado for his health, and in talking with one of our members over a business proposition he made the remark, "I was in Ann Arbor for a number of years. I had occasion to know and see men who came there to study law and it was my observation that the young men who came from Utah, most of whom were known as 'Mormons,' were ahead of all others of the world that came to that institution. Let me ask you why," said he, "why is it that they made such records ?" The answer was given that, undoubtedly, it was because of the lives that those men had been urged to live; that they had been taught in their youth to be virtuous, to abstain from alcoholic liquors and from tobacco, tea, coffee and stimulants of every kind. "Well," be said, "if that be the case, I would to God that my children might be reared in such an atmosphere instead of where they are today." It is not only those, my friends, who go to school to Ann Arbor and the colleges of the East or West — it is not only to those we are to look for exemplary men and women, but it is to every one of us, and if we wish for it in our hearts to be exemplary in our manners, in our habits, we do more than any other one thing in the world to advocate "Mormonism." 

Let me give you another picture : A family with whom we became acquainted in Denver had visited a number of families in Utah, and we were invited to their home one evening to have dinner with a number of others of their friends, and as coffee was placed before us and we declined they asked why it was, and the opportunity came for me to explain that it was a part of our religion, a tenet of our faith, that we abstain from the use of such things. "Why, that is a peculiar thing!"  the gentleman, "we have been out in Utah a number of times in the home of so and so," (and, by the way, the man he spoke of was a man of my own town and I knew him very well, — a man representative in the Church, too), "and they have put both tea and coffee before us in their home and we never knew that your people had such a law in the Church." Now, it may have been that those good people, out of generosity in entertaining the visitors, desired them to have what they wanted. It was not a question, hardly, of deciding that they could put on the usual beverage, as was illustrated a few days ago through one of the illustrious men of this nation, in addressing a toast to the Chief Executive of this country, when he said, "I propose a toast to our honored guest with the sparkling beverage sealed with the approval of the Almighty," and that was water. Perhaps our friends thought that they could not put water on the table without being thought lacking in courtesy when entertaining their friends from abroad, but it seems to me that we ought to live up to every principle in our homes, and let people who visit us understand how we live and what we do there. It will go farther toward impressing them with our belief and our faith than anything else. 

Just now we in Colorado, of the Western States Mission, are in the centre of the fight being waged by a renegade member of one of the splendid and cherished families of this state, a fight that is intended to rid Colorado of the "Mormon Plague." Think of it! Well, I see in it only good, for at the time when one of his greatest efforts thus far made during his campaign, in one  the churches in Denver a fewweeks ago, a prominent citizen of this country, a man who has traveled world wide, stepped out on the street during a meeting one Sunday afternoon in Denver, with several hundred people assembled, and interrupted one of our speakers, saying, "Young man, permit me to say a few words. " He took his place with the elders and said to the people, "I want to say to you that I have traveled all over the world. I have also traveled largely in Utah and wherever there are 'Mormons,' and I have done approximately two million dollars worth of business with them and have yet to lose a dollar, and I want to say to you here today that they are an honest people and a good people. Futhermore, when it comes to morality, you will not find angels in heaven any purer than the women and girls who belong to the 'Mormon' Church." He continued, "Utah ranks third in education in the United States. And who has accomplished that? Why the 'Mormon' people, because they have been in control of Utah for all these years. I was born and raised a Roman Catholic, but," said he, "I am going to raise my voice here and everywhere I go in behalf of that people." An acquaintance of his, a traveling man whom he had not met for several years, stepped out after he had concluded his talk, and said, "I want to say amen to what has been said by my friend, for I have had large business interests in Utah for over twenty years and what he has said to you is true." Another man still, a stranger to both, took off his hat and remarked, "The words spoken here are true." 

Now, perhaps we may have a lit agitation; I don't doubt it; but when we can have men who will, of their own accord, stand up on the street corners and defend us, I think we have nothing particularly to fear. 

My brothers and sisters, there may arise certain things in our lives which will bring to us the thought that good days are preparing . for us; a raise in rents, a political victory; tlie return of a lost one; a bringing back to life of a dear one who was afflicted; all may tend temporarily to bring us to believe that all is well. But after all, it depends on individual action. Ours is essentially an individual work and each one of us will have to answer for his or her actions, not only in a measure to our friends and neighbors, but to our God. Again, the words of Emerson, "Nothing can bring you peace but yourselves. Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of principles." We have the principles which will exalt and save us if we will rightly live them. Let us not fear the world. Let us admonish all to weigh well the principles that we teach and practice and see if they find therein anything objectionable. Let us look them straight in the face and say we claim the God given right in this free country to believe as we choose, "and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, when or what they may." 

May the blessings of heaven be with you, my dear friends and likewise all Israel, that our principles may direct us aright, and that our examples may be such that they will attract the world; and that we may be saved in the kingdom of God, in the name of Jesus. Amen. Brother Manasseh Smith sang a tenor solo, entitled, "Fairest Lord, Jesus." 

ELDER FRANK Y. TAYLOR. 

(President of Granite Stake.) 

I pray, my brethren and sisters, that the Spirit of the Lord may direct my utterance this afternoon. I have been interested in what has been said in all the sessions of the conference, and in the remarks of our mission presidents this afternoon. It brings to my mind the thought that the fruits of "Mormonism" are good, particularly to those who are laboring in the ministry, devoting their time to the work of the Lord. I have often remarked that no greater blessing" could come to a young man than to be called on a mission to proclaim the truth to the nations of the earth. If he does not do much good to other people, at least he makes a man of himself, and returns full of dignity, grace and testimony of the work of the Lord. 

I was traveling in the southern part of the state a few years ago, with a man who was an atheist, a good man, but without faith in the work of the Lord. He formerly belonged to this Church, and had witnessed the grace and the goodness of it; but he had fallen into darkness, and the light within him had become very dark indeed. We were traveling together on the same train, and with us was a young man who had just returned from a mission, who was on the way to his little home settlement. We entered into conversation with him, and found him a splendid sample of youth and manhood, clean, and pure  his habits. It seemed like his whole soul was full of sunshine and good cheer. He reported to us his missionary experiences, his call, and how gladly he had accepted it, and yet with what fear he went into the world, fearful of his lack of knowledge of the world and of what would happen in his case; but he had faith, and he went, believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, in the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that this is the work of the Lord. He bore that testimony with faith and courage, in the face of the opposition of the world. He told us of his ups and downs, of the doors that had been closed in his face, of many evil things that had been said about him and his companions, the work, and the people living in these valleys of the mountains. Further, he related some of the pleasures that he enjoyed in his ministry, when proclaiming these things, and told of the witness he had of the Spirit of the Lord. In common with nearly all of our young men who have been out proclaiming this Gospel, he testified that the most pleasant time in his life was out in his missionary field. My friend was much entertained in the remarks which this young man had to make. He had known of other young men returning from missions, and had witnessed similar development evidenced in them. Quite a concourse of people was at the station to receive this young man, and the tears of joy and happiness witnessed in his behalf, in that settlement, had quite an effect upon my friend. After the train went on, he turned to me and said : 

"I don't know what there is about this faith of yours that brings about this wonderful result. I have a bov about the age of the young man who has just left us, and I would be glad to have him go out into the world as a missionary, if he could only come back with the same spirit, energy, life and beauty that this boy manifests on his return, because truly something wonderful has happened in his life. If my boy could go without his having to accept your faith, and get the education that these your missionary boys receive, I would rather have him do it than to have him take the same length of time in the best college in the land." Again he said, "I don't know what there is about your religion that brings this result, and yet I witness the result." 

I tried to explain to him what there is in it that brings this result; but, of course, he would not accept my reasoning, because his darkness was so great, owing to lack of faith in this work. I knew him. He was a man of the world. I rejoiced that the fruits of this missionary work were so manifest. It is one example out of hundreds and thousands of others of our boys who go out to proclaim this everlasting Gospel. The world ought to appreciate this fact! but they cannot understand why it is that the men who are more deeply interested in this work, who devote most of their time to it, should enjoy the spirit of their ministry and work. But the truth is manifest in the good life they lead, and the fruits of the ministry are good to behold. 

In the stake where I preside we have a great many young men who go out to proclaim the Gospel, and when they go away I notice the class of young men they are; and when they return, I witness again the wonderful transformation that has come over them. They are in, clean, sweet, honorable young people, and a credit to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. I would that all of us could be judged by the standard manifest in the return of the elder who has been out proclaiming this everlasting Gospel in the world. We need not be ashamed of them, or of their ministry, or of their work, because they add glory to the cause of God in the earth. 

My father, in teaching me, was anxious, of course, that I should do honor and credit to my family name and do what is right and proper, and honorable, and straightforward in life. He desired me to occupy, possibly, some prominent place before my fellow men; but the greatest end to which he felt that any of us could aspire was to be a consistent an honorable, and an upright Latter-day Saint. In this achievement there is scope, he felt, for people to hold up their heads with credit before all men. 

I feel, my brethren and sisters, that this missionary labor in the world is a glorious experience for our young people. I have noted what a wonderful influence it has, not only upon him who goes away, but faith is increased in the house 1 hold from which he goes. They look forward with wonderful pleasure to the letters they 'receive from their boy, and to the testimony which he bears, the experiences that he has in the world, and the blessings of the Lord that come unto him. A miracle happens in his own life, when he goes out to preach the Gospel; while faith is increased in the hearts of his father and mother, his brothers and his sisters, and they all rejoice in a testimony of this work. Only a few days ago, I had a man call on me. He is a member of the Church. He' is a good man of the world, but he "doesn't do much" in the Church, though an honorable and a splendid man. His boy was called on a mission, had faith enough to go and went, and the parents rejoiced as did every one of the household. There was purity, virtue, and the spirit of the Gospel with them, and they rejoiced that a young man from that household was worthy to go out and preach the Gospel. Every once in a while, this father comes to me with a letter that he receives from this boy, and he thinks that his son is one of the most wonderful men in the world, because he has a testimony of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and is living such a good life in the world. It brings joy and happiness to the Latter-day Saints to have young people go out and preach this Gospel. I feel that there ought to be a missionary spirit in the hearts of the people — that where fathers have boys who can go out and offer their services unto the Lord our God to teach His word unto the nations of the earth, they ought to rejoice. No father's hand or voice ought ever to be raised against the going forth of their sons, whenever they have an opportunity to go out and preach .this gospel, because there is no greater joy or happiness can come to your children than to have them obtain acknowledge that Jesus is the Christ, and that the work that we are engaged in is the work of the Lord, our God. We should strengthen this missionary spirit in our midst. 

I remember being in one of the cities of the United States, in a long, crowded thoroughfare, when I saw two boys hurrying along with the rest of the crowd, and I picked  out. I did not know why, particularly, but in looking at them, there was something different about them from the people surrounding, and I made up my mind that they were Latter-day Saint missionaries. I had never seen them before, but I walked up to them, introduced myself, and asked them if they were from Utah, and lo and behold, the answer revealed that they were boys out proclaiming the Gospel. Something about these boys appealed to me, and I believed in my soul that they were Latter-day Saints. The thing that impressed me was that there was a purity about them that was different. There was an ambition, a hope, and something written in their countenances that impressed me as being different from their surroundings. I rejoice that our boys have this purity, and that they can go out into the world conscious that they are clean, and sweet, and pure from the sins of the world. 

Now that is the boy who preaches the Gospel in the world; it ought to be equally true of our boys and girls here at home. We ought to be examples to the whole world, in regard to these things, and this missionary spirit ought to be prevalent here at home. Oh what happiness comes to the boy who goes out as a missionary to preach this gospel! He will endure the rebuffs and the scoffs of the world bravely, to be a minister "of the Lord Jesus Christ, testifying of this work and the things the Lord has done for this people. I feel that we ought to exercise some of this missionary spirit at home. I believe that our home boys and girls should also enjoy the fruits that come to those who are engaged abroad in the work of the Lord, for there is am field for them to act as missionaries here at home. There is not a settlement in our land but what there is need to labor among the people and to teach the Gospel unto them. Right here at home we have abundance of material, and any number of men filled with the spirit of missionary work, and yet we have scores of people who belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and many other people who are not members of this Church, who would be glad of an opportunity to hear this Gospel and to whom they could preach. We could do much more of this work right here at home. I have oftentimes thought that there is room for wonderful improvement among our people in the matter of preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ at home, particularly to those people who are weak in the faith, who do not comprehend fully the glory and the goodness of this work. We ought to go out of our way to try to build them up, and bless them, and do good unto them. I wish that our missionaries, when they come home, could do a little more of this work among their companions who have not the same light and understanding that they, have — that they would go out among those who perhaps have made some mistakes in life, and who are not living up to what they should, and try to bring them back to a realization of the truth, and to activity and resolution in their religious life and duties. I have sometimes used this expression to our people; we go out into the world to preach the Gospel, and we have the doors slammed in our faces, many and many a time, and after awhile we get some of these people to accept our tracts. We labor with them as  ought to labor with them, and we spend time and means to bring them into the Church, and when we haze done that, we feel that we have done a wonderful work, and we have. We do not ask so much abcut these people, as to their life in -the past, as long as they will repent of their sins and renew themselves in the waters of baptism that they may receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. Yet I feel that many missionaries come home and feel that their missionary work is ended, and there is no opportunity to labor further; but I - say unto you that there are hundreds and thousands right here in the wards and stakes of Zion who need laboring with, and if our missionaries would exercise the same spirit of love and charity and kindness, with them as with people in the world, they would do a wonderful work. One of the difficulties about these matters is this, that we are so apt to see mistakes in the people with whom we are familiar, so much so that we cannot see much virtue in them; but I believe that if we would work with the Spirit of Christ, right among our own people here at home, that we might garner many precious souls into the work of the Lord. We are so apt to see the mistakes of our neighbors that we cannot imagine there is any good in them, and we make up our minds that they have gone to the bad; but seldom will one find any one who will not be susceptible to the influence of some good spirit that may work with them. I have had many young men tell me that they have never been labored with in the spirit of kindness, and that their mistakes have been magnified; what they need is some good man to put his arm around them and try to lead them back into a better way. I feel that in this work there is great room for the returned missionaries to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ to their neighbors. All of us who hold the Priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ should exercise it for the building up of the kingdom of God, and the dissemination of His word. I want to tell you that if it were my boy who thus needed to be brought back into the right way, I would be thankful to the man who would go out of his way to exercise that kind of a spirit to build him up, and to make him feel anew the spirit of the Gospel. I believe there is no kind of work in Zion of more importance than that. We ought to exercise charity, and be willing to put forth our efforts for one another, and especially to such as are in need of an awakening. I feel that we ought to do this among the Latter-day Saints at home, and try to magnify the cause of Christ here, so that we may have more of these boys imbued with this spirit, and thus testify to all mankind that the fruits of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are good. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNIOff. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I have listened with interest to the remarks of the brethren who have preceded me, and I trust that the few moments I stand here, I may enjoy the same spirit that directed their words. 

These brethren have alluded to the interest that some people are taking in our religion, who are not of our faith, and it reminded me of the remark of the Savior when He said, "And this gospel of the king shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations : and then shall the end come." There is no question but that honorable men and women of the earth will, sooner or later, according to their day and time, listen to the teachings of the elders of Israel, for the gospel they teach is the "gospel of the kingdom" that was preached by the Savior. It is destined to attract the attention of the world, and they will listen respectfully to the proclamation made by ' elders of the "Mormon" Church. 

The world understands -"Mormonism" better today than ever before. When men take a stand of opposition now, and criticize the acts of the "Mormon" people, it usually happens that their antagonism makes friends for us. We need not be afraid, for the Lord Almighty is the author of what is called "Mormonism." He stands behind it because He revealed it unto the children of men through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and it will resound through this earth, until every man and woman under heaven shall have a chance to receive or reject this gospel of the Savior of the world. 

The Lord revealed unto the Prophet Joseph Smith this principle, that no man can be saved in ignorance, and that, before men should stand before the judgment bar of God, every man or woman, either in this world or after departing, will have the privilege of understanding the gospel of the Redeemer, so that they may be able to accept or reject it. I listened to a sermon, delivered a short time ago by a noted divine of the Presbyterian church. He took for his subject the "Country Church." He stated that in company with some  in the ministry, he had been holding a conference, and in that conference the subject of the country church was considered, and they deliberated upon the best methods to reach the people in the country. He said they were sadly neglected. They are a fine class of people, men and women who are producers, able to pay their debts and to support a minister, and who would do so if they had the chance. But he criticised their ministers this way : he said they preferred to live in the cities. When a certain district in the country wanted to have religious services, they sent to the city for one of the ministers to come clown there and hold service with them on the selected Sunday. He said that a woman living in the country might just as well send to town for a dress, or a man living in the country might just as well send for a suit of clothes already made up, and take chances on the fit. He said the ministers in the church must mingle with the people, labor with them, live with them, and thus create an interest among them. He declared that the Church in the world that is growing fastest is the "Mormon" Church, there is 'no church that equals it. He further said, they had preachers generally that appealed to men, and that their missionaries visited the country districts frequently, and their churches were filled wherever they went. 

My brethren and sisters, I cite you this for the reason, it is evidence that the world is taking notice of "Mormonism," and taking notice of the labors of the Elders of Israel out in the world, and the growth of the "Mormon" people. This gentleman did not understand that the Elders have within their  and within their minds a knowledge that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, and that "Mormonism" is the Gospel of the Redeemer by which man may be saved in the presence of Almighty God. Moses, in speaking to ancient Israel, said, "The secret things belong unto the Lord, our God; but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children for ever, that we may do all the words of this law." The Lord revealed unto the Prophet Joseph Smith the true condition of affairs as they existed in the religious World. He told him that he should not join any of the denominations extant at that time, that they had a form of godliness but they denied the power thereof, that while they honored God with their lips their hearts were far from Him. Joseph Smith was God's authorized agent in restoring the gospel to mankind. When we go out into the world, and preach in the country churches that have been neglected by the ministers of the world, we gather the honest hearted men and women everywhere that the gospel message reaches. The Savior said, "My sheep hear my voice, and a stranger they will not follow, and they come unto .me." So when the Elders go into country districts, and upon the streets of cities, and wherever they may have the opportunit) r to preach, men and women of the character named by the Savior thus hear His message, and a stranger they will not follow. It is not to be wondered at that people of the world are "beginning to take notice of "Mormonism." We aie making friends in every land and clime in this world today; we are becoming better known. 

I had a conversation a short time ago with a gentleman who lives in Pueblo, Colorado, in President Herrick's mission field. He is president of one of the great banks in that country. In speaking of the apostate to whom Brother Herrick referred, he said, "We know the Mormon people, and we know that writer wants to organize us into some kind of a club to fight you people, but," said he, "we know the Mormon people too well; and he received no encouragement there." I say to our brethren, we need not be afraid to go on missions, if we live our religion. When men are called to go into the nations of the earth to 1 preach the gospel they should cheerfully respond. The Lord will open up the way for them to go into the world, and successfully proclaim the message that the Father and the Son delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith. They can fearlessly declare that God lives, that He has a body, that He is able to speak; to see; to hear; to walk arid talk; that He is in very deed the true and living God. There are people in this world who profess Christianity, thousands of them, who are teaching today that God has not a body, that He is a spirit without body, parts or passions. The Lord has revealed the truth about Himself unto ancient and latter-day Israel. This important truth has been given unto us as a weapon to overcome the error which the adversary has disseminated, and gives every one a chance to use the free agency that God has given unto His children. 

I am sure that there are many people in the world who love the truth. There is faith in the earth, and since the davs of the Prophet Toseph Smith faith has increased. In support of this statement I will relate an incident that happened a  time ago. A certain jury that had been sitting in a case, and were to decide whether a man was to> be hanged or not, before they rendered their decision, they went into their room and there those twelve men knelt down and prayed unto the Father that they might render a true and a just decision. I say that I believe faith is increasing in the world, and that many men and women will yet join the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, because of that faith. They will go down into the waters of baptism as soon as they are converted. The duty of preaching the gospel unto the children of men is ours as long as the Lord permits us to live on the earth, and remain faithful unto Him. 

The statement recorded by Moses in the twenty-ninth chapter and twenty-ninth verse of Deuteronomy is correct. We know that it is wrong for us to use intoxicating drinks; it is wrong for us to defraud; or to commit sin of any kind. If we observe that which the Lord has revealed unto us, we will not err, we will respond better to the will of the Master. The Lord has sent His servants in the earth; it is just the same as though He had Himself laid hands upon the heads of those who preside in this Church. When the Lord called Edward Partridge into the ministry as a bishop in the Church, He said* (36th section of the Doctrine and Covenants) : "I will lay my hand upon your head by my servant Sidney Rigdon." There was an ensample. This work that the Lord revealed unto the Prophet Joseph Smith will stand, and the principles thereof are given to aid in accomplishing His work. The men and the women who  forth and preach the principles of the gospel, at home or abroad, are assisting the Lord. We have a work to perform for the Lord each day. 

It ought never to be said of any man in the Church, that he ever raised his voice against the bishop, or against any of the presiding officers of the Church. In the days when Israel demanded a king, and said: "We want to be like these other people who live in the land; we want a king, we demand of you a king," the Prophet Samuel was troubled, and he knelt down and prayed unto the Lord and asked what he should do. And the Lord said unto him : "They have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them." The Lord has revealed many things unto us. We hear them in our homes, in our conferences, in our Sabbath day meetings and elsewhere, and we ought to be familiar with them. The Lord has given unto us much knowledge, and therein is power that we might be able to withstand the attacks of the adversary, though those attacks be as numerous as the microbes that liave been alluded to by other speakers. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us, latter-day Israel, that we may have faith to overcome our weaknesses, and that we may be true men at home or abroad, and live as the Lord requires us, that no man nor set of men may justly condemn us. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Master, the tempest is raging! 

The billows are tossing high! The sky is o'ershadowed with blackness, 

No shelter or help is nigh. 

ELDER WILLIAM T. JACK. 

(President of Cassia Stake.) 

Truly "the song of the righteous is a prayer unto the Lord." I feel that we have been highly favored this afternoon in our services in this hall, in listening to the sweet singing and music that has been furnished by the Murray choir; indeed, the singing that has been furnished during the former sessions of this conference in the great Tabernacle; as well as here, has been an inspiration to all those who have attended. 

I have rejoiced very much, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege that I have of attending this conference, listening to the testimonies and the instructions that we have received from the brethren. I rejoice very much in the testimony that we listened to at the morning session of this conference, by President Joseph F. Smith, the man who is the mouthpiece of the Lord unto us at the present time. I rejoiced in the testimony that he bore concerning himself. I have watched his life for more than fifty years, and he voiced my sentiments when he mentioned that period of his own life. I have looked upon him all my life as being a model of purity, as being the most absolutely just man that I have ever known. I have admired him for his sterling integrity, his great strength of character, his inspired mind, and for his ability to get, I believe, nearer to the Lord than any man I have been privileged to know in my life. I hope that those who comprise the membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints appreciate this man as does your humble servant, that we appreciate all our GENERAL CONFERENCE.  who stand as leaders in Israel, and that we show our appreciation of them by acting upon and carrying out their precepts, and following their splendid example. 

I rejoice very much in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. My heart has been made glad this afternoon, in listening to the stirring remarks of the previous speakers, brethren who are in the midst of the battle in this great work, mission presidents who are laboring in the field in the forefront of the fight for righteousness. It is safe for us to listen to their testimonies and to accept their counsels, because they are men of God, laboring for the gospel of righteousness, and they enjoy the inspiration of the Almighty. The gospel will bless us at home, the same as it has done for many of us in the mission field, if we will only apply ourselves in the same diligent manner. The reason why some of us do not feel as good, perhaps, as those who have been out in' the mission field as messengers of salvation, is due to the fact that we are not as active at home as we were when we were abroad. If Ave will continue missionary work, take upon ourselves the duties and responsibilities of disseminating the gospel at home, we will enjoy the missionary spirit in our lives, and the Lord will bless us and inspire our minds, will strengthen our memories, and cause us to expand in our intellect and feelings, and increase in wisdom, and in understanding of His divine will and purposes, so that we will not be at a stand-still at home, as, I am sorry to sav, some of our brethren are who have returned from active missionary life. 

We have heard this afternoon of the field there is for missionary  here at home. How true that is, and yet some of our brethren who were active in the world fail to appreciate this fact, and are not as active at home as they might be. I remember a young man to whom I listened as he bore his testimony after returning, and in one of his remarks he said he was thankful that his preaching days were over. I wonder if there are many who feel the same way after returning home, thankful that their missionary days are over? It has been said by one of old that the "race is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong, but to him that endureth faithful to the end." We may run swiftly, and do an exceptionally splendid work for two or more years, as our missionaries do; but if, when we come home, we forget the Lord, fall back into the ways of the world, and give way to weaknesses that some are addicted to before they go into the missionary field, we will not enjoy the Spirit of the Lord at home. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that it is our duty, as Latter-day Saints, that we should kneel down in our homes morning and night, and pray to the Lord to prosper His work upon the earth. I thought today while sitting here that, in a sense, the Lord cannot prosper this work unless we will take hold of the duties and responsibilities that rest upon us as consistent members of the Church, as faithful men and women. This Church cannot be better than its membership. When speaking with men in the world that say the "Mormon" people are all right, that they find no fault with the rank and file of the "Mormon" Church, but complain against leading authorities of the Church, I feel in my soul to wish that all the 101  of this Church were nearer to coming up to the standard of those men who stand at the head of the quorums of the priesthood. There is plenty of room, it seems to me, my brethren and sisters, for us to make an improvement in our lives as members of the Church. There is a great responsibility resting upon every one of us. It seems to me there is no other church in the world that has to meet the responsibility of the action of the humblest member of that church to the extent that is true of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. When there is one member of our Church, in the communities in which we live, that goes astray, or brings upon himself reproach, he does not suffer the contumely alone, but the stigma is cast upon all members of the Church who reside in that locality, and some even blame- the whole membership of the "Mormon" Church, and claim that it is the fruits of "Mormonism." While this is not a proper view to take, it is the view that many in the' world take, and I presume that, to some extent, they are justified in that view, because we hold up a higher standard than does any other religious organization in the world. 

We claim that our Church has been organized by divine direction, that the Lord Himself has been instrumental in bringing forth this work, that is known in the world as "Mormonism," and that He has revealed the glorious principles of truth that we have accepted as our rule of faith and our guide. We claim that we are constantly receiving revelations from the Almighty, that we are guided day by day by those revelations, and that we have in our midst prophets, apostles, and inspired men. Now,  can see readily how much better we ought to be than the people of the world  it is quite natural for them to look for more from us than from people who are not able to make such professions. It would be a victory for the adversary if he could induce the Latter-day Saints to forget their high calling, and come down to the standard of their fellow men in the world; the enemy of righteousness would then have accomplished his purpose. It is his design to impede the progress of this work. He cannot do it, as far as the majority of this people are concerned. I feel sure it is impossible for him to overcome the high authorities of the "Mormon" Church, because of the purity of their lives and the devotion that they manifest to this work of the Almighty. I believe it is not possible for the adversary to come into this congregation, nor any other congregation of the Latter-day Saints, and successfully combat this work. That is not his plan of operation; his plan is to influence the individual members of the Church, some of us with discontent, some with fault finding, some with a failure to pay tithing, some with neglect of one duty and some with another, until we lose the spirit of the work and forget our high calling and destiny. 

Now I feel that, as members of the Church of Christ, we ought to examine ourselves, each one of us, and find out where we and our families stand, see that our boys and girls are being taught in the fear and nurture of the Lord, and that they are being preserved from those evils that are extant in this age of the world. I believe with all my heart that we are living in the hour of God's judgments, "and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the adversary is spreading before our young people those temptations that, if he succeeds, will lead them away from Christ and from His work. I feel that we cannot be too careful, circumspect, and conscientious before our families, to preserve our integrity and fidelity, and make every possible effort that our children may grow up around our firesides, free from allurements and infatuation that would cause them to fall. They should be made to feel in their souls that their father and mother are honest, and that there must be something in this work, something that has induced them to willingly make sacrifices, and that they do make them cheerfully for the gospel's sake. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us,, that the spirit of this conference may be taken to our homes and may sink into our hearts, and that we may realize the great obligations that rest upon us as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. I trust that we will constitute ourselves missionaries at home, first with our own households and then with the families of those that are around us, our friends and associates. We find, in the stake in which I have the pleasure to live, that there are thousands of good, honest men and women coming in from the eastern states, and from other parts of the country, casting their lots with us in the. new lands that are being opened up for homes, and I find that there is the best field for missionary work, perhaps as great as can be found anywhere in the world. 

We have a great many men in the Church who have the spirit of the gospel with them, but they are never prepared, financially, to go out into the world and preach the .  They are willing to go if they had the means, but they never get the means to enable them to respond to a call to go abroad. Now we are going to get around this fall, up in Cassia stake of Zion, and we are going to call a hundred or more of just such men, and give them a mission in that stake, give them some books and tracts, and send them forth among the people to preach the gospel. In this manner, I believe the people will be benefited, and our brethren who engage in that work will be benefited, and good results will come to the great work that we are engaged in. 

I rejoice in the testimony of Jesus. I know that the gospel is true, and I know that it will save all those who shall endure faithful unto the end. I hope that we will remember the duties and responsibilities that rest upon us, and that we will do our full duty as members of the Church of Christ, which I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

Admonition to sustain the Church authorities,' and do the will of God. 

We will now present the general authorities of the Church, and we desire that each one of you here will vote as you feel that you ought to vote. In voting for the general authorities of the Church, we exercise the individual privilege that we have to sustain them, and, if we think there is any good reason why they should not be sustained, it is our privilege to vote against them. 

I feel to say to the Latter-day Saints today that, as far as I am concerned, this conference has been profitable to rhe, and I hope that we may all go home with this feeling. 103 

I believe it will be profitable for us to examine ourselves and see wherein we may make improvement in our lives, that we may continue to enjoy the blessings of the Lord, and that we may indeed increase within us the measure of power of the Spirit of God. You may fall, and I may fall by the wayside, but, as sure as the sun shines, this is the work of Jehovah, and He will communicate a knowledge of it, by the power of His Spirit, to the hearts of the children of men. 

Let us obey those who are in authority over us, and sustain them not alone by word of mouth, but by acts and efforts; through this obedience we may know every moment that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, and that there is placed within our reach His gospel for the uplift and salvation of the human family. 

Let each one of us who are here today examine ourselves, find wherein we are short of what our Father in heaven would have us be, repent of our sins and turn unto Him with full purpose of heart. I promise you, in the name of the Lord, if we will do this that this conference will have been productive of good for us as long as we remain upon the earth. 

May the Lord add His blessing. May peace, joy and comfort be in ,the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. May the gospel of our Lord find its way into the hearts of the children of men, that they may be touched by its purity, and by the evident divinity of the work that the Lord has established for their salvation, that they may understand the desire of our Father, and may be saved. May we put our shoulder to the wheel, each and all of us, and help to carry this work to a successful fruition,  in the end of our lives there may come unto all of us that welcome plaudit, "Well done, thou faithful servant." This is my prayer in the.name of Jesus Christ.. Amen. 

Elder Bryant S. Hinckley presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, and officers of General Boards of auxiliary organizations, and they were severally sustained in the positions named, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Damascus." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Mark Austin. 


