Afternoon
08 10 1911


ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

Latter-day visions and revelations. — The sublime doctrine of salvation for the dead. — Temple work an important part of God's great plan of salvation. ' — Organization of genealogical societies-inspired by the Lord. — Vicarious work for the dead a serious responsibility. 

We have listened during the various sessions of this conference to the preaching of the gospel in power and plainness, in such a manner that it must appeal to the souls of all the Latter-day Saints. With . you, my brethren and sisters, I have rejoiced in these principles which have been presented for our edification, and that we might be strengthened in the faith and live more nearly our religion which has been revealed to us from heaven in these latter days — the dispensation of the fulness of times. We have been taught faith in our Lord and Redeemer, and in the Father of us all; the necessity of repentance from sin; baptism by immersion for the remission of sin; and the reception of the Holy Ghost through the laying on of the hands of the Elders of Israel. We have been taught the doctrine of the atonement; the universal resurrection of the dead, and the exaltation of the righteous in the celestial kingdom of our Father. We have been instructed in our duties as members of the Church and as officers therein, by men holding authority, who have spoken as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and who have not spoken as the Scribes and Pharisees, for the words which have been uttered here have been true. It seems to me they should appeal not only to the Latterday Saints, but to all the honest in heart who may hear them. 

One of the things that is difficult  me to understand is why men will harden their hearts, and close their eyes against the truth when it is spoken in such plainness and power, accompanied by the Spirit of the Lord. We know these things are true, and that Joseph Smith was called and sent into the world to establish again the kingdom of God in righteousness, that the gospel of repentance might be preached in all the world, among all nations, kindreds, tongues and peoples, that those who believe and repent might come out of Babylon and be redeemed from their sins. I rejoice, as my brethren have rejoiced and as the Saints have rejoiced, in this knowledge of the truth. 

There is one phase of this great subject of salvation that appeals to me, that I desire to speak of, briefly, this afternoon. It has already been alluded to in part. ( It is our duty to save the world. That is our mission, in so far as they will listen unto us and receive our testimony. All those who reject the testimony of the Elders of Israel will be held responsible, and will have to give an accounting for their stewardship, just as we will give an accounting of our stewardship as Elders and teachers of the people.) 

Early in the year 1836, after the completion of the Kirtland Temple, the leading brethren of the Church assembled from time to time in that building in solemn assembly, to be instructed in their duues and to learn the Ways of the Lord. On these occasions preceding, at the time, and following the dedication of that house, the Spirit of the Lord was poured out upon them in power; the heavens were opened; many of them saw visions; angels appeared to them, and they were instructed. Principles were revealed 119  had been kept hid from the world, and on one occasion, on the 21st day of January, while they were thus assembled, wonderful heavenly manifestations were given, and the Prophet tells us what he saw. Said he : 

The heavens were opened upon us, and I beheld the celestial kingdom of God, and the glory thereof, whether in the body or out I cannot tell. I saw the transcendent beauty of the gate through which the heirs of that kingdom will enter, which was like unto circling flames of fire; also the blazing throne of God, whereon was seated the Father and the Son. I saw the beautiful streets of that kingdom which had the appearance of being paved with gold. I .saw fathers Adam and Abraham, and my father and mother, my brother, Alvin, that has long since slept, and marveled how it was that he had obtained an inheritance in that kingdom, seeing that he had departed this life before the Lord had set His hand to gather Israel a second time, and had not been baptized for the remission of his sins. Thus came the voice of the Lord unto me, saying — All who have died without a knowledge of this gospel, who would have received it if they had been permitted to tarry, shall be heirs of the celestial kingdom of God; also all that shall die henceforth without a knowledge of it, who would have received it with all their hearts, shall be heirs of that kingdom, for I, the Lord, will judge all men, according to their works, according to the desires of their hearts. And I also beheld all children who die before they arrived at years of accountability, are saved in the celestial kingdom of heaven. 

This was a glorious revelation of truth," not understood in the world previous to the receiving of this vision. And the Prophet saw that which was yet future, as well as what was already past, for he beheld his brother Alvin, who died before the gospel was restored; he saw his father and his mother taking part in the glory of the celestial kingdom, yet his brother Alvin had  been baptized for the remission of his sins. The Lord says that we cannot enter there without baptism for the remission of our sins. Little children are redeemed, of course, for they are without sin and receive salvation through the atonement of Christ, which was made in their behalf as well as in behalf of all people. His father and mother were still living in the flesh, so he saw that which was yet future. Alvin died before he had the opportunity of receiving a remission of his sins. At the time of his fatal sickness the bringing forth of this work had merely commenced. lie approved of it and encouraged his younger brother to continue in the labor which the Lord had given him to do; but he did not enter that celestial kingdom until after the gospel was restored to the earth in its fulness. And thenf the Lord taught the people, through His servant the Prophet, the means by which those who would have received the truth, but were denied the privilege, flight receive it and enter into this kingdom. We who have received it have the right and the power, which has been delegated unto us, to go into the house of the Lord and there be baptized in behalf of our dead, that they also might receive salvation in common with us, and this was done for Alvin Smith. It has been done for thousands and tens of thousands of true, faithful souls who were denied the privilege of receiving the truth in the flesh, but afterwards received it and had a remission of their sins, after repenting of them, and received the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost by proxy, according to the vicarious work that the Lord has delegated unto us and commanded us to perform in behalf of the dead. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

All who would have received the truth will enter into that kinsrdom, those who have' lived in the ages past, when the gospel and the authority were not on the earth, as well as those who received it here. All, even down to the end of time, shall receive salvation who will repent of their sins and come unto the Lord with a desire to keep His cbm. mandments and serve Him and obey Him in all things. They are heirs of the celestial kingdom. Therefore, as we have heard this afternoon in the singing of the choir, the Lord has prepared the temples so - that the Latter-day Saints can go to them, not only to receive ordinances in their own behalf, but that they might also perform these same ordinances in behalf of their dead, that they might be redeemed from their sins, for they cannot personally receive baptism and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost now, because those ordinances belong- to this mortal life. They have passed into the life beyond, therefore it is necessary that some one perform this work for them by proxy. This is not strange. Some people scoff at the idea and say that it is impossible for one man to act in behalf of another, and yet they accept Christ as the Redeemer of the world and they say that He came into the world and took upon Him our sins, that we might be redeemed. He having power to do that for all of us, surely He has a right to say to us that we shall have power, in a lesser degree, to perform ordinances in behalf of others') And so He has done. 

Now, all who will listen to the truth and receive it shall become members of the Church of the First 

Born, and shall enter into the celestial kingdom. Those who reject it after it has been preached to them will not have this privilege, as we have already heard at this conference. Children are redeemed because they are without sin. f Those who die without law will be redeemed, because they will be judged without law, but all who have received law and who have known the truth in a degree will be judged according to the truth that they have known, and if they have not lived up to that which they have known, or which they have been taught or had the privilege of receiving, then they cannot enter into this celestial kingdom. It is, however, our duty to save the world, the dead as well as the living. We are saving the living who will repent by preaching the gospel among the nations and gathering out the children of Israel, the honest in heart. We are saving the dead by going into the house of the Lord and performing these ceremonies — baptism, the laying on of hands, confirmation, and such other things as the Lord requires at our hands, in their behalf} But we are going to save even those who reject the truth, those who have been blinded by the craftiness of men, those who have received the truth in part, for not all who have entered into the kingdom of God shall enter into the celestial kingdom, for they will be judged, each one according to his works. Tf we have not kept the law of that kingdom; if we have not been true to the covenants we have made with the Lord, then we will not receive the fulness of glory in His kingdom, and thus the scriptures tell us that those who are not admitted into the celestial kingdom, but into the ter121  are those who died without law, and also they who are the spirits of men kept in prison, whom the Son visited and preached the gospel unto them, that they might be judged according" to men in the flesh. 

These are they who arc honorable men of the earth, who were blinded by the craftiness of men. These are they who received of His glory but not of His fulness. These are they who received of the presence of the Son but not of the fulness of the Father, wherefore they are bodies terrestrial and not bodies celestial, . and differ in glory as the moon differs from the sun." 

Following this remarkable vision and revelation of truth in the Kirtland Temple just a little more than two months, other visions were received, they were the manifestations of holy messengers in that same house. Among them came Elijah the Prophet, who laid his hands upon the head of Joseph Smith and upon the head of Oliver Cowdery, his fellow servant, and conferred upon them the keys which he held of the turning of the hearts of the children to their fathers, and from that time forth the spirit of Elijah's work, the planting in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, was poured out upon the people. Not only the Latter-day Saints, but upon the honorable people of this land and of Great Britain and other nations of Europe. The Kirtland Temple was not a complete structure as we build T>"-.;Jcs today. No provision was made in it for the salvation of the dead. When it was built this glorious gospel of salvation for the dead was not understood, but in that building these principles were revealed, and when the Lord called upon the people later to build an temple to His name, he commanded them to build in it a baptismal font and make it a structure, where the salvation of those who had gone to the great beyond might be brought about. The font was prepared in it, and the people went into it and were baptized in behalf of their dead. 

In the year 1844, the year of the martyrdom, a number of men met together in Boston, Massachusetts, and organized themselves into a society for the purpose of gathering up the records of the dead, filing them away and preserving them. The following year, 1845, their organization was incorporated, and is known today as the New England Historical and Genealogical Society. From this time the spirit spread among the people until today similar societies can be found in great numbers of the states of . the American Union, in most of the countries of Great Britain, in some of the larger cities on the continent of Europe, in Scandinavia, in Germany, where the hearts of the children, since the restoration of those keys, have turned towards their parents. The^people are searching among the records of the dead, gathering them out, compiling them, publishing them, and making it possible that the Latter-day Saints may obtain them, go to the house of the Lord and perform these ordinances — these saving principles in behalf of their dead. 

This is a great responsibility that rests upon us, for the Prophet says it is the burden of the scriptures, and if we fail to do it in behalf of our dead we do it at the peril of our own salvation. We cannot be saved without them, and they cannot be saved without us, that is the faithGENERAL CONFERENCE. , because there must be a welding, a joining together of the generations from the days of Adam to the end of time. Families will be joined and linked together, parents to children, children to parents, one generation to another, until we shall be joined together in one great grand family with our father Adam at the head, where the Lord placed him. So we cannot be saved and exalted in the kingdom of God unless we have .within our hearts the desire to do this work and perform it. so far as it is within our power on behalf of our. dead. This is the responsibility and the duty that rests upon the Latter-day Saints, and the Lord will hold us responsible, and we will not be found guiltless of the blood of our generation and of our relatives who were true and faithful to the truth so far as they knew it, unless we do something in their behalf. This is a glorious doctrine, one of the grand principles of truth revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. We should take advantage of our opportunities and prove ourselves worthy and acceptable in the sight of the Lord, that we might receive this exaltation for ourselves, and. there rejoice in the kingdom of God with our relatives and friends in this grand reunion and assemblage of the Saints of the Church of the First Born, who have kept themselves free and unspotted from the sins of the world.} 

The Lord bless us and grant that we may have the desire in our hearts to magnify our 'calling and to serve Him in faithfulness in all these things, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Brother David Rees, and the , rendered the sacred song, "Hosannah." 

PRESIDENT SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(Of First Council of Seventy.) 

My brethren and sisters, Charles Dickens wrote, "If you would understand the feelings of your fellow man, try to put yourself in his place." I realize the responsibility resting upon the brethren who arise to speak to this vast congregation, and I can say today, of a truth, that I have been greatly edified' and instructed by the remarks of my brethren during the sessions of this great conference. Nothing of greater interest has transpired during our meetings than the salient points expressed by each speaker on the subjects by them handled. The address on the life of the Pioneer, Orson Pratt, reminded the people of the labors of that great man, especially those who have been somewhat conversant with his life and history and his devout and unceasing toil for his fellow man. We were reminded of his charming personality, and of his devoted friendship to all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance and friendship. This afternoon we have been interested very much in the subject of the temples of our God, and the work that has been done in these great edifices for the benefit of the living as well as the dead. In the dedication of the Kirtland Temple the Prophet Joseph gave utterance to this beautiful prayer, a portion of which I will read, found in the 109th section of the Book of Covenants : 

Thanks be to Thy name, O Lord God of Israel, who keepeth covenant 123  showeth mercy unto Thy servants who walk uprightly before Thee, with all their hearts; 

Thou who hast commanded Thy servants to build a house to Thy name in this place [Kirtland]. 

And now Thou beholdest, O Lord, that Thy servants have done according to Thy commandment. * * * 

For Thou knowest that we < have done this work through great tribulation; and out of our poverty we have given of our substance, to build a house to Thy name, that the Son of Man might have a place to manifest Himself to His people. 

The following afternoon, Sidney Rigdon was called upon to speak, and given a portion of the time of the dedicatorial services. In his utterance of a great sermon — for I believe that he was under the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, for that was in the day of his fellowship with the Church and with the Prophet Joseph — he said: 

In times that have passed and up to the present day the Christian churches of all the civilized world have builded places of worship, houses where they have met together, and churches to accommodate the people in their religious services, and one church has been dedicated to the name of Paul. Another church has been dedicated to the name of Peter, and another to the name of James and John, and so through the catalogue of names of holy men, of prophets and apostles that have spoken under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, and so have hallowed their names and the memory thereof to future generations, and their names have been used, and the buildings of the churches have been dedicated to these prophets and apostles, and their names inscribed upon the lintel of the doorway. It has fallen to the lot of a people who have received revelation through their prophet today, and who have been organized by the power of the Lord into quorums of the Priesthood, the despised people called Latter-day Saints they are the first to build a house of worship, and place upon it the name of 

Jesus Christ and devote it and dedicate it to Him, and by the power and testimony that has rested upon the congregations of this people in these assemblages we know that it has been accepted by Him. 

The Lord chose a boy, if you please, as we were told yesterday. Joseph Smith was only a boy when the Lord called him, when appeared unto him the Father and the Son. They sent before them their messenger, the Holy Ghost, to rest upon the boy to drive away from him the evil influences that were struggling to overcome him, and prepare him by the endowment of this holy power to receive the visitation of the Father and the Son. This was not the first record that we have of a like visit ushered in by a like presence. You remember what Luke says in regard to the birth of the Savior of the world, in the most ideal language that was ever used. No one of the evangelists comes near to him in the expression of the truth of that event as it occurred. The Angel Gabriel came to Mary and he said to her, "Hail, thou that art highly favored above women!" And she knew not what to make of the salutation and then the angel continued and said, "The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest" — who is the highest? God the Eternal Father — "the power of the Highest shall o'ershadow thee; therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God." 

So we know that the Lord can prepare the least of His servants or handmaidens for the labors and for the ministry that He places upon them. We have another very glorious example of the Lord calling a small boy, much younger than GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Prophet Joseph when he received the visitation of the Father and the Son. I allude now to the Prophet Samuel. Samuel was given to his mother Hannah. She was the wife of Elkanah, a High Priest, and she was childless, and her sorrow knew no bounds. She sought the Lord in her home in her private chamber, and she also went to the temple and prayed upon the steps of the temple, without the door of the temple, and one day as she was praying for relief from her reproach in Isarel, because she was barren, Eli in a heartless manner said to her— Eli, by the way, was the High Priest of the temple— he said to her, "How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee." And she said to him, "I have drunk neither wine nor strongdrink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord." When Eli heard this his heart softened and he said to Hannah, "Go in peace; and the God ^ of Israel grant thee thy petition." We are told that she vowed in her heart and covenanted before the Lord that day that if He gave her a son she would devote him to the work in the temple of the Lord all his days. Sure enough, the Lord answered her prayer and gave her a son, and when he was of very tender years she brought him to the temple, and he made his abode there with the High Priest Eli, and slept near him in the temple. And one night a voice said "Samuel!" And the boy arose quickly and went over to Eli, and said to him, "Here am I; for thou calledst me." "I called not," said Eli. Samuel returned to his couch again, and the voice came again to him, "Samuel!" And he arose again and went to Eli, but Eli said "I called not, my son." But after the third time, said Eli to him, 

"It shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth." So when the voice came again calling Samuel the boy answered accordingly, and the Lord gave him a commission, a command to call Eli to account for the wickedness of his sons. There are very many examples, very many records, but these are salient points that I think of now that will bear us out in the testimony that we give of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Although he was called to the ministry when a mere boy, how well he filled that ministry and mission given to him by the Son of God. . How eagerly he gave the strength of his young manhood, as he matured in years and grew in knowledge, and as the Lord revealed unto Him, line upon line, and precept upon precept, of how and when, and the proper way to minister in the Gospel ordinances; and at the completion of the temple he gave this wonderful prayer, a portion of which I have read. About six clays after, the following .revelation was given to Joseph the Seer and to Oliver Cowdery : 

The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. 

We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit before us, and under His feet was a paved work of pure gold in color like amber. 

His eyes were as a flame of fire, the hair of His head was white like the pure snow, His countenance shone above the brightness of the sun, and His voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: 

I am the first and the last, I am He who liveth, I am He who was slain, I am your advocate with the Father. 

Behold, your sins are forgiven you, you are clean before me, therefore lift up your heads and rejoice. 125 

Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name. * * * 

' And the fame of this, house shall spread to foreign lands, and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be poured out upon the heads of my people. Even so. Amen. 

After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us, and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the Ten Tribes from the land of the north. 

After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the Gospel of Abraham, saying, that in us, and our seed, all generations after us should be blessed. 

After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the Prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said: 

Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he (Elijah) should be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come. 

To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse. 

You have heard from Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., this afternoon in regard to the principle of baptism for the dead. This was the covenant that was established by the visit of Elijah, in fulfillment of the promise made to the Prophet Joseph when the Angel Moroni first visited him, and informed him concerning the plates, the record from which the Book of Mormon was translated. This work has been going on since that day, sometimes interrupted by force of circumstances, in the times that the people were gathering from their homes in the east to this land in the great western desert. As soon as the labors could be again perfected and a temple could be built, the labor and the  has gone faithfully forward, and many hundreds of thousands of our dead kindred have received, or will receive the benefit of the ordinances performed for them in these holy houses which the Lord has permitted us and assisted us to build. Every one of them, all four temples in this country, have been dedicated to the name of the Lord God of Israel, and He has accepted of that dedication and allowed His name to be placed upon them, every one of those holy edifices. 

My brethren and sisters, I must not take more of your time. May the Lord bless you and increase upon you the desire to keep every commandment that He has given unto you, that you may have joy and rejoicing all the days of your lives, and be fitted and prepared to associate with those for whom we have labored here in the flesh, for the redemption of our kindred, as we shall meet them again if we are faithful and true. 

May this be our happy portion in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PATRIARCH JOHN SMITH. 

My brethren and sisters, I was in hopes that this task would pass by, as I have often said, preaching is not my forte. 

I have listened attentively to all which has been said during the conference, and I can endorse everything which we have heard. I realize that the Spirit of the Lord has been here during this conference, and has actuated those who have spoken to us. I trust that which we have heard will sink deep into the hearts of the people who have heard it, that we may all profit thereby. 

I ask God, the Eternal Father,. GENERAL CONFERENCE.  let His blessings rest upon all Israel and guide all of us in the true path, pour out His Spirit in rich abundance upon all who bear rule in His Church; that He may especially bless those who are called to preside, the First Presidency of the Church, the quorum of the Apostles and their- associates. 

I trust that the Latter-day Saints may remember what they have heard during this conference, that they may go forward in the path of righteousness. I bear testimony of the goodness of the Father unto His people, and pray that we all may walk in the true path and be qualified for every duty, filling the mission whereunto our Father has called us, that we may be worthy of His blessings, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

John Henry Smith, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins and Joseph F. .Smith, Jr. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies; Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. . 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August W. Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. . 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of examiners for Church schools : Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young. 

Auditing committee, William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Jos. S. Wells. 127 

Tabernacle choir.: Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. Mc-  Clellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, librarian; and all the members. 

General board of Relief Society: Emmeline B. Wells, president; Clarissa S. Williams, first counselor; Julina L. Smith, second counselor; Olive D. Christensen, secretary; Amy B. Lyman, assistant secretary; Emma A: Empey, treasurer. Members of the board : Sarah J. Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phoebe Y. Beatie, Ida S. Dusenberry, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice M. Home, Priscilla P. Jennings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Rebecca N. Nibley, Elizabeth 

C. McCune, Susa Young Gates, Edna May Davis, Sarah McLelland and Elizabeth C. Crismon. 

General board of Deseret Sunday School Union : Joseph F. Smith, superintendent; David O. McKay, first assistant superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, second assistant superintendent; George D. Pyper, secretary; John F. Bennett, treasurer. Members of the board: Joseph F. Smith, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Levi W. Richards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant; Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, James W. Ure, Johq F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George 

D. Pyper, Henry Peterson, Anthon H. Lund„ George M. Cannon, James E. Talmage, Horace Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign, Henry H. Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, John Henry Smith, Charles B. Felt, George H. Wallace, Howard 

R. Driggs, Robert Lindsay McGhie, Sylvester D. Bradford, Nathan T. Porter and Milton Bennion. 

General board Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association : Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; Heber J. Grant, assistant superintendent; Brigham H. Roberts, assistant superintendent; Moroni Snow, general secretary; Aids : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, Rodney C. Badger, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Douglas M. Todd, Thomas Hull, Nephi L. Morris, Willard Done, LeRoi C. Snow, Frank Y. Taylor, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Reed Smoot, Bryant S. Hinckley, Moses W. Taylor, B. F. Grant, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., O. C. Beebe, Lewis T. Cannon, Benjamin Goddard, Geo. Albert Smith, Thomas A. Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe, James H. Anderson, Anthony W. Ivins, Oscar A. Kirkham, Anthon H. Lund, Geo, F. Richards, Nephi Anderson, John H. Taylor. 

General board Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association : Martha H. Tingey, president; Ruth May Fox, first counselor; Mae Taylor Nystrom, second counselor; Joan M. Campbell, secretary; Alice K. Smith, treasurer; Alice C. Tuddenham, musical director; Mattie Read Evans, organist; Elizabeth T. Sardoni, assistant organist. Aids : Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes S. Campbell, Ann M. Cannon, May Booth Talmage,. Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Julia M. B.rixen, Augusta W. Grant, Mary A. Freeze, Estelle N. Caldwell, Emily C Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy W. Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Letitia GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Teasdale, Edith R. Lovesy, Laura Bennion, Rachel Grant Taylor. 

Members of the General board of Primary Associations: Louie B. Felt, president: May Anderson, first counselor; Clara W. Beebe; second counselor; Frances Thomassen, secretary; Ida B. Smith, librarian; Isabelle S. Ross, physical di^ rector; Ann Nebeker, assistant physical director; Emma Ramsey Morris, chorister; Ivy Allen, organist. Flonorary members of the board : Lillie T. Freeze, Josephine R. West and Aurelia S. Rogers. Advisors to the board : Hyrum M. Smith and George F. Richards. Aids : L. L. Greene Richards, Camilla C. Cobb, Eliza S. Bennion, Edna Harker Thomas, Alice L. Howarth, Emma Romney, Rebecca Nibley Whitney, Zina Y. Card, Amy Lyman, Laura Foster, Edith Hunter, Erma Bitner. 

General board of Religion Classes : Anthon H. Lund, superintendent; Rudger Clawson, first assistant superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, second assistant superintendent; J. D. Cummings, secretary. Members of the board : Anthon H. Lund, Rudger Clawson, Hyrum M. Smith, Horace H. Cummings, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, Anthony W. Ivins, George H. Brimhall, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., P. J\} Jenson, and Willard Young. 

General board of the Genealogical Society of Utah : Anthon H. Lund, president; Charles W. Penrose, vice president; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., secretary and treasurer; Joseph Christenson, librarian; Anthonv W. 

Ivins, D. M. McAllister and Heber J. Grant. 

Duncan M. McAllister, as clerk of the conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

Saints advised to live in unity, and keep out of debt. — Statement concerning expenditure of tithing. — Reasons for the Church assisting in building Hotel Utah. — Voluntary obligation assumed by members to sustain Church authorities. — Blessings invoked upon Priesthood and People, and the Nation. — Mobocratic spirit a national menace. 

If there are any two individuals in this congregation, or who may have attended this conference, who have any ill-feeling in their hearts toward each other, or toward any one else, I hope they will go home, and that any or all others to whom the thought applies, will go home from here and be reconciled to each other, and become good neighbors and abide in good fellowship in the Church. If there is any one here who is in debt I would advise that when he goes home, and when I go home, too, that we will begin with a determination that we will pay our debts and meet all of our obligations just as quickly as the Lord will enable us to do it. If there is any one here intending to go into debt for speculation, and especially if he is intending to borrow money to buy mining stock and other scaley or uncertain things, I would advise him to hesitate, pray over it, and carefully consider it before he 129  himself by borrowing money arid going into debt. In other words, keep out of debt if you can. Pay your debts as soon as you can. That means me as well as any one else. 

If there is any one In the congregation who has been negligent in observing the law of tithing, I hope he will go home from this conference with a new awakening in his soul to keep this obligation that rests upon us as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, that there may be plenty in the storehouse of the Lord to meet all the necessities of the Church in a financial way. We feed the poor, and we maintain our temples, we assist our missionaries to return from their missions, we sustain our Church schools, which are numerous, and expensive, and we are doing every other thing that we feel is wise and proper for us to do, with the means we have for the building up of Zion. We have succeeded in purchasing, as far as we could,, the property that was offered for sale surrounding this -temple block, with the express intent to keep it from going into the hands of persons who would make an improper use of it. It has cost us a great deal, for generally when people realize that the Church wants or needs to get anything' they have for sale they want to get all out of it they possibly can. I am sorry to say that, but I suppose it is human nature for some people to do so. We have been under the necessity of improving some of this vacant land which we have purchased, and that has cost money, but now, instead of it being unoccupied, unimproved, a source of expense to the Church, we have built upon it and now it pays for itself, or meets its own obliga and helps the Church just a little. 

We have helped to build one of the most magnificent hotels that exists on the continent of America, or in the old continent either. I am told that it is equal to any in the world, in its facilities for convenience and comfort for its guests, for sanitation, for its situation, and architectural beauty, and in many other ways. Well, some of our people have thought that we were extravagant. I would like you to turn to the book of Doctrine and Covenants and read the commandment of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the city of Nauvoo.* The people were requested to contribute of their means to take stock in this building, and they andj their children after them, from gen-I eration to generation, should have! an inheritance in that building; fori it was intended for the beauty of the city, for the glory of that stake 

*See Doctrine and Covenants Section 124:22-24. 

"Let my servant George, and my servant Lyman and my servant John Snyder and others build a house unto my name, such an one as my servant Joseph shall show unto them, upon the place which I shall show unto them also. And it shall be a house for boarding, 'a house that strangers may come from afar to lodge therein, therefore let it be a good house, worthy of all acceptation, that the weary traveler may find health and safety while he shall contemplate -the word of the Lord," etc. 

"This house shall be a healthy habitation," etc., etc., and again: 

"And let the name of that house be called Nauvoo House, and let it be a delightful habitation for man, and a resting place for the weary traveler," etc. (v. 60) And like the corner stone of Zion "Which shall be polished with that refinement which is after the similitude of a palace." (verse 2, sec 124). GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Zion, and to accommodate the stranger from afar who came to contemplate the doctrines of the Church and the work of the Lord. 

We are not responsible for the character of men who come here and are entertained in the hotel. We did not make or form their character, neither are we responsible for their conduct. Men who come here to this city from the world are generally men of the world,, men accustomed to the habits of the world. Now, I hoped, nd I prayed, and I voted and did 11 I could in the hope that the good people of this city would vote it "dry," so that we would not be compelled to allow a saloon or bar to be operated in the Hotel Utah. If you had voted it "dry," we would not have had any bar there. It would not have been necessary, because the people that come here would have to put up with the law, and with the conditions in the city, but it "went wet" and therefore the people that visit us want something to "wet up" with once in a while, and unless it is provided for them they will go somewhere else, and instead of beholding and viewing the beauties of Zion they will go where they will see everything that is not beautiful, and be associated with that which is not good, instead of being where they can see the best side of everything. 

The building itself has been built by a company called the Utah Hotel Company. Not one of them is a hotel keeper. They know nothing about the science of hostelries, or of keeping a hostelry or managing a hotel, so they rented it. They have rented it to another company called the "Hotel Operating Company." an operating company which has been formed with a capital of  $300,000.00, I believe, and they have rented the building and are responsible for the running of the hotel. They are paying those who built it, that is the "Utah Hotel : Company," the interest on their money as it falls due, and also interest on the bonds that have been issued for the purpose of obtaining the money necessary to put it in ' commission. Now, we do not want the Latterday Saints to go off and condemn Joseph F. Smith or Anthon H. Lund or John Henry Smith, or anybody else, because there is a bar in the Hotel Utah. We are not responsible for it. We do not go and drink there. We invite you to keep out of the bar and not go there to drink; you don't have to; therefore we advise you on general principles to observe and keep the Word of Wisdom, both in the "Hotel Utah" and in your own homes, and wherever you travel. Keep the Word of wisdom, which is the word of the Lord to His people. I could say more perhaps, but I think I have said all I need to on that score. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I want to thank you on behalf of myself and counselors, the Council of the Apostles,- the Seventies, the Patriarch, and the Presiding Bishopric, who are the general authorities, for the unanimity that has been manifested here by the uplifted hands of this vast congregation, with reference to the matters that have been presented to you. I understand this as an evidence of good will, of faith and of fellowship on the part of this vast congregation to all the authorities, both general and local, or auxiliary, that have been presented before you, and that you will all abide the pledge you have given to the Lord 131  to one another by the uplifted hand, that you all mean to uphold and sustain these officers in all these various organizations, from first to last, that you will not backbite them, that you will not find fault with them without a cause, that you will not try to injure their influence or hinder their progress, or interfere with their legitimate work but that on the contrary you will do everything you can to help them, to benefit them, bless them, and encourage them in the good work in which they are engaged. 

Now, may the Lord God Almighty bless and preserve His servants from evil works, from all error and mistakes. Oh, that the Lord God will guide His people and not leave them to the guidance of man. I testify to you that no man has ever led the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in the sense that by his own wisdom and intelligence, and by his personal power and influence he did it. I maintain and testify to you that it has been the power of God that has guided this people, from the Prophet Joseph down to the present moment. No man of himself is responsible for it. Therefore I pray that the Lord may bless His servants; that they may do nothing contrary to His will; that they may do nothing injurious to His work; that they may not lay any block or obstacle in the way of the progress of the kingdom of God; that they may do nothing to grieve or hurt the feelings of the faithful children of the Father throughout all the Church. And I pray God to bless every organization of the Holy Priesthood that was revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, from the deacon to the apostle, each  its place, and each man in his place, and that the Lord may help each one to perform his duty, whether that duty may be great or small. 

I pray God to bless the teachers, the men that are called by the bishops and sent out among the Latterday Saints to teach them the principles of right living, principles of the Gospel, the principles of unity, of harmony, of righteousness and of equality and justice, the principle of love and kindness between husband and wife, between parents and children, between neighbors, and in every way to teach the people righteousness, faith in God, in Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Spirit which proceeds, from the Father and the Son, and bears witness of them to the children of men; faith in the Prophet Joseph Smith and in the divinity of his mission, faith in the intent and purpose and power of God to carry out His purposes and designs among the children of men, and faith in the destiny of God's work, in the destiny of His people, that we may not wander away nor be misled into error and doubt by those who are cunning and crafty, and who lay in wait to deceive and mislead the people of God, from their righteous ways. 

I pray God to bless all our auxiliary organizations, from the first to the last, that they may do their duty, that they may not sit idly down and neglect to work. The idler is not in favor before the Lord, and he that is idle is in danger of temptation, and of falling into the power of the adversary. We are only safe when we are doing, when we are at work, when we are in earnest, when we are engaged in the discharge of our duty, and when this condition exists with GENERAL CONFERENCE.  we are safe, for then we are in the hands of God and not in the hand of the adversary. 

God, bless the Holy Priesthood, the noble men, pure men, just men,' men of honor, men of integrity, men who have gathered out, many of them, from the nations of the earth for the love of the gospel; and many of them have been born under the covenant of the Holy Priesthood, and I pray God to bless you, my brethren, with an abundance of His goodness, of His mercy and loving kindness, that you may prosper in the land, that you may be indeed truly His servants. 

1 pray you and I pray God to help you, fathers and mothers, to teach your children the principles and precepts of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that they will grow up without sin unto salvation. I pray that God will help you to rear your children in the love of truth, in the love of virtue, free from the contaminating vices of the world, free from defilement, from drunkenness, from the use of tobacco, from strong drinks and narcotics, and vices of every description; that you will teach them to be pure in their lives — in their habits, that they may be holy temples in which the Spirit of the living God may dwell and find congenial habitation. It is your duty to do it, and it is my duty; it is the duty of every man living to teach his family these things, and bring them up in the way they should go. 

May the Lord bless our Presiding Bishopric, on whom rests so much responsibility of gathering and assisting in keeping the records, receiving and disbursing the tithes of the people for every purpose for which it is appropriated  the building up of Zion, the building of temples and schoolhouses, the compensation of teachers in our schools, the care of the poor, and the paying of other expenses. O, may the Lord bless our Bishopric that they may be fathers and not masters, that they may be tender in their hearts towards God's poor, and wise and prudent with reference to the "poor devils" who would impose upon them and upon the Church if they could. May the Lord bless them with wisdom, knowledge and understanding, that they may not be deceived, that they may not yield to any kind of evil temptation, but that they may be true and faithful before God, that they will be able to give a faithful account of their stewardship before all the people of the Church, and when necessary before the people of the world, but more especially before the great Judge of the quick and the dead, for it is to Him that we will eventually have to answer for every work and every word that we have done and said in this life; for every man will be rewarded according to his works, whether they be good or evil. 

The Lord God bless Israel, not only all Israel but the honest in heart m all the world. The Lord bless the executive of this great nation, the man that stands at the head, together with his cabinet, that they also may be men of wisdom and of sound judgment, that they may be able to devise ways of peace and good will on earth, that there may be peace everywhere, that war may cease, that strife, contention and oppression of every description may be checked and subdued by the wisdom of the great statesmen and capable and honest judges of our country. 133 

One of the greatest menaces to our country is that of the combination of men into irresponsible, reckless mobs, wild with prejudice, hatred and fanaticism, led by men of ambition, or passion, or hatred. There is no other thing in the world that I can conceive of so absolutely obnoxious to God and good men as a combination of men and women filled with the spirit of mobocracy. When men combine together to stop or shut off the food supply from the mouth of the honest laborer, to starve the man that is willing to work, and the wife and the children who are dependent upon him, because he is not willing to join a mob, is one of the most infamous perils and menaces to the people of our country today. I do not care who they are, or what name they go by. They are a menace to the peace of the world, and I hope and pray that President William H. Taft, and his cabinet, and the Congress of the United States, will be able to devise means and measures by which the constitutional laws of this government will be executed for the protection of the lives, the liberty and happiness of all its people, against mobocracy of every kind or description, whether it be in the form of soulless corporations, monopolies or other combinations, it matters not to me. Let the strong hand of the government put a stop to anything that is tyrannical and unjust, to anarchy and all else calculated to sow the seeds of destruction, poverty and ruin upon our. land. 

Now I must quit so you can catch the train. The Lord bless all Israel. The Lord bless our government and make it great, and help those who are at the helm to increase its greatness, that it may be sustained  the principles of eternal justice, righteousness and truth. 

I pray God to bless our choir, not only this choir, but all the other good choirs of the Latter-day Saints, and especially this on this occasion when it is about to start from here to visit New York and to sing for the world. .1 pray that the Lord will give them success, help them to win honor and laurels for the people of Utah, for the singers of Zion, and especially for the great Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir. The Lord bless Brother Stephens at their head, and Brother McClellan and those assisting them, that they may be true to their trust, honorable and faithful, and carry with them the virtues and honor that men cannot bestow, and can only exist in the souls of the righteous. 

The/ choir sang the anthem, "God is our refuge and strength." 

Benediction was pronounced hy Bishop Charles W. Nibley. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at  all the conference meetings in the Tabernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, and Fred G. Barker. 

The discourses delivered in the Tabernacle, reported by Elder Otterstrom, were transcribed by Mrs. John Meibos. 

Duncan M. McAllister, 

Clerk of Conference. 


