Afternoon
06 10 1911



PREST. JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Establishment of this Government, and restoration of the Gospel, cause* for rejoicing. — The Latter-day Church organization continues in its perfected form. — Priesthood and Saints fulfilling sacred duties. 

I desire that you will give me the benefit of your faith and prayers., that the time which I occupy may be profitable to you as well as to myself. T rejoice in the fact that there are present upon this occasion all of the First Presidency of the Church, that there are present all of the Council of Apostles except Brother Clawson, who is engaged earnestly and fully in his duty of helping to proclaim the Gospel among .the nations of the world. I am pleased that the Seven Presidents of Sev.17  are all in the city and are present excepting one of them, who may have been delayed or detained in the performance of duties resting upon him. The Patriarch of the Church, and I believe the Presiding Bishopric in their entirety are here today. 

I rejoiced very much this morning in the telling Gospel discourse delivered to us, following his words of welcome, by the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to hear his voice declaring the mercies of our Heavenly Father, and bearing witness of the truth as established in the day and age in which we live, and expounding and explaining to us those primary doctrines of the Gospel, and reasoning with us upon those advanced principles of the Gospel revealed in this dispensation, with which the world at large has not been acquainted. It was a pleasure to me to hear his testimony to the mission and ministry of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world, and to hear him declare in words of soberness the fact that the same Gospel, which was introduced by Him in that former dispensation, has been renewed to us in the dispensation in which we live, and that man was privileged to gaze upon the face of Jesus Christ and oi God, our Heavenly Father. 

The impress of the spirit of the work of the Almighty should gladden the heart of the aged who have left fatherland, connections and relations, and national ties, that they might be engaged in that wonderful work, having heard that message, "Come out of her, O ye my people, that ye receive not of her sins, and that ye partake not of her plagues;" that the trials and tribulations that would beset the na would surely come in the due time of the Lord, and that as the warning cry went forth, declaring the glad message of the visitation of our Father in heaven, and His introduction of that heavenly messenger, the Savior of the world, and that the human family should again hear, in language clear and explicit, the doctrines announced by the Redeemer of the world. Joy abounded in my soul in the re-declaration in the presence of this vast congregation, of these truths, and of the nature of that work which lay upon the shoulders of the men and women to whom that warning had come, and into whose soul the impress of the Spirit from on high had found place and lodgment, and had led them to gather in this land, this land dedicated under our Father in heaven for the accomplishment of His great purpose, the uplift and blessing of the human race. 

I rejoice in the declaration that came through the fathers called upon to establish this republic, in the Declaration of Independence, uttered and promulgated and expounded among the people of this land, the principles involved in the Constitution of the United States, and the opportunities that were to be placed within the reach of the children of men, to believe in God and to obey the laws and ordinances of the Gospel, that no one should molest nor make them afraid. While in the application of the great fundamental law, that opened the doors of liberty to the human race, it has been in the keeping of the American people, the law itself remains untarnished. Some, in their misapprehension, or over-zeal in regard to the regulation and care of their fellows, have failed to appreciate the fact that it was the design of providence to guard the consciences of men and open up to them the great privilege of religious freedom. They are at liberty to accept the doctrines of Buddha if they choose, or to believe in the mission and ministry of Mohammed, or to regard and honor the laws and views presented in the Koran, or in the doctrines announced by Moses, following the Jewish theories and ideas; they also who should believe in Jesus Christ in these latter days, and literally accept His doctrines, should with their fellow men enjoy their right to those laws, and live in harmony with the rules and principles set forth in the doctrines announced in this latter time, even as they were announced in that former day. 

My brothers and my sisters, I rejoice when I think of the completeness of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints; when I remember that the promise was given in the commencement that this work had been divinely established and would never again be taken from the earth; that this organization, with its prophets, its Apostles, its Pastors, its Teachers and its Evangelists, should remain unbroken. I remember that the Prophet Joseph Smith himself ministered under these rules and regulations, and that, after his passing there came to the front that grand man who led us to these mountains, with the band of other grand men, among the truest and best that ever breathed the breath of life, that came with him and continued the work, maintaining each principle and doctrine, announcing the glad message that had been entrusted to their watchcare. Having themselves been in the mission field, declaring the  and pointing the way of life to mankind, raising that appeal which led you to gather into your mountain homes, "Come out of her, 

ye my children, that ye receive not of her sins, and that ye partake not of her plagues." 

There has been a continuance of the Church organization in an unbroken phalanx, with its Presidency holding the keys and rights of that presidency; the Council of the Apostles, complete and perfect, stalwart and true men, devoted to the cause, utilizing their talents in every way to extend the good work, and free themselves from the saared responsibility that God our Father placed upon their shoulders. 

1 rejoice when I remember that their associates, the Council of Seventy, devoted and true, have kept their faces in the direction of the extension of this great work; and that the great body of High Priests. Seventies, and Elders, in their entirety, have kept aflame in their hearts the message entrusted to their watch-care, and have been true in the fulfillment of the duties that have been imposed upon them. 

As I gaze into the faces of this body of men and women, and recoginze their worth, understanding the message they have in hand, the sacredness of the obligation that rests upon them, I pray my God that nothing shall ever cau?e one of them to waver from the truth. Their faces aflame with goodness and gladness, with the teachings and instructions and complete organization, from the Presidency, the Presiding Patriarch, the Apostles, the First Council of ^"ventv, the Hiq-h Priests, the Patriarchs throughout the Church, the preat bodv of Seventies, the great bodv of Elders, they recognize the fact  this world is unconquered by the word of God. They have been sent into the world to fulfil that mission of conquering the world by the declaration of the truth, by the advice and counsel of righteousness, by themselves walking so clean and free from the trammels of crime that they can look at the best people in the world, wherever they may be found, and declare, "I know that God lives 1; I know that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world; I know He is the veritable Son of God, that He has opened the door to the human race, and the doctrines essential to the salvation of mankind are the doctrines announced by Himself. Thou shalt "believe in God the Eternal Father; thou shalt believe in the Redeemer of the world, and thou shalt witness thy belief by burial in baptism, and in the confirmation and receiving of the Holy Ghost, realizing that this message of morality, and the observance of these ordinances, rests upon every man and every woman in the land, to receive and apply them in their lives." 

This body of men standing at the head of this work in a solid phalanx should faever turn their backs to their fellow men, but with their faces looking to mankind, should proclaim unto them, "This is the way, walk ye in it." Christ is the Redeemer of the world. The theories and fallacies of men in regard to this matter, seeking to make a myth of Him, are not true. He is the Christ, He is the Way and the- Life. He is the Redeemer of the race, and should be magnified and sustained by every Christian in the universe. Standing before you, T declare my absolute knowledge that He is the Son of God; that He is my Redeemer and your Redeem, and that by Him, and through Him, and of Him the race will be reclaimed, and in no other way. 

May heaven's blessings abound in your hearts. May you have the power to impress upon your sons and daughters that faith which will lead them along the lines of righteousness, and away from the schemes and devices of designing and misleading spirits, that the wicked may not be sucessful in entangling them in the meshes of crime. May you be enabled to say, as you point to the head of this work, "There stands the man God selected; here is the Church organization Jesus established, unbroken from the day it was fixe' 1 by the Prophet of the Lord, and God said it never would be taken from the earth or given to another people." It will never be given to this little organization, or that little party withdrawing from this work. Here stands this organization true to God, true to the principles He has announced, true to every requirement placed upon their shoulders, as men have ever been true to the obligations placed upon them. 

My brothers and my sisters, I am happy to be with you. I rejoice in the knowledge of the truth of this work, and bear my witness, in connection with my brethren, of its place and purpose and mission in the world, and to say that the men who speak of its overthrow, its displacement, its failure to accomplish its mission, are dreaming myths, for this work will not fail. God has decreed its success, and it is to become the joy of the race. Amen. 

Sister Margaret Summerhays sang a soprano solo, entitled "Great peace have they that love the Lord." ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Saints give abundant evidence of love of God and mankind. — "Mormon" missionaries' self-denial rewarded byGod's approval.— Divine truth of their message proven by their virtuous lives. Love of money a cause of loss of faith. — Knowledge imparted by the Holy Spirit makes men steadfast. 

It is always a pleasure to meet with the Latter-day Saints in stake and general conferences. I rejoice in the very splendid turnout that we have had during the meetings on this occasion. I do not remember to have ever seen so large a gathering at an opening session of any of our conferences as we had here this morning. It shows to me the faith of the Latter-day Saints, and is an evidence of their desire to hear the word of the Lord through the general authorities of the Church, who as a rule address the people assembled on these occasions. I earnestly desire that the time which I may occupy here this afternoon may be for our mutual benefit. 

I rejoice in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and in the knowledge which I possess of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. It is ever my earnest prayer that I may remain firm, steadfast and faithful, that I may not turn to the right nor to the left, but may walk in the straight and narrow path that leads to life eternal. This prayer which I offer for myself I also offer daily for all the Latter-day Saints; and I constantly pray that the honest the world over may see and comprehend the truth.. I pray also that those of us who have received a knowledge of the truth may live according to the teachings of the Savior, that we may so order our lives that other men, seeing our good deeds, may  God, and that they may be led to the truth. 

We find in the 22nd chapter of St. Matthew the following: 

But when "the Pharisees had heard that he had put the Sadducees to silence, they were gathered together. 

Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying, 

Master, which is the great commandment in the law? 

Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 

This is the first and great commandment. 

And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 

On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. 

The longer I live, the more I study the gospel, the more I come in contact with men, the more forcibly am I impressed with the truth of the sayings of our Savior in the words that I have just read to you. If we did in every deed love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our mind, with all our soul, there would be no need of urging from time to time upon the people the necessity of keeping the commandments of the Lord" It would be a pleasure to them to serve God and keep His commandments. We are told that where a man's treasure is, there will his heart be also, and if we loved the Lord with all our heart and mind and soul, serving Him would be the great object of our lives, and the treasure we would work to gain would be His love. If we followed that second commandment, to love our neighbor as ourself, there would be no need of bishon's or High Council trials; our difficulties would all be settled amicably, if we really and truly loved our neighbor. It would be' almost a waste of time to appeal to the peo for donations, to urge them to be tural heart of man, and the labor liberal, to. be generous, to strive for which they are performing is a lathe benefit and welfare of their fel- bor of love, without hope of reward lo ws. i; . whatever in this life. They have a 

While we as a people do not fully hope of reward, of course, from God come up to the requirements of the our Heavenly Father who rewards first great commandment, nor com- us by a rich outpouring of His Holy pletely meet the requirements of the Spirit whenever we are engaged in second, yet, I bear my testimonv to His work. 

you here today, I believe that of all This labor which is beino- per people upon the face of the earth, formed is costing on an average in there is no other people who love the neighborhood of, if not fully the Lord their God as do the Latter- twenty dollars per month per capita day Saints. There is no other peo- for each and every one of those two pie upon the face of the earth who thousand men, so that we find there give such absolute evidence of their is expended, while proclaiming the love of God by their acts, by the sac- gospel, forty thousand dollars a nfices they make, by the labors they month in expenses, as an evidence of perform, by the diligence with the love of their fellows by these which they strive to serve God and men and their families, who are keep His commandments. I believe supporting them. I feel that it is there is no other people to be found not exaggerating at all to say that on the earth that compare to the these men would average, if 'they Latter-day Saints in these respects, were at home laboring for' the maI believe also that there is no other terial things of this world at least people to be found where there is as sixty dollars a month per capita for much of brotherly love, of real har- their time; therefore we find that mony and good will, and a desire to the Latter-day Saints, by giving bless their fellows, as can be found their time and their means to promamong the Latter-day Saints. Not ulgate this gospel of Jesus Christ only do we love our neighbors, but I which we have received, that they believe that there is a greater love are contributing in round numbers in _ the hearts of the Latter-day one hundred and sixty thousand Saints, (and that they prove it by dollars per month as a substantial their acts.) for their fellow men, evidence of their love of their felnot of their own faith, than is to be lows, and of their desire to bring found in other communities. I be- to them the knowledge of the gospel heve that we evidence this by the that they possess, labors that we are performing. The world has said that Joseph Reflect upon the fact that there are Smith was a fallen prophet They at the present time over two thou- say that the leaders of the Lattersand men, in nearly all parts of the day Saints are wicked and corrupt world, proclaiming this gospel of men. Even our enemies bear witJesus Christ that you and I have re- ness that the rank and file of the ceived; that they are neglecting Latter-day Saints are a good people their business, that they are separ- They say, it is only the leaders that ated from their families, from their are bad, and that are full of wickedfriends, from their loved ones, from ness and robbery, and all manner of all that is near and dear to the na- evils; and the Prophet Joseph Smith was the worst of the lot, because he established this terrible gospel called "Mormonism." The Savior said, "By their fruits ye shall know them," and this is the infallible rule that you and I and everybody else can lay down, by which to judge men — by their fruits. By the fruits of love of our fellows, we stand supreme above all the world in preaching this gospel. Freely we have received, and freely we give. This gospel of Jesus Christ, which the world says is a delusion, a snare and a fraud, to each and every man who goes out to proclaim it, and who lives an upright and virtuous life, it brings peace, it brings joy, it brings happiness unspeakable. In standing up and proclaiming that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, there are hundreds, yes, there are tens of thousands of men who have gone out to preach this gospel, and who can bear witness that God their Heavenly Father, by the inspiration of His Spirit, blessed them and gave them utterance in proclaiming the fact that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, far beyond their natural ability of expression. They are able to bear witness that peace and joy ofttimes filled their very beings in testifying to the divinity of the mission of this man as a prophet of the true and living God; and that, after they have sat down, they have wept for joy because of the blessings of the Lord which have come to them while thus testifying. 

It fell to my happy lot to labor for three years in Great Britain, and other parts of Europe, as the President of the European Mission. I came in contact with thirteen hundred Elders during that time, and I bear witness to you that those boys were sweet, that they were  in their persons, in their thoughts, in their acts, that they were in very deed representatives of the gospel of Christ; that they were leading God-like and Christ-like lives. I bear witness to you that every one of them was ready and willing to testify, and did testify time and time again in my hearing, that under the influence of the sweet spirit that comes from our Heavenly Father, that they had had times of joy beyond their ability to express, in proclaiming this gospel of Jesus Christ. Do you mean to tell me that the fruits of the gospel, that brings joy and peace and happiness unspeakable to those that are proclaiming it, that are honest, that are upright, that are diligent, that are true, — do you mean to tell me that if that gospel was vile and wicked that it would fill the heart to overflowing with gratitude in those that are proclaiming it? Why, it is an absurdityI have often remarked, in public and in private, that, to me/"one"of the greatest of all the great testimonies of the divinity of the workin which you and I are engaged, is the fact that no man, in all the eighty years that this gospel has been proclaimed, has ever returned to us from a mission and announced that he has found the truth in some other part of the world. It is not to be found. Ministers warn their congregations against the Elders. They warn their congregations in the world against reading our tracts, against studying our literature, or listening, or having anything to do with the "Mormons." Did I warn one single, solitary Elder out of the thirteen hundred that I labored with, against the gospel that any man might have to give him? No. I warned him against doing evil. I  him to shun wine and women, in the language of the late President Wilford Woodruff,! "as he would the gates of hell." I warned him to live sweet and clean and pure, and to bow down and pray God, day by day, for the guidance of His Holy Spirit. I told him to study the Bible, to study the teach-, ings of the Savior and of His Apos-' ties, and proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ to the people. I said, keep yourself sweet and clean and pure, and study the gospel, and God will bless you; and God did bless them. Do you mean to tell me for eighty years God would allow men to go on, year after year, living virtuous, upright, honest lives, proclaiming a gospel that was not true, and that He would never bring one of those honest souls to a knowledge of the true gospel? What is the result on the other hand ? Hundreds, yea, thousands have been pricked in their hearts, and by the inspiration of the Spirit, and the revelations of God to them, they have received a knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. They have received the witness of the Holy Spirit to them, satisfying their souls, satisfying their very beings, causing them to cry out in joy that they know that God lives, that they know Jesus is the Christ, that they know Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the true and living God. No man on earth can say that he knows that what they say is not true. He may not believe their testimony, but he cannot rob them of the knowledge that they have. I may proclaim that I love my family, and a man may say, "I don't believe it," but that does not change the knowledge that I have that I do love them. When a man has received the witness of  Holy Spirit, when a man has received the knowledge that this gospel is true, and he knows it, and he proclaims it, the whole world, not believing, cannot change the knowledge that he has. The Latter-day Saint possesses this knowledge, and it is this knowledge that . they have of the divinity of this work that enables them to live nearer to the first great commandment, than any other people, to love the Lord with all our heart. 

The average man that did not have a knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ would never be an honest tithe-payer; he would not have the courage to obey that law. The natural selfishness of man is so great that he would not and could not do it. Why, we love money to such an extent that many people will sell their very souls for it. The great criterion of success in the world is that men can make money, but I want to say to you Latter-day Saints that to do this is not true success. As a man grows and increases in the things of this world, if he is not careful, he will lose the Spirit of the Lord, and he will set his heart upon the things of this world, and if he loses the Spirit of the Lord, and fails to be honest with God in the payment of his tithes, as strictly and honestly as he would account to a partner if he were engaged in business, that man will lessen his strength, will lessen his power, will lessen the testimony of the Spirit of God within his soul. There is no question of it in my mind. We must be honest with the Lord. The great trouble is that there are many people who, as they grow and increase in the things of this world, set their hearts upon them and lose the Spirit of the Lord. Therefore, that which is counted by the world as success is failure; because if a man starts out for a prize and he fails to secure it after laboring nearly a lifetime for that prize, certainly his life has been a failure. I know many individuals who, when they made small sums of money, were absolutely honest with the Lord, and paid one-tenth of it; but when they made large sums ofmoney they paid all the way from One per cent, instead of ten, up to two or three per cent. What is the matter? Why, the appetite for money grows upon a man, increases and strengthens unless he is careful, just as much as the appetite for whiskey, and ' it gets possession of him, and he loves the money instead of loving it only for the good that he can do with it. He does not estimate properly the value of things. I once wrote a little sentiment for the' Improvement Era, which was published .fourteen years ago, as follows : 

Not he who merely succeeds in making a fortune, and in so doing blunts the natural affections of the heart, and chases therefrom the love of his fellows, can be said to be truly successful : but he who so lives that those who know him best shall love him most; and that God, who knows not only his 'deeds, but also the inmost sentiments of his heart, Shall love him; of such an one, only —  notwithstanding he may die in poverty — can it be said indeed and of a truth, "he should be crowned with the wreath of success." 

Speaking of the wrong estimate of things calls to my mind a little incident that I have related many times in public, of a good old sister, a faithful Latter-day Saint up in Scotland. I had a very fine valise presented to me by some of my business associates before I went on a mission. It was an alligator hide , and it had on it those great big lumps, you know, that the alligators grow on their backs, about as hard as steel. This good sister, who had been used to seeing "bags," as they call them over there, that were very smooth, and that cost six or eight shillings, said, "Oh, I do wish somebody would give Brother Grant a decent, respectable looking bag. What a pity it is that he has to carry such an awful looking bag." If somebody had given me a valise costing two or three dollars, she would have thought I had a treasure. I don't know what this valise cost that my friends gave me, because you know they say you must never look a gift horse in the mouth, and I didn't ask the price, but I did price one before this was given to me, that was not as nice, and the price was thiry dollars, so I suppose this one I had cost over thirty dollars; but the good sister, I am sure, would not have given six shillings for it. She did not know its value. The next conference I attended was out at Sunderland, and there is one little section of the railroad that runs out there that carried only third-class passengers. In the compartment where I was there were some first class passengers, who had changed to third at the Junction. You know, people ask why "Mormons" always travel third class, and the answer is "Because there is no fourth class." I leaned back in the seat, closed my eyes, and the gentlemen who had been traveling first class thought I was asleep. One of them said, "I am sure that gentleman is an American." The other one said, "How do you know?" "Oh, I am positive of it, I am sure of it." The other one said, "I am not. How do  know ?" And he said, "Nobody but an American would waste so much money on a bag." So you see he knew the value. 

The world thinks like the good old sister that we are wasting our money, because we 'will not exchange a forty or fifty dollar valise for one worth half a dozen shillings. They do not know the truth. They do not realize the value of the gospel of Jesus Christ. They do not know, for instance, the healing power of Almighty God that is in this Church. They do not know that there are men living who, but for the power of God, would not be here. I say to you that I know that I myself am a living witness of the healing power of Almighty God; that there are others now sitting upon this stand who would not be here today but for the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ, with all the power, with all the authority, with all the graces, with all the gifts that were ever enjoyed by formerday saints. 

This is God's truth that you and I have embraced. It is the gospel of Jesus Christ, and may He help us, that we may in very deed follow the admonition of the Savior, and so live that other men, seeing our good deeds, shall glorify God and be led to the truth, is my prayer and desire, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

At the close of his discourse, Elder Grant, by request of President Smith, read a telegram from John W. Young, of New York City, in which Brother Young expressed sentiments of high esteem for President Smith and his associates, and deep interest in the welfare of the Church. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

Good resulting from malicious articles recently published in magazines.— Change manifest in attitude of intelligent people concerning 'the Church.— Pleasure in defending "Mormon" doctrines. — Ward teachers should more frequently visit homes of the Saints. — The great modern sin of immorality. — Saving of wheat recommended. 

My brethren and sisters, I am suffering this afternoon from a severe headache, and I hope that while I occupy the short time this afternoon allotted to me, that I may forget it, and that I may have a portion of God's Spirit to be with me. I hope to be lead to testify to His goodness, not only to myself, but to His people in general. 

"I am not ashamed of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation." I know as well as I live that, if the world is to be redeemed and mankind saVed, it can only be through the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The longer I live and the more I see of this world the more positive I am that God is with His people, and blessing them in every way promised through obedience to the gospel. He is blessing you spiritually and temporally. I know of no people in all the world upon whom the blessings of our Heavenly Father are so bounteously bestowed. He is also blessing us with increased faith, and I believe that He is blessing us with greater knowledge of things divine. 

While we see on all hands opposition to God's work, criticisms against His servants, falsehoods expressed, both from pulpit and press, I desire to testify to you that, as far as the people of God are concerned, they are growing and increasing in knowledge, in numbers, in faith, and, I believe, in the confidence and respect of honest men and honest women throughout all the world. I recognize that the recent magazine articles published against us are having their effect both for good and evil. I am sure they are having the effect of prejudicing unthinking people against the work of God and His people, while on the other hand I am sure they are having the effect of calling attention of thoughtful men to the fact that they are written by untruthful men, and the statements made are false upon their face. I have tried to figure out the effect these malicious, false, lying articles have had upon the Church, and I have come to the conclusion that among the millions of persons that have read the article*, a great many have had their prejudicies increased, and, on a basis of one hundred of these, most of them unthinking people, there are at least, fifty others who detect the purpose and object of the articles and their absolute falsehood. This being true, a feeling of sympathy lias been created in the hearts of the latter towards a people so wickedly maligned; and I have also noted that they are the men and the women who think. They are the intelligent class of people; and I believe the result in the end will be for the good of the work of God. 

I have faith that God will overrule all things for the advancement of His work. I am confident that if we are true to Him and keep His commandments that it will be but a short time until we will be known for good throughout the world. For eighty years we have had bitter opposition. For eighty years the press of the country has been filled with anti-Mormon articles. Eighty years  a short time, a mere passing moment, compared with eternity, so there is no reason for discouragement. I believe that it will not be many years before the honest people of the world, as well as the press and magazines, will be looking for and publishing the good and beautiful things found in the great plan of life and salvation as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, instead of, as at present, seeking for everything that can cast a reflection upon the organization and members of the Church. 

I have taken great pleasure, and shall always do so, in explaining the articles of our faith, our ideas of this life and the life to come, our faith in God and His Son Jesus Christ, our form of baptism and its object, our belief in the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, as well as all the principles and ordinances of the gospel as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I testify to you that when explaining these great truths and especially our belief as to the hereafter, in the life to come, where we expect to meet our loved ones and know them, they appeal to many men and women. People are curious to know what our belief is on all questions that modern Christianity teaches, and some express themselves as not having known that we believed in Jesus Christ. It has always given me pleasure in testifying to our belief in Jesus Christ and Him crucified; our belief in God the Eternal Father; our belief in the literal resurrection of Jesus Christ, and that He is the actual Son of God. There is life,, there is truth and power in "Mormonism." No man need be ashamed of its principles and its mission, nor need he at any time or in any place offer  excuse for the doctrines that have been revealed by God, and His Son Jesus Christ, in this dispensation. 

My brethren and sisters, our greatest danger is within, and not without. Have we a testimony that God lives, and are we living so as to maintain it? Are we consistent and loyal supporters of the laws of God — if so we need fear no opposition. I think that, taken as a whole, no people on earth comes nearer living correctly, yet we must not close our eyes to the fact that we have failings and shortcomings. I believe that one of the weaknesses in our Church work today is the neglect of ward teachers to regularly visit the homes of our people. It is true that we are all teachers, but there are certain men selected in every ward whose special duty it is to visit the homes of members of the Church. It is the teacher's duty to call at every home, no matter what position the head of the house occupies, whether it be the President of the Church, a member of the quorum of the Twelve, the president of a stake, bishop of a ward, or the humblest member in the ward. As soon as the teacher enters the door of a home, if it is the home of a Latter-day Saint, the family should be called together for instruction. The teacher then presides, and it is his duty to expound the principles of the gospel, to inquire as to the faith of each member of the family; whether they, are attending to their prayers, whether there is anything in their home life contrary to the teachings of the Church and the Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ. From the reports we receive, there are homes that are not visited once a year. This is not as God intended. I plead with the  of every ward where such a condition exists, to rectify it as quickly as possible. Instruct your teachers to visit every home at least once a month, and oftener if neces sary. I believe that if this is done there will be a reformation in the lives of many. 

As I scan newspaper reports from all parts of the world, and as I see the conditions of society in different sections of this country, I am convinced that one of the greatest evils now sapping the spiritual and physical strength of the people of the world is the evil of immorality. I take pleasure in testifying, for I know it is true, that the Latterday Saints are as clean and virtuous a people as live on the earth. But, fathers and mothers, I call your attention to the fact that we are not entirely free, as a people, from this curse. There is a responsibility upon you fathers and you mothers to see that every child that God has given you is reared in the atmosphere of virtue, and that your daughters and your sons, for the Latter-day Saints have no double standard of virtue, are guarded and protected from every evil or evil influence. Every boy and every girl in the Church should grow to manhood or womanhood clean and free from immorality. Fathers and mothers, I beseech you not to let your girls walk the streets at night, bareheaded and unprotected. I wish I had the power to reach the ear and heart of every mother and impress upon her the evil of this disgraceful practice, the temptations accompanying it. Many may think there is no danger, but I know there is. No good can come from it, but evil and shame may be the result. The Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, all of the works of the Church teach us the value of a virtuous life, and the evils following an unclean life. I trust the time will come, through the teachings of the Church, and the watchfulness of the parents, when we can say there is no immorality among us. There is work for the teachers, for the Priesthood, for every father and every mother in Israel, as long as there is one case -of immorality in all the Church. We might say, as one of old, that  "I am not my brother's keeper," but I say to every Latter-day Saint that I believe it is your duty, if you see a young boy or girl going wrong, to call the attention of the parent or guardian to it. It may be that you will receive a rebuff, but you will have the satisfaction of having done your duty. If the rebuff is given, I believe the time will come that the parent giving it will be sorry for it. 

Nothing can happen to the Church, or in the Church, but what it affects all the members of the Church. No evil can be inflicted upon any part of it without affecting the whole body. I pray of you, when you see temptations and vice all around you, to guard well the children that God has*given you. I thank God for the teachings of my parents. I thank Him for the example which they set me, and I desire to say to all Israel that it was the teachings and the example that I received from my parents that has kept me clean, as far as the vice of immorality is concerned. I have said many, many times, to men of the world that if I should violate the law of chastity, I would leave the "Mormon" Church, or I would humble myself and seek God's forgiveness. 

In connection with my brethren  have spoken during this conference, I have a testimony that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that this is His work, and that it will never be taken from the earth again; that we are God's people and that, as we strive to do His will, so will He bless and protect us. This is my testimony to the Latter-day Saints. It is my testimony to all the world, and God grant that you may have the same testimony. May you never waver in your duty or your loyalty to God's work, or to any requirement the principles of the gospel impose upon you. A testimony that God lives is one of the peculiarities of "Mormonism;" it is one of the promises of God to those that seek Him, and it is one the world cannot comprehend, nor can any person comprehend it until he has placed himself in a position to receive it, by complying with the requirements made of 'him by God. 

I am pleased to see the people prospering as they are, and I am more than pleased to see throughout this State bounteous crops and harvests, and let me ask you, my brethren and sisters, to take care of them. Do not waste any portion of these bounties, but save all you can, for, in these days of unrest — and we see it on all hands— no man can tell what a year will bring forth. It would not surprise me to see the time come when the people will suffer for want of sufficient breadstuff. I hope^the people will have at least a year's wheat supply on hand, rather than, as many are today, being in debt for the wheat consumed during the year past. So presidents of stakes, bishops of wards, leading brethren, wherever you give advice, encourage the people to take care of all the bounties that God is bestowing upon them, and I know if  will do it it will be better for every man, and every family. 

May God give us strength to do our duty. May He give us a determination to live by every word that proceedeth from His mouth, and be loyal and true to His work, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ.' Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah, Lead us to the promised land, 

We are weak, but Thou art ableHold us with Thy powerful hand. 

Holy Spirit, Feed us till the Savior comes. 

Benediction was pronounced by" Elder Samuel O. Bennion. 


