Outdoor
08 10 1911

Thousands of people gathered on the Temple grounds, unable to obtain admission to the Tabernacle or Assembly Hall, and an outdoor meeting was held for their benefit, at 2 p. m., near the Bureau of Information building. The services were presided over by Elder Benjamin Goddard. Music was furnished by Prof. Wm. C. Clive's orchestra, and Elder Evan Arthur led the singing. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, To guide us in these latter days; 

We thank Thee for sending the Gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Wm. H. Smart. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "America." GENERAL CONFERENCE. (Of Bureau of Information.) 

My brethren, sisters and friends, we all rejoice and thank God for the privilege of meeting in General Conference, and we cannot fail to notice, from the increased attendance at each succeeding conference, that "Zion is growing." For many years past, it has been impossible to accommodate the visitors in the buildings on Temple block during the sessions, and when the weather is as auspicious as on this occasion, the large crowd assembled on the outside cannot all hear the speakers in an open-air meeting. 

We are glad to greet you in this meeting, and regret that we cannot provide seats for all present. We observe that in the congregation we have representatives from many countries, and from the islands of the sea. Elders who nave labored in New Zealand will remember how patiently the Saints in that far-off land would remain at such meetings as these, seated upon the ground or standing for eight and nine hours at a time. 

However, we do not intend to weary you at this session, but we trust that all who have come to worship may be blessed in this gathering. I commend unto you again the thought that "Zion is growing." It now appears that the time will come when the Temple block will not hold the assembled Saints at conference time. Our buildings are already too small, and the words of our hymn are applicable to this feature of our work, as well as to the spreading of the Saints into the different localities where they dwell. 

We often sing 

Give us room that we may dwell, 

Zion's children cry aloud; See their numbers how they swell! 

How they gather like a cloud! 

Zion, now arise and shine! 

Lo, thy light from heaven is come! These that crowd from far are thine; 

Give thy sons and daughters room. 

We feel that God will respond to this plea, for the Spirit that has caused Israel to gather together has emanated from Him. 

May the blessings invoked upon this congregation by President Smart be realized. May our hearts indeed be receptive, and may our souls be blessed by the truths that may be given unto us. 

The brethren who will speak, come before you in all humility, and with no other desire than to serve God, and respond to the call made of them. It depends largely upon us how much blessing we receive from the Lord at this meeting. We rely upon the promise "Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled." May the Spirit of the Lord satisfy the cravings of our hearts, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER REY L. PRATT. 

(President of the Mexican Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I sincerely desire an interest in your faith and prayers, and in your sympathy, that I may be able to say something upon this occasion that will be beneficial. 

 In the little experience that I have had in the preaching of the gospel in the world, I have learned this one lesson better than any other, that man of his own strength is not capable to teach his fellowman the things of God. 105 

I rejoice in this privilege, and it is to me indeed a pleasure to see so many of my brethren and sisters congregated together on this spot to partake of the good spirit that has been poured out upon the people during our conference. I am thankful for the gospel, and I am thankful that I am a partaker of its blessings; and that I have been counted worthy to spread the gospel message in the world. 

We read in the Scriptures that John saw that in the last day an angel should fly through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto those who dwell upon the earth, to every people, every nation, every kindred and every tongue. We also find that the Savior commissioned His apostles, after His resurrection, to take this same message and preach it unto every creature, saying that those who obeyed it, those who put it into practice, should be saved. It has been my privilege to be engaged in this work during the past five years, and it does me good to know that the gospel is being preached throughout the world, and that thousands are receiving its message. I know, with Paul, that it- is the power of God unto salvation, and I know that it is the only plan by which man can be redeemed. 

The Scriptures that I have cited teaches that the gospel is not alone unto one people, not alone unto those who are in a state of enlightened civilization. The gospel is unto every creature, and it is for the purpose of saving all mankind and bringing them to a knowledge of the truth, and saving them in the presence of our Father in heaven. It is for the purpose of teaching mankind faith in God, that true God whom to know is life eternal. It  for the teaching of mankind that they cannot be saved in His presence in their sins. If men are wicked, they must repent, or they cannot be brought into that state of salvation that is prepared for those only who will accept the truth. It is a mistaken idea to believe that men can be saved in the highest degree of glory in any manner of sin. Men must be pure, 

I rejoiced in the remarks of our beloved Apostle McKay yesterday, when he taught so faithfully the duties of those who receive the gospel. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, that if there are men in this congregation who are addicted to the habit of drinking, before they can be saved in the presence of our Father in heaven, they must repent of that evil; and I say the same to any who. may be guilty of taking advantage of their brethren. They must repent or they cannot be saved. And I say the same to young people who, perchance, are addicted to any evils that exist in the world today, they must become clean. They must emulate the great example that was set us by our Savior, and be free, and clean, and pure from everything that is evil. Men may say that it is impossible for us to attain this in mortal life. I had the privilege of traveling with a learned Greek in Mexico, away down near the Isthmus of Tehauntapeck, and I had an opportunity to explain to him some of the principles of our gospel. He is a man that speaks about ten different languages, and has traveled this globe over, and he says that he has investigated most creeds, and he believes it utterly impossible for men in this mortal sphere to attain to that condition of perfection. u He was particularly emphatic in the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  that he believed that the people among whom I am called to labor, the Mexicans, the Lamanites, descendants of Father Lehi, who reside on this continent, are incapable in their nature of receiving and putting into practice these principles. But, I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that the gospel is for the salvation of every man who will avail himself of it, and it makes no difference unto the Lord the color of a man's skin, or the nation to which he belongs. When the gospel message is presented to him if he will accept it, he has the power to cast out of himself every evil that he may have inherited, or that he may have acquired, and though his sins be as scarlet, he can  be washed pure and white as wool by the blood of our Savior, through obedience to the principles of the gospel. I testify to you, because I know whereof I speak, that although the people among whom I labor have been brought low, in the providences of the Lord, and have been in the dregs of degradation, 'sin and crime, I have seen them washed clean, and made pure, and many of them are today the equals of any men and women that live on the earth in purity, and in goodness of life. There is no other power under the sun that could have done this for them except the gospel of our Savior, and His redeeming grace. 

It is a grand mission, my brethren and sisters, to carry this message into the world, and I have received more joy, more satisfaction, and more consolation in my labors among those who know not the truth, than I have in any other duty, or privilege, or pleasure that I have enjoyed in my life. I say to the young and the middle-aged, and the -bodied, that there are millions yet who have not heard the gospel, millions who are seeking for the truth, millions who are in error . because they do not know any better, and what a blessed privilege it is to carry the truth that we have received, and redeem those who are in such a condition! Woe unto us, I say, woe unto me if I do not preach the gospel, for freely I have received, and it should be our desire, and it is our duty to give freely. Not only preach it in the world, but live a consistent, a clean, and a pure life at home or abroad, that those who are not of us may see our good works, and be led to glorify our Father in heaven because of them. 

My brethren and sisters, I love this work. I am glad to have this privilege of speaking to you today and bearing my testimony that I know that the gospel is true, that I know it will never be taken from this world again until this world is redeemed. My prayer is that the blessings of the Lord may be poured out upon this people, that they may continue to grow in numbers and in good works, and that the gospel may continue to be carried unto all the world until the prophecy of the Savior is fulfilled, when He said that this gospel of the kingdom should be preached in all the world as a witness before the end should come, a witness that men have the privilege of accepting the gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation, and that none may present themselves before our Father in heaven on the grand judgment day and be able to say, "Lord, I had not the privilege in my mortal life of hearing those principles." 

May God grant that we may have the spirit of this work upon us. 107 

Particularly I appeal to the young men. Pray for it, my brethren, the desire to carry the gospel unto the world; pray for the privilege. Avail yourselves of every opportunity to acquire knowledge, and the Lord will prepare you and will grant you this grand favor; and He will fill your hearts with joy such as you have not yet felt, if you do so. May this be our happy lot; and may the Lord bless you all, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH ECKERSLEY. 

(Of the Presidency of Wayne Stake.) 

I rejoice exceedingly in the spirit that has been manifest in the proclamation of the gospel by the servants of the Lord during this conference. As we meet this afternoon, in this overflow meeting of the conference, under the canopy of heaven, and shadowed by the temple of the living God, I am reminded of the prophetic words of Isaiah when he said that, "it shall come to pass in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the tops of the mountains, and. shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it, and many shall say, Come let us go up to the Mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, where we will learn of His ways and walk in His paths, for the law shall go forth of Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." The object of our Heavenly Father in gathering together His people from the various nations of the earth has been to teach them in His ways. It is true that in the nations where they were born, there is opportunity, for a few of them at least, to learn something of the ways of the Lord. 

I am reminded of the remarks of Elder Goddard at the commencement of this meeting, that there are gathered here people from many nations, and we are a few out of the many that heard the glad tidings of great joy that were proclaimed in our fatherland. The question has occurred to me, while sitting here this afternoon, whether the Latterday Saints, generally, who have gathered up to Zion, are as faithful, earnest and devoted in the performance of their religious duties as when they received the light and the truth in the old countries? In the prophecy that I have quoted, we are reminded by Isaiah that the object of gathering was that the people should be taught in the ways of the Lord. In order that we may be properly taught, it is necessary to have authorized teachers; and this leads me to the thought that no man, as stated by Elder Pratt, is competent, of his own wisdom, of his own understanding and learning, to declare the things of God. In contemplating the remarks of Elder McKay yesterday, with regard to the Latter-day Saints being a peculiar people, I am reminded that we are peculiar in this particular, that, unlike all other "orthodox" Christians, we- believe that men must be called of God to preach the gospel and officiate in the ordinances thereof. It was de-. clared by the Apostle of old, "How shall they hear without a preacher, and how shall he preach except he be sent?" I draw your attention to the fact that the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, came not unto mankind claiming any authority of Himself, save that which was given to Him of His Father. He proclaimed, "My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me, and if GENERAL CONFERENCE.  man will do the will of the Father, he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of Myself." Surely, if any living being had a right to claim authority for himself, it was the One who purchased the world by the shedding of His own blood; but He recognized that eternal principle of authority. He knew because He was present in the granu councils of heaven before thisearth was created, when the plan of salvation was formulated. He understood that He had been chosen of the Father, and that council, to be the Redeemer of the world. He glorified in the privilege of coming to earth to perform His mission, but He gave the glory, thanksgiving, and credit unto God the Father, whose will He had come to do. 

The Apostles did not call themselves to the ministry. They did not assume to preach the gospel to the children of Judea before they were called. No, they were attending to their duties, their labors and various avocations of life when the Savior went to the sea shore, and while some of them had their nets in the sea, in the very act of catching fish, the Son of God called them to be fishers of men, and thus He selected them from that and other avocations of life. He told them that they had not chosen themselves to be ministers of the gospel, but He had called them, and "as the Father has sent me, even so, send I you." He gave them the commission to go abroad and preach the gospel; and, being called by the proper authority and power, we find that wherever they went signs followed their ministry, and the seal of heaven was put upon their labors. After the ministry of the Savior had closed, after He had made the great  and sacrifice, and after His resurrection, when all power was given unto Him in heaven and in earth, and He came to reason, counsel, and advise with His disciples, and to teach them concerning the future, in His last instructions He commanded them to go into all the world and preach the gospel to' every creature, saying, they that believed on Him, and were baptized with the baptism that He had instituted, should be saved, and they who believed not should be damned. Hence, we see that the Apostles of Jesus Christ were called by divine authority. They received their commission before His death and resurrection, and later, at His last appearance, He gave them power and authority to go into all the world. 

I have not the disposition to refer to the subject of the apostasy that followed the ministry of the first apostles of Jesus Christ, but I desire to draw the attention of the Latter-day Saints, and my friends who may not be of us who are present here this afternoon, that through all the ages of darkness, and the ages of reformation, since the advent of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Apostles, until the coming of the Prophet Joseph Smith, no man assumed to say that he had received a visitation from God. No man assumed to say that he had been directly sent of God to preach the gospel, as Jesus proclaimed He was sent, as the apostles proclaimed they were sent, or as any of the other prophets anciently declared they received their commission of God. True it is that there have been many good and noble ones, men who have devoted their lives, men who have sacrificed their time and all they possessed for the progress of the 109  that they believed in. I think of the early reformers, of Luther, Knox, Calvin, Wesley and all the army of noble men whom God raised up to prepare the way for the coming of greater and better things, paving the way, so to speak, through those dark ages, that conditions might be favorable for the restoration of His Gospel and Holy Priesthood, and yet these men did not assume, as I say, to have been called of God. 

I think of the words of Charles Wesley, who was led, in thinking of the apostolic dispensation, to utter these words, a sentiment of his brother John and of the early reformers : 

"O, what an age of golden days, 0, what a choice, peculiar race, Washed in the Lamb's atoning blood, Anointed kings and priests to God."  

What a glorious vision he had of that early dispensation of gospel gifts, and privileges and blessings. And then looking around in the world about him, summing up the faith of all the various religious sects, he says, 

"Where shall I wander now to find Successors they have left behind? The faithful, whom we seek in vain, Are 'minished from the sons of men." 

And then, in an exhortation to the Christians of that age, he says, 

"Ye differing sects who all declare 'Lo, here is Christ,' or 'Christ is there,' Your stronger proofs divinely give And show me where true Christians live." 

Yes, if Charles Wesley had lived in these days, we might have thought he was a Latter-day Saint. 

At heart, he was a saint of God, but the fulness of light and truth had not then come, though these reformers had a glimpse of it. They had their place in the great work of human redemption, and God will remember them, as He will remember every soul for the good that they do in 'this life. It was left for Joseph Smith, the boy who sought the Lord in the woods, to receive the fulness of authority and power, and the principles of life and truth that should save mankind. 

We may, in our skeptical minds, object to the manner and method in which God revealed the truth in the last age, but if there were time, we would show that the way the Lord has worked among the children of men has always been taken exception to by the worldly intelligent, learned, prudent and wise. As the heavens are high above the earth, so are the ways of the Lord higher than the ways of man, and so are His thoughts more profound and deep. We have reason to rejoice and be exceeding glad that God in these last days has again spoken, through His instrument and prophet, Joseph Smith. 

My testimony to you, because of the experience that I have had, is that no man is qualified to teach the truth 'unless he be sent of God. He may attempt to teach the truth, may seek to preach the gospel, but the seal and power of God will not and cannot accompany his testimony and his words. The Lord has called men to proclaim His word, by divine authority, and I am sure that, as we have listened to the words of inspiration that have fallen from the lips of the Elders during this conference, our hearts have rejoiced greatly in the God of our salvation. 

I desire to say just one word by GENERAL CONFERENCE.  of admonition, counsel and exhortation, to the Latter-day Saints that are present here this afternoon. Let us go to our homes with a renewed desire to practice the counsels that are given to us at our conferences, and for that matter, that are given to us every time we meet and listen to the servants of God. Let us be assured that they will never lead us astray, that God is at the helm, that this is His work, that He is inspiring His servants, and that this work will increase and grow, until it fills the whole earth. I rejoice in the beautiful principle that was touched upon by Elder Pratt. The day is hastening on, brethren and sisters, when every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world, to the glory of God the Father. 

I rejoice in the comprehensiveness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, in its saving power; and I rejoice in the principle that every soul will be judged according to their own works. I thank God for these precious principles, that every man and woman who desires salvation may be saved. "Come unto Christ all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and you shall have rest." Go unto the . Master, ye that are burdened and weary with the cares and trials of life, or even with your sins. Go unto God and confess your faults. Hearken unto the voice of the men whom God has raised up, to whom He has given divine authority, and you shall know that God lives, that Jesus is Christ, the Redeemer of the world, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, entrusted with power and authority to minister in His name and to delegate that authority to others. As a result of his , and the authority delegated to the servants whom God has called, this gospel has been carried to the various nations of the earth; and this afternoon, in this beautiful space, we have the privilege of worshiping God according to the dictates of our conscience. 

My brethren and sisters, may God bless us and give us a desire in our hearts to live those principles that we received in our fatherland. May we seek earnestly for the faith that was once delivered to the saints.  May we believe with all our hearts in the gospel of gifts and blessings, the gospel of power and of redeeming grace. I thank God that I can bear testimony to these things, that God has in these last days spoken from heaven, has given divine authority to men, not only to preach His gospel, but to administer in the ordinances thereof, ordinances that bring spiritual and temporal life and salvation. When you look upon me and see the ravages that disease wrought upon me, you look upon a monument of God's saving power and mercy. I bear testimony that God lives, that all the world sooner or later will know this truth and believe it, for every knee shall yet bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory of the Father. 

May we go home with renewed desires to serve the Lord, to give our life, in His service, and we will have joy in time and glory in eternity. May God grant it, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Prof. Wm. C. Clive rendered a violin solo, a beautiful arrangement of the old melody, "Home, sweet home." Ill 

ELDER JOSEPH R. SHEPHERD. 

(President of Bear Lake Stake.) 

To speak in the open air, my brethren and sisters, is . a new experience for me. I therefore pray that the Lord will sustain me, that I may be able to be heard by this large congregation. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the testimonies of my brethren who have spoken here this afternoon, as well as in the proceedings at the regular meetings of our conference. 

One of the testimonies, it seems to me, of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged, can be witnessed upon this block when the semi-annual conferences of the Church are held. Where in the world will you find such a general response to the .call of any other church for a gathering of its members as you will see upon these grounds at each conference ? From all parts of this country the Saints gather to hear the word of the Lord. I doubt if such a sight as this can be witnessed anywhere in the world, tens of thousands gathered from various parts of the United States, from Canada, from Mexico, and from islands of the sea, to hear the servants of the Lord. When we witness the conduct of these people who gather to these conferences, we also have another witness that they are engaged in the work of the Lord, for the test can be applied, according to the words of our Master, "By their fruits ye shall know them," and thus we may see that the people gathered at this conference, belong to the Church of Christ. We cannot gather grapes of< thorns nor figs of thistles. When we wish to judge a system, we must judge it by that  it produces. We must judge it by that which is manifested by the people, by their acts, by the lives of all those that belong to the organization or system, and we invite the world to thus investigate "Mormonism." We invite the world to compare the results of "Mormonism" with the results of any other system of religion that has been promulgated on the earth in these latter days. We are willing, with all of our weaknesses, to submit to that test. We acknowledge that we have failings, we know that many of us can improve in our lives, and yet, with all of this, we know that, as a result of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the organization which He has established in this day, that there has been gathered from the nations the best people upon the face of the earth. And this is as it should be. We should be as a light set upon a hill, whose light cannot be hid; and if we are not better than the world, then we have failed in performing that which God designed that we should do. 

As I came to this conference, I came with a full car-load of brethren and sisters from our little town, and attached to the train was a car that had been set aside for those who wished to indulge in smoking tobacco. I am proud to say that that car was empty all the way along, and that not one of our brethren took advantage of it for that purpose. This is one of the fruits of Mormonism. We have some among us who use tobacco, but take the people as a rule, they are living godly lives, they are striving to redeem themselves and their families, and further than that to redeem the world. 

I want to impress upon you, my brethren and sisters, the necessity GENERAL CONFERENCE.  our living good lives in accordance with the principles of our religion. "By their fruits shall ye know them." I believe that the truths of "Mormonism" are having more effect in the world, and with those with whom we associate by reason of the every-day conduct of the Saints than by their preaching. I believe that by setting good examples, by living righteous and pure lives, that we are making the greater impression upon those with whom we associate. Therefore, how necessary it is that every Latter-day Saint, male and female, old and young, should realize that wherever they go, and under whatever circumstances they may be placed, their lives should be such as to command respect, and be a silent witness and testimony to the world that their good life is a result of the teaching of that system of religion commonly called "Mormonism. 

I have talked with many people who have come from different parts of the nation, business men, tourists, and others, and I say to you it is my opinion that the pure lives, the excellent example that is set by the Latter-day Saints as a people, is doing more to break down the prejudice of the world at large, and is doing more in commandingrespect, than any other thing that we can do. Again I say that is as it should be. We cannot expect to gather good fruit from a corrupt tree, neither will we get corrupt fruit from a good tree. These are the words of our Savior, and they are true. That is the test that will be applied, and, as I said in the beginning of my remarks, with all of our weaknesses, we are willing that this test shall be applied to the 

Latter-day Saints, as compared with other religious organizations. 

I presume that you will find no larger percentage of people who own their own homes, or who are independent so far as means are concerned, than among the Latterday Saints. I presume you will find no people where education is valued higher than it is among the Latterday Saints, where the arts and sciences are encouraged more; nor a people purer in their habits and lives. I doubt whether you can find upon the face of the earth a people among whom. there are so few who indulge in the intoxicating drink habit, and in the use of tobacco. All of these things are evidence that the source from which the people get their instruction is pure, and logically, we must infer that the source, the Church, is of God, because its teachings are uplifting, elevating, and are producing in this western country a people who can stand up and look the whole world in the face, and are not ashamed of their religion. 

I repeat, this is as it should be. I wish to impress upon every man, woman, and child claiming to be Latter-day Saints, the necessity of living pure and circumspect lives, because wherever you go you are either supporting, encouraging, and working for the benefit of this Church, or else you are pulling it down — one or the other. Your conduct in life will either add to the dignity of the Church or else bring reproach upon it. How pleasant it is to go into communities where the greater number of that community do not belong to the Church, but who speak well of some individuals in that community who are Latterday Saints. On the other hand, how 118  it is if our young men, or older men, who may be working or traveling among those who are not of our faith, conduct themselves so as to bring reproach upon the Church. Let us live, my brethren and sisters, so that, whether we be at home or abroad, we always are witnesses for the kingdom of God, and are always seeking to build up the kingdom. 

We do not have to go upon missions to perform missionary work, we can be missionaries at home. We can be missionaries in our traveling, wherever we may be. The gatherings at these conferences are a testimony to the people that there is something behind' this work that is above the wisdom of man, and thinking people must come to the conclusion that it is supported by a divine power. How pleasant it is to see upon these grounds so many people who are not using tobacco. Wherever in the world can you find such a large concourse of people as are attending this conference and see so few who are smoking tobacco? You cannot find it, you may go anywhere you please. Now this is a testimony that the work of the Lord is reforming the people. We have been gathered, as has been stated, from all parts of the world. " We have been brought here to learn of God's ways, and we are learning of God's ways, and we are setting an example to the world. May God help us to let our light so shine that those who see our good works may be led to glorify our Father who is in heaven, and give credit to that organization which God has established in these last days for bringing about the redemption of mankind, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MOSES W. TAYLOR. 

(President of Summit Stake.) 

The last time that I had an experience of this kind was in the Southern States. It was in a place where many had not seen a negro. That may be a surprise to some of you people. A committee of citizens had invited a noted negro preacher to come out into the mountains of North Carolina and preach; and they had engaged the Methodist church. But when we went to the church to hear this great negro preacher, he did not come. Then the committee came to the Eiders and said, "You will have to take his place." We said to them, "We are in a Methodist church, and the Methodist minister is here. Go to him and have him preach." They went to him, and he said, "No, sir, I will not preach after you have asked the Mormon Elders. I will not do it;" and he took his hat and went home. Then they came to us; and we said that inasmuch as this was his church, we had rather go out under the trees and preach. So they invited the congregation out under the trees, and we delivered our talk. I think the Lord sometimes opens the way for the Elders that they do not always have to hunt up congregations. 

Another time, when I was down in Tennessee, we had been through the country and made appointments for meetings. A man by the name of Turner had given us the privilege of preaching in the church at Bethel, at 11 a. m. The night before we had stayed a mile or two from the meeting house, and desired to get to the church at 9 o'clock for Sunday School, but when we started out, and were going through the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  in the morning, it seemed to me as if I heard a voice saying, "Don't go to that Sunday School," and I stopped. My partner had stopped and said to me, "Brother Taylor, the strongest impression that has ever come over me in my life has come to me that we must not go to that Sunday School." So we agreed that we would stay there. We stayed in the woods, and about the time for meeting, went down to the meeting house, and found all the shutters closed: There wasn't any Sunday School. There had been none held, and we wondered what was the matter, but when we went to go, a man rushed up and said, "Do you know, when Squire Turner was entering the meeting house this morning, Squire Hawkins struck him in the face and knocked him to the ground because he had allowed you the use of the church, and Squire Turner and his friends, about thirty in number, and Hawkins and his friends about thirty in number, all had a free fight. Now," he said, "You men had better get right out of here just as quick as you can, Decause Squire Hawkins' men are gathered at his house, and Squire Turner's men are gathered at his house, and if they come here you will be killed." I thought, "Well, it will be a mighty good thing to get out.-" My companion, who was a little bit of a man, rose up in his dignity, and he said, "No siree, we are out here to preach the gospel, and we are going to preach it to you folks right here under the trees, and if you will stay here, we will talk to you. I thought, "Well now, we are in for it," but I got up along side of him just as bravely as I knew how. We got our hymn books and opened them up, and were just going to sing  a young lady came rushing through the trees and said, "Gentlemen, I am a daughter of Squire Turner. He is the man that gave you the privilege of the church, and he is your friend. Now, he is so enraged and so insulted with the fact that he has been struck, that he is gathering his friends, and just the minute you start to sing and commence meeting, they will start out and hunt up the other crowd and some will be killed." My companion said, "We are not here to get our friends into trouble, and we will go away." We started to walk down the road; and the same man came up and said, "Don't go that way, that is where Squire Hawkins lives. Go out this way." But my companion said, "We know somebody down here, where we can get a dinner, so that is where we are going," and we walked on. We came to a large mansion, and on the . lawn there were about forty men. Instead of going on the other side of the street, we kept on that side, and, wanting to be polite, I walked up to the fence and said, "Good morning gentlemen; this is a beautiful day." Not one spoke back to me, but looked around on the lawn like they were hunting for four leaf clovers, and I said to my companion, "If they won't speak to us, we have done our part," and we walked along. The next day we were passing by a hedge nearly as high as this wall, [Temple block,] and we heard two men talking. One of them was saying to the other, "Have you read the paper this morning? Well, there is a Mormon giant come into our community, and his name is Taylor. He challenged forty men to fight him yesterday, and they were all afraid of him." Now, I believe, you know, that the Lord 115  "magnifies us in the eyes of the people." 

We had appointed a meeting for the next day, Friday, and the minister of that place decided that he would hold meetings all day, (our meeting hour was four o'clock). He commenced at 10 o'clock with a prayer meeting, and went right on through the day. We went to hear his services, and a multitude of people gathered. About 3 :30 I remembered that I had left my Bible home, at, the place we stayed the night before. I got up and went out of the meeting. Outside of the meeting house there was a pole fence, and some large trees on the other side of it. Under these trees was a crowd of men, and among them was the man that I had stayed with, so I climbed over the fence and went over toward him, and all the men separated. I went down between two lines of men, and said to him, "Eph, I forgot my Bible, and left it at your house; give me the key, because our meeting is going to start." He never said a word, but started off and climbed the fence, and I went after him. When he got into the lane and was going home, I said, "Eph, you haven't answered me yet, you have closed up like a clam." "Well," he says, "I was so mad I couldn't speak. Just before you came out of that meeting house those men had got a bucket of tar and a pillow full of feathers, and had said they were going to tar and feather you and your companion, and I had just said to them, 'the whole crowd of you darsn't lay your hands on that man Taylor, and if any one of you lay your hands on that man Church, I will grind you to powder." 

Now, the next day, we went to the place where the minister had  the meeting house, left the people without a preacher and they called upon us to talk to the people. I have the Yankee habit of whittling and, after the close of the meeting, I was over by the stove with a stick whittling. When nearly all the people had gone out, a big fellow about six feet tall and weighing about two hundred and fifty pounds, said, "We want a sign : we want a sign : and then just as soon as you give us a sign, there are forty of us want to join your church." He addressed himself to me. I was whittling away, and said to him, "All right. How would you like to be struck dead?" ' He said, "Not that, not that, not that/' and backed out of the house as fast as he could, and all his crowd with him. As we were going to dinner that clay, he followed us up, and came shivering and shaking, and said, "Mr. Taylor, I do not want you to think I am your enemy. I want you to think I am your friend." 

While Brother Shepherd was speaking to us just now, there was a story came to my mind. The circumstance happened in the stake which Brother Shepherd comes from, and made a great impression upon my mind. President Budge, who used to be the president of that stake, told me the story. There is a man up there named Wright. He was in one of the wards, and took it upon himself, one day when the bishop wanted to present something for the benefit of the people, to oppose that move. It didn't suit Brother Wright, and so he got up in the meeting and opposed it with all his heart. He got so anxious about it, and got himself so worked up and so mad, that he marched out of the meeting house; but, as he was going out, just as he opened the GENERAL CONFERENCE. , he saw a man standing there, who had been peeking, looking in through the crack. This man shut the door and said, "You've done just the right thing, you've done just the right thing." Brother Wright looked at him, and said, "Did you say I did the right thing? Then I must be wrong, because you have never been right — you have been wrong in everything that has happened in this community since I have been here, and because you say I am right I know I am wrong." So Brother Wright turned round and went back and said, "Bishop, I know I am wrong. Brother so-andso met me outside the door and said I was" right, and I want to apologize because now I know I am wrong." 

I presume you have all been reading the inscriptions on the monuments. My father was with the Prophet and Hyrum Smith in Carthage Jail, and he. was wounded in several places, and stood upon exactly the same spot as the Prophet stood when he was killed. When he was lying down and the doctor came in with a pocket knife, and was cutting the bullets out of him, he wanted to know where the Higbees and the apostates were who had brought about the martyrdom. He wanted to swear out warrants against them. The impression has always come to me that there is no man or set of men since the days of the. Prophet Joseph Smith, that have raised their hands against the Prophet of the living God and have prospered in the land — not one, and their names will go down to oblivion, while those who' stand up for and sustain the prophet of the living God will live forever, and their names will be perpetuated here on earth. 

Now, once in a while I hear some say about the Prophet Joseph F. Smith, that they do not agree with him, and at the same time extol the prophets who have passed away. I want to testify to you today that one living prophet is worth more than a grave-yard full of dead ones. I testify to you that I want to sustain the living prophet, whoever he is. Of course, in sustaining him, you sustain the others, but you cannot sustain the dead prophets and not sustain the living. That is absolutely impossible. 1 do not want to see the Latter-day Saints get led away by every fad and fancy. I say to you that the men of this nation, a good many of them, are striving right now to knock the cornerstone from under this government. They are following a whole lot of fads and fancies, and if the Latter-day Saints live like they should be living, and . sustain the Constitution of the United States, they may soon be called upon to govern; but if they follow every fad and fancy, and do not keep on solid ground, they will never be able to rule. Good men and good women cannot help but be rulers in the land in this world, and in the world to come. But, when you follow the vices in the world down you go. 

I had an experience in Nevada recently. I was at a great big ranch, and on that ranch the foreman was a big man. I happened to be there negotiating for the purchase of it, and of course was a kind of an honored guest, and sat up near the head of the table. We had a man there that pretended to be an apostate, and rather boasted about it; and one morning he commenced to talk about what foolery it was for us to drink water. When, the Chinaman waiter came and  saidL 

ELDER MOSE. 

"A little more wattee?" This man said, "Why don't you drink coffee and tea ? I do not object to you not drinking liquor or smoking tobacco, but it is nonsense not to drink coffee and tea." There happened to be a young man there, a grandson of Erastus Snow, a great big healthy fellow weighing over two hundred pounds. He was out there surveying for the Ranch Company; and so I said to him, "Now, Mr. Snow and I are the only ones here drinking water, there are thirty or forty men around this table, all the rest of you drinking coffee and tea. We are willing to stand up and take an examination, physical, intellectual, or any other way against the whole crowd." The foreman of the ranch said to them, "He has got the dead cinch on you." When Brother Snow and I were alone I told him how I appreciated his conduct, for he was adopting the virtues of the men among whom he labored, but none of their vices. 

The next day the apostate took another tack. He said, "It's all nonsense for your elders to go into the world to preach the gospel, and oat the food of the poor people." So 1 said to him, "Now, you have become a comparatively wealthy man, but you would have been living in Denmark and working for thirty cents a day if it hadn't been for the gospel. When the elders came to your father and mother they said this, 'We have a certificate from the prophet of the living God that says that every man, woman, or child that provides for the comfort of these Elders, shall be blessed of the Lord.' Now, I want to testify to you today, and I want you to agree with it, that the Latter-day Saints have been blessed of the Lord, and the people out in the world who 

W. TAYLOR 117 . 

have entertained them, have been blessed of the Lord." And he said, "Well, I guess that's true." 

Now, I say to the Latter-day Saints, you need have no fear to send your boys on a mission, and you need not be anxious to send them fifty dollars or seventy -five dollars a month either. I heartily agree with President Smith on that question. I have traveled without purse or script and got just as good treatment without it as I could possibly get with it. It may be necessary to send some money, but do not send too much. I had the opportunity of presiding for a short time over a mission, and I tell you that those who live nearest the gospel in that respect are the best Elders, and those most likely to make a failure are the boys that get too much money. 

Now, may the peace and blessing of heaven be with us, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : Do what is right; the 'day-dawn is breakHailing a future of freedom and light; Angels above us are silent notes taking Of every action; do what is right. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Tamihani Te Awe Awe. 


