Afternoon
07 10 1911


Conference was resumed at 2 p. m., in the Tabernacle. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the congregation to order. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

0, say, what is truth? Tis the fairest gem 

That the riches of worlds can produce; And priceless the value of Truth will be, when 

The proud monarch's costliest diadem Fs counted but dross and refuse 

Prayer was offered by Elder David H. Cannon. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

God moves in a mysterious way, 

His wonders to perform; He plants His footsteps in the sea, 

And rides upon the storm. 

ELDER CHARLES W. PENROSE. 

Christ the Revelator of truth.— God's purposes to be consummated in this age. — Man's spirit, and his immortal body, described. — Conditions of mankind after resurrection. — Eternal life explained. — Eternal life bestowed on those who live by laws of Truth. 

If there is any one in this congregation who appreciates more highly than I do, the opportunity we have of assembling here to worship the Lord and receive instructions from His servants, it is because he has greater powers of appreciation and of enjoyment than I have. What there is of me in body and in spirit enjoys to the full this grand occasion, to assemble in general conference and unite our faith and our attention, to receive the impressions of the Holy Spirit upon our souls, and to be instructed in our duties, to be brought to a common understanding in regard to the principles of eternal life. This I suppose is the object we have in view — to gain eternal life, which means a great deal more than is generally understood in the world. We sometimes, in fact very often, qnote the words of our Savior in that sublime prayer which He offered to the Lord, to be found in the seventeenth chanter of St. John's record and testimonv, called the "Gospel of St. John." He said, "This is life eternal, to know Thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom Thou hast sent." For many centuries the world has been in comparative darkness in regard to the true God, in regard to the relationship between Jesus Christ and Him, and between us and our Eternal Father. Thus far. I think, we have learned a great many things concerning our divine parentage, and the obligations we are under to Him for life, being, light and intelligence, and for the means to obtain the great gift of eternal life in His presence. 

We yet know comparatively little concerning Him and His ways, but we have started on the right track, and we expect some time to see Him as He is, in all His glory and might and power, and to be made like Him, to be associated with Him, to be in full harmony with Him, and with beings of a like nature, and to enter into that blessing which is called eternal life. 

We are indebted for that .which we know, and may be indebted for that which we expect to know about our Eternal Father, to Jesus Christ His Son, "whom He has made heir of all things, and by whom also He made the worlds." He is the real witness for God in the earth. He was "God manifest in the flesh" when He dwelt among men. And it is by Him and through Him and of Him that all the truths which have been communicated to mortals, from the beginning of this world, have been made known. He is the chosen representative of the Father, and in Him dwelleth "the fulness of the Godhead bodily." He has had and now has under His direction men, mortal men, to represent Him, as far as He can be represented in mortality, and to carry on His work under His direction, and we are indebted, as an instrument in His hands, to the great Prophet of the nineteenth century, Joseph Smith, for bringing forth many grand and glorious truths concerning Deity and His work and His ways, His laws, His commandments, and His precepts. Sometimes we attribute these grand principles which we have received to the man through whom they came. We  about "the religion of Joseph Smith." We talk about "the philosophy of Joseph Smith." But he never claimed that the religious truths which he brought forth, or the philosophical principles which were embodied therein, were his. He was an instrument in the hands of God of conveying divine truth, that truth which, as we have sung in the hymn this afternoon, is eternal and abideth forever. 

Truth does not change with the centuries. It will not change with the eternal ages. The truth of God abideth forever. That which is true,coming from Him in one age of the world, is true in another. That which is true on one of His worlds that He has created, is true in all the worlds that He has caused to be organized and sent forth, each in its place, rolling in space, revolving" upon its own axis, preserved in its own. sphere, in its .own orbit, and' with the others contributing to the glory of God and bespeaking His handiwork. Truth never changes. Our conception of a truth may change as we grow in wisdom and understanding, and in clearness of spiritual vision. That which appeared to us to be true at one time we may find out later to be incorrect, and so it is we who change, and not the truth that changes. 

President Smith, in that grand discourse he gave to us at the opening of this conference, referred to the Prophet Joseph, and to some of the glorious principles which have been revealed from heaven through him. These are but the beginning, the droppings of the shower of the great flood of truth which is to come. We are living in the dispensation of the fulness of times, and in this dispensation — the grandest and greatest of all, will be gathered in  all things that are in Christ, not only His people gathered from the various nations to Zion to build it up, to prepare the place for His feet, but the hosts that have passed away, whom He will bring with Him. Not only are the people to be gathered together, but the glorious truths which have been made manifest in the ages that are past will all be brought forth in the dispensation in which we are living, and things kept hid from the foundation of the world will be made manifest; for the Lord has promised it, and His promises never fail of fulfillment. This dispensation in which we live is signalized by a great many things that are different in some respects to former dispensations, this being the great work of consummation of the purposes of the Almighty. The Father and the Son themselves appeared and opened this dispensation by speaking to the boy Joseph Smith. 

There is some little difference of opinion in regard to that great manifestation, on which I would like to say a word or two this afternoon. The Prophet Joseph Smith gives a brief account of that visitation, which is to be found in the book called the Pearl of Great Price. We can there learn the main particulars in regard to that manifestation from on high, and it is well for us to read the Prophet's own words, so that we may know and understand how he considered it. Now, he called that manifestation given to him a "vision." Some of our brethren argue that it was not a vision, but that it was a reality. Well, is not a vision of that kind a reality? I view it in that light. I understand that Joseph Smith, when he had that manifestation which he repeatedly called a vision, actually  the beings whom he described. To explain it properly we have to read Moses in his account of the vision of God that he had. That also is in the Pearl of Great Price, in the Book of Moses, chapter 1:11, and he explains it in this way : That he beheld the Lord and saw the glory that was round about Him, but he said "Not with my natural but with my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld." Joseph, like Moses, saw in "vision," or with his "spiritual eyes." The fulness of the glory of God was not displayed to Moses even on that occasion, for no man, the Lord said, could behold the fulness of His glory and remain in the flesh. 

Now, here is a principle that we should understand. "There is a spirit in man," or in the body of man. "Man," the Lord has revealed, "is spirit," and that part of man which is spirit was "in the beginning with God;" and that Jesus, the Savior of the world, was "in the beginning with the Father, and is the firstborn." We, then, are His brethren and sisters. We were in the beginning with God, and we could behold Him with our spiritual eyes before we had any bodies of flesh and bones. Now we are in the body, we find that we are of a dual composition, that is to say, we are composed of those two first principles spoken of in the ninety-third section of the Doctrine and Covenants (verses 1-34). I use the term "first principles" because the Prophet Joseph used it when speaking on the subject. What are the "first principles" in the constitution of man as a mortal being? We are told that there are certain elements which enter into our composition, and that these elements are eternal; without beginning and without end. They are spirit and element — a term that resurrection from the dead, when is there used in the sense that we all shall be raised, "every man in use the word matter — spirit and ele- his order,'' the spirit and the body ment, or spirit and "matter," if we will be joined together, and they use that term, though both are sub- will "not die after;" we are there stantial, so the Prophet Joseph has told that the resurrection will come explained by the revelations of God; to all mankind, the great and the for even spirit, which is so refined, small, the good and the bad, all so subtle in its nature that we can- races and tribes and beings who not see it with our natural eyes, is are of the seed of Adam will be material and eternal in its essence, raised from the dead, and their  So are the grosser elements that en- bodies wll Lnot die after, ter into the composition of our Now then, some may ask, perbodies. They are derived from the haps, "well, isn't that eternal life, particles of which the earth is com- and will not eternal life come to all posed and from the atmosphere mankind, irrespective of their acts, around it — the heaven and the earth, if they are all to be raised from the The first principles of element or dead and quickened so that they matter are eternal, without begin- will not die again? No, that is not ning and without end. They may the eternal life that is spoken of in be organized, they may be disor- the revelations of God. to be the reganized, but in their essence they ward for, or the great effect of doare eternal, and it takes the com- ing that which is right and avoiclpound, the union of the spirit and of ing that which is wrong, and bethe element or matter to make a per- coming completely and perfectly feet being. Complete happiness can- like our divine Father. Some of not be obtained when these are sep- our brethren in regard to that point ate. When the spirit of man is sep- — the universal resurrection- — have arate from the body it cannot re- been confused a little, because of an ceive "a fulness of joy;" it is not expression to be found in that glorin a perfect condition. Man is per- ious record called The Vision, in feet so far as the spirit state is con- section seventy-six of the Doctrine cerned — in his spiritual being as an and Covenants, one of the grandest individual and as a son of God, be- things, I think, that was ever writgotten of the Father; he is per- ten. Of course I am not acquainted feet as to that "first estate," but that with all the literature of the ages, is not the fulness of perfection that I am somewhat acquainted with theexists in the personality of our ological writings of later times, but Eternal Father, and to obtain eter- T have never read anything that can nal life, as the term is used in the be compared with that glorious visrevelations of God, we have to be inn seen by the Prophet Joseph and made entirely and completely like Sidney Rigdon, and recorded in Him from whom we have sprung, that section of the Doctrine and "The spirit and the body are the Covenants. Now, in that revelasoul of man, and the resurrection tion we are told a little about the from the dead is the redemption of glories that are to come: those that the soul." And we are told in the are to be raised in the first resurT'ook of Mormon, as well as in the rection and enter into celestial glory, Doctrine and Covenants, that in the or the glory of the sun are those  obey celestial law, who have fitted themselves for celestial glory so as to be quickened thereby when they are raised from the dead, by observing every precept and every commandment and every law of God. This is a natural process by which Our bodies are prepared to be quickened by the celestial glory, having rendered obedience unto the law, the spirit of which will quicken them. Next we are told about the terrestrial glory, that of those who shall enter into the terrestrial kingdom, whose glory compares with this just spoken of as the glory of the moon when compared with the sun. Then comes another division — that of the telestial glory like that of the stars in comparison with the others. Those who are fitted to enter into the telestial glory will be quickened by that glory, so the Lord says, when they have paid the just penalties for their sins and are raised from the dead; those who are only prepared to enter the telestial glory will be quickened by that glory. Then come those who are not worthy to enter either of these glories or kingdoms — the celestial, the terrestial or the telestial. These are they who are called the "sons of perdition." S Satan is named Perdition, and the heavens wept over him when he fell from his high estate; and those who have followed him so that they become imbued with his spirit, which is the spirit of destruction, in opposition to the spirit which brings life, are his. The spirit of murder enters their hearts; they are ready to put to death even the Son of God, if His existence in life comes in their way. They received light and truth and then altogether turned therefrom. They gain power to attain to the highest  of light and truth and glory, then they turn around and through falsehood and wickedness and corruption in their nature and in their works, they become servants unto Satan, sons of perdition. And the revelation says, that "all the rest, through the triumph and the glory of the Lamb, shall be brought forth by the resurrection of the dead" (verse 39). Now, then, because of that expression some of our brethren , entertain the notion that the sons of perdition will not be resrected. But the Lord has told us, as you will read in section twenty-nine of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, that "then shall all the dead awake, for their graves shall be opened and they shall come forth, yea, even all." Very emphatic are the words in that section, verse twenty-six. The same doctrine is to be found in the Book of Mormon. But there is a passage in section eighty-eight, of the book of Doctrine and Covenants which will make the matter very clear to those who desire to understand it. I am not going to read this section; it is a long one and a most manificent declaration of the purposes of God in regard to us in life, and the glory that is to come to us hereafter. In that section we have another declaration in regard to the resurrection, and the order of it, corresponding to that which we find in section seventy-six, but a little more explicit in some things, though not quite so much so in others. I will tell you what it says, and you can hunt it up when you go home. It is good for you to hunt up the Doctrine and Covenants and read the modern revelations of God. In that section the Lord gives an account of the coming forth of the different degrees among his children (as Church of Jtsus Christ of Latter-day Saints the several angels shall sound their trumps) and enter the celestial or the terrestial or the telestial glory. And then, he says, "another angel shall sound his trump, which is the forth trump, saying, "There are found among those' who are to remain until that great and last day, even the end, who shall remain filthy still" (verse 102). They also shall be raised from the dead, for it is written, "and they who remain shall also be quickened, but they shall return again to their own place" (verse 32). They are not worthy to enter into the telestial nor into the terrestial nor into the celestial kingdom, and therefore, not being willing to obey law; but, as it is explained in verse thirty-five, "altogether abiding in sin, they cannot be sanctified by law nor mercy nor justice nor judgment, therefore they must needs remain filthy still." Because they became a law unto themselves, and would not abide the laws of God, neither in relation to the highest nor the other degrees that have been mentioned, and so they go away with the devil and his angels in eternity, and the height and extent and depth and the end of their torment no man knows except those who partake of that great condemnation. 

So that, according to the revelations of God, all shall come forth by the power of Jesus Christ, and all who are worthv to enter into the celestial world will receive the celestial glorv; those wno were not valiant in the testimony of Jesus receive the terrestial glory; honorable men of the earth, who were blinded by the craftiness of men, who did not receive the gospel in the flesh, but afterwards received it, inherit the terrestial glory. Several classes are spoken of who inherit that . And then a great multitude that no man can number, the vast majority of the inhabitants of the earth, who would not receive the testimony of Jesus, would not receive the truth of God when it was declared unto them, they go away into punishment and suffer the wrath of God according to the claims of eternal justice. Justice will be dealt out to them, and they will suffer according to their deserts, and pay the uttermost farthing for their debts, and then sweet mercy will be extended, and they will be brought forth and inherit the telestial glory. But the others, who are not fit "to be redeemed, either in the telestial or terrestial or celestial, are also to be raised from the dead, and because they would not abide in the truth made manifest unto them, but turned away from it wilfully, going by degrees from wickedness to wickedness, from sin to sin, from darkness to. darkness, they will go away into "outer darkness where there is weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth." This is known as "the second death." They are banished from the presence and ministrations of God; they cannot inherit His glory; they cannot obtain the gift of eternal life, but they go away with the devil and his angels and suffer the wrath of God till justice shall be satisfied. When that will be we do not know, and we have no account concerning their redemption. They must, however, to suffer this capital punishment, first receive the truth and understand it. They must walk in  the light to a high and clear extent, and then repudiate it and become a law unto themselves, so that thev can no more be sanctified, but "must needs remain filthy still," But, all the rest, by the resurrection through  Christ and His power, will be brought forth in their time and in their place, and be redeemed into some degree of glory, and they will occupy that position for which they have fitted themselves by their own doings. 

Now, about this grand gift of eternal life which is to be enjoyed by the faithful : is that inherent in everybody? Jesus Christ says that the Father gave Him certain souls whom He called His sheep. He prayed to the Father about them in the prayer that I have already alluded to. He says: 'Thine they were and thou hast given them unto me, and I give unto them eternal life." In the tenth chapter of John and the twenty-eighth verse you will find the same sentiment repeated. "My sheep hear my voice and they follow me, and I know them and call them by name, and / give unto them eternal life, and no man shall pluck them out of my hands." Now, what does He refer to? Why, He is not speaking in regard to endless existence. Endless  existence is the property of spirit. It is also the property of matter. One is as eternal as the other in its original essence or principle. Matter or element is eternal, spirit is eternal. But the sons and daughters of God who walk in His ways, who receive His truth which abides forever, who walk in its light, who conquer the lusts of the flesh and the pride of the world, the sins of the world and the powers of darkness, who overcome all things, who live by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God, who come into harmony with the great Eternal Father and Jesus Christ the Redeemer and beingsof a like order, who become one with them and overcome all — they shall inherit all things, and they shall be like the Father and like the Son in glory, in happiness, m power, in dominion, "heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ." They shall inherit eternal life, not 7 merely endless existence. 

Existence is one thing; life is a great deal more. There are things that exist, but they manifest no life. There are persons that exist and manifest but little life. There are others that have life so far as it can be enjoyed in mortality to the full. They are alive in body, they are alive in mind, they are alive in spirit. They are spiritually, intellectually, physically alive, and the power of increase is with them, and in the eternal world God will give this great gift eternally unto those who are worthy of it. These shall comeforth in the first resurrection and inherit glory, immortality, eternal life and endless increase. One of the grand things referred to bv President Smith as in the revelations of God to the Prophet Joseph, was the eternity of the marriage covenant, by which the man and the woman may be joined together according to God's order, and though death may part them, yet in the resurrection they shall come forth to be husband and wife, to be parents of children, to have the gift of endless, perpetual increase, the beginning of their kingdom and their glory in worlds without end. That is real life, the power to continue and the nower to produce and to increase, the power of vitality in the spirit and in the bodv. That is full resurrection, and the body and the soir-  it being joined together.— vou may 

call it a comoound if vou will, 

the body and the soirit being joined together inseparably, receiver/ a fulness of joy, a fulness of glory, just like the Father, and just like the Son. Christ has passed through these conditions and is now an exalted being- on high, exactly like the Father, who is a being with a body of flesh and bones quickened by the eternal spirit that quickeneth all things, and in Him dwelleth the fulness of truth and life and glory and power and increase forever and ever. And those who follow in the footsteps of Jesus Christ, who is now to all purposes like the Father, will inherit similar glory, and it will never fade away, and it will be exemplified in them to the full. The spirit of life will be within them in body and in spirit, and they will increase forever and ever, and like the blessing that comes to our elder .brother, Jesus Christ, of the increase of their kingdom there shall be no end. 

Now, niy .brethren and sisters, in order to attain unto this great glory — the gift of eternal life which comes to us from the Father, through Jesus Christ His Son, we must live for it. He will give unto us eternal life and we shall enjoy it to the full, if we are sanctified by the truth. That is a principle vou will find in the prayer that I have alluded to, recorded in the seventeenth chapter of John. We have to be sanctified by the truth. We have to learn the truth and then live it. God will impart it unto us, here a little and there a little, line upon line, nrecept upon precept, and through His anointed servants whom He has called and appointed, He will convey to us those truths which we must receive in order to attain unto this great glory. Let us "live by every word that comes from the month of God." Let us be ready and be instant, in season and out of season, to perform our . Every man holding the Priesthood, every woman who is a member of the Church, strive to learn the truth as it is in Christ Jesus who speaks for the Father, learn the truth for ourselves, and be so imbued by the spirit of truth that we can discern truth from error and light from darkness, and then, having strength and power and ability in ourselves, to live by it, overcome all things, and be prepared to inherit all things. God help us to do so, for Christ's sake. Amen, 

Brother David Rees sang a tenor solo, entitled, "Oh, Divine Redeemer." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Sacrifice made willingly for the Gospel's sake. — Hymns sung in L. D. S. meetings should express true sentiments. — Musical ability a God-given talent to be used. ' 

I have seen, heard and felt much during this conference for which I am thankful to the Lord. The large attendance at the meetings, the" singing, the inspiring remarks and the influence of the Holy Spirit, all contribute to make this conference most interesting. 

Those of us who have had years of experience in the Church, who have tried to conform our lives to the spirit and teachings of the gospel love to hear it expounded and when we do hear it touched upon by song or Sermon it vibrates through our souls. From sneaker to hearer the Spirit flows as oil from vessel to vessel, and we are able to testifv to its truth. 

My heart has been made to rejoice in the testimony of my brethren, and in the instructions they have given during this conference. 

As I listened to the opening discourse yesterday morning- by our beloved President, my mind seemed enlightened and my capacity enlarged to comprehend the beauties of the gospel, as I seldom have been privileged to do; and my love of the truth and my appreciation of what the Lord has done for me and for you in providing a means of salvation and exaltation in His presence were greatly stimulated. 

I thank the Lord that I have been able to see the truth, to love it and to obey it; notwithstanding the gospel requires that we deny ourselves many things which our carnal appetites and desires crave, and the gratification of which would give us a degree of pleasure. Notwithstanding it requires us to sacrifice, in some instances, association with parents, wives, husbands, children, friends, occupation and place among the people, and to . sacrifice our time and means. I thank God for the gospel. I desire to say unto this vast congregation that T find my greatest joy and satisfaction in denying myself, and sacrificing in this way for the gospel, to the extent that I have been called upon to thus sacrifice. It is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, and the stranger that is with us, that as we engage to serve the Lord, to keep His commandments, and in proper spirit deny ourselves and sacrifice for the cause of truth, .we are better, happier and more hopeful. God sustains us by His power and by a testimony and assurance on > every occasion that the thing which we have done is pleasing and acceptable unto Him. Tt is food to our souls, it sustains and builds us up, it gives us joy, and hope of the blessing of eternal life: * 

I know the gospel is true, and I  the words to which we have listened during this conference are true, and I commend them to all who have had the privilege of hearing. The singing of the songs of Zion causes our souls to vibrate with a hearty response, and with our hearts full of joy and praise we singto the Lord in our conferences, and in other meetings and worshiping assemblies. The Lord has said that when we sing His praises, when the sacred hymns are the sentiments of our hearts, they will be received by Him as a prayer, and will be answered in blessings upon our heads. I have been delighted with the singing during this conference, that of the choir and congregation, and also the vocal solos which we have heard. 

Just a word of criticism in relation to singing, although I do not pose as a musician or a singer. In my traveling among the Saints, I have observed in some quarters that there is a disposition to displace the Latter-day Saint hymns with sectarian songs, which have been composed by those who know not the gospel, and not, in every instance, are the sentiments expressed in those songs in harmony with the truth. It is a matter of embarrassment to call our peoples' attention on such occasions to the necessity for culling out those hymns which do not express the truth, in which we can pour out our souls and sing with meaning and heart to the Lord, such as will .meet with His approval and call down a blessing upon us. I suppose that some of our brethren, choir leaders, would say that these hymns are old, that we want something new, something full of life and vim. I want to call attention to the fact that that which is . dearer to us than all else, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, is not new. There is nothing with which we have to do that is older than the .gospel; there is nothing dearer. Do we love our fathers and our mothers less because of their age, because they are getting old? No; and I tell you that these hymns, which have been selected by inspiration from the Lord, they are never tiring- to the Latter-day Saints. They contain valuable sermons, and the people like to hear them, and we ought not to tire in singing them. Even in vocal solos there are some in our hymn books, such as "O, my Father," "The Seer," ""Come, come ye Saints," and others that cannot be outdone or improved upon. I think it would be nice for our singers to try and arrange beautiful music to these beautiful words of praise and prayer to God. I know it would be edifying and appreciated by the Latter-day Saints, especially since we are adopting as a practice in the Church, more universally, congregational singing. 

I desire to call attention of the bishops of the wards, and the choir leaders, to the fact that there is much talent among the Latter-day Saints which is dormant, which ought to be developing, and which should be encouraged among the young people. That is the time, while people are young, to develop the talent, and to utilize the abilities of those who are specially gifted. They should be encouraged to use, to a greater degree, the talent which God has given to them. I recognize that all talents are God-given. This would enable the Saints more universally to join in congregational singing. Unto the people I would say, when you are solicited to join with the choirs of the Church to sirtg these hymns, you ought to feel that it is a mission, and feel that  are honored, to be called to sing in the congregations of the Saints the hymns inspired of the Lord. This is a very important feature of the worship of the Latter-day Saints. 

Brethren and sisters, I rejoice with you in the blessings of the Lord to us as a people; the blessings which I enjoy you enjoy; the knowledge and testimony which I have of the truth, I know that hundreds and thousands of you enjoy, in common with me. It is well for us to be reminded of these things as we always are when we meet in the worship of the Lord. I advise the Saints to be faithful in attendance upon their sacramental and worshiping meetings, as well as at your quorum and auxiliary association meetings, and thus give' evidence to the Lord of your appreciation of what He has done for you. 

I pray the blessing of the Lord upon all Israel. May His Spirit guide us in the ways of truth, duty and righteousness, that we may be saved in His kingdom, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID 0. M'KAY. 

The Church must be kept free from worldly evil.— Individual righteousness the strength of the Church.— Insidious forms and times of temptationResistance of evil wins respect even of the wicked.— The Saints "peculiar" because unspotted from the world. 

Wordsworth once wrote of Milton, "Thy soul was like a star and dwelt apart." It seems to me, after listening to the brethren testify to the principles of the gospel and the high standard of living among the Latter-day Saints, that this people "dwells apart," that they should be in reality "a peculiar people." I do  mean that we are not to mingle ing willing to defend his memberwith our friends who do not believe ship if this Church were attacked, as we, neither do I believe that we I have seen boys, apparently indifought to be exclusive; but as the ferent to Church interests, on ocChurch of God we must "dwell casions stand out in expressive deapart." Now, in what way ? James fiance of the attack upon the says that "Pure religion and unde- Church. We frequently arrogate to filed before God and the Father, is ourselves the thought that it there this, to visit the fatherless and wid- were any encroachment upon this ows in their aflliction, and to keep Church, we would be ready to stand himself unspotted from the world." out and defend it en masse. That It is m the sense of keeping our- feeling, that spirit of defense is alselves unspotted from the world ways looking for some exceptional that I take it the Church of God manifestation of opposition, someshould be distinct, in this sense, that thing great that is coming. When the children of the Church be as a such comes, we think we shall be star —pure. ready to defend the Church, when, In that most impressive prayer perhaps this Very day, there has of the Savior's, already referred to been an encroachment upon our this afternoon, He says, speaking of souls which has weakened our His Apostles, "These are in the power to defend the truth. Trees world," and then adds these signifi- that can stand in the midst of the cant words, "I pray not that thou hurricane often yield to the destroyshouldest take them out of the ing pests that you can scarcely see world, but that thou shouldest keep with a microscope, and the greatest them from the evil." This is in foes of humanity today are those harmony with the teachings of the unseen microscopical microbes that Book of Mormon, as recorded in the attack the body. It is the unseen 42nd chapter of the Book of Alma, influences at work in society that where it is explained why the chil- are undetermining the manhood and dren of God are here in this world; womanhood of today. It is these viz., to mingle with the sons of unseen influences that come from men, to gain an experience that will the world that get us when we are bring them back to God; but not to least prepared to defend ourselves, partake of the sins of the world. When we do not withstand the enThe Savior said to His Apostles on croachments of these evil influences the same evening that He offered we weaken the possibility of defendthat beautiful prayer, "Be of good ing the Church of Christ. This is cheer. I have overcome the world." an individual work, and what the Going soon to meet His Father, He individuals are, that the aggregate admonished them to follow His ex- is. 

ample praying not that God should I was with a party of f r i en ds retake them out of the world, but cently, driving over a beautiful valI have never met a member of It was an impressive sight really the Church who would not express to see that dry farm of wheat, and himself, and, if occasion arose, who one of the party expressed his ad He should keep them from the evil. , not far from Salt Lake City. We passed a beautiful wheat field. miration of the luxuriant growth in the field, and looked at it in general. There it stood apart from the sagebrush and barren surroundings. But he was not satisfied with looking at it in the aggregate; the conveyance was stopped and he looked at individual heads of wheat, and exclaimed, ''Look what large heads." Just one; it was the individual stalk that gave him that impression. That was not enough. He broke the head, shuffled it in his hand, blew the chaff away, and examined each kernel. "The kernels," continued he, ''are plump and solid." After all, the test of that wheat field was the individual ker.nel of wheat, and so it is in a community, so it is in the Church. The test, after all, of the efficiency of God's people is an individual one. What is the individual doing ? Each one should ask, "Am I living so that I am keeping unspotted from the evil of the world?" God wants us here. His plan of redemption, so far as we are concerned, is here, and you, my fellow workers in the Church of Christ, are carrying the responsibility of testifying to the world that God's truth has been revealed, and that men and women can live in this world free and uncontaminated from the sins thereof, as did the Lord and Redeemer in His day. 

Now, what do we mean by the world? It is sometimes used as an indefinite term. I take it that the world refers to the inhabitants who are alienated from the Saints of God. They are aliens to the Church, and it is the spirit of this alienation that we should keep ourselves free from. We are told by Paul not to' conform to the fashions of the world.. Titus was warned not to partake of those things, the evils of the world, and to "Flee also  lusts : but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart." Purity of heart — Zion is the pure in heart, we have been told, and the strength of this Church lies in the purity of the thoughts and lives of its members, then the testimony of Jesus abides in the soul, and strength comes to each individual to withstand the evils of the world. 

These evils present themselves insidiously in our daily associations. Thy come in the shape of temptations, as they came to the Savior after His baptism. What were those temptations? When Satan said, "Command these stones to be made bread," he was appealing to the appetite. He knew that Jesus was hungry, that He was physically weak, and thought that by pointing to those little lime stones which resemble somewhat a Jewish loaf of bread, he could awaken a desire to eat. Failing in that, when He received the divine word, "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." Satan then tried Him in another way. He dared him —an appeal to His pride, to His vanity, quoted scripture to support his temptation, for remember the devil can find scripture for his purpose, and "an evil soul producingholy witnesses is like a villain with a smiling cheek, a goodly apple rotten at the heart. Oh, what a goodly outside falsehood has." But the Savior answered him in terms of scripture, "It is also written, thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God." What was the third? An appeal to His love of power, domain, wealth, "All these, (the kingdoms of the world and the glory "thereof) , I will give you," said the , "if you will only fall down and worship me." "Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, thou shalt worship the Lord thy God; and Him only shalt thou serve." Now, nearly every temptation that comes to you and me comes in one of those forms. Classify them, and you will find. that under one of those three nearly every given temptation that makes you and me spotted, ever so little maybe, comes to us as (1) a temptation of the appetite; (2) a yielding to the pride and fashion and vanity of those alienated from the things* of God; or (3) a gratifying of the passion, or a desire for the riches of the world, or power among men. 

Now, when do temptations come? Why, they come to us in our social gatherings, they come to us at our weddings, they come to us in our politics, they come to us in our business relations, on the farm, in the mercantile establishment, in our dealings in all the affairs of life, we find these insidious influences working, and it is when they manifest themselves to the consciousness of each individual that the defense of truth ought to exert itself. There may never come a great opportunity to defend this Church. 

It may not be on the mountain's height 

or over the stormy sea, It may not be at the battlefront that my 

Lord shall have need of me, But if by still stnall voice He calls to 

lands that I do not know, [ will answer, dear Lord, with my hand 

in Thine, T will go where you want me to go. 

When that little small voice calls to the performance of duty, insignificant though it seem, and its performance unknown to any one save the individual and God, he who responds gains corresponding . Temptation often comes in the same quiet way. Perhaps the yielding to it may not be known by any one save the individual and his God, but if he does yield to it, he becomes to that extent weakened, and spotted with the evil of the world. Let me cite an instance : A young missionary was invited to a wedding in a foreign country, at which two of his acquaintances were joined together in the bonds of matrimony, the ceremony being performed by a minister of another church. This young man was the only member of the Mormon Church present amidst the one hundred or more guests at the table in the hotel. By each plate was the wine cup, filled to the brim, and also a glass of water. After the ceremony, as the guests were all in their places, the minister arose and said, "Now I propose that the company drink the health of the newly married couple.' They all arose. Now, propriety suggested that he take the wine cup. He was a missionary, he belonged to the Church that preaches the Word of Wisdom, revealed direct from God to the Prophet Joseph. Science since then has proved it to be indeed a word of wisdom. He was preaching that, and he was pretending to live it. Here was a time when he could indulge, no one would know; indeed it seemed to be the act of propriety, but he resisted. Now was the time to defend his Church, and that is what he did. He took the glass of water, and some of his immediate friends by him, dropping their wine cups followed his example, and at least half a dozen wine glasses remained untouched. Others saw it, and the circumstance furnished an excellent opportunity to converse with these guests upon the Word of Wisdom. Was he humiliated? No, he was strengthened. Were the guests embarrassed? No. Did they feel to condemn him? No. Condemnation was replaced by admiration, as it always is in the hearts of intelligent and God-fearing men and women. I admire that counselor in the presidency of a stake who, at a political party last fall, when asked to drink the health and success of that party, left his champagne untouched. When the chairman came he said, "You did not respond to the toast for the success of the party." Aren't you one with us?" He said, "Yes, I did." The chairman said, "There is your champagne untouched." "But," replied the counselor, "you see the glass of water is empty. I do not drink champagne nor intoxicants, but I am with you in wishing the success of the party." The man grasped his hand and said, "I admire your strength in living up to your principles." They always do. Grater admiration have I for a young man who, in California a few months ago, was entertained by a man of the world and who refused a kind of entertainment which, if it had been accepted, would have deprived mv friend of that which Latter-day Saints hold as sacred as life itself — his virtue. The man of the world was somewhat surprised, but at the same time admired the defense — for so I consider it — and the strength in that "Mormon" defending the truth and the principles of righteousness and the standard of living among the Latter-dav Saints. Did that "Mormon" Elder lose anything? No. he is respected among the men today, the thinking men of the world. They always are. Now, as I say. these temptations come to us in business transactions, or  on the street car when we have an opportunity to refuse paying the corporation five cents. Stooping to cheat a corporation! Well, let us always remember this, that the corporation can afford to lose that nickel, but we cannot afford to take it, to steal it. It is an insignificant thing, isn't it? It is really a great thing, it is one of these insidious things stealing into the character of the individual. 

Everywhere, in all places, let us remember that "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father, is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the sins of the world." Can we do it in aggregate? Is this just for the individual? Can we think of a body of men living this way', a hundred men and women, fifteen hundred men and women? If one can do it all can do it. I shall never forget, as long as I live, the impression my mother gave me when she told the story of those two thousand sons who went to battle under the leadership of Helaman. Think of those boys. Hold them as a pattern, you priests, teachers and deacons, yes, and high priests, seventies and elders. If two thousand men in that ancient time could live such lives, two thousand, nay ten thousand and a hundred thousand men can live it today. These were their principles, founded upon the principle of faith, inculcated into their hearts by their mothers, who taught them in their youth that if they praved to God nothing doubting, their prayers should be answered. Such is their testimony; such was the result of their mothers' teachings, showing the influence of home on the boys' lives. 

They were all young men and they were exceeding valiant for courage, for strength and activity, and behold this was not all. They were men who were true at all times and in whatsoever thing they were entrusted. 

Now, I tell you that is good gospel, 

Yea, they were men of truth and soberness, for they had been taught to keep the commandments of God and to walk uprightly before Him. Now, it came to pass that _ Helaman did march at the head of his two thousand stripling soldiers, to the support of the people in the borders of the land on the south by the sea. 

You know the story, you know how successful they were, and how God blessed them, as He will bless everv' man and woman, no matter where he may be, who will stand for righteousness and truth, and live so as to keep himself unspotted from the world. As I think of these two thousand men going out to defend their homes, pure in their lives, stead fa<=t in their testimony of God's truth, so I want to think of the Priesthood throughout all Israel, high priests, seventies, whose duty is to preach these things by their lives and words, of our elders, our young men, priests, teachers and deacons — a solid phalanx of men standing before the world as a light that cannot be hid, because their lives are clean and pure. Thev are unspotted from the world. Then  shall indeed be a "peculiar people" and become as God would have us, because we are preaching the gospel by our acts. "If you love me," says the Lord, "keep my commandments." 

May He help us to do it, keep us pure and free,- our homes pure and true, that our children may breathe the atmosphere of puritv and virtue, and we be ever true to the testimony of God that we have in our hearts; viz., that the gospel of Jesus Christ is restored to the earth, that His prophets are upon the earth, that He revealed the grandest of truths to the Prophet Joseph Smith in this dispensation of the fullness of times, and that we holding the holy priesthood must carry the responsibility of setting the example of truth and purity unto the whole world — I say may He help us to do this, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning ? The Latter-day glory begins to come forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, 

And angels are coming to visit the earth. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Lewis Anderson. 


