13
Afternoon
04 10 1919
Elder Joseph Fielding Smith 
37
86-93

None

None

I shall follow the custom that has prevailed throughout the conference and read to you a few words from one of the revelations:  
  
These things we know that there is a God in heaven, who is infinite and eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God, the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them;  
  
And that he created man, male and female, after his own image and in his own likeness, created he them,  
  
And he gave unto them commandments that they should love and serve him, the only living and true God, and that he should be the only being whom they should worship.  
  
But by the transgression of these holy laws, man became sensual and devilish, and became fallen man.  
  
Wherefore the Almighty God gave his Only Begotten Son, as it is written in those scriptures which have been given of him.  
  
He suffered temptations but gave no heed unto them;  
  
He was crucified, died, and rose again the third day;  
  
And ascended into heaven, to sit down on the right hand of the Father, to reign with almighty power according to the will of the Father,  
  
That as many as would believe and be baptized in his holy name, and endure in faith to the end, should be saved;  
  
Not only those who believed after he came in the meridian of time, in the flesh, but all those from the beginning, even as many as were before he came, who believed in the words of the holy prophets, who spake as they were inspired by the gift of the Holy Ghost, who truly testified of him in all things, should have eternal life.  
  
As well as those who should come after, who should believe in the gifts and callings of God by the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of the Father, and of the Son;  
  
Which Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are one God, infinite and eternal, without end. Amen. 
 
And we know that all men must repent and believe on the name of Jesus Christ, and worship the Father in his name, and endure in faith on his name to the end, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God.  
  
And we know that justification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, is just and true;  
  
And we know also, that sanctification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, is just and true to all those who love and serve God with all their mights, minds, and strength.  
  
But there is a possibility that man may fall from grace and depart from the living God;  
  
Therefore let the Church take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation;  
  
Yea, and even let those who are sanctified take heed also.  
  
And we know that these things are true and according to the revelations of John, neither adding to, nor diminishing from the prophecy of his book, the Holy Scriptures, or the revelations of God, which shall come hereafter by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, the voice of God, or the ministering of angels.  
  
And the Lord God has spoken it; and honor, power, and glory, be rendered to his holy name, both now and ever. Amen.  
  
TESTIMONY OF THE TRUTH OF THE QUOTED WORDS.  
  
When the brethren were speaking this morning my mind dwelt upon these verses which I have read and I have been greatly impressed by them and I trust that I may be led for a short time in bearing testimony and speaking, by the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord. I know that the words that I have read are true. I believe absolutely in the mission of the Lord and Savior of this world and as it is here expressed, I know that he came into the world, the only begotten Son of the Father, to fulfil this very mission which is here declared  
 
THE CHURCH TO PRAY ALWAYS A DAY OF WARNING.  
  
Now, the word that I desire to impress on your minds is this: "Therefore, let the Church take heed and pray always lest they fall into temptation." I have considered that it has been my mission, having been so impressed; I think, by the Spirit of the Lord in my travels in the stakes of Zion, to say unto the people that now is the day of repentance and to call upon the Latter-day Saints to remember their covenants, the promises they have made with the Lord, to keep his commandments, and follow the teachings and the instructions of the elders of Israel — the prophets of God — as they have been recorded in these holy scriptures. In all things we should walk humbly and circumspectly before the Lord that we might be blessed and guided by his Holy Spirit. I think this is the day of warning. It has been a time of warning from the day when the prophet first received the manifestation from the heavens that the gospel was to be restored. Great events are about to take place among the saints of God and likewise throughout the world. We are living in a very important day and the predictions of the prophets are being fulfilled. As it was expressed yesterday Zion has been established, an ensign has been raised in these mountains, and the call has gone forth unto all lands and unto all peoples, at least so far as we have had the opportunity to declare that word, calling upon them to repent, to turn unto the Lord, to come unto Zion where this standard is set up and serve him in righteousness. Israel has been gathered, and is being gathered, from among the nations, even all who will repent and hearken unto the commandments of the Lord, as they are set forth in these revelations. The Lord will save all who will hearken unto him. His arm is stretched out and he is willing to aid and to help and to lead all in righteousness and bring all to Zion who will come. Our mission in all the world, and also in the stakes of Zion, is, Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. It is necessary, even among the people who have been gathered out of Babylon, to cry repentance, to call upon them to remember the Lord, to keep his covenants and commandments, and in all things endeavor to get possession of his Holy Spirit that they may walk in the light.  
  
THERE IS NEED OF REPENTANCE IN ZION.  
  
Let me not be misunderstood, when I say that there is need for repentance in Zion. I do not mean to say that the Latter-day Saints have gone astray, that they have departed from the teachings which the Lord has given them, not that; but that we are surrounded by the evils of the world, by temptations, by the sins of mankind, those things which prevail among the ungodly. There is constant need of warning, teaching and calling upon the people to remember the promises the Lord has made unto them; urging them, to be true and faithful in all things, to his holy word that none may go astray, nor falter, or be overcome and trodden down and be cast back again into the world, to partake of the sins of the world from whence they came. And so I feel that it is my mission to cry repentance and to call upon the people to serve the Lord.  
  
THE MOST POTENT FACTOR FOR PERMANENT PEACE.  
  
We have heard during this conference a great deal in regard to the establishment of peace. We long for the day when Christ shall come and his kingdom shall be established in all the earth, when he shall set up his government upon the face of the earth. All of these things we hope and pray for, as we sang here this afternoon. The hymn that we sang this afternoon expresses my sentiment:  
  
Come, O thou King of kings — We've waited long for thee—  
 
With healing in thy wings, To set thy people free.  
 
Come, thou desire of nations, come,  
 
Let Israel now be gathered home.  
  
Come, make an end of sin, And cleanse the earth by fire,  
 
And righteousness bring in, That Saints may tune the lyre,  
 
With songs of joy, a happier strain,  
 
To welcome in thy peaceful reign.  
  
And this I pray for and this I hope for, and so do you. Now, may I ask you a question? Do you know what is the greatest power, the most potent factor in all the world, for the permanent establishment of peace in the earth? Having asked the question I will answer it, at least I will express my view in regard to it — not saying anything about other movements. The greatest factor in all the world is the power of the Holy Priesthood, and that is in the possession of the Latter-day Saints. Right from the beginning the Lord sent out the elders into the world, commanding them to call upon the people, saying, Repent, come unto Zion. Believe in my gospel and you shall have peace. Peace will come, of course, through righteousness, through justice, through the mercy of God, through the power which he will grant unto us by which our hearts will be touched and we will have love one for another. Now our duty is to declare these things among all people, call upon them to come unto Zion where the standard is set up — the standard of peace — and to receive of the blessings of the house of the Lord and the influence of his Holy Spirit which is here manifest. And I want to tell you that we ourselves, if we will serve the Lord, have wonderful power in regard to the establishment of peace in the world. Now we are willing that other movements in this direction should go on. We are in favor of all that will bring peace unto the world; but let us not lose sight of the fact that we, Latter-day Saints, if we will band together, and stand as one serving the Lord and will send forth the word of eternal life among the nations, will have greater power, in my judgment, for the establishment of peace in the world than any other force. I am in full accord with the idea that has been expressed that the Lord is using many agencies; his work is not confined to the Latter-day Saints, for he has called many to his service outside of the Church and has endowed them with power, has inspired them to do his work. All the great discoveries, the inventions, the great things that have taken place during the last three or four decades have all been in the direction of bringing to pass this reign of peace and righteousness in the earth. Do these men give credit to the Lord, these great discoverers — men who invent and bring to pass the Lord's work in this regard, do they give him credit? Not in many instances; and yet the Lord is using all of these agencies. However, my brethren and sisters, do not let us lose sight of the fact that we are a power in the earth for good and for the spread of the truth and the establishment of peace among all nations, kindreds, tongues and peoples, that must be considered. It has been upwards of eighty years that this gospel has been preached. It has gone into many lands. The people have been warned, not as fully, I grant you, as the Lord desires that they should be warned. Do the best that we can, we haven't the power in ourselves, of course, without the help of the Lord, to carry this word to every soul and to establish the truth as we would like to do it and as the Lord desires it to be done. He must call other agencies and put them to use to bring to pass his purposes, but our mission has been and is, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of God is at hand."  
  
We must continue until all the righteous are gathered out, until all men are warned, until those who will hear shall hear, and those who will not hear also shall hear, for the Lord has declared that there shall not be a soul that shall not hear, not a heart that shall not be penetrated, for his word will go forth, whether it be the word of his elders or by some other means, it mattereth not, but in his due time he shall cut short his work in righteousness; he shall establish his truth and he shall come and reign upon the earth. But woe unto the wicked, woe unto the ungodly, woe unto those who have heard the word and rebel against it, for in the due time of the Lord he shall come out of his hiding place and take vengeance upon all those who turn away and refuse to hearken, and after the testimony of the elders shall come the testimony of earthquakes, the testimony of famine, the testimony of pestilence and plague which shall spread forth. Of course, that does not prevent us from attempting to do all we can to lessen these evils, but the people will bring these things upon their heads, themselves, if they fail to hearken unto the words of the elders of Israel. I will read to you another passage of scripture:  
  
Again I say, hearken ye elders of my Church, whom I have appointed; ye are not sent forth to be taught, but to teach the children of men the things which I have put into your hands by the power of my Spirit;  
  
And ye are to be taught from on high. Sanctify yourselves and ye shall be endowed with power, that ye may give even as I have spoken.  
  
Hearken ye, for, behold, the great day of the Lord is nigh at hand.  
  
For the day cometh that the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven; the heavens shall shake and the earth shall tremble, and the trump of God shall sound both long and loud, and shall say to the sleeping nations, Ye saints arise and live; ye sinners stay and sleep until I shall call again;  
  
Wherefore, gird up your loins lest ye be found among the wicked.  
  
Lift up your voices and spare not. Call upon the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying, prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord;  
  
For if I, who am a man, do lift up my voice and call upon you to repent, arid ye hate me, what will ye say when the day cometh when the thunders shall titter their voices from the ends of the earth, speaking to the ears of all that live, saying, Repent, and prepare for the great day of the Lord;  
  
Yea, and again, when the lightnings shall streak forth from the east unto the west, and shall utter forth their voices unto all that live, and make the ears of all tingle that hear, saying these words, Repent ye, for the great day of the Lord is come.  
  
And again, the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven, saying, Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear the words of that God who made you.  
  
O, ye nations of the earth, how often would I have gathered you together as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye would not?  
  
How oft have I called upon you by the mouth of my servants, and by the ministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of thunderings, and by the voice of lightnings, and by the voice of tempests, and by the voice of earthquakes, and great hailstorms, and by the voice of famines and pestilences of every kind, and by the great sound of a trump, and by the voice of judgment, and by the voice of mercy all the day long, and by the voice of glory, and honor, and the riches of eternal life, and would have saved you with everlasting salvation, but ye would not?  
  
Behold the day has come, when the cup of the wrath of mine indignation is full.  
  
Behold, verily I say unto you, that these are the words of the Lord your God.  
 
Now these things are bound to come if the nations of the earth reject the counsel of God against themselves and turn against the truths which have been uttered from the heavens. The word has gone forth and is being carried forth among them by the elders of Israel. Woe unto those who reject it.  
  
As it was stated by one of the speakers this morning, I am satisfied in my mind that peace could come right now if the people wanted it. Certainly. And I pray that they will want it. I want them to have it, because I love peace, and you want them to have it because you want peace, and we, as Latter-day Saints should pray for peace and we should live in peace and in harmony one with another and stand united together in all things serving the Lord.  
  
A PROMISE TO THE REPENTANT.  
  
I want to read just one more verse from another scripture. I would like to have the Latter-day Saints read this whole chapter. This is the 22nd Chapter of 1st Nephi. and there are a number of other chapters connected with this that are of great import, but I want to read this one verse, the 28th: "But, behold, all nations, kindreds, tongues and people shall dwell safely in the Holy One of Israel, if it so be that they will repent." And I pray that they will repent. I want them to dwell safely. I want them to believe in the Holy One of Israel, who came into the world and atoned for our sins, for the sins of all mankind, who gave unto us redemption from death, who has promised unto us salvation and the remission of our sins on the condition of our repentance.  
  
O, I wish all mankind would believe in him, would worship him and his Father, and would serve the Lord our God in the name of the Son, and then peace would come, then righteousness would prevail, then the Lord could establish his kingdom upon the earth. He could do it now if all would repent, but when he gets ready to do it and should the people not repent, should they not turn unto him, then shall he come forth in his power and his might, as he has declared through his holy prophets; he shall take vengeance upon the ungodly and they shall be swept off from the face of the earth. He has decreed that unrighteousness shall not reign, that the wicked shall not slay the righteous, but that peace shall come, that his kingdom shall be established, that this earth shall be made fit as an abiding place for all who are just and true, for those who love righteousness. That day is coming and I say to you, my brethren and sisters, it is even now at the door, but I do not know what may take place before the door is opened; but I know this that it is timely for us to repent, if we need repentance, and turn unto the Lord. Remember him, forsake the things of Babylon and leave them unto those who love unrighteousness, and let us cleanse ourselves and set our houses in order. That is the will of the Lord. That has been his will from the beginning since his kingdom was set up, and he desires it now, and woe unto him who will not repent who is in Zion, for the Lord says that he will cleanse Zion and all things that offend shall be removed. When the time comes, when it is time for Zion to be cleansed, then that which offends, that which is unjust, that which is untrue, that which is false, that which breathes the spirit of contention and strife shall be removed, and Zion shall be redeemed, and the Lord shall watch over her, shall guide her, shall direct her and shall establish her and she shall never again be destroyed and her power shall not be given to other people. That I rejoice in.  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, let us serve the Lord, let us keep his comandments, let us be true, remember the things which the prophets have said. Follow the instructions they have given unto us. Heed the warning that has been declared by revelation through the servants of the Lord, both now and in times past and all will be well with us. Let us not sit down and feel in our hearts that all is well, that we can take our ease in Zion, that peace is here, that there is to be no more trouble, no more contention, no more strife no more war in the world. That we can not do in justice, but we must serve the Lord and we must keep his commandments, we must walk righteously before him as we have never done it before, and if we do not, then we shall be cut off from among the people and that would be a calamity. O, I pray that we will hearken, and that we will be true and faithful and stand in holy places, as we have been commanded to do, while the wrath of the Lord our God passes over the nations of the earth, and this I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 