16
Morning
05 10 1919
Elder Richard R. Lyman 
17
108-113

None

None

I have never desired more to have my words inspired than I do now. I am fond of the Latter-day Saints. My heart is full of love for the people among whom I was born and with whom I have been raised. In the years in which I have been separated from the Church, largely in attendance at eastern universities, I have thought of my people here with very great fondness, and have confidently felt that all the good ideas there learned, if properly presented to my own people here, would be accepted promptly by them.  
 
AN APPEAL FOR PURE WATER.  
  
At Cornell University I devoted a great deal of time to the study of sanitary engineering. As I listened to the teachings of college professors I was amazed that the lives of our people have been so well preserved under unsanitary conditions. When I came from that institution the sun had not gone down on the first day of my arrival until I had called together, in one of our "Mormon" villages, the officials of the city and appealed to them that they provide the people with pure water. I am pleased to be able to say the appeal was not made in vain. Nor have I since in religious services, before meetings of commercial clubs or other organizations, appealed to any of our people along these lines without success.  
  
WE ACCEPT TRUTH FROM EVERY SOURCE.  
  
This is one reason among many why I have great confidence in you, my own people. We believe in accepting truth, from whatever source it comes. If there is anything virtuous, honest, upright, holy, good, and true, we, in accordance with the fundamental principles of the gospel, seek after these things.  
  
A GENUINE LOVE OF AND INTEREST IN AMERICA.  
  
I regard myself as a pretty good American. My ancestors have been Americans. I met a man from Canada a few days ago, an engineer, whose name is Lyman. I received a letter from him only yesterday in which he sent me a long list of ancestors. He points with pride to their record. Since 1630, the Lymans have been active in their support of this great country. It has had no important war in which Lymans have not fought, in which Lymans have not bled, in which Lymans have not died for their country.  
  
I see before me now, especially in these front seats, many stake presidents with whom I have had very intimate, friendly, affectionate association. I wonder if at this hour I may properly attribute to them what I attribute to myself, that is, a genuine love of and interest in America?  
  
Some men who are here talked with me months ago upon the subject concerning which I desire to make a few remarks today. Upon this subject, their views and mine differ. Iextend to them the liberty of thinking as their consciences direct, and I desire to be accorded the same privilege. I have greater respect for the man who expresses his honest convictions when he is with the minority than I have for the man whose desire, it seems, is primarily to be with the majority. American freedom, American liberty and American institutions can only endure indefinitely, if I understand the fundamentals of American government, if every man, in the language of Abraham Lincoln, dares to the end to do his duty as he understands it. These men before me who conscientiously are opposed to the League of Nations, I admire. I respect them for their true Americanism. Such as these will make the republic of America endure indefinitely, if indefinitely it is to endure.  
  
POSITION ON THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.  
  
Some may say I speak here with an unfair advantage, since others have no opportunity to reply. But I say, as a leader in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I cannot, at this conference, do my duty, as I understand it, if I keep my lips closed upon a subject that, to my mind, has more to do with the welfare of all the nations of the world than any other subject that has come before the American people since the Constitution was adopted. So I say frankly, brethren, come, let us for a moment reason together. I now speak upon this subject, in public, for the first time. I have hesitated to do this because my views do not agree with those of my life-long friend, the Honorable Reed Smoot, whom I have admired since childhood. But I know this broad-minded statesman well enough to realize that he will have greater respect for me if I speak than he could have if, with my convictions, I were to remain silent.  
  
I have studied the covenant of the League of Nations with considerable care. One objection raised against it is that the people of Europe, not familiar with our ideals, and not concerned in the welfare of our country, are given authority to say when we shall and when we shall not go to war. I am not able to read this meaning into the proposed covenant of the League. The covenant provides for two bodies of representatives, one is called the assembly and the other the council. In the council there will be but nine countries represented. Each country in that council is to have one vote. Action can be taken by the council only with a unanimous vote. Suppose the proposition is presented of declaring war. The man who represents the United States of America in the council, if asked to vote, must say in substance: "Gentlemen, under the Constitution of my country, only the Congress of the United States has the authority to declare war. I must, therefore, be instructed by the Congress of the United States before I can cast my vote." Thus will this cherished provision of our inspired Constitution remain inviolate.  
  
SUCCESS OF THE PAN-AMERICAN UNION.  
  
I was in Kansas City a week ago yesterday. I listened to an address by John Barrett, the Director General of the Pan-American Union. I believe this gentleman is a Republican. If I remember correctly, he came into political life when he was a comparatively young man by receiving from President Roosevelt the appointment of Ambassador to Siam.  
  
Before the International Farm Congress, Mr. Barrett said: "I desire to make it clear at the outset, that while I represent the government of the United States, by appointment from the President, I also stand before you as a representative of the same sort for all of the other American countries that belong to this Union."  
  
All the countries in the Western Hemisphere, south of Canada, twenty-one in number, belong to the Pan-American Union. The Canadians were practically in readiness, so this representative said, to join the Pan-American Union when war was declared and the plans for so doing were temporarily upset.  
  
Mr. Barrett continued to speak in words like these: "We have regular meetings of the representatives of these twenty-one countries. When these representatives come together, they become acquainted, and thus they learn to understand one another. They present the views, the ideals, the desires, the ambitions, the trade and other interests of their respective countries. Getting thus close together, they arrive at a mutual understanding."  
  
He continued, "The significant fact I desire to draw to your attention is that, since the organization of the Pan-American Union, no country in the Western Hemisphere has been at war with another country in this hemisphere and on not fewer han six different occasions has actual war between these countries been averted."  
  
"Here in our own hemisphere," he continued, "we have a League of Nations in actual operation and I'm not sure but what this PanAmerican Union is itself a league strong enough to maintain the peace of the world." If one so well informed sees such hope for peace because of the successful operation of this comparatively little league of the Pan-American Union, how much greater — really how well founded — is the hope, the expectation, that permanent peace may come to the world if the proposed covenant of the League of Nations embracing, as it does, the great nations of the other hemisphere, is adopted.  
  
FIRM FOR THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.  
  
I would be untrue to the blood that flows in my veins, I would be untrue to that father of mine, Francis M. Lyman, who was a lover of liberty, who, in all his lifetime hoped and prayed earnestly for the nations of the world to so organize that bloodshed might be averted, — I say I would be untrue to all of these, if I were to refrain from speaking in the interest of this proposed covenant. Francis M. Lyman was not a coward. He was never afraid, and in his public hopes, desires, and works, I defy any one to find an element of personal selfishness. Were I to stand before this audience today, his son, and keep my lips closed, I would be an unworthy son of a brave and courageous sire, who lived and worked and hoped for the liberty of all the people of the world.  
  
After war was declared, in 1914, he said repeatedly, "We must do one of two things, either put on the Kaiser's yoke or bring him beaten to his knees, however long it takes and however much it costs." If Francis M. Lyman were here today to speak as he has spoken many times, on occasions like this, he would say as I say now: "I am prepared to do my duty as I understand it and I accord to others the same privilege. Let me make it clear that I stand firmly for the League of Nations. In the days to come I expect to see no time in which I shall regret having taken this stand."  
  
AN APPEAL TO ABANDON THE USE OF TOBACCO.  
  
One other word and I will stop. We have had, this morning, a thrilling meeting of Mutual Improvement officers. I should like, if I had the time, to say a few words upon the slogan of our organization, namely, "We stand for spiritual growth through attendance at sacrament meetings," but time will permit me to do no more than repeat it.  
  
During the war the habit of smoking has been tremendously increased. We are aiming to have a survey made in every stake, and ward, for the purpose of finding out how many smokers there are, and we propose to use our organization for the purpose of reducing this habit to the least possible minimum. I think I can do nothing that will emphasize the importance of this subject more than to deliver here and now a message that was sent to you by me some years ago from Cornell University.  
  
The message is from Andrew D. White. This man for years was a professor in the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor, he was for a long period President of Cornell University, and he served our country as ambassador to Germany. His name is among the names of the great historians of our country. Andrew D. White, standing before a body of teachers, said:  
  
I cannot refrain, ladies and gentlemen, from making a few preliminary remarks before beginning my address proper. I understand that there are before me teachers from every state in the Union and from almost all the countries of the world and, therefore, I cannot let this opportunity go by to say that I want to go back into your communities and take to the people with whom you are associated a message from Andrew D. White. That message is this: In my fifty years of experience with college students, with college men, I have yet to find the first young man who was a smoker of cigarettes that ever amounted to anything.  
  
His view and my view or your view of what it means to amount to something may be different, but those were his words. He continued:  
 
As I walk across this campus, this wonderful Cornell University campus, and see young men puffing at their cigarettes, I don't care how much money they have, I don't care what their prospects are, I don't care what their social standing is, I don't care who their parents are, I say to myself, they will not amount to more than that — and he snapped his fingers.  
  
As I have already stated, I came from Cornell University, filled with enthusiasm and confidence in my own people. I appealed to the people of Utah and nearby states, to provide themselves with pure water. They responded promptly with the improvements. I was the Stake Supervisor of parents classes in the Ensign stake when this matter of individual sacrament service sets was proposed. The appeal was made to the people to provide themselves with these sets, and today they are found practically everywhere in the Church.  
  
Now, as one of the General Superintendency of the Young Men's, Mutual Improvement Associations, I appeal to you, fathers and moers, leaders in the Church, to join the Mutual Improvement workers in an effort to reduce to the least possible minimum, the use of the cigarette. The laws of the state are against it. It is a misdemeanor for any individual to sell or to give any kind of tobacco to any boy under twenty-one years of age.  
  
I have before me the Word of Wisdom. If, standing, as I am before this audience, I were to say: "I have a method to present by which all the young men in the Church may become rich in money," every ear would be turned my way to learn the method. But, is it not better to have the ability to make the money than it is to have the money itself? Who would not rather have a fortune he himself has acquired than to possess one that has been accumulated by another? This Word of Wisdom tells us how to become rich. Rich in money? Yes; rich in money. It says: no liquor, no tobacco, little meat, no hot drinks, and then it concludes: "All Saints who remember to keep and to do these things, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall find" — what? Wealth- No, but three things that mean more than wealth alone. They shall receive first, health, they shall find, next, wisdom; and they shall find, third, great treasures of knowledge, yea hidden treasures. They shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint.  
 
This, my brethren and sisters, is a subject upon which we have no division of opinion. Let us refrain from the use of these things forbidden that we may have health, wisdom, and knowledge, the three blessings promised, these together being equal to much more than wealth alone. By keeping these commandments, we shall deserve the closing blessing in the revelation, namely, "I, the Lord, give unto them a promise that the destroying angel shall pass, them by as the children of Israel and shall not slay them."  
  
May our Father in heaven enable us to so teach, so lead, so guide, and so direct our boys and girls that all the great and wonderful promises made concerning the pure in heart may be theirs and ours. I pray earnestly for these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 