28
Second Overflow
05 10 1919
Elder Orson F. Whitney. 
45
162-163

None

None

THE MISTAKE OF SAYING TOO MUCH.  

When General Young related the anecdote of the sectarian minister who said, "I have not had time to prepare a sermon, and shall therefore have to depend upon the Spirit of the Lord," I thought, what a pity that minister did not know where to stop. Had he been content with saying, "I have not prepared a sermon," he would have escaped the ludicrous situation resulting from his having said a little too much. It reminded me of the woman who composed an epitaph for her dead husband. First, she wrote: "Rest in peace," and then added, "until we meet again." (Laughter.)  
  
WHY AMERICA WAS DISCOVERED AND THIS NATION FOUNDED.  
  
If there is one thing I am proud of, it is that I am a Latter-day Saint, or one who professes the principles of a Latter-day Saint; and, next to that, I am proud of being an American. I love my country, I love its institutions, and desire with my whole heart that our glorious nation shall go on to the fiulfilment of its God-given destiny.  
  
I believe God inspired Columbus to discover this land, that a nation might rise and flourish here — a nation dedicated to freedom and equal rights, including the right to worship God in obedience to the dictates of conscience; and I believe that this nation was founded that the great work of God might come forth and not be crushed out by the tyranny of men.  
  
I believe, also, that what God has committed to us, both as a Church and as a Nation, we owe to the rest of mankind, so far as they can be induced by peaceful persuasion to accept our principles. This Church has a mission to evangelize the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ, "the perfect law of liberty;" and I have always dreamed that our Nation has a mission not merely to receive into its bosom the outcast, the refugee, the oppressed of other nations, but also to leaven with American principles the rest of the world.  
  
"LIBERTY ENLIGHTENING THE WORLD."  
  
At the mouth of New York harbor there stands a mammoth statue — a woman holding aloft a torch. This statue, the gift of the French republic to the American republic, is entitled "Liberty Enlightening the World." I regard that as a prophecy of the mission of America; and I desire that the prophecy shall be fulfilled.  
  
THE UNITED STATES TYPICAL OF A UNITED WORLD.  
  
In the Constitutional Convention, when the fundamental law was framed upon which the State of Utah now stands, I stood for Woman Suffrage, because I believe it to be a principle of freedom and justice, and I there voiced the conviction that the union of these states was a type arid a foreshadowing of the union of the nations of the world. Somehow I drank in this idea from my boyhood. I cannot see it in any other light.  
  
LOWELL ON FREEDOM.  
  
I am heart and soul in sympathy with those beautiful lines of Lowell's, entitled "Stanzas on Freedom," inspired by an incident that happened during the Civil War. A poor negro woman had escaped from bondage, and had made her way into the State of Massachusetts, "the cradle of freedom." The law provided for the return of a fugitive slave, and she was pursued, apprehended, and dragged back into slavery. This incident so fired the soul of James Russell Lowell that he poured forth this indignant and eloquent protest:  
  
Men! whose boast it is that ye  
 
Come of fathers brave and free,  
 
If there breathe on earth a slave,  
 
Are ye truly free and brave?  
 
If ye do not feel the chain,  
 
When it works a brother's pain,  
 
Are ye not base slaves indeed,  
 
Slaves unworthy to be freed?  
  
Women! who shall one day bear  
 
Sons to breathe New England air,  
 
If ye hear, without a blush,  
 
Deeds to make the roused blood rush  
 
Like red lava through your veins,  
  
For your sisters now in chains, —  
 
Answer! are ye fit to be  
 
Mothers of the brave and free?  
  
Is true Freedom but to break  
 
Fetters for our own dear sake,  
 
And, with leathern hearts, forget  
 
That we owe mankind a debt?  
 
No! true freedom is to- share  
 
All the chains our brothers wear,  
 
And, with heart and hand, to be  
 
Earnest to make others free!  
  
They are slaves who fear to speak  
 
For the fallen and the weak;  
 
They are slaves who will not choose  
 
Hatred, scoffing, and abuse,  
 
Rather than in silence shrink  
 
From the truth they needs must think;  
 
They are slaves who dare not be  
 
In the right with two or three."  
  
Amen. 