29
Second Overflow
05 10 1919
Elder George F. Richards.
28
164-165

None

None

I was somewhat startled, my brethren and sisters, with the sudden conclusion of Elder Whitney's remarks, and told him that they were short and sweet.  
  
It is good, on reading or hearing the truth, to be able to assent unto it, to feel it, and to be able to present it to others so that they also can feel it. This meeting has been, to me, one of both pleasure and profit. The words spoken have been actuated by the Spirit of the Lord. My heart has been touched and I have been moved to tears by the impressive manner in which some of the truths of the gospel were presented this afternoon. We have heard how peace may be brought into our lives and into our homes, to the Nations and to the world. Permit me to add a few words in conclusion of the meeting. 
 
We should be sympathetic for one another and especially for those who have great sorrows to bear. While riding on a railway train in England on my way to attend a conference, I overheard a conversation between two young women, in which one was heard to say that she had lost three brothers in the war. The other, after expressing deep sympathy, said four in her family had been killed. The European countries suffered very much more from the war than did our own country, and it does not suit my feelings to hear Americans speak of England, France, and their allies who fought side by side with us and suffered more than we, as rogues who can not be trusted in a League to prevent a repetition of such terrible experiences.  
  
I am thankful that the victory came with no more loss of life among our own boys. It might easily have been otherwise. Had my family and I been living in England at the outbreak of the war, my three married sons and at least four of my sons-in-law would most likely have been at the front and possibly all of them would have been wounded or killed. I acknowledge the hand of the Lord in our preservation and praise and thank him for his blessing to me and mine and to you and yours who were spared. I trust that the righteous blood shed during that awful conflict may have a sanctifying influence upon the countries involved and make precious to them the principles of freedom and liberty for which that blood was shed. The Lord told Joseph Smith that He had redeemed this land by the shedding of blood. Is it not possible that by the blood shed in Europe during the war, the countries there affected will be redeemed, and as the United States was prepared by the establishment of principles of freedom and justice as a place in which to receive Christ's Church and Kingdom and his gospel, so the nations of Europe may be prepared to receive the King of all and a reign of universal peace? I think the war was not necessary, however, and that it ought never to have been. I believe that it would have been averted had there been in existence a League of Nations, such as is proposed in connection with the peace treaty. 
 
I am sure that had the energies of all the men and money employed in waging the war been directed towards bettering conditions for humanity in ways indicated by the gospel of Jesus Christ, instead of war and all its attendant sorrows, sufferings, and losses, we would have had universal peace and good will throughout the world. The gospel teaches us to love the Lord with all our hearts and our neighbors as ourselves; to serve the Lord and our fellowmen, being willing to deny ourselves and sacrifice for others even to the laying down of our lives if need be. If the world would obey the gospel and adopt these principles and live by them it would mean peace to individuals, peace to the world, and would bring to men glory, exaltation and eternal life. This is my testimony which I bear to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 