34
Outdoor Overflow
05 10 1919
Elder Samuel O. Bennion
2
184-186

None

None

(President of the Central States Mission)  
  
I trust, my brethren and sisters and friends, that I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord, in attempting to address you upon this occasion. I am very happy to be here and to have the opportunity of bearing testimony to the things which I know to be the truth.  
  
The message of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the children of men is one of good will. The Church extends a friendly feeling toward men, and desires to encourage men and women to look unto the Lord in a way that will bring unto them salvation, for, as. was said in our service yesterday by Elder David O. McKay, there is no name under heaven whereby men may obtain salvation except the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. It matters not what denominations may preach or what men may say concerning the true order of worship, there can only be one way by which men may be saved and that is through a strict obedience to the principles of the gospel taught by Jesus Christ our Lord and which have been revealed again anew in the dispensation of time in which we live.  
  
We know that the Lord's way of communicating with men upon the earth, according to history and according to scripture, has always been by revelation, either through personal visitation or through revelation by angels, or by his voice; by these means he has communicated with men at various times since the beginning of the world, whenever he has had a message to bear unto his children. And I bear testimony unto you that in the dispensation of time in which we live he has spoken again and revealed the gospel of Christ with all its gifts and blessings, that the children of men who inhabit this land and this earth in these the last years of the earth's history shall have the privilege of redeeming themselves through repentance if they desire, and I take it for granted that the majority of men and women desire to be saved. I take it for granted that they desire to obtain the best they can in life, and I feel that when the true order of worship is made known unto men they will come unto him and receive the blessings which he has promised unto them.  I believe that the Lord, who created this earth and who arranged it so beautifully, of which you and I are witnesses in a measure, provides a still greater measure for his children who are the highest of his creation, and that he does not leave us upon this earth to go through the world alone and to take chances of salvation, when in the hearts of his children there is a desire to serve him and to keep his commandments.  
  
I have never seen occasion to fall out with the Protestant churches of this country, or the Catholic church, or with any of the churches, but, after going into the question thoroughly, I have become convinced beyond the question of a doubt — and to me it is a real possession — that in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the authority of God on this earth. There can not be found in any other church the authority to preach the gospel and to administer in the ordinances of it, to take men and women into the waters of baptism and to confer upon them the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, which is a witness unto all men that Jesus is the Christ and that this is his work.  
  
Paul said that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed, and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by the Holy Ghost, and if that was true in the days of Paul (and the world, practically, so far as Christianity is concerned, swears by him), then it is true today. If it was necessary then for men, in order to obtain that truth, to follow the instructions he gave, it is necessary now. God ordained one plan in the beginning. He has said that he is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and if that be true so are his principles. There can be no variation. The same doctrine must be taught today that was taught in the days of Adam, that was taught in the days of Enoch; that was taught in the days of Abraham, and so down. If he shows no turning nor shadow of change, and I am sure that he does not, then his doctrine applies to the children of men in this dispensation as it did in the days of the Christ, and even back unto the days of Adam. And this is that through repentance and faith in God, men may turn unto him and be redeemed of him and then go on to perfection, as Paul has stated, "Not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith towards God, but go on to perfection," receiving the higher principles and ordinances of the gospel, which lead men into the eternal worlds from whence they came.  
  
These principles give men an understanding in a measure of the positions that they shall occupy in that future which will be according to their works upon the earth. I am convinced, my brethren and sisters and friends, that the condition of men and women in this world is according to the blessings pronounced upon them and according to their works in that world from which we came. We may all have, it is true, the same rights and the same blessings and promises, but they are all predicated upon obedience, and in the future that awaits us, your life and mine, and that of every other son and daughter of God, will depend largely upon our life here in the flesh.  
  
It was the order of God our Father in the beginning, that there should be continually among us a living prophet, and there can be no scripture brought forth to prove that there has ever been made a change. God has always had a prophet to reveal unto his children his mind and his will from the days of Adam until now, with the exception of the time when the people apostatized and the gospel was taken from the earth. When I looked upon President Heber J. Grant this morning, a man that we have known all our lives (I remember him from the days of my childhood); when I heard him bearing testimony unto Israel gathered together, it came to me again that there was a prophet of God. There came into this world with Heber J. Grant this blessing which he received as an endowment, according to his faith in the world from which he came, that he was to be born into the world a leader and a prophet of God, I said to myself: Verily is it true that leaders are not made, but they are born. They come into the world born leaders, born prophets, men who have been trained in the royal Priesthood of our Father, and their works do follow them when they are given the opportunity in the flesh, and we see him, we hear him, and we can bear testimony unto the children of men that in the valleys of the mountains, in the tops of the everlasting hills there stands and lives a prophet of God, who is in direct communication with his Father and with our Father, for your good and for mine. Happy are we if we pay attention unto the things which we hear from time to time, especially those things which pertain unto us, individually, in our own lives.  
  
Thanks be to our Father that we have come upon the earth in a day and in a time when the gospel is here, when the prophets of God are here to govern and control, and, mark you, my brethren and sisters and friends, whether you be of the Church or not, I want to say to you if you question the things that I say concerning the gospel of Jesus Christ and the things I have spoken, I refer you to the law and to the testimony. If you think men and women come into this world by chance and that they are given opportunities here without appointment you are very much mistaken, for it is not the order of the Son of God and is not found in the scripture in which we all believe more of less. Men come into this world according to their works, according to their faith, and according to their devotion, and we, when we leave this world, will go on and find there a future arranged for us according to our life in the flesh. We heard President Grant say this morning, and it is a principle in which we all believe, that he saw his father and the prophet Joseph Smith and that he saw them consulting together concerning his appointment. Is not that the scripture? We read in the scripture concerning the history of Job that the sons of God were gathered together and Satan was there also. The president this morning brought to our attention that these things do occur in this dispensation, and in our day; and that those who have preceded him, those who have gone from among our midst as bishops and as presiding officers, do live and that they enjoy their faculties, that they are able to hear, and to speak, to act, and to work according to the pattern of the Almighty God, that they do not lose their individual entity when they leave this earth, and that their life there is a continuation of their life here, and their powers and their usefulness are based upon their activity here in the flesh. I pray the Lord to bless you in the name of Jesus. Amen.  