40
Afternoon
05 10 1919
Elder Seymour B. Young
49
202-204

None

None

(President of the First Council of Seventy.)  
  
I am thankful, my brethren and sisters, for the honor of standing before you today. When I look over the vast congregation assembled here. I wonder within myself, What shall I say to you? But, the Lord being my helper, I shall say something, I hope, that will interest you as well as be a blessing for myself. I noticed that when it was announced that the music for this beautiful piece to be rendered at this session had been lost and found, a ripple of merriment was heard, in some part of the congregation. I have always been convinced that we are a light-hearted people; that we are always ready to appreciate merriment, as well as subjects more profound and sometimes sorrowful. I am reminded now of a visit I once made to one of our stakes of Zion. One of the brethren who accompanied us was among and is among the most eloquent, pleasing and forceful speakers; but I noticed that when he arose to speak the people began to smile, and before he had proceeded very far with his subject ripples of laughter were heard throughout the congregation; and I was reminded of a circumstance that I witnessed in London, many years ago. I was at a play, during the Christmas holidays, at the Drury Lane theatre. A man came on to the stage; and the moment he came before the audience, people began to smile, and finally to laugh; and when he had spoken a half dozen words, shouts of laughter were heard from every part of the house. I inquired of a neighbor, sitting near, "Who is the gentleman?"  
  
"That is the celebrated William Buxton, known all over the world as the great comedian. Whenever he appears before the people they laugh; they are full of joy and merriment."  
  
I thought this is very well and very necessary; and yet in this particular congregation that I speak of in the north, I thought the merriment at times was a little out of place, because the brethren who visit those conferences, both for the Young Men's and the Young Ladies' Mutual, as well as for the Religion Classes, and for the general assembly, for that matter, are handling and dealing with subjects that are serious, and of the utmost and greatest importance and moment for the consideration of all concerned.  
  
I rejoice today for the privilege of standing before you. I am reminded of some facts pertaining to the history that has brought to pass present events. It was remarked here today that the allied nations of the world, recently banded together for the defense of the world, were ready and glad to stand in the defense of their common countries, and were ready for the announcement of a day which brought the Armistice and the cessation of bloodshed; and I am glad to say at this time that I have, I believe, seen the hand of the Lord manifest in this great war, time after time; and no greater manifestation and no greater joy could fill my heart than that which I experienced when peace was declared. So the peace that is being established and considered and accentuated and furthered by the League of Nations has my unqualified approval because if ever I felt like sustaining my brethren of the Authorities — which I always have felt, in every fiber of my being — I have the same feeling today; and I rejoice in this. President Heber J. Grant is the very man to decide these great questions; and I know that every true Latter-day Saint, I know that the Apostles and all the leading brethren who preside over the Church are one with him, in sustaining and upholding him as the true leader of this people, and we are. That makes me know, beyond a question of doubt, that the Latter-day Saints are on the right path, and on the direct line of progress and advancement. There have been men raised up by the hand and providence of Almighty God, time after time, to bring to pass the events and the great issues which we witness today.  
  
The name of Lincoln was mentioned here by one of the speakers: It is recorded that his mother, Nancy Hanks Lincoln, in their little cabin home, in the wilds of old Kentucky, which was the Far West in that day, one morning went about her work smiling and singing, seemingly full of joy and rejoicing, and her husband said to her:  
  
"Nancy, what makes you so happy?"  
  
She said: "Thomas, last night I saw a vision; I was signalled from the shores of eternity, and I shall have a son. He will be a great man among men; for I saw that he was among men; for I saw that he was among the leaders of the nation, and that among the great men he was great. He came to his mother, put his arms around me and said: Mother, I have builded for you and for my country a beautiful palace, with marble pillars that reach to high heaven; but it has cost me my life.' "  
  
At the close of the war, forty days after his second inauguration as President, a crazy assassin sneaked into the procenium box, at the Ford theatre, in Washington, placed a pistol behind his ear and lodged a bullet in his brain. He had gone through the agony of four years and a half of the Civil War. He had met every difficulty, face to face, when often members of his own party seemed in doubt, and many of them so far forgetting themselves that they came to him, with tears in their eyes, and with trembling voice, and said:  
  
"Lincoln, you must stop the war, even if you break the Union."  
  
Lincoln replied: "Never, while life is in me, will I surrender to those who would disrupt this glorious nation of ours;" and he maintained the cause of the Union through all those years of trial. When he had completed his task, the Union, the beautiful "palace" that he had established and maintained, the glorious Union of this glorious country was established more firmly than ever before; for the scourge of slavery was taken entirely from its institutions, and none but freemen occupied the soil of the United States. So he had builded the palace with beautiful marble pillars, for his countrymen and for his loved ones. Sacrifice seems to have been the law of those great hearts who have been the ministers of the world, who have produced results that have saved the world from time to time. As Lincoln's mother said, on one occasion, when he inquired why the Indians had been permitted to destroy a village in which his grandfather lived, and to scalp his grandfather and take his life: "Boy, you must know that there never was a country worth having, that there never was a cause worth fighting for, that did not cost the best blood of those who defended it." Sacrifice so begun and accentuated more fully in other great men's lives!  
  
President Grant informs me that the time is up. I testify to you that "Mormonism" is true; that our Leaders are directing the affairs of this Church, according to the mind and will of the Lord. God bless you. Amen. 