42
Afternoon
05 10 1919
Elder J. Golden Kimball
14
205

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.)  
  
I presume there are very few who are here present who are not aware of the fact that I was born in these valleys of the mountains. Have I not given evidence to the Latter-day Saints of this Church, during the twenty-seven years of my ministry? Have I not been frank and honest and clear in my statements, and have I felt any doubt in your minds that I do not believe and am not honest and truthful and believe with all my heart and with all my soul that God is the Father? I may not have a perfect and true conception of God, but I love God; I love him for his perfection; I love him for his mercy; I love him for his justice; and notwithstanding my many weaknesses I am not afraid to meet him. For I know that he will deal justly by me; and the great joy I will have is that he will understand me and that is more than some of you have been able to do. (Laughter.) I believe with the same love and faith that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world I believe that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and there is no man living who reads the things that God has revealed through the Prophet, and the sayings of the Prophet with more joy and more satisfaction and more happiness than I have in reading of the Prophet of God. My father breathed it into my very soul, and I thank God that I am a son of one of God's servants, and that no man can place a finger or make a statement that he did not uphold the Prophet of God, not only Joseph Smith but Brigham Young and all the others who labored in the Church. Now, friends, if you are in any doubt about my standing in the Church and any of you want to question my loyalty and patriotism you can get a row any time you want it. (Laughter)  
  
I sustain President Grant. When he became President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints I told him I sustained him with my full faith and confidence; and that is the best I can do. I propose to stand behind him and his counselors and the Twelve apostles. As I told an apostle once: "If God Almighty puts a child in the Council of the Twelve, and he will give me enough of his Spirit, I will sustain him. I pray the Lord to bless you. Amen. 