43
Afternoon
05 10 1919
Elder Rulon S. Wells 
44
205-206

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I find myself in full and happy accord with the spirit of this conference and the utterances that have been made from this stand. I believe in the doctrines that have been taught. I believe in those principles which are the underlying foundation of the work of God which contemplate and have for their purpose the liberation and freedom of the children of God, not only our civil liberty and freedom from the tyranny of despotic and autocratic governments, but also that perfect liberty which can only be attained through obedience to the "perfect law of liberty" — the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ — the truth which will make us free indeed, even free from the bondage of sin and the tyranny of the adversary of our souls.  
  
The discovery of this, land — the promised land — the Land of Joseph, the Zion of latter days, and the establishment thereon of this government, a government deriving its powers from the consent of the governed, is so interwoven with the work of God that we are bound to recognize the inspiration of the Almighty in connection therewith.  
  
Read I Nephi 13, 12 where Nephi sees in vision that the Spirit of God inspired the great Columbus (it can mean no other) to cross the many waters, the great Atlantic ocean, which separated him from the seed of Nephi's brethren, who were in the promised land.  
  
Let me, then, declare my faith in the inspiration of the Lord as it relates to these historical events:  
  
I believe that the Lord restored this land and inspired its discovery by Columbus for the purpose of establishing a government thereon which would secure to its people their inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.  
  
I believe that he inspired Thomas Jefferson in the writing of the Declaration of Independence. I believe that the Constitution of the United States was inspired of God, that under its protection his Church could be established and thereby the "perfect law of liberty," the gospel of Jesus Christ, be promulgated not only in the promised land but in all lands, to every nation, kindred, tongue and people.  
  
I believe that George Washington was the human instrument in the hands of God in establishing a government based on the principles of human liberty.  
  
I believe that Abraham Lincoln was the human instrument in God's hand of preserving these precious principles that they should not perish from the earth.  
  
I believe that Woodrow Wilson is the human instrument, in the hands of the Lord of extending these principles to all the nations of the earth, for God is no respecter of persons but designs that all his children shall be made free.  
  
I believe that the League of Nations covenant, when ratified, will become the instrument whereby the inalienable rights of men shall be extended to our Father's children in every land, that it will be an effectual opening of the door which will admit the promulgation of the greater, the perfect, law of liberty, through which the Lord designs to make his children free. Amen. 