46
Afternoon
05 10 1919
Elder Levi Edgar Young 
48
211

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

There are eleven thousand Seventies in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We have already organized one hundred and ninety-eight quorums of Seventy throughout the Stakes of Zion. They are beginning, more and more, each day, to cooperate with all the other brethren holding the Priesthood of God. As one of the seven Presidents of Seventy, I wish to say that it is our desire that the Seventies of the Church become the scholars and missionaries to preach the gospel in all the world. We want them to have the power, the love and the light of God to aid them in this great work. We sincerely hope that the Seventies will take upon themeselves new life, new hope, new vigor, and prepare themselves for the ministry more than they have done in the past.  
  
This has been a remarkable conference. The many testimonies given ring true. I bear you my testimony that everything that has been said is true; for the words, the sentences, the thoughts have been pertaining to the gospel of Jesus Christ. The fact that ever since the days of Abraham the Lord has called a portion of his family to bear witness of his great truths is an inspiring truth. This place in the mountains had been preserved for the people of God. It will always be a Stake of Zion. May we as Latter-day Saints, from this day on have our testimonies renewed that the Government of the United States was instituted by the power of God, and the way prepared for the coming of the gospel of Jesus Christ. May that testimony grow in our hearts, together with the greater testimony that God lives, and that the world needs a knowledge of the message of Jesus Christ. There can be no solution of our industrial, social and political problems until the world shall know for a fact that Jesus is the Christ and that we are living in a new day of the world's history. May we, each and every one of us, return to our homes, buoyed up in our souls, with a courageous feeling for the new day, and the promise of a knowledge of God and his great work. May the love and the light of this glorious gospel rejuvenate our spirits as never before, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 