47
Afternoon
05 10 1919
Bishop Charles W. Nibley 
24
211-214

None

None

(Presiding Bishop of the Church.) 

It is less than a year since I stood with President Grant at the grave of our departed Prest. Joseph F. Smith. I then and there, on that sacred spot, made pledge and covenant with Prest. Grant that I would devote myself as energetically, as fervently, as obediently, in trying through my weak efforts to make his administration a success as I ever had done in the work that I had tried to do and had done in the administration of President Joseph F. Smith. I have devotedly and conscientiously tried to fulfil that covenant in all humility, in all obedience, and in the spirit of the office and calling which I hold. I propose to continue in that line, and there isn't anything that these brethren can ask me to do that I will not willingly try to do for the furtherance of this work; and they will not ask me to do anything that is not in the interest of the Kingdom of God. But there is one thing on which President Grant and I never could agree; he thinks that his wife is better looking than my wife. Well, I don't believe a word of it. (Laughter.) Anyhow, if it is referred to a league, or assembly of arbitration, I would have three votes to his one. Now with that exception, brethren and sisters, we are in entire agreement and we are working together harmoniously, and, as I say, so far as I am concerned, obediently and in the spirit of the work.  
  
Now just a minute or two on a matter that I think is of considerable importance. We are blessed abundantly in wordly things in these times. Never was there such a profusion of money. Money, they say, is cheap, but the articles we have to buy with money are dear, which is true indeed. But you produce, you farmers, most of the articles that the rest of us have to buy and there is plenty of money and pretty much everybody has it. The unfortunate thing about it is that a great many people are spending it foolishly. I know I find it so, east and west, wherever I travel. You see attention called to it in the magazines and newspapers. People are spending, as they say, "like drunken sailors." We ought to pause in that. We ought to save while we have abundance. It is a foolish person who spends all he has, and who does not save. I know there are some who will say, "Well, if you had only what I have, and the family I have to keep, you would not think much about saving." That may apply and does apply doubtless to a few families, one here and there, but to the great general part of the Church, the farmers and business men and artisans who are a large part of our population are making means in abundance and are not saving any and putting it away for a rainy day. We are spending it, and we are spending it extravagantly, almost wastefully; and this is a sin. If instead of crowding into so many picture shows a week, if we would only stay home a night or two a week and read the Bible or the Book of Mormon or the Doctrine and Covenants to our families, we would be spending our time in a more profitable way and also saving our money. People have lost the idea of being thrifty any more or very careful about their expenditures either.  
  
The Lord is working in the earth. The predictions of the prophets concerning this land are being fulfilled. I heard Orson Pratt preach a sermon in Liverpool, forty years ago last March, concerning this land, and the mob law that would obtain, the destruction of society, or, if not its entire destruction, the destroying element that would be abroad in the land, the utter disregard for law and order, and established customs, the terror, the riot, the anarchy that would take place. I see it being fulfilled in our own land, right here, and it is coming more and more. Were it not for what there is here in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints I would despair; but the promise is and has been — I have heard it repeated, iterated and reiterated hundreds of times — that there would be a people here who would stand for law and order, who would maintain it, and constitutional rights would be observed although the Constitution would be torn to shreds and tatters, as we see it being torn around us in these very days, these anxious, terrible days that are upon us; but here it would be safe. This is the mission of the Latter-day Saints; this is the mission of "Mormonism," to be saviors upon Mount Zion, to save that which is good of the earth.  
  
I passed through Omaha the other day, just a day after the terrible occurrences that had transpired there, where the mayor of the city, who was sworn to do his duty, tried manfully to do it. They hung him by the neck until he was pratically dead. One of the policemen climbed the pole and cut the rope just in time, so that he was resuscitated, but he was unconscious and gone so far as he was concerned. But, thank God, he is alive. This man sworn to do his duty, trying I believe to do his duty, and yet the spirit of anarchy and riot and mob rule would hang that man, and did hang him, and burned others, burned the jail, burned the courthouse; and, as you know, troops were called in. I need not dwell on it all. Well, such occurrences go on, and we pass them by, seemingly, as the idle wind, and heed them not, but they are here. Only the other week, in Los Angeles, a few platform men of the street railroad could not get the settlement that they wanted, so they went on strike. Out of sympathy for them, the General Electrical Company employees down there, went out on what they call a sympathetic strike, and then all the railroad employees operating trains into the city of Los Angeles went out on a sympathetic strike also and tied up every industry in the city, even tied up hundreds of people here and at other points along the line, who were thus inconvenienced and punished simply because the railroad employees were in sympathy with the few platform streetcar men in Los Angeles. A sympathetic strike is little less than anarchy. These railroad men and Pacific Electric men had no grievance against their companies, neither as to wages, hours of work, conditions of work or anything else; they had no grievance at all, but merely out of sympathy for somebody else they tied up the whole business of hundreds of communities and for what? For mere sentiment. This is one of the worst of the signs of the times.  
  
Now I must be brief; my time is nearly up. I want to say that I cannot, for one, join any association or lodge or union which divides my allegiance to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. To serve the Lord acceptably, my allegiance to him must be undivided. My purpose must be single. If thine eye be single thy whole body shall be filled with light. Now if I am obligated by oath or covenant of any kind to some other organization I have of necessity a divided allegiance. This should not be. My allegiance to the Church comprises and includes everything that the civil government requires and a great deal more. My allegiance to the Church causes me not to hate my brother; my allegiance to the Church makes me an infinitely better citizen, as citizenship goes in the world, than if I were not connected with the Church. Now I must not have a divided allegiance. The Kingdom of God first — stand by it!  
  
The prediction has been, my brethren, that civilization shall not fail; the Constitution of our country shall not altogether fail. It is not all going up in wreck, for here, and I believe here only, will peace and prosperity and the maintaining of the Constitution of the United States and the securing of the liberties of the people, transpire; here through the medium of this Church, and I do not see much hope anywhere else. God bless you; God bless the men who stand at the head; I am with them; I am for them; I uphold them; I pray for them. As I said before, there is not anything that I will not try to do in the interest of this work, if they ask me to do it, and I will try to do a great many things they do not have to ask me to do. God bless us; God bless this people; the Lord help Zion and direct us in these terrible times that are upon us, the terribleness of which will increase and not decrease until Zion is established and the work of the Lord accomplished, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 