5
Morning
03 10 1919
Elder Orson F. Whitney
45
42

None

None

Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, — the Author of our being and the Giver of all that we enjoy, the Source of all power and the Father of the spirits of all men, — we desire to render gratitude and praise unto thee at this time for the words of inspiration that have been spoken from this stand at the opening of our general conference. We pray thee to sanctify them to our good, and to strengthen and inspire us to go forth with a renewed determination to serve thee and to keep thy commandments, to promote thy cause and, with all the power that we possess, reinforced by thy power resting upon us, to build up the Church and Kingdom of God. We dedicate this servivce unto thee and ask thee to hearken unto our petition.  
  
We pray especially, our Father, for the President of the United States, thy servant who so recently addressed us from this stand, and with whose remarks and sentiments and the truths that he uttered our hearts were so powerfully impressed and our minds illumined. We desire, with all our hearts, that his life may be spared, that thou wilt deliver him from the sickness that now afflicts him, that thou wilt rebuke the destroyer in his behalf and raise him up to continue the mighty work unto which thou hast called him. We pray thee, O God, to touch him with a healing touch, to let the peace and light and power of the Holy Spirit rest upon him. Give him the faith to be healed. Bless those about him with faith and with the full command of all their knowledge and skill and judgment and wisdom, that they may render to him the assistance of which he stands in need; and all that is done for him, may it have thy blessing upon it to this end, that he may be spared to continue the work which thou hast given him to do.  
  
We pray for all the leaders of the Nation. We pray for our Country. We pray for the cause of right and truth and freedom, that it may prevail; that thy Kingdom may come and thy will be done on earth as it is done in heaven.  
  
We ask these blessings and invoke thy blessing in dismissal, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 