6
Afternoon
03 10 1919
President Heber J. Grant
10
44

None

None

It has fallen to my lot, from the time that I became one of the general authorities, to come in close business relations with many influential people, both on the Pacific and the Atlantic coasts, as well as in the cities between. When I was a small boy, about twelve years of age, Col. Alex. G. Hawes, the Western Manager of the New York Life Insurance Company, came to board at my mother's home. He subsequently returned with his bride, and his first child was born in our house. He became, without any exception, the dearest and best friend that I had in all the world, aside from my own people, and my association with him, I believe, was as intimate as it was possible to have with any man. He treated me almost like a father; and in the panic of 1893, hearing that I might fail in business, he wrote and told me he had arranged to mortgage his home, to get money to assist me. He had tried at every commercial bank in the city where he lived to borrow money on first class collateral security, to send me; none of them were making loans. "But," he said, "the savings banks are loaning; they loan only on real estate, and I have no real estate except the home in which I live. I have arranged for a loan on my home, and if it will save your financial life, do not write, but telegraph immediately upon receipt of this letter, and I will transfer the money to you by wire, as delays are dangerous."  
  
I could not hold back the tears of gratitude that filled my eyes, to think that a man of the world would make such an offer as this to me in my time of distress. He subsequently secured for me the agency for Utah of the great company with which he was connected, and for one year I was their representative in connection with my associates in this city. At that time a gentleman by the name of Darwin P. Kingsley was the superintendent of agencies, and subsequently became the president of that company. The day before yesterday I received a very beautifully bound volume of some four hundred pages, containing speeches made by himself mainly upon this great question of peace, and questions connected with the war. I have read with intense interest something over one hundred and fifty pages of these speeches, since the book arrived, and they strike a very responsive chord in my understanding of the situation. I remarked here this morning that, like the congressman, I was going to ask permission to reprint my speech of two weeks ago. I am going to do the same here again this afternoon, and shall have printed in tomorrow night's News one of President Darwin P. Kingsley's speeches on the League of Nations, containing also a splendid tribute to President Wilson. We will now be addressed by President Charles W. Penrose.