7
Afternoon
03 10 1919
President Charles W. Penrose
25
45-55

None

None

I feel very grateful for the privilege of attending this conference; also for the opportunity of speaking for a short time to this vast congreation. Although I am not altogether unaccustomed to public speaking, but have had some experiences at home and abroad in this direction, I approach the task imposed upon me this afternoon with some timidity.  
  
GRATITUDE FOR THE RESTORED GOSPEL.  
  
I feel keenly the need of the spirit of my office and calling to qualify me for saying anything today, after the splendid utterances that were delivered from this stand during the morning, and I hope that I shall have your attention and your faith and help while I stand here occupying this position. The Lord has been very merciful and kind to me since I embraced the gospel, restored in the latter days, when I was but a boy, and through all my travels and labors and struggles he has been with me by the power of his Spirit, and in the public congregation, this afternoon, I express to him, although in feeble language, the gratitude of my soul, the desires of my heart that I shall be able to continue in this splendid work in which we are all engaged as long as I live in the flesh, and then be able to carry on the work when I pass beyond the veil, and come into the society of the great men and women with whom I have been associated in years that are past, in the same mighty cause. It is the cause of God and of humanity, his children, for it involves the happiness and salvation of many millions, and the exaltation of those among them who received the gospel in the flesh, or afterwards received it in its fulness, and prepared themselves thereby to associate with the good and the true and the best of mankind.  
  
Ever since I heard the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored in these last days, preached by the elders of Israel and published in the books of the Church, I have been filled with joy and satisfaction, for it seemed natural to me to receive these things. Although not one of my family and kindred received this gospel, yet it seemed perfectly natural to me to drink in of the streams that flowed from the eternal fountain, and today I bless and praise the name of the Lord for his goodness to me, in opening the eyes of my understanding and enabling me to see and comprehend the truth as it is in Jesus Christ, and that I am enabled so far to continue in the path, in the good work of the Lord. I can say, with the Prophet Joseph Smith, my course has been always, apparently, up-stream. I have not been favored like some of my brethren with having been born in the faith, or of parents that were in the faith, or of associations until I came in the Church with people called Saints; so my career during all the years that I have been in the service of the Church has been one continual struggle, so to speak. But my path has been a pleasant path, so far as enjoying the principles of eternal life is concerned, and so far as the influences that have been thrown around me in the gospel and in my associations with the Saints and servants of the living God, it has been a continual pleasure to me, and today I rejoice with all my soul that I am in harmony with my brethren in the Priesthood and with the Saints of God who desire to serve him and keep his commandments.  
  
IN HARMONY WITH THE BRETHREN ON THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.  
  
This is a glorious day for me. I find myself in perfect harmony with that which has been said by our brethren today, and with the sentiments expressed by President Grant, a week ago last Sunday, in which I believe most of the people, at any rate those who heard or have read the remarks that he made, feel that they were right and true and applicable to the present situation. I take great pleasure in announcing that so far as I know, all our close associates, the First Presidency, and Council of the Twelve, who are here at home — some of them are away — are in accord with President Grant in that which he did in reply to the manifesto, as it is called, sent from the East, which came by telegraph, and he telegraphed back his pleasure in signing his name with that of Ex-President Taft and a number of other prominent American citizens, desiring that the pact or covenant of the League of Nations should be approved by the Senate of the United States and that without delay, making some little lee-way for clarifications, perhaps, in some of the text, so long as it did not interfere with the full signing of the treaty. I believe we are of one heart and mind on that particular question, but we do not call into question the sincerity of some of our friends who do not see exactly as we do on this matter.  
  
CONCERNING LIBERTY AND LABOR ORGANIZATIONS.  
  
I am also in hearty accord with President Grant in the sentiments expressed this morning concerning the liberties of mankind. I believe in the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence; I believe in the principles set forth in the Constitution of the United States; I also believe in the destiny of this great government which God set up, the constitution of which was written by men who were raised up for the very purpose of placing on record principles that will bring about, eventually, the freedom of "all flesh." I believe it is the destiny of this great nation to carry the principles embodied in the two instruments I have named to all the world, and that this will be a preparation for that great day of universal peace referred to by President Lund, this morning. The liberty of mankind is not to be limited except to the extent of oppressive tyrannizing over and preventing the freedom of people who differ from us. I agree with President Grant on that matter that he talked about this morning, — that it is right for men to have the liberty to combine for their own benefit, for the raising of wages, for the shortening of hours of labor, for anything that will be for their good and benefit, but they must not exercise that in a way to infringe the liberties of others who do not see as they see. The idea of a Latter-day Saint, a man holding the Priesthood of the Most High, given for a blessing, for persuasion, for instruction, for light and for the liberties of mankind, saying that a brother in the Church shall not have the privilege of obtaining work for the support of himself and family, unless he joins some society and has a card to show his membership therein! That, I think, is going far beyond the bounds of the liberty of American citizens. We have no right to trench upon the freedom of others. It is permissible to stand up for our own individual rights, to stand up for the rights of any association with which we are connected, unless such association involves oppression and tyranny upon any portion of mankind.  
  
THE LORD HAS SET UP THE ENSIGN OF PEACE.  
  
The Church of Jesus Christ of Later-day Saints was revealed from heaven in the last days, to bring about the liberties of the world. For all nations the Lord has "set up an ensign" as the Prophet Isaiah predicted he would. Read the 18th chapter of the book of Isaiah, also the 11th chapter and the 5th chapter. I will not turn to them now — you get them, and read them. The Lord declared that some time he would raise an ensign to the nations of the earth: "All ye inhabitants of the world, and dwellers on the earth, see ye, when he lifteth up an ensign on the mountains; and when he bloweth a trumpet, hear ye." The ensign has been raised. Brother Brigham, when he went up on the mountain here just after the arrival of the pioneers, said that was "a good place to raise an ensign." I don't know that the ensign was raised right then and there, but the real ensign alluded to is the ensign of peace which is in the gospel of Jesus Christ sent down from heaven anew in these last days. It is to be brought by Zion, as Isaiah the prophet said, "Oh, Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the high mountain." That has been fulfilled in the coming here of the people who are now gathered in these mountain valleys, and the word of the Lord is going forth and it is to be carried to every nation and kindred and tongue and people.  
  
THE REVELATIONS OF GOD AND THE COVENANT OF PEACE.  
  
Some of our brethren will say, perhaps: "But do not the revelations of God, ancient and modern, declare that there will be tribulations and troubles and wars and bloodshed in the last days?" Certainly. Is that any reason why an ensign of peace should not be lifted up? Is that any reason why the gospel of peace should not be preached? Is that any reason why nations and communities and clubs and associations shall not be formed for the establishment of peace, for the proclamation of peace, for attempts to bring about harmony among the nations of the earth, preparing them for that day of universal peace? I see nothing in any of the revelations of God, ancient or modern, that should stop or hinder in any way proper efforts made for the bringing together of the nations of the earth in a bond of peace. President Grant read some hymns this morning, all appropriate, all having good texts. I would like to read a hymn that we used to sing when I was a boy, when I first embraced the gospel, written by Parley P. Pratt, one of our splendid poets, one of the great men of the latter days, one who proclaimed the gospel at home and abroad. Here is what he says, on page 102 of our Hymn Book, hymn 92. He was the author of the first hymn in the book, the Church hymn book. I don't say anything against Psalmodies, or The Songs of Zion — they are all good, but there is our Hymn Book, not bound quite so well as it might be, perhaps, but it is our Church Hymn Book, very difficult to find in many of the stakes of Zion, and in some of the wards you cannot find one, but he is the author of the first hymn, a most splendid piece of poetry. I will read the first one — the President says to read them both:  
  
The morning breaks the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled.  
 
The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world.  
  
The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine;  
 
The glory, bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine.  
  
The Gentile fulness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand;  
 
Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin. Shall in their promised Canaan stand.  
  
Jehovah speaks! let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live; 
 
 His mighty arm is making bare, His covenant people to receive.  
  
Angels from heaven, and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne;  
  
Thus Zion's light is bursting forth, To cheer her children's glad return.  
 
This is changed a little from the original but that does not matter so very much.  
  
Now here is the hymn that I was referring to:  
  
Lo! the Gentile chain is broken Freedom's banner waves on high;  
 
List, ye nations, by this token Know that your redemption's nigh.  
  
See on yonder distant mountain, Zion's standard wide unfurled;  
 
Far above Missouri's fountain, Lo, it waves for all the world.  
 
Freedom, peace and full salvation Are the blessings guaranteed —  
 
Liberty to every nation, Every tongue, and every creed.  
  
Come, ye Christian sects, and pagan, Pope and Protestant and priest;  
 
Worshipers of God or Dagon, Come ye to fair freedom's feast.  
  
Come, ye sons of doubt and wonder, Indian, Moslem, Greek or Jew;  
 
All your shackles burst asunder; Freedom's banner waves for you.  
  
Cease to persecute each other, Join the covenant of peace;  
 
Be to all a friend, a brother; This will bring the world release.  
  
Lo! the King, the great Messiah, Prince of Peace shall come to reign;  
 
Sound again, ye heavenly choir, Peace on earth, good will to men.  
  
PREPARATION FOR PEACE NECESSARY.  
  
The point that I wish to make is this: While the numerous prophecies concerning the terrible times of tribulation of the latter days are about to be fulfilled, and are being fulfilled now, yet there should be efforts made to bring about peace, if possible, among the nations of the earth; and it seems to me that it is the province, the right, the duty of Zion in her beauty rising, in the mountains, to send forth all the aid possible and to lend a ready hand to help bring about peace on earth, good will to men. Do you think, my brethren and sisters, that when Christ shall come as the King of kings, the Lord of lords, that there will be no preparation made for that coming? Do you think that he will come and by a great  cataclysm, will turn the warring nations into peaceful, united peoples? Oh, no. Some one will say, perhaps, he is going to utterly destroy them. Don't you believe it. When Christ comes there will be people dwelling on the earth who will not perish; many of the wicked will be destroyed "by the brightness of his coming," but before that a work of preparation will have to be accomplished and the principles which belong to our government and which are now being extended in the efforts to bring about peace will have softened the hearts of nations, the leading nations of the earth, so that they will combine for mutual help, and agree, instead of going to war and drenching the earth with human blood, that they will come together in a fraternal spirit and settle their difficulties by arbitration or submit them to courts of justice, which will be provided for, so that the rights of each other may be fully made plain and clear to all the world. That is the object in view.  
 
I had the pleasure of meeting as a delegate in some of the congresses for the world's peace when I was abroad, particularly on my last mission to Europe, a number of the finest men and women who can be met with outisde of this Church, great men, great women, with great minds and of great influence who advanced theories that were not practical. But they were good, philosophical, kind people with splendid desires. But the first real practical thing they tried to bring about was the disarmament of the great nations, that the number of their men in armies and navies should be diminished, that the munitions of war should be decreased in production, and the way be thus prepared for some kind of league or union by which the nations of the earth could come together in a solemn compact for the purpose of bringing about peace, so far as it could be established. I don't think there is any ardent advocate of the measures now being taken who makes the contention that this pact, if it should be signed, will bring about entire suppression of war or the war-like spirit. Not at all, but if there is anything practical that can be done to bring about disarmament among the nations (except by agreement when circumstances may arise to require arms and ammunitions), anything that can bring that about is in the right direction. It may not accomplish all that its advocates expect it to do, but it will prepare the way for that which eventually will come. The ideas will thus be presented to nations that have power and influence in the earth whereby they can make agreements by which wars shall be diminished and eventually abolished, so that the time will come, also predicted by the prophets, when "nation will not rise against nation nor kingdom against kingdom," and they will not even "learn war any more," but every man, spiritually speaking, can sit down "under his vine and under his fig tree; and none shall make him afraid."  
  
That time will come. I am just as sure of it as I am that the sun will rise tomorrow morning. I don't know whether I will be here to see it, but it will rise just the same, no matter how much the clouds may come up, and I am just as sure that "the Sun of righteousness will arise with healing in his wings," as the ancient prophet predicted, and the bright rays of his glory will penetrate to the utmost parts of the earth, and he will indeed be the King of glory and the Prince of peace.  
  
WE ARE NOT TO CEASE OUR EFFORTS AGAINST EVILS, BECAUSE EVILS ABOUND.  
  
But before that day comes there will be wars and rumors of wars, and plague and famine, and earthquake and divers evils, as we call them, which will only be, perhaps, the beginning of greater sorrows yet to come. I believe that these predictions will come to pass, but should that prevent all that are lovers of their race from making any efforts to bring about a different condition of things? If the "flu" or any other plague should go over the land again, are we to sit down and say, "Oh, it was predicted, it will come and we cannot do anything against it?" If iniquity abounds, as Christ said it would, and because of it "the love of many would wax cold," is that any reason why we should not take steps against those iniquities? We are forming a social society, many of our brethren here, men that are capable of handling the subject, and the Lord knows, if he doesn't the devil does that something is needful to be done, needful for our young people, particularly, and those social workers are busily engaged in the good work, and they will be more busily engaged by and by, when they get a routine prepared and methods adopted by which we can reach the evil. Shall we cease from our efforts against evil because evils will abound and because '"evil men and seducers will wax worse and worse," as predicted by the Savior? Are we not to take steps to try and check the evil? Take the Book of Mormon. That predicts wars and at the same time provides and tells what shall be done. Read the writings of Mormon and Moroni m the Book of Mormon. There is a labor imposed upon us, so it tells. What is it to do? Why, to check these evils, to proclaim against them, to unite together for peace and for harmony and for, brotherly love, for the prevalence of the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So that the words of Parley may come to pass and the heavenly choir will sing again the anthem, "Peace on earth, good will to men."  
  
READ THE PEACE PACT FOR YOURSELVES.  
  
Now, I want to feel a good spirit toward my brethren who do not see it the way I do, exactly, and I want them to feel the same way towards me. I have most profound convictions in regard to this matter. I have read the propositions for a covenant of peace carefully, over and over, and over again, and I find that nearly everything that some of the great men and statesmen want to put in the pact is there already, and some things that they want taken out are not there at all. There has been a great deal of misrepresentation concerning it, and another thing I find to my great regret, that I have talked to a large number of our prominent men personally, and they have never read it themselves, they have had to go by what the proponents and the opponents have had to say and they are bewildered about it. They don't see and read and understand for themselves, as Jesus taught in his day, "Whoso readeth, let him understand." And that is something they should do in regard to this covenant, read the articles and compare them and see the bearing of the different articles, one upon another. I say here, that to my mind, it is one of the grandest things ever presented to the people of the world. There is nothing anywhere to be compared with it. Do I say it is perfect? No, but it provides means for its perfection, or for its correction, plenty of means provided for anything that needs to be put into it, or anything that needs to be taken out of it, just as it was with our great Constitution of the United States. Now, I did not intend to talk directly on this subject this afternoon, but it has come to mind as I have been speaking.  
 
ON THE NECESSITY OF OBEDIENCE TO LAW.  
  
Now, my brethren, men holding the Priesthood of the Almighty! This has been sent down for the salvation of mankind, not merely for the honor of men who are called and ordained to the several offices in the Priesthood, not merely for that, although it is a great honor to be a priest of the Most High, a servant of the living God, clothed upon with divine authority, for that is what Priesthood means, divine authority, no matter whether a person has but a small part of divine authority or in its fulness, he has it, he is definitely called and ordained to certain duties — what for? For the salvation of the world, of all nations, kindreds and tribes and tongues. That is what that is for, and for the establishment of freedom. The flag of liberty, as Parley says, "waves on high," and "list ye nations, by this token, know that your redemption's nigh!" The time is coming when the nations shall be redeemed from tyranny and oppression and from seeking each other's, blood, fighting for that which they could acquire by proper reason and by reasonable argument and reasonable associations and courts.  
  
Now, my brethren, do you think any of you that may be engaged in the order that President Grant alluded to this morning, have any right to say to a man that because he does not see as you do, and does not carry a card showing that he belongs to a certain society, that he shall not work, you will not work with him; if he gets a job, and people employ him, you lay down your tools and say you will not work with him? Is that right? Is that reasonable? Is that Christ-like? Is that brotherly? Is it in accordance with the principles of liberty in the Constitution of the United States and the Declaration of Independence? I believe with all my heart that if our brethren holding the Priesthood of the Lord were to combine together for everything that is good in these societies, but will not go one step farther than that which is their right to do, that they can control the situation and they will also avoid the great troubles of mob law. There are projects now on foot — I have learned about them — to make a mob and go up to the Legislature to try and persuade the law makers to do or not to do certain things. Will Latter-day Saints do that? Men are elected to the Legisature to frame laws for the good of the State and they ought to be left free to use their best judgment. That is what they are elected for. But gathering mobs to try and influence them is all wrong. The right to petition is proper, but there is a proper way to make petitions and we ought to have respect for those who have been selected to occupy places in our government, and all should be obedient to law. Look at the fruits of mobocracy in Omaha, alluded to by President Grant this morning. That is only one outburst. If this is allowed to go on there will be a vast deal more trouble in the land. It is a great menace of the latter times; and I want to read a few verses from the Book of Mormon in regard to what the Lord said many hundreds of years ago in regard to this very thing. You will find it on page 587. In ancient times on this land there were organizations, "secret combinations" they are called. Now, I don't say that what I am going to read applies directly to a simple order of labor, but it applies to the situation generally, and to what is to come of it. Moroni is writing on the subject of that which was found upon the records that he discovered from the people that came on the land anciently, and it is called the Book of Ether and he is quoting from that arid reasoning upon it and he says:  
  
And now I, Moroni, do not write the manner of their oaths, and combinations, for it hath been made known unto me that they are had among all people, and they are had among the Lamanites,  
  
And they have caused the destruction of this people of whom I am now speaking, and also the destruction of the people of Nephi.  
  
Now, page 588:  
  
And whatsoever nation shall uphold such secret combinations, to get power and gain, until they shall spread over the nation, behold, they shall be destroyed, for the Lord will not suffer that the blood of his Saints, which shall be shed by them shall always cry unto him from the ground for vengeance upon them, and yet he avenge them not;  
  
Wherefore, O ye Gentiles, it is wisdom in God that these things should be shown unto you, that thereby ye may repent of your sins, and suffer not that these murderous combinations shall get above you, which are built up to get power and gain, and the work, yea, even the work of destruction come upon you, yea, even the sword of the justice of the eternal God shall fall upon you, to your overthrow and destruction, if ye shall suffer these things to be;  
  
Wherefore the Lord commandeth you, when ye shall see these things come among you, that ye shall awake to a sense of your awful situation, because of this secret combination which shall be among you, or wo be unto it, because of the blood of them who have been slain; for they cry from the dust for vengeance upon it, and also upon those who build it up.  
  
For it cometh to pass that whoso buildeth it up, seeketh to overthrow the freedom of all lands, nations, and countries; and it bringeth to pass the destruction of all people, for it is built up by the devil, who is the father of all lies; even that same liar who beguiled our first parents; yea, even that same liar who hath caused man to commit murder from the beginning; who hath hardened the hearts of men that they have murdered the prophets, and stoned them, and cast them out from the beginning.  
  
Wherefore, I, Moroni, am commanded to write these things, that evil may be done away, and that the time may come that Satan may have no power upon the hearts of the children of men, but that they may be persuaded to do good continually, that they may come unto the fountain of all righteousness and be saved.  
  
There are glorious promises made in this book to the Gentiles, "if they will obey the God of this land, which God is Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world," all on conditions. But wars will come, no doubt; disputes will arise, but if the efforts now being made are carried out, they will succeed in bringing people together who have good sense and good judgment, representing the leading nations of the world, who will submit their difficulties to one another and then to arbitration, or courts of justice, as may be necessary, and stop the shedding of blood and promote harmony and peace, prepare the world by learning and understanding truth, by understanding real freedom and the proper action of nation with nation until one great brotherhood is established among the nations and the way will be prepared for the coming of the Lord. We do not expect full peace, full justice, full glory and unity and brotherly love until the reign of Christ is established, but it will come just as surely as the light shineth from the East even unto the West, so shall the coming of the Son of man be. Read the 24th Chapter of Matthew, as revised and published in the Pearl of Great Price — I will not take up time to read it now, — there are many passages of old scripture that I would like to read, if there were more time, but I have said enough on this point.  
  
LET US UNITE AS ONE.  
  
Now, what I desire this afternoon in my soul is that the Latter-day Saints, people who have been reserved in the eternal worlds by our Father in Heaven, until the last days, to come down on the earth and aid in the great dispensation of the fulness of times, which is to bring about the redemption of the human family, living and dead, will unite together and be one.  
  
Let Zion in her beauty rise, Her light begins to shine;  
 
Ere long her King will rend the skies, Majestic and divine.  
  
Let us prepare ourselves for the day, in our hearts, in our spirits, in our works, in our efforts, let us combine for mutual good and for the good of the world, and understand that the destiny of this great nation, which the Lord has raised up, is to carry the gospel of freedom, of liberty, of union, of brotherly love into all the nations of the earth, if they will receive it, and a great many will.  
  
I here bear testimony that my brethren standing in high places in the Church, through the providence of God, are united in this, That we desire the welfare of mankind; we desire that liberty shall be extended; we desire that bloodshed shall be stayed; we desire that war shall cease; we desire that men shall meet in a fraternal spirit to bring about harmony and good-will among the nations, and we believe in the doctrine of the Covenant; we believe it is practical, whether everything that is being done is just exactly that way, we will leave to the wise men among the nations. Some of the very best among them are engaged in the work to bring this about, and if anything appears to be imperfect that can be corrected in due time.  
 
PRAYER FOR THE PRESIDENT.  
  
In regard to the President of the United States, the eloquent prayer for his recovery that was offered by Brother Whitney, found an echo in my soul. My heart went with it. I met the gentleman here, and I have pleasure in bearing witness to what President Grant said this morning concerning him, personally, and I do hope that now he is lying possibly on his death-bed, the wicked slanders that have been sent abroad, reported here in Utah, in Zion, concerning him will cease, if for no other reason than the condition that he is in. I have the greatest assurances that can be given that those stories which have been circulated concerning his personal morality are not true. I believe that he is a good man; I believe that the Lord has been with him; that he has accomplished a mighty work among the European nations; and I believe that he is sincere and that his heart beats for the good of the whole world, and for the good of the United States in particular, because he is the President thereof.  
  
Now, everybody is at perfect liberty to dissent from that idea if they have any reason for it, but that is my conviction. I have had interviews, associations, with men and women in different lands all over the continent of Europe, and throughout the United States, and I know a little something about discernment, and my discernment is to the effect that what Brother Grant said about Woodrow Wilson this morning is eminently true and right. May the Lord bless him and heal him, and may the Holy Spirit, which comes from above, to bring about peace and harmony and good will, enter into our souls, unite us together for every effort that will be for the welfare of humanity, and the glory be to God, through Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 