3
Morning
04 10 1902
Elder Ephraim H. Nye
269
5-6

None

None

My Brethren and sisters, it is a joy, greater and grander than I have words to express, to have the privilege of coming up to Zion occasionally. President Robinson, who has addressed you, succeeded me in the care of the California mission. I took great pleasure in laboring in that mission, and in turning it over to him when I was released. It fell to my lot to be sent to the Eastern states, and after laboring there for a season, to be sent into the Southern states, where I was met by President Ben E. Rich, and given a royal welcome into that region, and relieved him of a part of his responsibilities. 

I am not prepared to say very much about the Southern States mission, as I have hardly got seated in the saddle yet, and have not had a fair opportunity to know much about it. I have traveled through the mission, and have visited the Elders in their conferences and labored somewhat with them; but it is only about three months since I went in there. I find a great difference between laboring among the people of California and the people of the "Sunny South;" but I labor there with the greatest possible pleasure and with a desire to bring souls to a knowledge of the truth and into the fold of Christ, and help to lift some of them, at least, upon a higher plane, that they may come up to the standard required of Latter-day Saints. I take joy in ministering among that people, and I hope to see the results of my labors as the years roll on. 

What is now known as the Southern States mission embraces the states of Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, North Carolina and South Carolina; and we have about 100 Elders in the field. We would like to have twice that number; we could use them very well. We hope we may be permitted to have many more than we now have. The Elders are a brave and noble set. You fathers who have sons there, be proud of them. You wives who have husbands there, be proud of them. They are serving God to the very utmost of their ability, and they are passing through scenes and trials that you have no idea of. Let your prayers ascend unto the Almighty in their behalf; for they are faithful and valiant in the discharge of their duties. I do not expect to do any better there than my predecessor. Brother Rich has performed a noble work. If that can be said of me when I am released from that mission, as it can justly be said of him today, I shall be satisfied. 

I feel like taking the admonition of the President and not occupy too much time. I rejoice in the knowledge of the truth, and in the opportunity of coming up here and worshiping once or twice a year, beholding the faces and hearing the voices of the Prophet and his associates, that I may learn more perfectly the ways of God and be better fitted and prepared to perform the labors and duties that rest upon me, and go back to my labors strengthened, filled with integrity and faith to go forth and prosecute the ministry devolving upon me. That the blessings of the Almighty may rest abundantly upon the Latter-day Saints, that you may grow and increase in the knowledge of the truth, and rise higher and higher in the standard of perfection until you shall reach that position that the Almighty requires the Latter-day Saints to come up to, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
