6
Morning
04 10 1902
Elder Hyrum M. Smith 
33
11-13

None

None

Apostates sacrifice the most — Professed ministers of Jesus guilty of misrepresentation — God will execute justice; the Saints' mission Is peace. 

I have greatly rejoiced this morning, brethren and sisters, in the testimony of those who have spoken and in hearing a report of the condition of some of the missionary fields. It seems from the reports of the brethren that not a great number have given heed to the preaching of the Gospel of Jesus Christ by His servants who are endeavoring to save them; yet we are told that hundreds of thousands have been preached to, and thus warned of the coming judgments of God. For my own part, I would rather retain faithful and firm ten members of the Church who are already converted than convert one hundred out in the world. 

Brethren and sisters, I hope that in your hearts is burning that same testimony which has been borne by our brethren here today, and that it is so firmly established there that it will be impossible for you to ever fall from the Church. To apostatize from the Church would be your own loss. As has been said, no physical injury or harm of any other kind would come to you from the Church itself; but in leaving the faith which you have espoused you would only cut yourselves off from the fellowship of good men and women, and, what is more, from the fellowship of God our Eternal Father. We often hear it said that sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven, and that we should make sacrifices for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. All this may be true, but from my view-point the man who cuts himself off from the Church and denies himself full fellowship therein is the one who makes the greater sacrifice; for by so doing he sacrifices the fellowship of the Spirit of the Lord and welcomes darkness rather than light; in fact, there is no good thing that he does not sacrifice. 

With my brethren who have spoken, I have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know it is true. I know that every principle that has ever been taught by the servants of the Lord, from the Prophet Joseph Smith till now, is true; and everyone of them tends to the development of mankind, to lift them up and make them better. There is no principle that is degrading in the least. We cannot compromise with the world; we cannot meet them half way; but we are in duty bound to go all the way for the purpose of warning them and preaching the Gospel as we have received it. And unless those who hear the Gospel accept every principle of it they cannot become members of the Church of Christ. There is no half way business with the Latter-day Saints. You have either to accept every principle that has been taught by God Almighty or you cannot be baptized in the Church of Jesus Christ. We have no right to do otherwise. Jesus Christ taught the people in His day that all those who came to Him must be born again; and He sent His Apostles forth to preach the Gospel to every creature, and he that believed and was baptized, He said should be saved, but he that believed not should be damned. That is the only thing we can do. 

Now, we have charity for the world, but I glory in the testimony of Brother Ben E. Rich. I have a sort of indignant strain in my own blood when I hear these falsehoods spoken against us by men professing to be ministers of Jesus Christ. An appeal was made to the Gentiles who live in our midst, but I do not expect to see any number of them, however long they have lived in our midst, ever stand up and be men enough to deny to the world the lies that are told about us. I do expect, though, that if they go away from Salt Lake City for a period they will enter into the spirit of their brothers and lie with them. That is the only thing I expect from them, especially from those who wear the long coats and are professed ministers of the Gospel. We might name many of them to you, but you know them as well as I do. 

The Latter-day Saints, from the beginning until now, have suffered from the misrepresentations of this class of men, and I expect that we will suffer until Christ comes to reign from just such men. The hand of Satan is raised against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and he finds these professed ministers of the Gospel ready tools through which to work; and just so long as these conditions exist do I expect that these men will be employed in his service. Were not the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother murdered in cold blood by a mob led on by men who claimed to be ministers of the Gospel of Jesus Christ? Did not they, in their piety, as the Jews of old, cry out, Away with this fellow? They said, is he not a blasphemer? Is he net teaching false doctrine? Is he not leading away our sons and daughters from the doctrines and traditions of their fathers? Why, if we let this man go on he will turn the whole world upside down. Therefore, away with him, murder him; anything to get him out of the way! And did they not do it? Did they not partake of the same spirit that those who crucified the Son of God had? And did they not prosecute their devilish work even to a culmination? Certainly they did. I feel warm, too, at these things; for my uncle and my own grandfather were the men who were thus slain, and in my veins flows the same blood that was shed then on the soil of Illinois, and that still cries to God for vengeance. But while my prayers shall ever ascend to God for vengeance upon those who have slain the prophets, anciently and today, yet were those men brought before me and their guilt established beyond the possibility of a doubt, I would say, Let them go and let God execute His own justice; and I would pray, O God, be merciful to them in the justice which Thou dost execute, because they knew not what they did. If they did know, then oh, how worthy are they of the most dire punishment that God can give to the murderer! 

My voice shall ever be raised in defense of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and of the Latter-day Saints; and it shall ever be raised against those who denounce us and lie about us. May God bless you, brethren and sisters. May you get a testimony of the Gospel for yourselves, so that, whatever people may say or do, we will be able to endure all things, even to the very end, and then be saved in the kingdom of God. Then we will turn our attention, as we are now doing, to the salvation of those who have spoken against us. Our mission is a mission of peace, of salvation and of goodwill to every man who will repent of his sins and turn unto God. To every one who will cease to do evil, who will cease to backbite, to lie and to bear false witness, will we give the hand of fellowship, and welcome him, if he repent truly, into the Church of Christ. But, so far as I am concerned, I hope I will be able to establish myself so firmly in the Church that though the whole world rise against us, and though it cost my life with the lives of my brethren, I will remain faithful and firm to the testimony which God has given me. May the spirit of testimony rest upon us all, any may we indeed live near unto God our Eternal Father, and keep His commandments, in spite of all that may be said or done, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
