26
Overflow
05 10 1902
Elder George J. Cannon
291
45-46

None

None

My dear brethren and sisters, it was a great surprise to me when Brother Woodruff called out my name; it was the last thing I expected. Nevertheless, I can testify to you, as I have to my brethren and sisters and others, when the opportunity has presented itself, that I know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to the earth again, and that we are the recipients of its blessings. Before leaving for my mission to Germany, I, with the rest, received instructions, and we were told that if we could not say anything else in arising to speak to the people, we were to bear our testimonies and something would come to us. Therefore, in addressing you this afternoon I begin with bearing my testimony. My brethren and sisters, I have a testimony, and have always had it, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true. If we take the scriptures and compare the Gospel taught therein with the Gospel taught by the Latter-day Saints, we find that they are the same; that the Gospel taught by the Savior and His disciples in former days is identical with that taught by the Latter-day Saints. Those of us who have had the privilege of preaching the Gospel in the world have had numerous testimonies given to us, which have strengthened us in the testimony that we already possessed. I believe there is not a young man who goes out into the world to preach the Gospel that does not possess a testimony, although he may say he does not have one. He may not be aware of the fact, but the testimony is there just the same; it is born in him and only needs something to bring it out. We find that our young men, some of whom may have been careless at home, when they have reached their missionary field and, perhaps, have been put in charge of some branch, or placed to preside over a conference, and are obliged to explain the principles of the Gospel and to study them, are surprised and astonished to learn that they have had a testimony of the Gospel but did not know it. I would advise the young brethren and sisters to become acquainted with this testimony before they go on their missions, because they will then be just that much further ahead, and they will be better prepared to explain the principles of the Gospel. We are told, in the 130th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, a passage that I love to quote, that "Whatever principles of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection; 

"And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated; 

"And when we obtain any blessing from God it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." 

This should be an encouragement to us as Latter-day Saints — that through our obedience in this life, if we are more industrious and studious than another in seeking knowledge, we will have that much the advantage of him in the world to come. I trust that we, especially the young and rising generation, upon whose shoulders the furtherance of the kingdom of God, rests, will sense and appreciate the importance of this principle, and that, through our diligence, we will advance to a high degree of perfection. 

I pray that the blessings of our Heavenly Father will rest upon us. I testify to you in all soberness and humility that we are engaged in the work of God, and that, if we are faithful in the performance of our duties, He will bless us. I can testify that the law of tithing and the Word of Wisdom are true principles. I have always observed the former principle, and have also kept the Word of Wisdom; I was taught to do so by my parents, and I appreciate the blessings to be derived therefrom, for I have experienced them. May the blessings of our Heavenly Father rest upon us all, I ask it in the name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.
