31
Afternoon
05 10 1902
Elder William T. Jack 
293
54-56

None

None 

My brethren and sisters, I need not say that I am delighted at this opportunity of meeting with you in another general conference of the Church. For many years it was my lot to live in Salt Lake City, the place of my birth, and when conferences were being held it was not an unusual thing for me to be engaged in the avocation of life; but as time rolled on and my place of residence has been changed to one of the remote settlements in our neighboring State, I have come to appreciate the blessings of the Gospel, and the gatherings of the Latter-day Saints in which they come together and listen to the voice of the servants of the Lord, and receive that spiritual food which is calculated in its nature to strengthen and brace them up. 

It is a little over two years since the call came to me to remove into Cassia county, Idaho, the gem state of the Union. I am thankful to say to you that long years ago, from my parents and through the inspiration of the Almighty, I was taught the lesson of obedience, and I take pride today in saying that whatever word has come to me from the servants of the Lord, I have been willing to accept it cheerfully and to accomplish the work intelligently, so far as my ability would permit. I removed to the north and succeeded that venerable old pioneer, Horton D. Haight, in the Cassia Stake. I found there a delightful place to live. The climate is similar to that that we have in Salt Lake City. The district is new, and the possibilities of the country are immense. Lying out in the valley to the northwest of where our little city is situated there are 250,000 acres of as good land as can be found anywhere outside the valley of the Nile, and all we require in that district is the blessing of the Almighty and more water. We are waiting now for the hand of the artisan and the mechanic, and for the means of the millionaire, to come and assist us in taking the water out of the mighty Snake river and carry it upon that vast tract of land. 

In our religious work I feel very much encouraged. I think I can see a steady and constant growth on the part of the people. In the labor to which I have been called I am abundantly blessed with the association of two stalwart, faithful, tried and true men, Elders John L. Smith and William T. Harper, and with their aid, counsel and encouragement we are laboring for the advancement of the work of the Lord in that held. We rejoice in the thought that good is being done. We also are blessed with the presence of a Stake academy in our lcality. At the present time we have over 100 of our young men and women enrolled in that institution, and they are receiving that education which is calculated to prepare them, not only for the duties of life, but for the eternity before us. 

I rejoice in the work of the Lord. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the testimonies that have been borne by our brethren, and I have thought that it must be exceedingly discouraging to our enemies who have looked for the overthrow of the Gospel from the day of the assassination of the Prophet Joseph Smith until the present. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was among the people they thought he was the power of Mormonism, and they said among themselves that if they could destroy him, Mormonism would go down. They accomplished their desire, but Mormonism lived and flourished. When President Brigham Young, that noble leader of pioneers, came upon the scene, and he led the people to this wilderness and planted their feet firmly upon this land, they again thought that if Brigham Young were disposed of Mormonism would die. The time came when that venerable leader passed away; still the Lord had prepared another to take his place. Men have looked from time to time for the leader of the people to pass away, in the hope that the religion of the Latter-day Saints would then come to naught. But in this Conference we have seen a new generation, young men of faith, and of most promising futures, upon whose shoulders some day will roll a portion of the responsibility of this great work. While this must be most encouraging to President Smith and his counselors, to the Twelve Apostles and our leading brethren, it must be very discouraging to our friends who have waited and hoped all these long years for the downfall of Mormonism. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us, and that He will inspire us to be faithful and to be charitable to our enemies, remembering the words of Malachi the Prophet, who, in speaking of the wicked makes the statement that the day will come that shall burn as an oven, when all the proud, and they that do wickedly, shall be as stubble. "The day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch." I think we can safely leave the wicked and all their evil machinations unto the Lord: for that day will most assuredly come that shall burn them up, saith the Lord. "But unto you that fear my name shall the sun of righteousness arise with healing in his wings; and ye shall go forth, and grow up as calves of the stall." Therefore, brethren and sisters, be encouraged in good works. Put upon yourselves the whole armor of righteousness, do your duty, yield a faithful and implicit obedience to the counsels that are given you from time to time, and I promise you today that the power and peace and blessings of the Almighty shall rest upon you; your streams shall increase, your borders shall be lengthened, your boundaries shall be strengthened, and you will see the hand of the Almighty manifest in your deliverance in these troublous times, because just as sure as the angel has flown through the midst of heaven bearing in his sacred charge the everlasting Gospel and has restored it to the earth, just so sure are we living in the hour of God's judgment. Therefore, I say unto you, my brethren and sisters, be faithful to yourselves, and faithful to the trust that has been reposed in you, to the Priesthood, to the Father and to His Son Jesus Christ, whose blood was spilled on Calvary's hill. May we be humble and diligent in the performance of every duty, and may the power and blessings of the Almighty rest down upon the Prophet of the Lord, who stands at our head. May he be filled with power, with wisdom, and with every gift necessary for his high and holy calling, and may his brethren who are associated with him constantly hold up his hands and help him to accomplish the purposes of the Lord. I ask God to bless Israel in all her abiding places, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

