16
Morning
05 10 1902
Elder William H. Smart 
137
31-32

None

None 

My brethren and sisters, I feel very dependent upon the Lord to direct me in the utterances that I shall make. It has been very interesting to hear the reports from the various missionary fields of the world. It is gratifying to see the work of the Lord progressing in the earth and it makes my heart rejoice to receive testimonies of the same. 

A year ago last February I was called to go into the Wasatch Stake of Zion — seventy miles from this city by rail — to succeed President Abram Hatch as the president of that Stake; so that I am, comparatively speaking, an infant in this grave responsibility, and I can speak mostly of our good intentions rather than the labors that have been performed. We are 5,500 feet above sea level, away up in the tops of the mountains in a very beautiful valley surrounded by the everlasting hills. In reading of the physical structure of Switzerland I often think that our little valley may be compared in its beauty to some of the beautiful valleys of Switzerland. No doubt, this is why we have in our valley so many good, sturdy inhabitants from Switzerland. Our little valley shows the hand of hardihood, industry and privation; for the winter months have been long and the summer months short. There are those in that valley who have gone through all the privations of early life in these mountains. Many of them knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and passed through the trying scenes of the early history of our Church, and crossed the plains when it was but a trackless desert. We have nine Patriarchs to bless the people, and most of these Patriarchs had the privilege of knowing the Prophet Joseph Smith, and their old frames vibrate under the powerful testimonies which they bear that he was a prophet of the living God. We have many aged sisters who knew the Prophet, and who went through the early trials among our people. We feel blessed to have so many aged brethren and sisters still living among us with burning testimonies of the divinity of Joseph Smith's mission. 

I desire to say that we are endeavoring to keep up with the spirit of the times. We encourage our people to remain at home and build upon the worthy foundation laid by the men and women who were the pioneers of that little commonwealth. We have hundreds of acres in the valley still covered with sagebrush — virgin soil which has not yet known the plow — and our hearts are going out in loving sympathy to these untilled acres. Our hearts are also going out to our young men who are going to Park City, delving in the mines for gold and silver, and being led astray by the vices of the world, when there are still hundreds of acres yet uncultivated at home. Our minds are being led to some extent on the question of irrigation and along those temporal lines that will assist in sanctifying the land and bringing It to a higher state of cultivation. In spiritual matters we are endeavoring to do our duty. Our Heavenly Father has blessed me with two good counselors in the persons of Joseph R. Murdock and James C. Jensen — men who feel to give their lives to the service of God. They have stated that if need be all their time and means are at the disposal of God our Eternal Father for the upbuilding of His Church upon the earth. We have a High Council who are men of God. They are united with us in furthering the interests of our people. We have a corps of Bishops who are leading the people as best they can according to the ability which God has given them. We are endeavoring to be abreast of the spirit of the times with regard to the quorums of the Priesthood; but I regret to say that in our Stake we have experienced the difficulties which Bishop Preston spoke of in the Priesthood meeting last evening — that is, our work in the Teachers’ department is not as we would like to have it. In the auxiliary departments of the Church we are trying to keep up with the rest of the Church. Speaking of religion class work, the presidency and High Council, and for the most part our Bishops, are interested in this work. We see that it will be a mighty factor, under the blessing of God, in distilling the principles of the Gospel upon the minds of the youth of Zion. We realize that we feed our children's bodies three times a day, but too many of us have been contented to give them only one or two spiritual meals a week. Therefore, many of the youth of Zion are growing up physically strong, but spiritually weak. We recognize this condition in the Wasatch Stake. In visiting some of our religion classes, tears have rolled down my cheeks to see little tots stand before the class and lead their classmates in a practical prayer. It has made me think of that prayer of the Savior where He said, "I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes." I have thought of it, too, when our little children taught the law of tithing in these classes, have brought their nickels and laid them, like the disciples of old, at the feet of their teachers. 

May God grant that the spirit of progression may be in the hearts of the people in every part of the vineyard of the Lord, and that we, His servants, may be equal to the great duties that He has placed upon us. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
