32
Afternoon
05 10 1902
Elder S. R. Bennion 
294
56-57

None

None 

I deem it a great pleasure to have the privilege of assembling in this place and mingling my voice with the Latter-day Saints. It has fallen to my lot, from my birth to the present time, to always be associated with the Latter-day Saints, and I hope that it will ever be my lot. I pray that I shall enjoy the Spirit of the Lord sufficiently to enable me to endure faithfully unto the end, and to be true to the trust which is committed to me from day to day. It is only by constant labor and training that we shall secure to ourselves an exaltation in the celestial kingdom of our Heavenly Father. The prize is not to those who run swift for a few years, but it is to those who will endure unto the end, and I hope that we will all be enabled to endure to the end. I realize that we will be called upon to meet trials. It is written that the Lord is going to have a tried people. He will have a people that will serve Him and keep His commandments. Therefore, I look to be tried in all things. If I have not had trials they will come along soon enough; but I hope to be able to endure them. 

It is my pleasure to preside over the Uintah Stake of Zion, which is situated in the northeast corner of our fair state. We live in a goodly land. I suppose our Heavenly Father designed us to be there. Many good people live in that Stake of Zion, although there are some who are restless, wanting to go to the north or to the south. I remember a brother who resided there years ago. He had one of the finest locations in the valley, but wanted to go down where Brother Kimball is. "Whether Brother Kimball has him yet or not I don't know. He was anxious to go where he could raise five crops of lucern a year. In our country he could not take care of two, so that I do not know what he will do down there. It is better for us to be contented with our lot, and try to do our duty in all things; and if we do this we will be greatly blessed of the Almighty. The earth and the fulness thereof belongs to the Lord, and He has said that He will give it to whomsoever He will. He has promised to bless His people and to pour out His spirit upon them, if they will keep His commandments. I expect to enjoy every blessing that I live for. Every Latter-day Saint will enjoy everything he or she is entitled to. 

I pray that peace and prosperity may attend the labors of the Latter-day Saints, and the labors of the servants of God who are directing the affairs of His kingdom upon the earth. I feel satisfied with my brethren who are placed over me in the Holy Priesthood I am satisfied with those who labor with me in the Uintah Stake of Zion — my counselors, the High Council, and the Bishops. The only thing that I am fearful of is, am I doing my duty from day to day? If I am not, my Heavenly Father and my brethren who are placed over me will hold me responsible. I can bear my testimony in regard to this work. I know that it is of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that those who have succeeded him were prophets. I know that we have prophets and apostles to lead and guide the affairs of the kingdom of God upon the earth today. May God add His blessing. May we be humble before Him from day to day, is my desire and prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
