28
Overflow
05 10 1902
Elder Abraham O. Woodruff
47
48-49

None

None 

Blessings in disguise — Do good to all mankind. — Forbearance to the ignorant and wayward. 

My beloved brethren and sisters. I tried to handle a subject this morning in five minutes, and there are about two minutes left this afternoon. I wish to say just a few words, and I will try to get through in time for us to get out of here by 4 o'clock. I not only believe in beginning our meetings on time, but in quitting on time as well. 

Many sections of the country where our people are located have been suffering greatly through drouth during the past few years. I have thought over this condition a great deal, and have come to the conclusion that, for my part, I feel to thank God for the drouth as well as for the many blessings which He tends to us that are not in disguise. If it had not been for the grasshoppers, crickets and drouth in early days the Latter-day Saints would have been crowded out of their strongholds and places by those who would have desired to locate in our communities. Now, I can see the hand of God even in these trials, which come to us as blessings in disguise. Those Latter-day Saints who have faith in God will outwear the drouth and live to see their lands become fruitful, while those who are weak-kneed, who possess little faith, will be driven out by the drouth. Only those who are true to God and determined, through their faithfulness, to call down His blessings upon them, will be there to see conditions change and their land become fruitful again; for it will become fruitful again just as sure as the Lord lives. 

Now. our mission, brethren and sisters, is to all mankind. We have heard much good instruction during this conference, and it will be of great benefit to us if we will put it into practice. Let us not be selfish and feel that it is our duty to devote our life and time to our immediate family circle and our friends and favorites only. We, as Saints of God, who have received the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, must be broad enough to let our life extend to all mankind. It does not lessen that which we have to bestow upon our family and loved ones to extend a hand to all mankind, to those who are not of our faith; for there are many honorable men and women who have not been able to see as you and I see. There is a place for every one. There is a place for the young people who have been born of Latter-day Saint parentage who have no testimony of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is a mistake, when we see young men and young women who do not have a testimony of the truth, to point them out and say, or feel, that they have committed some moral evil and, as a consequence, have no testimony that this is the work of God. Those who possess a testimony of the truth have reason to be thankful indeed, for what a glorious thing it is. and how unhappy and uneasy are those who do not possess such a testimony and who are in doubt regarding the Gospel and the existence of God and the atoning blood of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. We may fell thankful, my brethren and sisters, that we have this testimony, and we ought not to point our fingers at those who have no testimony and feel that they are to be condemned on this account. Probably the circumstances of their rearing differed from ours; probably the Gospel has never been presented to them with such force and spirit and in such plainness as it was to us. I realize that the Lord told His disciples to go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature, and that those who would repent and be baptized should be saved, and those who believed not should be damned; but it is the Lord's business to damn or to bless His sons and daughters and not mine or yours. The Lord has commanded this people to forgive all men for their trespasses, and He would forgive whomsoever He would. Remember this in your troubles and difficulties in your dealings with your fellowmen. 

May the spirit of this conference and of this meeting go with you to the homes of the Saints, and may we be more determined to serve God and keep His commandments; I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
