20
Overflow
05 10 1902
Elder Wm. H. Seegmiller
60
38

None

None

I very much appreciate the privilege of meeting in this conference with my brethren and sisters. I have enjoyed myself very much in listening to the remarks that have been made since the conference began. 

I desire to add my testimony unto those of my brethren with reference to this great latter-day work. I know that we are engaged in the work of God, that the Gospel has been restored and that the Latter-day Saints enjoy its gifts and blessings. I know that Joseph Smith was an inspired Prophet of God, that he sealed his testimony with his blood and that his testimony is now in force in the earth. 

In listening to the remarks of the brethren this morning — although I may be but a new-comer in the Church as compared with those who gained experience in Kirtland, Missouri and Illinois, where the Saints were once located — when I came to consider that only fourteen years of the history of the Church had been made in Utah when I became identified with it, I began to feel that I had been associated with it for some time myself; and as I think over the changes that have come to us as a people, I also rejoice and testify, as my brethren have done, to the knowledge that I possess that God has been with this community; that He has guided them, that He has directed and prospered them, and that they have spread out, since those days, until they now occupy land outside of the realm of the United States. I know that as we have prospered in the past so we will in the future. 

The different Stakes of Zion have been organized that the Latter-day Saints might acquire an education which will prepare them for coming events, yea, for the coming of the Bridegroom. There is an important question that confronts us as a people, individually: Will we be numbered among the wise virgins or among the foolish ones? It is a problem that confronts ever one of us, than which there is no more important subject for our consideration. The path of counsel, we have been told, is the path of virtue. Those who observe the counsel and commandments which come to us from time to time from those who are inspired and appointed to advise the people, will be prepared to go forth when the word is sounded that "The Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet Him." 

There are grand opportunities before us, and I hope and trust that we will improve the chances and privileges that are ours today, that in time to come we and our children may stand with the people of God. When we look around we find there are names mentioned in the early history of the Church that we do not hear sounded today in the councils of the Elders of Israel. In reading the early history of the Church we are able to ascertain, at least in part, the reason for this. I hope and trust that we will appreciate the privileges that are ours; that we may have testimonies in our hearts strong enough to endure everything that may beset our pathway in life; that our integrity may be great, yea, that we may value it more than we do life itself. 

My experience thus far in connection with this work of our Father is that the more intently I labor to advance His purposes in the earth the more joy, pleasure and contentment I have. So, if it is a matter of contentment and joy, the way to obtain it, as I understand it, is to do the will of our Father in heaven, so far as it is made known unto us. 

May the peace of heaven continue to be upon the Latter-day Saints; may this great latter-day work continue to grow and increase, and may it accomplish in the earth its mighty destiny; may we who are beginning to grow old in the work of our Father not become weary, but may we continue faithfully on, doing those things that may be required at our hands, that at last we may gain the reward which the faithful are entitled to, and hear the glorious words, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant; enter thou into the joy of thy Master." I ask it through Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.
