15
Morning
05 10 1902
President Joseph F. Smith
36
30-31

None

None 

Appreciation of faithful labors — A spirit of restlessness not desirable. 

It may be appropriate at this moment for me to say a few words relative to the Alberta Stake of Zion. Most of the Latter-day Saints are aware of the fact that President Charles O. Card was the pioneer of that country, and for long years has been acting as the president of the Alberta Stake of Zion. We desire to say to his numerous friends and acquaintances that no man who has been called to such a position has been more valiant and faithful in the performance of his duty, according to his knowledge and ability, than President Charles O. Card. He has been indeed a pioneer, a faithful, energetic man, and has been instrumental in laying, to a great extent, the foundations of the prosperity of the Alberta Stake. But on our late visit we found that his health was so greatly impaired that it became necessary to honorably relieve him from the great responsibilities of presiding over that Stake; and I think you will all bear me witness, if Brother Allen will continue to maintain the spirit that he possesses today, we will not have made any mistake in selecting Brother Card's successor. 

I would also say that we do not desire the people to get in their minds a spirit of restlessness or a desire to migrate from one place to another. We would like our brethren and sisters to remain where they are, as long as they can consistently, and only those go to the newer Stakes who have a necessity to go. We desire to maintain our foothold and to continue to establish ourselves in the central Stakes of Zion. We realize the necessity for this, and we hope that the brethren and sisters of all the Stakes will continue to abide where they are and contend for the success of the people in the locality where they live. There are a few places where our people have settled which need no words of commendation to induce settlers to go there, because they plead their own cause; but we desire to keep the foothold we have. We do not intend to retrograde, or to yield up. We believe that there has been no mistake made in the past in forming settlements in the south and in the various places where our people are located. We believe that the hand of the Lord is in it all, and that those who directed the locating and settlement of those places were inspired by that wisdom which comes from above. 

