30
Afternoon
05 10 1902
Elder Andrew Kimball 
292
52-54

None

None

I rejoice this afternoon, my brethren and sisters, in this opportunity, and deem it an honor to my sacred father's name and to my sacred mother's name. I feel it an honor to the Indian Territory and Southwestern States Mission, with which I became so intimate, and to the Stake that I now have the honor to preside over. 

It takes me nearly two thousand miles travel to visit with you in conference, and it is my pleasure to gain all the information possible to take back to our people in the St. Joseph Stake, and they shall hail with delight my return to receive the word of the Lord as it has come unto us through the servants of God in these meetings. I indeed feel embarrassed to take up this valuable time, and if others feel as I do they desire to get the word from the fountain head; but we do appreciate the recognition of our Stakes and Missions, and we know that this is going to redound to the good of the Church; for the people will feel complimented and will be strengthened in consequence of this remembrance. 

The St. Joseph Stake of Zion is situated in the southeast corner of Arizona, adjoining Old Mexico and New Mexico. If you were to ride across Arizona, on the north, from Albuquerque, New Mexico, to California, you would see nothing but desert and tops of mountains among the timbers, and on the south along the Southern Pacific railroad nothing but sand hills and desert; but leaving the railroad, in a little oasis in the desert, you will find a happy people, nearly 4,000 Latter-day Saints, over whom I have the privilege of presiding. It seems that the Lord has preserved these choice little spots in the desert for our people. They could not be seen by the travelers going to and from California; but they were found by our people who were sent by President Brigham Young in early days. I will here say that those who left Utah in early days by team, did not find the promised land. They journeyed into Arizona, and, becoming discouraged, many of them returned home. There were some who had courage to remain and "hold the fort," and they have continued to increase, until today in that arid district of Arizona we have four good Stakes of Zion. 

I will say to you that we appreciate what has been said by the brethren in regard to the restless condition that exists among some of our people. There have been many inducements thrown out by some of these northern Stakes to draw people thither, and we ask you brethren of these Stakes to keep your hands off. We are happy and contented down there, and we do not want to lose our people. The trouble is, you are drawing away the financial men, the men of strength and character, whom we need ourselves. There are, however, a number in our Stake that we would like you to have. We are living in a desert. Every foot of the ground is sandy desert, and were it not for the water that is brought upon it by irrigation, it would still be a desert, and when the water is taken off it becomes a desert again. But it is one of the most fruitful spots on earth. Possibly you have heard some of my stories about big sweet potatoes, the large shocks of corn, the thrifty growth of trees, and all that; but they are true, nevertheless. While I was in St. Paul this summer, representing Arizona in the Trans-Mississippi Congress, I had the pleasure of telling something of the resources of Arizona, lest those people in the rainy districts might think they had it all. After I had told them that we had grown a sweet potato weighing 37% lbs., there was a Missourian yawned, got up and went out. You know, the Missourians have to be "shown." A Texan came up and congratulated me, and said to the convention, "Texas has held the fort in all these conventions up to the present day, but now we'll give it up to Arizona; we can't beat the sweet potato." 

We bring the water from the Gila river and carry it over the sandy soil, and with the warm climate we can produce anything on that soil.. We have already dispensed with our early crop of Irish potatoes, and are now eating sweet potatoes from the same ground. I remember a short time ago seeing a beautiful field of grain, containing possibly forty-five bushels to the acre, and just as I left there was good-sized corn standing on the same ground. 

Now, we do not want you people of Oregon and Canada to get excited and come rushing down, for there is not room for you. 

We have a Latter-day Saint school established in Thatcher, the attendance sometimes running as high as 220. They come in from the surrounding country, and are trained in the Gospel as well as the various branches of education. It was my privilege to be in the legislature two years ago, and while there I secured the passage of a bill giving to the Academy the National Guard, and now we have the largest National Guard in Arizona, and will get the regiment band soon. The governor, I want to say, is very proud of his "Mormon" boys. Recently it was my pleasure to visit him and talk with him about our country. He wrote me and asked me to go and see him. I called on him on my way home from St. Paul, and reported my trip in the interests of the Territory, and he was very much pleased. He wanted to know all about you good people, all about our organization, etc. He took me to dine with him, and his wife, a very amiable and nice lady, was there also. While there he desired me to get information from the other Stakes of Zion in Arizona in regard to our people, and I did so. The Arizona people are broadminded and liberal. They are not hurt with religion, however. We have no trouble from the outside churches. Occasionally a little upstart comes in from the east and undertakes to uproot our people, but he can get no following. Not long ago a wealthy Jew — Mr. Solomon — after whom the county seat is named, had some relatives and friends visit Salt Lake City, and they were kindly entertained on these grounds. They spoke to Mr. Solomon, and he was very much interested and desired to visit Zion himslf. They told him he must try and get into the Temple, and he said he would get a recommend from President Kimball. Sure enough, he came to Thatcher with the company and introduced them to me, and said, "Brother Kimball, I want a recommend to go to the Temple." "Well," said I, "Brother Solomon, I'll tell you how you can get there. Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins — and I know you need it — will let you through the door. Then you can take your wife along, if she will repent, and you can have her married to you in the right way." I went into the store and wrote out a nice recommend to President Lorenzo Snow, and he brought it up here, and President Snow entertained him for four hours. He came back and bore testimony throughout our country concerning the grand old gentleman at the head of the "Mormon" Church. He said he was the cleanest, nicest man he ever saw. 

Many good things have been said of us there. Last winter, while visiting in Tucson, one of our largest cities, Senator Ives, president of the last legislative council, asked me to dine with him. In the evening I joined him and his wife, and after they had put their lovely little family to bed, we commenced talking upon Mormonism. I saw they were interested, and for four hours I explained to them the rise of this Church, told them of the Prophet Joseph Smith in his boyhood, of the establishment of this work in the earth, of the exodus of the people across the plains, of their establishment in the Rocky Mountains, and explained to them in detail the organization of the Church. Occasionally I asked them if I was not tiring them but they would say no, go ahead, Mr. Kimball, it is immensely interesting. When I reached the point of divine authority, then the good lady, who is a devoted Catholic, said, "Now, I have it. Some time ago there were two Elders left some tracts in our home, and I told our Protestant people that they were not in it a bit as far as authority was concerned, for it rested either with ourselves or the Mormon people." I replied, "Yes, that is where it rests. You people claim the literal descent, but we claim that the Gospel was taken from the earth and restored again through the Prophet Joseph Smith." Thus our conversation ended. 

This is the principle upon which we act down there; we treat the outside world right, and they treat us right. As Apostle John Henry Smith said to me, "Andrew, we are not out of the woods yet;" and sometimes I think that his policy of kindness is the safest policy to win friends. I have not forgotten a lesson taught me by our venerable brother, Apostle Franklin D. Richards, when I was in the Indian Territory Mission. He said, "Brother Andrew, if you can do nothing more than to win friends unto the Gospel of Christ, you are doing a good work; for the honorable of the earth will have a much better opportunity than we can imagine — greater than many of those who have received the truth and not lived up to it." 

Brethren and sisters, Arizona is all right. We have a song, composed by one of our people, called "Arizona — the sun-kissed land." I wish now that I had sent it up here for Brother Stephens to have the Tabernacle choir sing it; for I want to tell you, it is good enough even for the Tabernacle choir. I was raised in Salt Lake City. These dear old streets and almost every nook about the city are familiar to me, and I love the people here with all my heart. My wife's folks and my folks are here. My wife said she had trembled all her life lest she might be sent into Arizona, and it seemed to me that was my condition, too. I went down there, in obedience to the word of the Lord, with a feeling of gloom and despondency hanging over me, and when President Joseph F. Smith set me apart he blessed me that I might not become despondent. 

I want to say to you that since I have been there I have not had time to be despondent. Arizona is the sun-kissed land, the home of the cactus and of the Gila monster. I am satisfied with my home there. I say, God bless Arizona; God bless her people. God bless those people that have had nerve and courage enough to stay down there and hold their homes; and you people up in these more favored districts, keep your hands off. God bless you all. Amen.
