46
Afternoon
06 10 1902
Elder Joseph B. Keeler 
302
77-78

None

None

It affords me much pleasure, my brethren and sisters, to represent before you the Utah Stake of Zion. It has only been about twenty months since that stake was divided, and three stakes made out of it; but I can assure you that its spiritual welfare, and, I hope, its temporal welfare, has been enhanced by this movement. It seems as though our quarterly conferences and our general meetings are as well attended now as they were before the division. From the reports we hear from the Alpine Stake and from the Nebo Stake, it would seem that they likewise are prospering. The people, on the whole, are striving to keep the commandments of the Lord. I believe they are increasing in their tithes and offerings. They rejoice in the educational advantages that they have. As you know, one of the great Church institutions is located in that stake — the Brigham Young academy. Its registration last Friday evening in the higher departments was 710 students, and 140 in the preparatory school. The stake is composed of seventeen wards and three branches, and all of the organizations are complete, I believe. 

I have been much interested, as doubtless you have, in the reports that we have listened to today. It seems as though, when we are hearing these reports, we cannot refrain from exclaiming, Zion is growing! We are living in the midst of the fulfillment of prophecy, as was remarked by Apostle Taylor. The faith and the testimonies of the people are increasing. I do hope that we will be able to follow the counsel and advice that is given to us from day to day by our brethren who are placed over us. I think it is wonderful counsel they are giving about remaining in the places where the Saints have settled, and have an inheritance there. I know full well that there is a restlessness among the people, even in our part of the land, where they are not so short of moisture as they are in other places. But the counsel to the Latter-day Saints is, Remain where God has planted your feet, unless you are advised to go elsewhere. I believe that the Lord will send the former and the latter rains. He is not going to drive His children from this chosen land. We are in a position that we may know in the spring of the year whether there is a prospect for much or little moisture and it seems to me it would be the part of wisdom if we should govern ourselves in our farming interests by these conditions. There are some crops that we need not plant if we know there is going to be a shortage of water. It would be better for us if we would intensify that that we already have; farm less in these dry seasons, and cultivate it more thoroughly, and in all probability we would get just as great returns. I have also been gratified to hear the counsel given regarding the betterment of the quorums in the Lesser Priesthood. I acted for a number of years in the Bishopric and I know the difficulties the Bishops have to contend with. I have been a short time in the presidency of the Stake, and I comprehend also the difficulties that have to be surmounted in that calling. I believe that we should get nearer to the Lesser Priesthood. "We prepare, say the Seventies, to go abroad to preach the Gospel. Our Mutual Improvement associations tend toward this; our Sunday schools in some respects tend toward this. But we find very little done for those who officiate in the Lesser Priesthood. I have rejoiced to see that a movement is now being undertaken to make more effectual the religion classes. I hope the brethren will pay some attention to this. The brethren who hold the offices in the Lesser Priesthood need to have personal attention. They need to come in personal contact with the Teacher. The trouble is I think, we talk to them at too long a range. They ought to be trained in their duties, the Deacon to be trained in his office, the Teacher in his. If the Teacher is a young boy, put him in care of some experienced man, and let him be taught the practical as well as the theoretical part of his calling. If our young men can be put through this system of training and education, the result will be, when they arrive at manhood they will be capable of going among the people and giving them good advice in their homes. One would think that the Seventy, coming from his mission, would be just the man to go among the Latter-day Saints in their homes; but that work is altogether different from the work he has been doing in the world. The work of proselyting is one thing, the work of Teacher among the Saints is another thing. Although they both belong to the Gospel, they are not quite alike. I feel to rejoice that the brethren have been advised in these matters, and I hope we will take these instructions home to our Stakes and wards, and put them into practice, that in the years to come we may have a valiant band of brethren of the Lesser Priesthood, or those who will act in that Priesthood, going among the people and teaching them their duties. May God add His blessings, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
