47
Afternoon
06 10 1902
Elder Milton H. Welling 
303
78-79

None

None

I rejoice exceedingly, my brethren and sisters, in the privilege I have had of attending this conference. I believe it has been the most inspiring spectacle of my life. To hear the brethren who are laboring in the various mission fields and in the Stakes of Zion report the progress of the work of God among the children of men is a testimony to me that the Gospel which we have received is true. I believe if the young Latter-day Saints will make a careful study of the proceedings of this conference they will be able to obtain a testimony of the fulfillment of prophecy in the spread and development of this work. The Prophet Daniel saw the time when a little stone should be cut out of the mountain without hands, which should roll forth and fill the whole earth. Today we can see in a measure that this word of God is being fulfilled, from the reports given here by the servants of the Lord who have come from different parts of the earth. 

I am honored this afternoon in having the privilege of speaking to you for a few moments regarding the conditions that prevail among the people of the Malad Stake of Zion. The Malad Stake was organized about fifteen years ago, with President Oliver C. Hoskins at its head. President Hoskins remained as the presiding officer of that Stake until about seven months ago, when I had the honor of being called to preside among that people. The Saints of the Malad Stake are united. They are laboring earnestly and devotedly, I think, for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God among the children of men. The Presidency of the Stake have visited all the wards, of which there are eleven, and two branches, and we find that the people are striving to the best of their ability to serve the Lord and keep His commandments. The Presidency of the Stake are united, and in my youth and inexperience I have been exceedingly blessed in my ministry among the people there by having two faithful, stalwart counselors — Brother Gibbs, who has been associated with the Presidency of the Stake since its organization, and Brother Ward, who has been presiding for the last twenty-two years among the Indians of Washakie. In that connection I may say that we feel proud of the fact that we have an Indian ward in our Stake, thoroughly organized, and with all the auxiliary organizations. These Indians are endeavoring to serve the Lord, and we feel that they are a credit to our Stake. 

My brethren and sisters, I desire to testify that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true, and that those who are placed at the head of this Church are inspired of the Lord to perform the work that they have been called to do. I trust that the Latter-day Saints may go forth from this conference to the various Stakes of Zion and carry the instructions they have received to the home of every member of the Church, that this work may grow and prosper in the earth. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
