38
Morning
06 10 1902
Elder Stephen L. Chipman
297
68-69

None

None

My beloved brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the privilege that I have of meeting with the Saints at the Conference of the Church, to receive the instructions which come from the leading brethren of the Church. I never come to these Conference meetings without being fed with the bread of life. I have shown to me many places in my character that are weak, and when I depart from the Conference I feel strengthened in my faith and in my determination to go forth among the people and, if possible, make a greater effort to accomplish good. I have rejoiced in the testimonies that have been borne by my brethren. I have been exceedingly grateful and satisfied in my feelings with the manner in which these meetings have been conducted, wherein we have had the privilege of listening to our brethren from far and near bear their testimony and tell of their work among the people. 

I have pleasure in reporting the Alpine Stake of Zion, which is located in the north end of Utah county. It comprises ten wards and four branches. The largest ward numbers about three thousand souls; the smallest about two hundred and fifty souls. In the ten wards there are now being erected seven meetinghouses, one of which you might term a magnificent tabernacle, which will cost in the neighborhood of $50,000 or $60,000. About two weeks ago we called the Bishops and the High Council of the Stake together and conversed with them upon the condition of their wards, and we found the spirit of harmony existing among them. On the following evening we called together all the authorities of the Stake, and from them we also learned that the spirit of harmony and good feeling prevailed in their midst and with the people they are presiding over. The presidency of the Stake are united; the High Council are united. We can testify that there is a good feeling prevailing in the Alpine Stake. In spite of the outlay of means in the erection of these meetinghouses, we are pleased to state that last year the people did not fall behind in their tithes and offerings. All the organizations of our Stake kept a record of their doings for the year 1901, upon loose leaves which were given to them for that purpose. These leaves were handed in at the end of the year, and have been compiled and bound in one record, so that we have the records of the different organizations, together with the minutes of the presidency of the Stake, all in one volume. The presidency of the Stake meet every week, to talk and plan for the welfare of the people. We have counseled our Bishops to do likewise, as well as the presiding officers in the various organizations. We have secured individual tithing cards for every member who paid tithing in our Stake last year, which have been given to the Bishops to present to each tithepayer. The card has on it the amount of tithing that the individual paid last year, and it contains space for the recording of his or her tithing for twenty years. We keep duplicates of these cards at our office. From the testimony of the Bishops we believe that this will result in good. Only this morning one of the Bishops reported to us that in delivering a card, the brother receiving it said he felt ashamed of the tithing that he had paid, and he has already paid a great deal more tithing this year than he paid during the whole of last year. The people are instructed to bring these tithing cards at the time of settlement, so that what they have paid during the year may be placed on them. 

We know that our labors among the people are appreciated, from the fact that they are carrying out the instructions which we have given them. We know that the gifts of the Gospel are among the people as they were anciently. Not long since one of our members met with an accident in the little city of Alpine. A large hayfork ran in his body at the shoulder to a depth of fifteen inches. The physicians were called in to dress the wound, and they declared that his chances for living were very slim. His mother received a testimony at that time that he would live, and therefore told them that he would not die. The Elders were called in to administer to him, and in about two weeks the young man was out upon the streets, and is living today. There was another brother, who came to us to receive a blessing for his speech. He was of a stammering tongue. Before he went on a mission to which he had been called, he received a blessing at the hands of the presidency of the Stake, and word comes to us that he has been wonderfully blessed so that he is able to speak to the people in plainness and without difficulty. We have the spirit of prophecy, the gift of tongues, the gift of revelation and of great wisdom in our Stake, and we feel to rejoice that these blessings are with the people today as they were anciently. We also can testify that we know the Gospel is true, and that the men whom God has called to lead in the affairs of the Church are men of God. The teachings they give us are true and timely. If we live up to them, they build us up in our faith and make us better men and women. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us in our labors, and help us to magnify our callings, that our faith in Him may be increased, that our testimonies may be added upon, and that we may have strength and courage to perform every duty required at our hands, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
