42
Morning
06 10 1902
Elder George Teasdale 
43
71-73

None

None  

A promise fulfilled — Pleasure In preaching the Gospel — The Lord answers prayer — Union among the servants of God.

I have been exceedingly interested during this conference, and have reflected upon the power of testimony that has been manifested here. Over 50 years ago I heard this everlasting Gospel. It was then promised to me that if I would worship the living and true God, repent of my sins, accept of the atonement of Jesus Christ, and obey the Gospel, I should have the privilege of a knowledge that God lived, that Jesus was indeed the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet tent of God, and that the signs followed the believer. I was told that I had to believe in God, the Maker of heaven and earth, the sea and the fountains of waters, and that I had to accept of the efficacy of the precious blood of Christ, which cleanseth from sin and sanctifieth the believer, and then I should receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of the Father which would reveal to me the things of God. This everlasting Gospel was preached to me in my early days. After some consideration I accepted it, notwithstanding it was so dreadfully unpopular; for the Latter-day Saints were nicknamed "Mormons," and the doctrine they taught "Mormonism," and those who embraced it were looked upon as the offscouring of all flesh. I received the promised testimony, and after 50 years' experience I do most assuredly know that God has spoken from the heavens, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet sent of God, and that this Church, now presided over by Presidents Joseph F. Smith, John R Winder and Anthon H. Lund, is the Church of the Lamb. 

This everlasting Gospel is being preached in all the world for a witness. I have had the privilege of traveling abroad to preach it. I labored for some time in the Southern States, declaring the message of salvation, and when I was released to come home I was sorry, for I was enjoying my labors so much among that people. No one could be treated any better than I was by the people of the Southern States. I never had to sleep out of doors, for the Lord always opened up the way for me. And I am so thankful to know that the Lord blessed the people that blessed me. Those who threw open their doors to the Elders, who fed and clothed them, and who aided them in the work of the ministry, though they have not embraced the Gospel they will most assuredly receive the recompense of reward from the Lord Jesus, our Master. We were representing the Lord Jesus Christ, not ourselves. We were not beguiling the people by falsehood, by false dogmas or foolish traditions; we were offering them the Gospel of the Son of God with the promise that if they would repent and obey it they should be put in possession of a similar testimony and knowledge to that which we ourselves enjoyed. Love the inhabitants of the earth? Of course, we do. I have crossed the Atlantic ocean seven times, not on pleasure trips, but in the interests of the Church, and I know how the Lord has protected me and taught me. He will do the same to anybody else, if they will put their trust in Him and ask; for He has declared in these last days that if we will ask we shall receive, if we will knock it shall be opened unto us, if we seek we shall find. We do most assuredly know that this is true. 

These are the glad tidings that we take to the nations. We tell the people what opportunities are within their reach today, if they will only repent and obey the Gospel. We are pleased to do this, because we love the inhabitants of the earth. As Latter-day Saints we are frequently admonished to live our religion. I understand that, to live our religion is to love the Lord our God with all our might, mind and strength, and our neighbor as ourselves, and speak of all the best we can. I understand that to live my religion is to mind my own business, attend to my own affairs, work out my own salvation, and magnify my calling. I understand that to live my religion is to trust in the Lord and do good; to seek earnestly for the blessing of the Almighty, and to be filled with gratitude to Him that I have the privilege of being a member of His Church, that I have a living testimony, that I have become sanctified through the precious blood of Christ, and that I have the fellowship of the Holy Ghost. The Lord has said He would be enquired after, and I have enquired of Him for the last 50 years, and do most assuredly know that when I have asked for that which has been necessary He has granted my prayer, having tested Him under many different circumstances in my labors. It has been my privilege to bear my testimony in many countries, and I have been thankful to Almighty God for the manner in which He has sustained me in all my travels. He has preserved me from all harm, and enabled me to accomplish His purposes. I have frequently said that if I had been as kind to myself as the Lord has been to me, I would have no reason to complain. I am thankful to declare the loving kindness of our Father in heaven. 

There is a living testimony manifested here. I shake hands with brethren whom I knew 50 years ago, when we were brought into the Church by our Father in heaven; for the Lord Jesus Christ said, "No man can come to me, except the Father which hath sent me draw him." I know that He drew me and enlightened my mind; I know that He drew my brethren and enlightened them. They know it, too, and we are living witnesses, living monuments of His mercy, that in all the vicissitudes of life our Father has preserved us and has filled our souls with gratitude and praise. He has given us the privilege of the higher education in His holy temple, and of all the blessings of the new and everlasting covenant. There is nothing that we have and enjoy but has been given to us by Him, and we say, All glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost! 

I am thankful that I have the privilege of bearing my testimony upon this auspicious occasion. I am thankful for this conference, and for the testimony of my brethren. It has been sweet to me to listen to their voices, declaring the goodness of God to them. We can see what class of men the Lord has selected to be his ministers, humble, childlike, filled with the Spirit of the Lord. Do we love each other? We do; it is impossible for us to do anything else. May the Lord God of Israel bless these His servants in all their outgoings and incomings. May they be established in His everlasting righteousness, that their days may never fail, but that their testimony may be true and bright, so that they may lay down their lives as members of the Church of Christ in full fellowship, to be received into the Church of the Lamb behind the veil, and to realize the promise, Blessed are they that have a right to the tree of life. If we can obtain a right to the tree of life, we will surely be members of the Church of Christ in good standing, to the glory of God our Eternal Father, through Jesus Christ. Amen.
