36
Morning
06 10 1902
Elder David K. Udall 
295
65-67

None

None

I desire the faith and prayers of my brethren and sisters the short time that I may stand before you. I am not like President Andrew Kimball, acquainted with every nook and corner of this beautiful city of yours. It is a revelation to me to behold what is to be seen in these lovely valleys of the mountains. It has not been my good fortune to be associated intimately with the leading authorities of the Church, only when they have visited our country. For twenty-seven years I have been engaged in looking after the interests of the Latter-day Saints in different parts of the Lord's vineyard. It has been my lot to be on the frontiers, and to assist in building up the waste places of Zion. I have rejoiced in this labor, and have seen the power of God made manifest on many occasions in the support and succor that has come to the Latter-day Saints in the establishment of new colonies. I rejoice exceedingly in the testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know this is the work of God. I have known for many years that those who led the Church were inspired of the Almighty. I can remember, in the days of my childhood, when the little children went out to greet President Brigham Young as he passed through the settlements of the Saints. I recollect how my heart leaped with joy and satisfaction in seeing this great man and in listening to his words and the words of those who accompanied him on those noted trips. In my ministry among the people I have rejoiced in the teachings and the words of encouragement that have come from the leaders of the Church, and I bear my testimony today that the men who lead Israel are men of God, who have had and do have the power and the inspiration to lead this people successfully, if we will adhere to their instructions. 

I have had great pleasure in my labors in the St. Johns Stake of Zion. "We do not raise these wonderful sweet potatoes that President Kimball referred to; but I will tell you what we do have, as no doubt President Kimball has in his Stake: we have a choice people in that land, who are trying to serve God. As an evidence of this, we discover in all the wards a desire on the part of the Bishops and the Saints generally to keep up the organizations that have been established for the welfare of the people. "We are at peace with our neighbors. We have the Navajos on one side of us, and the Apaches on the other; and in some places where our people reside there are Pueblo Indians. "We are at peace with these people. "We are at peace with the territory of Arizona, and I was very thankful to listen to the remarks of President Kimball yesterday in regard to our treatment there. I think it is due the people and officials of the territory that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints should understand that we are treated nicely and kindly in the country in which we live. The conditions surrounding us in the St. Johns Stake are rather peculiar. We live in a section of country where we are not favored with a railroad passing through any of our settlements, nor a telegraph line. "Whether these things are a blessing or not is not for me to say, but we miss these opportunities of the age. We rejoice, however, that we have the same privileges in the Gospel that you have who are more favored in these other regards. We have a people free from mortgages. I do not believe there is a single home belonging to the Latter-day Saints in that Stake of Zion that is under mortgage. Every meetinghouse, every schoolhouse, our Academy building, and all our public property, is free of debt; and though we are poor, we rejoice in that fredom. In our farming we depend almost entirely upon reservoirs. If my memory serves me right in the eight wards of that Stake we have fourteen reservoirs, constructed by the united labor of the people. With a population of about 1,500 in the Stake, we have expended in the neighborhood of $80,000 in the building of reservoirs, and we do not owe anything for them. 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, in having the privilege occasionally to come and visit with you and to attend the general conferences. I pray God to continue to bless and prosper His people. There is one thing comes to my mind that I will refer to. We have been very much exercised in our part of the country over our financial conditions. The young men and many of the fathers and husbands are under the necessity of leaving their homes to find employment, so that they may support their families in these dry times that we are passing through. The thought has occurred to us many times that if we could put forth the same energy and union in this direction that we manifest in keeping up the organization of the Church, it would not be necessary for us to leave home to find employment. I look forward to the time when in every village and city throughout the land where the people of God dwell, there will he industrial establishments, where our young people will he taught to work in wood and iron, etc., and by means of which we will be able to produce all that is necessary for our support. How is it today? We bring in from abroad that which we wear, and that which we eat in some localities. Nearly everything that we need has to be imported; at least, that has been the case with us for some years past, in consequence of the drouth. How it is that we can live and maintain this drain upon the people is a mystery to me. It certainly is an evidence that God is watching over us. In many of our homes we see the motto, "God will provide," and He, surely has provided for the colonies of the Latter-day Saints on the outskirts. I bear testimony to this today. God bless this people and the leaders of Israel, and may we be faithful and true to them, as they are true and faithful to the Church of Christ.is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
