41
Morning
06 10 1902
Elder Ira N. Hinckley 
300
70-71

None

None 

My brethren and sisters, I feel full of gratitude to my Father in heaven and to my brethren for the privilege of standing here a few moments, notwithstanding I must confess that I have rather shrank from it. Listening to my brothers that are laboring as presidents of stakes, seeing the good spirit that has attended them and noting the good instructions they have given I felt that if I should be called upon I might not be able to interest the people as much which will probably be true. I was much pleased with the remarks of Apostle Merrill this morning in regard to the great improvement made in this part of the country. I landed in this city in 1850. It was my good fortune for a while to be a policeman on the streets of Salt Lake City, and I used to know where every individual lived in the town, and where everyone sat when they came to meeting. But I was thinking if I was dropped down with my eyes blindfolded in some parts of this city now I would hardly be able to find my way out, it has made such a growth. 

I feel to endorse the remarks that have been made, and I assure you that on returning home I want to put into practice some of the things that have been told us, in which we are behind perhaps in our stake. We live just next to Beaver, and we border on to Juab stake. In listening I find out, as I always do when I come to conference, that we are lacking in some things, and that there is room for improvement in our stake. I am pleased with the opportunity of coming to headquarters for the purpose of learning my duty, and I desire to be faithful in discharging it. I have struggled along and am a member of the Church yet, and I hope to continue to the end. I find that the greatest difficulty I have, under some circumstances, is to fellowship myself from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet, not being altogether satisfied at times that I have done my full duty; but I assure you that I have been determined to do right although I may not have been so strong as I might in fulfilling all that has been required of me. I am pleased to note the improvement of the Latter-day Saints. I want to tell you that I have endorsed the leaders of Israel all the day long. I have traveled with this Church something over 60 years and I know a little about the people and the trials and hardships we have gone through; and when I see Zion at headquarters branching out over the hills enjoying plenty, dressing well, living well, I feel to rejoice. 

We have all the organizations in our stake of Zion that are in the other stakes and they are in pretty good shape. We have been suffering more or less for three years from drouth, and we have sometimes lost good citizens on account of it, and sometimes we have had some go that we are glad went. I was very much pleased with the idea expressed by one of the brethren, that when people want to leave a stake of Zion they should get a release. I tell you, I have always believed in standing to the rack, hay or no hay. That has been my motto all my life since coming to Utah. I have not been on preaching missions, but I have done some working missions. I love my brethren, I love the leaders of Israel, and I love and fellowship my brethren in the stake over which I preside. I know that the Gospel is true, and I pray God to bless us in all our walks in life, that we may stand shoulder to shoulder, in touch with all the leaders of Israel and in touch with our Father in heaven. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
