40
Morning
06 10 1902
Elder Charles D. White
299
70

None

None 

My brethren and sisters, in standing before you here, I feel as Brother Jones stated, as if I was overrated, although I am very pleased to be numbered with the Latter-day Saints and to have the privilege of meeting with you in general conference. I endorse all the remarks that we have heard during this conference. My testimony is that they are true, and that they have been dictated by the Spirit of God. The Beaver stake is in the southern part of this state, adjoining Parowan stake. While we have suffered in the past from drouth and frost, we have not the same reason to complain that they have. We feel that the Lord has blessed us abundantly, because we have very fair crops this year, and our prospects are bright. Beaver City, the capital of our county, is as nice a little city as there is anywhere. We may not have the rich soil and the good climate that they have in other parts of the state, but we have as good water, as fine streets, and as clean a city as there is anywhere. We also have a Church school that we are very proud of — a branch of the Brigham Young Academy — and it is doing a great deal towards making Latter-day Saints. I tell the people of Beaver that the money invested in that school goes further towards making Latter-day Saints than the money they spend in sending their Elders out into the world to preach the Gospel, although we have Elders out in the world who send us very encouraging reports of their labors. In that school we have many that will bear testimony, whenever opportunity affords, that they have learned that the Gospel is true through being taught there. We think that we have the nicest place for a Church school that there is anywhere in the state. We have 240 acres of land, and quite a number of buildings. There are perhaps a hundred rooms rented at the present time to students who are attending the school, and we have room for more. The school is increasing each year. This is the fifth year of its existence, and we are very much encouraged with it. We feel that the Lord is blessing the people of Beaver. I bear testimony that the Gospel is true. The Lord has certainly revealed His mind and will to His children in this age of the world, and there is no mistake about it. 

I pray that God will bless us, that we may be true and faithful to our callings and always be found steadfast and laboring for the advancement of the kingdom of God, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
