39
Morning
06 10 1902
Elder Uriah T. Jones
298
69-70

None

None 

In facing this vast audience I feel that I am overrated; but I am very grateful for the honor conferred upon me in having the privilege of representing the Parowan Stake of Zion. It is one of the oldest stakes in the Church, Iron county having been settled, I believe, in the fall of 1850. In the years 1853-4 iron works were started in that county, and the population at that time was about as numerous as it is today. After the failure in the manufacture of iron, the number of inhabitants was reduced nearly three-fourths. Cedar City then had three hundred families, and in 1856-7 there were only about fifty families. We now have a population in that stake of a little upwards of four thousand. We have all the auxiliary organizations of the Church in fairly good running order, and those who have charge seem to be alive to their duties. The tithing of the people is not as we would like it to be. Of course, we attribute that, to some extent, to the unusually severe drouth that that part of the country is going through at the present time, and which we hope will soon be broken. Numbers of our young men, the best of our communities, are moving to other places. During the last three years we have been under the necessity of organizing the Young Men's association three different times, the presidencies having moved to other places. The present prospects are that our wonderful iron deposits will be developed. Of course, we cannot tell; we have been fooled so many times that it won't hurt us if we get disappointed again; but from what we can judge at present the time has arrived when they will be developed, and instead of our people moving away we will have room for many to move in. 

As I have said, I feel it an honor to have the privilege of standing before you for a few moments and bearing my testimony to the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with us as a people, that we may be as a light set upon a bill, that the people of the world, seeing our good works, may be led to glorify the name of our Father in heaven. In the name of Jesus. Amen.
