Second Outdoor
08 04 1917

A second outdoor meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information building at 2 p. m., Elder Charles A. Callis, president of the Southern States mission, presiding. 

The singing was furnished by the Swedish choir of Ensign stake, Dr. G. W. Teudt, director/ GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

The choir sang : "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

Prayer by Elder James Blake, Sugar City, Idaho. 

.The choir sang: "Rouse, O ye mortals." 

ELDER JOSEPH R. SHEPHERD. 

(President of the Bear Lake Stake/) 

My brethren and sisters, and friends: I pray that you will give me your sympathy, your faith and your prayers, that for the short .time I may address you, that I may have the Spirit of the Lord, that I may say something to this assemblage that will be profitable. This is a new experience to me, and yet this sight that I see before me ought to be sufficient inspiration to draw forth from the speaker the best that he has to give. This is certainly a most inspiring sight to look upon : thousands of the hosts of Israel who have gathered on these grounds today to hear the word of the Lord. 

I have been very much interested during the sessions of this conference. I have been impressed with the thought that it is wonderful that the multitudes from various foreign countries have assembled here to verify and to testify to the divinity of this work and the fulfilment of prophecy. I remember very well, as a small boy listening to two elders from Utah speaking in a gravel pit in Hampshire, England. I remember distinctly the nature of their message to those who came to hear them. Though I was but a small boy at that time, the words which they uttered and the scripture they quoted, made a very deep impression upon my mind. I remember very distinctly one elder re that oft-quoted passage of scripture, "Come out of her, O ye my people, that ye receive not of her sins, and partake not of her plagues." I know very well that that message has been declared unto many of the nations of the earth by the elders of the Church in fulfilment of the prophecv contained in the New Testament. Hundreds and thousands have listened to that warning voice, and have gathered from nearly every nation under the sun. I presume if we were to take the time this afternoon to ask of this vast multitude here :. What nations of the earth are represented here ? we would find a large number represented. 

"Surely the Lord God doeth nothing but he revealeth his secrets to his servants the prophets." The mission of this Church has been and is to declare this warning message to the nations of the earth. Many have listened to the warning voice, and hundreds and thousands of those who have listened have gathered to this favored land of Joseph, this land that is choice above all other lands. They have come here, and, instead of being in the unfortunate condition of hundreds of thousands in the older countries, they have been permitted to engage in the work of the Lord. They have worked in the temples of the Lord. Their energies have been spent in saving the souls of men, rather than in the destruction of life. 

I do not know what would have been my lot had not my father and mother, and other members of our family, heard the warning voice and gathered to Zion. Of one thing I am sure, that I would not have received the blessings that I have received here. Of all people on the 125  of the earth, we ought to be grateful, my brethren and sisters. Of all people in this beloved country of ours, there are none who can really understand as fully as do we, the glorious benefits of this country of ours, this adopted country of ours; because, as Latter-day Saints, we have a religious conviction that this nation was established by the inspiration of God our heavenly Father. We believe that its constitution is an inspired document. We have been taught this in our organizations and in all of our gatherings throughout the Church. It is a part of our faith. We are devoted to this country of ours, not merely because of the financial benefits that accrue from being citizens of this great country, and that is no inconsiderable thing, but because we believe that this land, North and South America, has been held in reservation for the gathering place of the House of Israel from all over the world. Here, today, are hundreds and thousands, no doubt, who have either gathered from the old world or are the sons and daughters of those who have come from the old world. 

We believe that God intended that upon this land the true principles of liberty, justice, equality, and righteousness should prevail. The Lord knew that in the despotic governments of the world these things could not prevail. He knew what the conditions were : and, according to the words of the Lord spoken through his prophets, this land was dedicated and consecrated and set apart for this particular purpose. We are here in fulfilment of that prophecy. God's Church has been established upon this land. No other land offered the conditions that were necessary; from the  of this Church up to the present time, Latter-day Saints, consequently, have had a deep and a reverent regard for the government of this land. When I read the other day the message of the President of our beloved country, as he delivered it to Congress, and there as the Chief Executive of this great country, reiterated the very principles which God, through his ancient prophets, had written, my heart rejoiced. I could see that the Lord's word was being fulfilled. 

My brethren and sisters, we need not fear as to what the outcome of this Nation in her present struggle or conflict with other nations may be; because, so long as this government shall stand for the principles of liberty and justice, freedom in its true sense, and will acknowledge God the eternal Father as the giver of all good, and defend those principles, God has declared, and you may read it in the Book of Mormon, that he will fight her battles, he will guard her interests, he will take care of her, and he will fight the battles of Zion! I have no fear so far as this Nation is concerned, just as long as it will remain true and faithful to those sacred principles. Loyal and patriotic as they may be, no other people fn this great country of ours has the deepseated conviction that we have. It is a part of our faith, it is a part of that which we have been taught and believe with all of our hearts to be the very truth. As a nation, God will protect us, because this is his selected spot. It is the spot to which all of Israel will gather. 

The Lord will also gather the Jews to Jerusalem, just as truly as Israel will gather here, and the word of the Lord will go forth from Jerusalem, and the law of the GENERAL CONFERENCE: 

Lord will go forth from Zion. When I read the newspapers and see how the Holy Land on the eastern continent is gradually being prepared by reason' of this terrible catastrophe which has befallen the nations through their disobedience, I can see how the way is being prepared for the return of the Jews to Jerusalem. When I saw that wonderful achievement wrought in Russia, in so short a time, whereby religious freedom and the liberty of the press was granted to that downtrodden people, and when I heard of the thousands and thousands of the Jewish race who were being freed from bondage and slavery, I thought I could see again how the people of those countries were bringing to pass the predictions of the servants of the Lord. 

So, if we are faithful and watchful and prayerful, we can see the hand dealings of God every day of our lives. We can see the fulfilment of prophecy every day of our lives. I never knew so many prophecies of the servants of God to be fulfilled in so short a time, as have been in the last few years. 

We should rejoice that we are in possession of these things, in the Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants. See what the Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph. Read Section I of the Doctrine and Covenants, the preface to the book, where the Lord declares that the mission of this Church is to go into the nations of the earth and warn them of the judgment that is to come, and the wars and tribulations to come upon the nations of the earth. These conditions that prevail in the European countries today are but the natural result of the disobedience and the wickedness of the people, and that is why  Lord has made known to the nations through his prophets what would co'me to pass. He foresaw their wickedness, he knew what would be the result of their disobedience, and many of . the honest in heart, many of the House of Israel, have been gathered out by reason of listening to the warning voice of the servants of God. 

Let us remain true and faithful, let us rejoice in the thought that we are members of the Church of Christ restored in our day. Let us esteem it the greatest blessing that could come to us, and along with that ,let us rejoice in the blessed thought that we too are citizens of the greatest and the noblest and the best government upon the face of the land, the government under which the Church of Christ exists; and we, the Latter-day Saints, believing as we do, will be among the foremost of the citizenship of this country of ours in defending the principles for which it stands, of proclaiming liberty to all people. 

I am one who is simple-minded enough to believe that God Almighty has already fought the battles of our government. I believe God was with this country at the time of the Revolution. I do not think that without the blessing and the aid our our heavenly Father, so great a work would have been accomplished as was done then. And following right down, I believe that God was with our navy at Manila when that wonderful victory was gained by this country. Why? Because this country was defending those sacred principles for which this country stands, and because of wh : ch God said that he would fight her battles. I have no fear so long as we stand for those sacred principles, so long as we shall not 127  from them, so long as we shall not fight for conquest or aggrandizement, but for the extension of those sacred principles necessary for the alleviation of the condition of the people of the world. Just so long shall we be protected by Divine Providence. 

This is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters. I am thankful that I am a Latter-day Saint. I want to be true to the covenants that I have made; and we want the world to know, and everyone in this country to know, that there are no more faithful, loyal people upon this land, or people who have a higher regard for the principles of this government, or will do more to maintain those principles, than will the Latter-day Saints. We believe in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and this is the message that he delivered to this people. Through him we have received this knowledge, and because of it we believe that we will be foremost in the defense of these things. 

May God help us to be true and faithful as members of his Church, and when we are true and faithful Latter-day Saints, we are the highest type of American citizenship that can be produced. May God help us to be so! Amen. 

ELDER EDWARD J. WOOD. 

(President of the Alberta Stake, Canada.) 

I am from Canada, "men of the North are we." We have been at war, assisting our mother country for upwards of three years. Having been born here in Salt Lake, but now being a citizen of Canada, I am pleased with the attitude of my Uncle Sam. 

We have nearly fifty of our finest young men right at the front in France today. Before they went, a great number of people volunteered their services. When the recruiting officers came in our section of the country, they did not go among the people as they had done among other people, but they came in our Tabernacle and asked that we suit ourselves in volunteering our services. In doing that, they received the aid and the assistance of our home militia, the finest body of young men in all western Canada, "Mormon" boys, who had spent upwards of seven years in training, about ten days each year, and who had won high honor in all the competitions open to the home guard of Canada. They were the boys, seventy-five of them, who kept the Word of Wisdom, every one of them, and they were commented upon by the highest military officers of Canada. When we spoke about those who should volunteer, the officers said, "Give us these boys; we know them." 

The boys came, and under the hands of those who preside, received their blessings, and not one has been lost in all the armies of Europe among the Allied portion, which we represent and of which we form a part. 

When the time comes for any of you to volunteer, let it be said that the very best young men go. I see the wisdom of President Wilson's suggestion that possibly conscription should be put in force : they want the good men to go, and to get them, they may need to call them. 

Not long ago, we had one of our missionaries from Switzerland, who was doing missionary work in Germany. He told of a circumstance GENERAL CONFERENCE.  shows to me that the "Mormon" people have not any enmity in their hearts. I do not believe any of us desire to kill a German or an Austrian or any of the Teutonic nations in war, except as we may be called upon to defend ourselves. Imagine on the field of battle a German member of this Church receiving also under the hands of the missionaries a blessing that he should go in battle, and that he would not lose his life. The missionary states that this particular young man went to the front, his battalion was called to charge upon the English, and he noticed after the charge that very few were left. They were commanded a second time to charge. He remembered the blessing that he should not lose his life, and, he said, they made the charge, and all he could then remember was that he should not be called upon to shed blood nor lose his life, and he wondered how it would come to pass. After the charge" was made the next he remembered was that he was in a hospital in Berlin. 

Our boys from Canada had the same blessing given to them. Imagine a Canadian and a German "Mormon" boy meeting on the field of battle, each with that promise that they would not be called upon to shed blood nor lose their life in battle. Can you see any better solution to universal peace than by and through the sensing of religion as we feel it as Latter-day Saints, commonly called "Mormons" ? So much for the war. 

I am pleased to be with you today, this Easter day. We heard in the Tabernacle yesterday and this morning some very splendid discourses upon the theme of the resurrection of the body, from a Scrip standpoint. Let me take the time to tell you something outside of the Scripture, which has come under my personal observation. 

We have to the north and the south of our country Indian reservations. We have recently had an Indian by the name of Brother Warner, from Parker, Idaho, come up and do missionary work among the Blood and Blackfoot Indians across the border in Montana from our country. He and a young man named Galbraith — you saw his picture in the Era a few months ago, where he was in Washington and introduced to the President of the United States. He went there in behalf of the Indians on the reservation in making their allotments. His mother was an Indian, a Blackfoot woman. His father was an honorable Scotchman living very close to our country on the Blackfoot reservation. 

This Brother Galbraith had a dream. He said he came to our meeting. He saw in the meeting, in his dream, four or five old Indian chiefs siting on the stand. He knew these Indians were dead and had been for a long time. One of them was his uncle. The highest point on the Rocky Mountains near us was called Old Chief. That was the name of his uncle, the highest chief among the Blackfoot nation. He said as he went into the audience that this uncle of his told him to come up on the stand with him, and he said he wondered how it was, because this man was dead; he knew this. He went up and he heard his uncle stand up and preach a sermon to the audience there and turn around and say, "This nephew of mine must be our representative among our people." Be it said to Brother Galbraith's honor that al129  a half-breed Indian, he honors his race and is never ashamed of his Indian blood. He said the man spoke in a language he could understand, and he marveled at it. 

When he got to this, Brother Galbraith said, "What have I got to do ?" He said, "You see a book on the table" — and he pointed to a book on the table — "that book contains the history of our people. We are what people call all dead, and you are in the life, with the book. It will be told to you what to do." He awoke, and after two long years of investigating, he joined the Church. 

When Brother Warner came up, by permission of President Ballard, he went over and visited Brother Galbraith, and they went among the Indians, and they aroused a lot of interest among the Indians, and held a meeting in a half-caste's house. There sat in a corner a lady, a chief's daughter, and a man by her side, who was a half-caste. Brother Galbraith said when he looked down on those two they became almost white in his eyes. Whenever he spoke about the Book of Mormon the lady would apparently go white, and he marveled at it. When he got through the man stood up and said, "I know more about that book than you do, Brother Galbraith. I can see that. Let me tell you what I know. For three consecutive years I have taken my family and gone off into the woods, and when I got there (the first year was 1914), pitched my tepee and went off in the forest. I was told by a man who came there to meet me that I was to lie down under the trees, wrap my blankets around me, and go with him on a journey. So I did it. I went right off, and looked down on my body  I went with this visitor — saw an Indian there wrapped in his blankets, and I wondered how it was that I was living and yet it was I there wrapped in my own blankets. I wondered if anybody would come along and bury my body before I returned. We were gone a day, and the visitor had taught me, oh, so many things — many things you would not believe if I told you. because my own family do not believe them. The messenger said I was to come in 1915, and I did it. I went again on the journey. In 1916 the messenger said to me, after taking the usual, trip and seeing my body there wrapped in my blankets as before — and after the whole tribe called me a visionary man — said, 'During this year you will have a little dark man come to you with a book. That is the book that will tell you of the history of your people.' " 

The man stood up and said, "There is the little dark man, Brother Warner. I saw him here yesterday. He had the book in his hand. The old Indian told him to give me the book, and I have longed for it for three years. And he took it and wrapped it in what they call their sacred cloth, and said to the man, "Brother Warner, this is my book, not yours." 

He did not want anything to do with the Church at all — when they held a public meeting he went off among the Indians and got an interpreter to read the Book of Mormon to them. 

He saw his body. That is what I want to impress upon you. A great many of us Latter-day Saints have vague ideas of what the resurrection actually is. I was pleased to feel that today we could hold General conference on the day comGENERAL CONFERENCE.  as the day of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Yet how few really look upon the resurrection as I saw it, in my experience on the islands of the Navigator Group, in 1889. 

A young man from Provo — a great many know him, but I will not mention his name because what happened to him did not do him much good — was told by his mother not to go in bathing. We had been accustomed to bathing every day in the ocean, and had become good swimmers before this youngman arrived. I coaxed him to go in swimming- with us in the ocean. Those of you who have come from the old country know what it looks like on the beach when the tide is out. Those islands are surrounded by a coral reef, and in the reef there are large holes, ten to eighteen feet deep, and when the tide is out, we wind our way, guarding ourselves from the holes, until we come to the edge of the reef. Then we dive out into deep water, where we used to anchor our boat. 

I coaxed this young man to go. We got our bathing suits, and he followed me out. I wound my way through the coral reef, and swam out to where three others of our elders were. When I got there, one of the other brethren said, "Did not that brother follow you out?" I said, "Yes." But I looked around and could not see him' anywhere. He had told me he could not swim, and I thought he was bathing in the shallow water. 

We swam to the reef and hunted around and saw the young man in about twelve feet of water, in the attitude of prayer. We dove down, lifted his body up, and brought it up to the beach. Blood was coming from his ears and mouth and . We worked with him until we could see that he was dead. 

You can hardly imagine my feelings, feeling myself almost responsible for the death of that youngman. The natives gathered around and said, "It is sacreligious to work with a body after it is dead." But I suggested to the mission president that we take him into a house, dress him in his garments, and administer to him. Then I should feel more satisfied. We worked for over forty minutes with that young man's body, carried him onto the beach with his head down, his feet on my shoulders. No sign of life at all. 

We laid his body on a table, with over five hundred natives witnessing the ceremony of the anointing with oil. We anointed him and we blessed him. I felt his eyes move under my hands, and he awoke and came to, and asked us to place him up on the table and he would tell us what he saw, "before I forget it," he said, "for I can feel it Ls going from me just like I might be leaving a room." 

He said, "I called, when I got into deep water. You paid no attention to me, and the last thing that I thought of was of my mother's admonishing me to always pray in time of danger. When you took my body out of the water I was with you. When you walked up and down the beach I walked up and down with you. I saw my body. I prayed to God with all my soul that you would not bury me nor consider me dead until you exercised the power of your priesthood. I was told by something that it was the priesthood that had the power to return my spirit to my body. I watched you all the time. I wondered why you did not do it, hav131  this glorious ordinance in the Church. You elders apparently were going to forget all about it. And oh, how glorious, when you exercised your priesthood and anointed me with oil in the name of the Son of God and through the priesthood which you had! As soon as you said that, my spirit body entered my physical body." I am here to testify unto you what I know to be a positive fact. 

This, to me, my brethren and sisters, is the power of God unto salvation to those who obey and believe. By that power does the resurrection of the body come. I do not care what anybody says about this resurrection "fallacy," as our esteemed friends term it sometimes. I saw that thing happen, call it what you will. 

God bless you. Amen. 

A double male quartet from the Swedish choir sang : "Your mother is praying for you." 

ELDER STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN. 

(President of the Alpine Stake.) 

-My beloved brethren and sisters, and friends: I appreciate having been present this afternoon, in listening to the testimony and the exhortation that has been given by the brethren who have preceded me. I am here in response to the call of the President to say a few words, and I trust that I can enjoy the same sweet influence that has actuated the brethren who have preceded me. 

I was particularly impressed with the strong testimony that was borne by President Wood, of the power of God in behalf of this young man, and also with the story that was related of the brother in the North;  I was led in my mind to the scriptural passage concerning Nicodemus, who came to the Savior and wanted to know from him what he should do. The Savior told him, and Nicodemus marveled at what was told him, and could not understand it, and the Savior made this remark, "The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth : so is every one that is born of the Spirit." I thought of the power of God that was manifest in behalf of our brother, that Brother Wood could not understand how it was brought about, could not comprehend it. We do not understand it any more than we understand where this breeze that is blowing this afternoon comes from and where it goes, but we do know that it is so, and he said that he knew that God raised him up by his power. 

And yet, sometimes our young people are skeptical and want to reason out everything by the reason of man before they believe it is true. I want to say to the Latterday Saints present, and especially our young men and young women, that the things of God are not understood by the reasoning of man, but they are understood by the Spirit of. God, and "the wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh and whither it goeth." We see this power and, as Brother Wood said, we know of a surety that it is of God. When we testify that we know these things, we know it because we feel it, and while we may not always be able to explain to the comprehension of our young people just how we know it, we know it just as well as we GENERAL CONFERENCE.  that we live. We want to live by this power and testimony, so that we will cling to the iron rod, and will not be led astray by the wisdom and by the cunning craftiness of men. For this reason God has established in the Church men to lead and guide and direct us, and it is up to us to have faith and confidence in these men. 

I will say, my brethren and sisters, that I represent the Alpine stake of Zion, comprised of seventeen wards, in the north end of Utah ' county, a part of the old Utah stake. Our stake has been organized since the year 1901, and we have been presiding in that locality at the base of the noble Timpanogos mountain and by the beautiful Utah lake of fresh water. We have a garden spot, a most beautiful place to live, and have in that locality a gathering of God's people, who are industrious, who are serving the Lord, building up the country, and developing and growing in righteousness and good works, and we are raising up a class of young people in our communities who are faithful and true. 

However, some of our young men and young women are careless and neglectful, with all our schools, our churches, priesthood quorums, improvement associations, and the other organizations which God has inspired his servants to organize in our midst. We have much carelessness, indifference, and forgetfulness, and some who lack respect for the priesthood of God, and for their parents and those who preside over them in the Church. We are laboring with them and trying to impress them with faith in God, with good works, that they may grow up to be useful men and women in the Kingdom of God. 

I will say, my brethren and sisters, that I do not desire to talk long. My voice is weak. I am just recovering now from an operation, and I am afraid that I will injure my voice. But I know as I stand here that this is the work of God. I have seen his power, I have seen the fulfilment of his promises, and my desire is that I may so live that I may enjoy that spirit and be able to impress others unto good works, that they may take mind to themselves, and grow up to be useful men and women in the Church of God and in this great Government of which we form a part. And may we have this loyalty and testimony and spirit burning in our hearts forever, I humply pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MARK AUSTIN. 

(President of the Fremont Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters and friends, I was especially interested in. the story that was told us -by Brother Wood. Sometime before Brother Warner went on this mission, as he lives in the section of the country from whence I have come recently, I was on the train with him, and he said to me, "Brother Austin, I feel strongly impressed that I should say to the president of this stake, 'President Miller, I should have a mission to go unto my people.' " And I learned later that he had gone, and now we have learned in regard to that mission. Therefore I am specially interested, because I said to him, "You should see your president, and notify your brethren of your feelings in regard to this matter. You are impressed, no doubt, with the proper spirit in behalf of your kindred." Brother Warner is a very 133 , talented gentleman, a very excellent man, a splendid type among us, and he has performed a very wonderful mission according to the report and testimony of President Wood. 

My brethren and sisters, it is about twenty years since I spoke in the open air in the land of my fathers, to which I was called about twenty years ago — upon the streets of old England, carrying the message which had been revealed to the Prophet Joseph for the salvation of the children of men, and I rejoice in that work. I rejoice today, I am glad that I am identified with this people who have settled in these magnificent valleys. The testimony of their worth is on every hand, and the words that have been spoken by the brethren certainly must have found lodgment in our hearts, and will bear fruit if we desire to serve God and keep his commandments, and we have in our hearts to do good unto the children of men. 

I do not .desire to take further time. I want to hear from Brother Callis, a man who is capable and who is on the firing line and who is laboring for the establishment of the truth in the hearts of the children of men, that the peace that men are looking for may come. There is no possible peace without truth. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang in the Swedish language : "The Prince of Peace." 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(Fresident of the Southern States Mission.) 

The words which the President of the Church addressed to assembled Israel in the first session of this great conference were the words of a prophet and a states. They were more, they were the word of God unto this people. 

The newspapers carried a statement a day or two ago that this nation's resources which she would assemble for war beneath her starry flag were inexhaustible and greater than the resources of any other nation in ancient or modern times. Have we anything more under this flag? Yes, we have the noblest manhood and the noblest womanhood in the world. 

Are these sufficient? No. What more do we need? What is our daily need in war or in peace? It is God. The nation whose God is the Lord shall never be hurled down to defeat and disaster. It is remarkable how the great men of the earth are beginning to contemplate the greatness of this nation and are beginning to see that this nation will lead in the path of peace and that she has forces to redeem the old world from the evils which have produced this war which is drenching the ground of the old world with blood. Listen to the words of the American historian, John Lord: 

"But has America a higher destiny than to repeat the old experiments and improve upon them and become rich and powerful? Has she no higher and nobler mission? Can she lay hold of forces that the old world never had, such as will prevent the uniform doom of "nations? If America has a great mission to declare and to fulfil, she must put forth altogether new forces, and these not material. And these alone will save her and save the world. 

"We believe America was discovered not so much to furnish a field for infinite material expansion with European arts and fashGENERAL CONFERENCE. , which would simply assimilate America to the old world, with all its dangers and vices and follies, but to introduce new forms of government, new social institutions, new customs and manners, new experiments in liberty, new religious organizations. * * * Unless something new is born here which has a _ peculiar power to save, wherein will America ultimately differ from other parts of Christendom ?" 

Has America introduced new forms of government? The answer to that is the sound of crashing and tottering thrones, which is being borne to our ears on the winds that are sweeping across the ocean. When that declaration rang out by the inspiration of God that all men are created equal,- then thrones began to hotter, then the cheeks of monarchs blanched, and their knees trembled beneath them. 

Is there anything else that America has? Has America laid hold of forces which will save her arid save the old world from the doom which shall come upon them if this something new is not given to them? Yes, America has something new. Something new has been born upon this soil What is it? It is the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the holy priesthood that has been restored from heaven, which is the authority to act in God's name to preach the gospel and to officiate in the ordinances thereof. 

My brethren and sisters, what are the enemies that this mighty republic has need to fear? It does not fear men or nations. Under its flag will march the bravest of the brave. Let me tell you the enemies we must guard against : The desecration of the Lord's day. That  one evil which is a reproach upon our national conduct. The immolation of virtue and chastity upon the alter of lust in the great centers of our great republic is another evil. This mad pursuit after pleasure, this forsaking the things of God for cisterns "that can hold no water," this worshiping of mammon instead of the true and the living God, this speculative spirit that seems to rest upon the people of the nation, the lust for gold — will result in disaster so sure as God lives if not checked. These are the evils which will sap the virtue and strength out of our national institutions, because when the home is undermined, when the influence of the home is weakened, then the power, the prestige and the might of this great republic is correspondingly weakened. 

Ah, my beloved brethren and sisters, let us not forget that the battle is the Lord's, and as he is the God of battles, let the American people walk in unison with his laws, esteeming virtue, championing the cause of chastity, denouncing the awful crime of race suicide, encouraging people who are married to give legitimate expression to the God-given powers of fatherhood and motherhood, by obeying that divine law, "multiply, and replenish the earth." Thank God that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints upholds the sanctity of the home, encourages men and women to bring up their children in the fear of the Lord. Upon the brow of a true Latter-day Saint is not written, "wife deserter." 

When Saul was anointed king of Israel, the prophet Samuel said to him, "And the Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be 135  into another man." And the Bible records that as Saul went from the presence of Samuel, "God gave him another heart." Oh, that is what we as a nation need to pray for. Pray with David, "Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me." When a man repents of his sins and brings forth fruits meet for repentance, is he not another man? Does not God give him another heart, a new heart ? 

It is my good fortune to labor with many young men, your sons, from the valleys of the mountains, in the Southern States mission. They have come to the mission inexperienced boys, many of them, and I have had a heart to heart talk with every one of them. I have seen those young men go out into the mission field, they have preached upon the streets, they have sometimes faced hostile audiences, but the power of God has rested upon them, and when they went about their duty God has turned them into other men; he has giyen them another heart. 

So, my brethren and sisters, if the people will put all manner of evil beneath their feet; if they will turn wholly to God : if they will set their faces as flint against those evils which are vexing mankind, God will give them new hearts, and by obeying the gospel, they will become better and stronger. What bondage is there to be compared to the bondage of sin? What load can a man carry that is so awful and so blighting in its effects as a conscience racked with the torments of hell ? There is no autocracy, there is no despotism, there is no monarchy so cruel, so hard upon a man as the despotism of sin, of a conscience burdened with guilt. 

I plead with men who are tormented with the knowledge that they have done wrong, to repent before God, to go to him, to hate sin, to bring forth fruits meet for repentance, and when a man does go to the Father with a humble heart and a contrite spirit, the peace of God that passeth all understanding will fill his soul, and then he will know that there is no freedom so sweet, no happiness so deep and enduring as the peace and the joy that spring from serving the Lord and keeping all his commandments. 

Oh, mav the soldiers that go from our beloved states in the West go with the spirit which the 2,000 young Lanianites had. They said to their prophet leader Helaman : "Father, behold our God is with us, and he will not suffer that we shall fall." And Helaman said that these young men "had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, that God would deliver them. And- they rehearsed unto me the words of their mothers, saying, we do not doubt our mothers knew it." 

Mothers in Israel, your sons may not be called upon to go into the battle rank, but they will go to fight a harder battle, perhaps. They may have to meet the temptations, the vices, and the evils of the world, which are ever threatening the overthrow of young people. I ask you, mothers, as a servant of God to continue to teach your sons that if they will be virtuous and chaste, and have faith in God, that' their lives will not be scarred with these awful evils, and that thev will not sacrifice the precious birthright which Go'l hath given unto them in being born children of the covenant. 

I beg of you mothers and you GENERAL CONFERENCE.  to teach your daughters that they, too, have to fight a strenuous battle. God bless and protect the womanhood of this nation! The young women, under the sustaining prayers and the counsels of their mothers, need the restraining discipline which , characterizes a well-ordered home. Protect the young men and young women, and build them up in the faith of the true and the living God, so that when they go forth in the great battle of life, they will have the assurance that they will not fall victims to the evils of the world. God help us to be loyal to him, to give unto him all the praise and the glory. And if we go forth to battle, let -us remember that the great God of the whole earth, Jesus Christ, is the King of the American people. As we walk under the Star-spangled Banner, let peace and charity and mercy and prayer abide in our hearts, that we may be worthy to be soldiers of this Godestablished republic and soldiers of the Cross, true children of the God of Israel, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The authorities were sustained unanimously as in the Tabernacle meeting. 

The choir sang: "Song of the Redeemed." 

Prayer by Bishop John R. Winter, of Rexburg, Idaho. 


