Second Overflow
08 04 1917

A second overflow meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., Elder Melvin J. Ballard, president of the Northwestern States mission, presiding. 

Music was furnished by the Richards ward choir, under direction of Leonidas Fisher. 105 

The choir sang: "O awake, my slumbering minstrel." 

Prayer by Elder Richard C. May, counselor in the presidency of Big Horn stake. 

The choir sang an anthem : "Hark, hark, my soul." 

ELDER S. NORMAN LEE. 

(Recently appointed President of Box Elder Stake.) 

I am greatly pleased, my brethren and sisters, to be numbered among the people of God, and I am highly gratified that the Lord, through his chosen servants, has seen fit to place this honor upon me. I feel insignificant and inadequate, but I have an abiding faith that the Lord will fit and prepare his servants, if they show a willingness to work in his service. 

For something more than twenty years I have been engaged in the work of the Lord in connection with this Church; and in that time, though it may seem short in comparison with the experience of some of my brethren and sisters, I have learned that one of the greatest of all requisites is that of willingness. When I answered a call to go into the world to preach the gospel, when I was a mere boy, I made a resolution with myself that I would go where the servants of the Lord wished me to go, and perform such work as they desired at my hands, and I have found that that resolution has stood me in good stead in every department in which I have been engaged. When I reached Copenhagen, and met my good friend and mission president, Christian M. Lund, of Mount Pleasant, the first question he asked me was, "Where would you rather ?" I said, "Brother Lund, I should like to go where I am most needed, and I leave that matter to you." I found later on that many of the brethren were in the habit of expressing a preference for a certain mission field, and I understood then how it was that President Lund seemed to be a little surprised that I had no preference, and that he singled me out for special attention all the time during that mission. I was sent to a place that was not very popular with missionaries, and after laboring there for six or seven months, a call came to send elders into the Baltic provinces of Russia and away into the country of Finland, and President Lund chose me for that mission. I traveled through Finland and in the country roun|d about Pertograd during three months of the summer just twenty years ago, hunting up Saints who had wandered away from the fold or who had been left without a shepherd when the change in government in Finland took place; and in that experience, more than anything that had fallen to my lot up to that time, I learned a little of what it is to engage in the labor of love among those Saints who had been without a shepherd for a number of years, who were so del : ghted to see the servants of the Lord that they wept with joy. We also wept with them, my brethren and sisters, because we received thus our recompense for anything like the sacrifice that we had made. And little by little I learned that the great power in this work is the power of love. It is, a feeling that urs;es us onto labor for the general uplift of mankind, and when I had performed my mission in that country, and been honorably released, I made the resolution with GENERAL CONFERENCE. , on leaving that land, that when I returned home, I would not slacken my energies, but that I would try and keep the harness on. I am very pleased to say that I kept that resolution, more or less, and that I have always been employed wherever .1 have been located, and have been identified with the work of the Lord. I think that that willingness to go where I was sent had a great deal -to do with my having received a call to go to Liverpool, in 1899, and to assist President Charles W. Penrose in the publication of the Millennial Star. And when I went upon that mission, I renewed that covenant that I had made with the Lord and myself, that I would not choose to have my way, but that I would try to find pleasure in doing things that the servant sof the Lord wished me to do, and I have been very gratified with the experience on this second mission. I was associated one year with President Penrose, and one year with President Clawson, and I have learned many things that have stood me in good stead in my labors since that time. On my return home, or almost before I reached home, in 1911, I was asked to become a member of the high council of the Box Elder Stake of Zion, and I labored there for two or three years, and then was asked to become a counselor in the bishopric of the third ward, Brigham City. Some of my brethren looked upon that as a sort of a demotion, and asked me if I did not feel that way, and I do not know but that my beloved President, Oleen N. Stohl, thought that' I might feel that way. He therefore gave me my choice as to whether I should work in the high council or accept this position in the bishopric in our ward. It  a source of satisfaction to me that I answered that if I thought I could do more for the general welfare of the community in the bishopric, that that was the place in which I should like to labor, and I went into the bishopric. As I look over those recent experiences and consider my recent appointment to the highly honorable position of president of one of the greatest stakes of Zion, I have thought that that had something to do with bringing about this appointment, that I have never had any hesitation to serve where it was thought I could serve best. I have never had occasion to regret it, and I am inclined to follow that resolution more than ever, and it is my constant prayer and desire to do something, to work in "the Church, and that I may so conduct my work in the Church that my brethren who preside over me should know exactly where I stand. I do not find it necessary to consult my feelings as to whether it would be agreeable with me or not, but they could place their hand on my shoulder with assurance of knowing that I was there; and whatever requirements may be made for me, I hope that I may always feel as I do today, that I will do the will of the Lord without respect to my own convenience and feelings. May we all be blessed with that feeling, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER Q. HALE. 

(President of Boise Stake of Zion.) 

"And again, the Lord shall utter his voice out of heaven, saying, Hearken, O ye nations of the earth, and hear the words of that God who made you. O ye nations of the earth, how would I have gathered you together as a hen gathereth her chick107  under her wings, but ye would not? How oft have I called upon you by the voice of my servants, arid by the ministering of angels, and by mine own voice, and by the voice of thunderings, and by the voice of lightnings, and by the voice of pestilence, and by the voice of earthquakes, and great hail storms, and by the voice of famines and pestilences of every kind, and by the great sound of a trump, and by the voice of judgment, and by the voice of mercy all the day long, and by the voice of glory, and honor, and the riches of eternal life, and would have saved you with an everlasting salvation, but ye would not? Behold the day has come, when the cup of the wrath of mine indignation is full. Behold, verily I say unto you, that these are the words of the Lord your God" (Doc. and Gov. 43:23-27). 

The spirit of this conference and the thought that has repeatedly come to me are best expressed in the words that I have just read to you. 

What is the language of the Lord, and how does he speak to his people ? Language is only useful in the communication of thought. That thought may be communicated in writing, as I have read it to you, which appeals only and is serviceable only to those who can see and who can read and understand the words that they see. Thought may be communicated by the word of mouth, serviceable only to those who have the gift of hearing and who understand the language in which those thought symbols are expressed. To those who cannot see, and cannot hear, there has been a means devised by embossed letters, that thought may be communicated by appealing to one of those three natural senses. God, likewise, has chosen those means of communicating to his children, by the written word and by the spoken word, and also he communicates through . He has other means of communication, by the whisperings of the still small voice that is heard by the ear of our spirits. And when his children fail to heed the written word, fail to respond to the spoken word, fail to hear and obey the whisperings of the still small voice, then God must speak in some sterner language, that his children will understand and obey, and he often employs the forces of nature, in the thunder storm, in lightning, in famine, in earthquake, in some one of the forces of nature, to bring to the understanding and attention of his children that which they would not understand in more gentle tones. For 120 years God spoke through his servant Noah to the children of his great world family, as they existed at that time. They failed to respond to the spoken word; they failed to respond to the word of tradition, as it came down to them from their father Adam, and so God must then speak through some voice of nature that his word might be heard and his mandates obeyed; and the clouds of heaven gathered, and burst forth and scattered rain upon the earth until the low places were filled, until floods dashed upon the streets and into the valleys, and the people began to flee from their homes to the high places. Noah had withdrawn with his family into the ark, and with him the chosen beasts of the field. When the people perceiving their peril cried out unto God, "Save us from this peril," it was too late; their opportunity for salvation had passed. 

God spoke through his servants, by his word of inspiration, by dreams, by revelation, even through the mouth of the boy Joseph, that there would come & time when GENERAL CONFERENCE.  would fill the land. The brothers and nephews of this boy who had been so favored of the Lord sold him into Egypt and then, later, at the feet of pagan Egypt the children of Israel had to kneel and beg for bread. Yet rebellious Israel forgot God in their days of prosperity, and were finally permitted to be taken into bondage and captivity to the Egyptians, and for years and years they suffered the humiliation of slavery. When the time came for their deliverance, there came the voice of God to the pagan idolaters of Egypt, "Let my people go," but they heeded not the voice of the servants of God, which made it necessary to appeal to them through some of the forces of natture, speaking through some sterner voice that they might understand and obey, and pestilences of frogs, of lice, of darkness, came, and yet they did not understand. Finally, the word went forth that "this night shall the first born son in every Egyptian home be slain." When the morning broke and it was discovered in the homes of the Egyptians that their first born sons were slain, then they understood. God had at last spoken a language that pagan Egypt understood and obeyed, and Israel went forth, miraculously .delivered from tne hands of the Egyptians, mricaulously delivered from the waves of the Red Sea, miraculously fed in the wilderness by manna from heaven, by water from the rock; and while their prophet Moses was upon Mount Sinai, receiving the commandments written upon tablets of stone by the finger of God, the first of which read, "Thou shalt have no other gods before me," Israel, this chosen people, down in the valley, were bowing down to a golden calf,  crying for the fleshpots of Egypt. Idolatrous worship had again filled their hearts, and the Lord was compelled by such expression, by such idoltry, to cause them to circle about in that great desert until they had all, practically, passed away, that their offspring might go over the river Jordan into the promised land. 

We hasten on. In the days of the Master, we find him presenting that great parable of the marriage feast, wherein was shown that he sent out servants to invite his subjects to the feast. A few only came, and then he sent them out again : "Go ye into the highways and byways, and compel them to come." Not by the force of the law, nor the force of armies. They had declined to come because, some had recently married and were on their honeymoons, others had purchased a yoke of oxen, and were so busy caring for and trying them; others were so busy in the fields and could not come. But then went forth the command to bring them, sent out, not by strength of arms, but by removing the obstacle that stood in the way. "Thou shalt have no other gods before me," and if there is an object of worship standing between me and my God, when my God speaks for me to come, I must watch lest that object of my affection, the object of my worship, making it possible for me to obey, is removed, whether it be wife, whether it be riches, whether it be lands and possessions, it mattereth not. When God speaks, it is for me to hearken; when God commands, it is for me to obey. Saul of Tarsus was on his way to Damascus to take bound the Saints of God unto Jerusalem. He had heard the word of the Master; he had heard the testimonies of the apos109 ; he had read the scriptures, and was second to none in his knowledge of the law, and yet he heeded not the written word, the testimonies of the apostles and prophets of God, all were unheeded by him. God must yet speak in some other language, in some other manner, to awaken in the heart of Saul the spark of truth; and while on this mission of persecution the voice of God spoke out of the clouds, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" Saul fell dumb and blind to the ground, quivering, shaking in every part of his body. He knew that some power had spoken, because, he felt it all over him, and was turned blind and helpless on the ground. And as soon as he regained his speech, he called out, "Lord, what wouldst thou have me to do?" "Go to Damascus, seek out Ananias, and he will tell thee what thou must do." Paul obeyed. When he approached Ananias, Ananias had already received the revelation, and was ready for him, and he baptized the repentant Saul, laid his hands on him, and when the Holy Ghost came upon him, the scales fell from his eyes, and Saul, the persecutor of the Saints, became Paul the great indefatigable apostle of Jesus Christ. 

The Lord hath spoken in this day. His word has been revealed by the mouths of angels, and even by the mouth of the Son of God. ' His word has been revealed in the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and in the revelations known to us as the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. And this gospel of the kingdom, in conformity to the instructions and commissions imposed upon those who organized this Church and who constituted its first elders, has been  to practically every civilized nation in the world, and has been preached as a witness of the second coming of the Christ, and the message of salvation to the children of men. And yet, while these nations have been warned, while the gospel has been carried to them by thousands of elders, yet . they remain in the same condition of unbelief. And while they have had the Bible and Christian churches who aspired to guide them toward heaven, yet they remain in ignorance of the peril that hangs over their heads, and God has been compelled to speak to the European nations in the sterner voice of war and bloodshed, brought upon them by their own avarice, by their own jealousies, by their own indifference to the commandments of Go.d, and the teachings of Christianity; and if it be the will of God that this condition must continue, and if it be necessary, I say, that this price must be paid for that most precious of all possessions, namely, peace, as heralded by the angels in their song at the birth of the Christ, then let us pray that when this price is paid that peace may come, and that the peace of God may be manifest in the earth and among the inhabitants thereof, and the earth be prepared for his second coming. 

Let it not be said of you, any one of you, or of me, that it shall be necessary for God to speak in any other way than by his own word or by the spoken word through the mouths of his servants, before we obey. Let us be like the brother who preceded me today, let us be ready and willing to go where we are sent, and stay where we are asked to remain. Let us respond to every duty, fulfil every obligation, live up to every responsibility, for GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I want to tell you, in the name of the Lord, that we are living in the most perilous times in history.. There has never been a time in your life, and never will be again, when a greater price shall be paid for bread and the necessities of life, than in the year that now confronts us. Let us stand on safe ground, and know that we are on the side of liberty, righteousness and God. Then we are safe. 

Let us have the testimony the prophet Brigham Young had, and so expressed in these words: "I have made up my mind to live my religion, and be saved, though all other men go to hell." There was positiveness; there was conviction; there was strength. And in the strength of such character and such faith, God's people will be protected in these valleys of the mountains. But without this faith, without this testimony, without righteous living among the people of God, there can be no promise. 

God help us to live our religion, keep God's commandments, live up to our obligations as Latter-day Saints, and get the testimony that he lives, that this gospel is true, and it is worth living for, and it is worth dying for. May God help us to do this, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ARTHUR W. HORSLEY. 

(President of the Carbon Stake of Zion.) 

I am very grateful to my heavenly Father that I have the privilege of attending this conference. A few days ago I did not feel physically able to come to Salt Lake, but through my faith and prayers, and the will of the Lord, I am able to be at this conference and to enjoy  spirit thereof in listening to the servants of the Lord, listening to his prophets, seers and revelators give unto us instructions that are for our good and benefit today. 

While listening to what has been said during this conference, and what has been said by the elders this afternoon, the thought has gone through my mind, if ever there was a time in the history of this Church or the people of this Nation when we needed to watch and pray, it is today, for we are truly living in perilous times, and we know not what the end will be. But we will have to stand in holy places, and pay our devotion to God, our eternal Father, and pray to him for his guidance that we may do the right. 

We need to look after the boy and the girl today, because we expect them to be the men and the women of tomorrow. We must teach them the correct principles of the gospel, not only by precept but by example. There is a vast amount of work for the elders of the Church to do, at home and abroad, warning mankind of the impending judgments that will befall the wicked unless they repent and turn unto God. We have many precious souls given us to watch over in the various wards and stakes of Zion, thousands of them born under the new and everlasting covenant need to be watched over and to be taught the principles of the gospel. But I have been grieved sometimes when I have heard some of the brethren say that they have not time to labor at home, and that they have come to the conclusion that so much ward teaching in the wards of the Saints is not really necessary, and this is verified by the reports we get from time to time when we find in some Ill  only 20 or 30 per cent of the inhabitants of the stakes visited by ward teachers. I rejoice in the labors of the ward teachers where I reside.becanse I know they do good. I am very much interested when they visit my house, not so much interested perhaps in the eloquence which they may display, or the doctrines which they may promulgate, but I am anxious for the answers that are coming forth from my children, wondering, when questions are put to them by the ward teachers, what the answers will be. That is what I am concerned about mostly, and I am always pleased if the questions are answered. If only the simple question is asked: "Do you pay your tithes and your offerings ?" I await, trembling sometimes, the answer, and I am always glad when the answer is, yes, we believe in that doctrine, and that we observe its requirements. Then the question, "Do you pray unto the Lord morning and night for his guidance?" I wonder again what the answer will be, and I rejoice in my soul when the answer comes, "Yes." And again, when the question comes, "When you grow up and desire a wife, or a husband, as the case may be, do you understand it is your duty to go to the House of the Lord, and to be sealed for time and all eternity?" again ,1 await the answer, trembling and wondering what the answer will be, and it brings joy to my soul, when I hear the answer, "I will, if the Lord is willing, and I am worthy." These thoughts are very practical to the Latter-day Saints, and they are highly necessary. We want to know just what our boy is thinking about, and just what our girl is thinking about, and we want to know if they have a testimony of this gospel in  souls. Fathers and mothers should know this, and they may not get it in any other way than through the ward teacher. I might ask the question, and they might not want to disappoint me, and they would say "yes." I have heard young men say that they went on missions because their father asked them to go, and they wished to please him. I want my boy to go because he feels it his duty, whether it pleases me or not. And they should have the necessary faith for this, and we should teach these principles. We should labor while it is day, for the night cometh when no man can work. 

I was very forcibly impressed with the remarks of President Smith, when he said we want to be loyal to God and to our nation. We must be loyal to God every day of our lives, and I hope that when our boys have to go out in defense of our country that they will go with the love for humanity, and desiring the liberty and rights of the children of God in the earth. Well might the Savior say at one time, "Ry their fruits ye shall know them." We are known by that which we produce in the earth, and we want it said of us, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." 

I know that this is the work of the Lord. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that God lives, and he hears and answers the prayers of the Saints, and the sick are healed through faith and prayer. I know that these principles are true, and my prayer is that we may live in the earth so as to be entitled to the blessings that God has in store, that when it comes time for us to lay down this body it may be said truthfully of us, 'Well done, thou good GENERAL CONFERENCE.  faithful servant, enter into the joy of thy Lord," which is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang : "High on the mountain top." 

ELDER WILLIAM T. JACK. 

(President of the Cassia Stake of Zion.) 

My brethren and sisters: I am very happy to be permitted to meet with you in this general conference of the Church, and with you to rejoice in the splendid testimonies and the words of truth and inspiration that have fallen from the lips of the general authorities of the Church. I rejoice in the word of the Lord, because in it there is righteousness; it points to us the way, it suggests to us the course that we ought to pursue. It teaches us that we ought to walk in the path and be directed in the course in which lies salvation in the end. At this moment there are assembled together in the three congregations upon this block possibly more than twenty thousand members of the Church, men and women who have come from all the different parts of the Church, that they might be instructed in the word and will of the Lord, and I earnestly desire that while I shall stand before you for a few moments this afternoon that my time may not be spent in vain, but that the same good spirit which has prompted those who have preceded me in this position, and which has actuated all of the speakers in the general assembly during the past three days, and this morning, may be felt during these few moments. 

That the Lord has spoken again from the heavens there can be no question in our minds. That the  spoken of by John the Revelator (John 14:6) has come to the earth, and has brought that glorious message, we do not doubt this afternoon. Indeed, our presence here is an evidence of the belief that we have in the fulfilment of that glorious prediction by the Apostle John. And that the Lord appeared to the Prophet Joseph, Smith is equally evident. And that the gospel has been established upon the earth is true. Possibly the majority of those who are here this afternoon are members of the Church, and to attain that membership it has been necessary for us to believe in God, accepting him and acknowledging him as our spiritual Father, as the Father of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh; and that Jesus was born of the Virgin Mary, and that he fulfilled his earthly mission, and that his life was concluded in the sacrifice that he offered for us and for the world. We believe that through the atonement of Christ all men will be saved, through obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. This is specific salvation. There is in the atonement of Christ a general term of salvation. "As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive." So, as many as shall die and have died through the transgression of Adam, shall be resurrected from the grave by the atonement of Jesus Christ. That will be true of all men, saint and sinner, Jew and Gentile, bond and free. All men will be participants in the benefits of the atonement of Jesus Christ, as far as the resurrection of these bodies is concerned. There is no question about that in my mind. If there is any one fact in scripture that is proved beyond the peradventure of a doubt more 113  another, it is the fact of the literal resurrection of the bodies of those who have lived. With this belief in the Father and in his Son Jesus Christ, who came into the world that we might live, and our belief in that wonderful influence that comes from the presence of God and fills the immensity of space by which our natural minds and our understandings are quickened, our eyes opened, and our comprehension is enlarged, to which we refer as the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, — I say with faith in this, and with faith in the love and mercy of our Father in heaven, and in men whom God has chosen from among their fellows and placed upon them a portion of his honor, giving them authority to officiate in his name and power to act among the children of men in the same manner and with the same effect as though he were present himself and performed these ordinances, we are fit candidates for initiation into his Church. With faith in God, with faith in Jesus Christ his Sop, with faith in the mission and operations of the Holy Ghost, and with faith in the men whom God has appointed to preside over us in the holy priesthood, we are then fit candidates for baptism, that baptism by which we are "buried in the water" and come forth out of the watery grave to a newness of life. "Know ye not," the Apostle Paul declares, "that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? Wherefore, we are buried with him into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead, by the glory of the Father, we also should walk in newness of life; for if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also raised up after the  of his resurrection." Now we have received these glorious ordinances. We have been baptized in the water, in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, and we have come forth to a newness of life. I hope, my brethren an.d sisters, that it is to a newness of life. I hope that we were able to "put off the old man" of sin when we went down into that watery grave. I hope we have been able to live above the traditions of the world, so that when the hands of the elders were placed upon our heads and the Holy Ghost was conferred upon us that we became fit receptacles for the indwelling of that divine influence, that we might then be in that attitude of mind and purity of body that we. would be able to receive the whisperings of that still small voice, and that we would be guided by its promptings, directed by its influence, and strengthened by its power. And if we have thus lived, and if today we sit in this congregation as men and women thus favored of the Lord our God, then happy are we. But I am sorry, my brethren and sisters, to admit in your hearing this afternoon, that there are many of the Latter-day Saints who believe in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the restoration of the gospel in the day and age in which we live, who went forth into the waters of baptism and received the "laying on of hands of the presbytery" and who, soon after, sat down on the banks of the stream, and failed to grasp the situation and the opportunities around about. They failed to live their religion, fa : led to comply with the requirements made upon them, failed to grow with the growth of the Church and today they find themselves far GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the rear of the advanced condition of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. So these conferences are called, these assemblies gather together from time to time, in order that our ears may be opened to the voice of the Lord as it comes to us through his divinely appointed servants, and if we are wise and desire, in a night not very far distant, to have oil in our lamps and to have those lamps trimmed and burning, we will receive the word with gladness, and we will put it into practice in our lives. We will be guided by it in these days of trouble and trial and evil in the world, and we will live near unto the Lord, so that when these troubles become more grievous, and perhaps more close to us than they have been in the past two and a half years, that our feet will be found standing in holy places, that we will have God for our friend, that we will have taken the Holy Spirit for our guide, that we will henceforth be able to stand amid the wh : rl of doubt and the fear of nations, having our trust planted in the God of Israel, realizing and remembering the promises that Jehovah made while he was here in his personal ministry, and which he has made through his spoken word to the Prophet Joseph Smith. If we are able to read, we will read the signs of the times, as Daniel read the handwriting on Belshazzar's wall and understood in a moment what it meant. 

I believe every Latter-day Saint ought today to be standing in such a holy place, and living such a holy life, that he or she will be able to discern the signs of the times. We may not be able to tell, as was stated this morning, within any certain number of months or years, the  of the second advent of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ; but we will know this, that when the fig tree is putting forth its leaves summer is nigh, and that the warm weather will soon come upon us. We may know just as assuredly that we are living in a time near the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, if we are able to read the signs of the times. I do not know how many of you have read recently the 24th chapter of Matthew, and have considered the words of the Lord Jesus, uttered prior to his crucifixion, with reference to these very times in which we are living. If you remember, he refers the people to the prophecy of Daniel of old, with reference to the destruction of Jerusalem and with reference to the days and times in which we are living and his second coming. You remember he makes the statement that when these tribulations and destruction, referred to by Daniel, shall appear among the peoples of the earth, then is time for us to be putting our feet in holy places. I want to say in passing that those who have attended the sessions of this conference have endeavored, and to this extent have manifested the disposition to be in a holy place during this time, and I congratulate you for it, my brethren and sisters. You are doing well. 

If in your lives, during the coming six months, or the coming year, or years, you will continue to stand, not only in this holy house, or in all the holy houses tnat God has appointed for us to meet in, it will be well with you. When I look over the reports, I find that only an average of from 16 to 20 per cent of the membership of this Church attend their sacramental meetings on Sunday afternoon, I am constrained 115  believe that some if not many of the Latter-day Saints have not decided to stand in holy places on the Sabbath afternoon, and I think thai, the words of Paul are finding some application in the lives of the Latter-day Saints, in which he said, speaking to his favorite son, Timothy, that in the latter-days, those in which we are living, "perilous times shall come, for men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasure' more than lovers of God." I am afraid that sometimes this spirit of evil is entering in among the Latter-day Saints, in that we would rather be somewhere else on the Sabbath day, when our feet should rest in some holy place, during the two hours of our sacramental meeting. 

The same is true of the priesthood. Twenty-six per cent on an average of those who hold the priesthood attend the ward priesthood meetings. It is not very creditable to us, as members of the Church, is it? Every blessing that we enjoy, or that is to be enjoyed in the Church, either in time or in eternity, must come to us through this holy priesthood. When we forget this, we forget our duty to God, and to ourselves, and also to the priesthood. We are told in the 29th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that those who have not this priesthood in the world to come will have no power of salvation; that those who are cast off into the outside, where there shall be weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth and eternal darkness, will not be  to come out of that place because they have no power. Now, you brethren who hold the power of the priesthood, and that means the power of salvation by ' which you can lift yourselves above the groveling events of this earth, and be exalted, heirs to the kingdom of God. Therefore, let us honor this priesthood; let us do our duty, and comply with all the requirements made of us, and God will honor us both here and hereafter. 

Needless to say we are living in troublous times, when that phial of wrath has been poured out upon the land and upon the sea, when the hand of destruction is falling upon those who dwell upon the earth, upon the land and upon the sea. I think so, and it will increase until the consummation of all things and the dawn of the millennium have come 'to us. We need not be surprised at these things. They are coming. Our sons may have to go to the front. They may have to enlist and go out and face the enemy, the enemy of our country, because I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that God has given this land to be the home of the free, and this country will ever be a free nation. I do not consider that the time will ever come that any foreign king will ever be permitted to rule upon this land, because the decree and purposes of God are all opposed to that. But there will come a time — there is coming a time, when the good people of this nation, just as far as their wickedness extends, will be scourged by the hand of the scourger until thev have opened their eyes and understood the purposes of God. 

Let me say. in closing, that in the midst of this time let us be sure that GENERAL CONFERENCE.  keep in mind the purposes of our lives. Some men may love to conquer as they have done in the past, and we know we hope to conquer. I want to say to you for the comfort of those mothers and fathers of sons that may have to go into the war, that we shall and must conquer in the power of Israel's God. The history of the past shows us very plainly that very few men, without the power of God resting upon them, have been able to conquer, and that principle suggests the truth today as it ever was. There are a great many things besides fighting for us to do. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is an organization of peace and an organization of uplift. Not very many days ago, in the section in which I live and in the stake over which I have the honor to preside, there came into our district representatives of the Canadian government, soliciting our young men, our sons and our fathers, to leave their homes and go over into Canada, in order that the soil of Canada might be tilled and crops produced. Their young men had gone to the war, their communities had been deprived of men who had been engaged in commerce and labor, and therefore it became necessary for them to send representatives into the various states of this nation in order to employ boys to till the soil for them. Perhaps many of our boys will rush headlong into the ranks, so that little means will be left for help in tilling the soil. I live in an agricultural district, and I consider very strongly that an important duty is to the soil, to the raising of crops in order that the people, even those who are engaged in the conflicts of war may be pro with the necessaries of life. There will be plenty to go to the front; and yet, all should be ready to go, if required. Though I am past the age myself, yet I feel, if the time comes and necessity calls for it, and my other necessities will spare me — because I have other duties that I cannot very well forego — if I can be spared from those other callings and wants, I will be glad to do all I can. Yet I must recognize that these other things devolve upon me. 

Our loyalty need not be questioned, because God knows there are no people in the United States in whose veins flows more loyal blood than in the veins of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Well, let us be true to ourselves, my brethren and sisters; let us be true to the Church that has given us such a glorious heritage. Let us be true to God who has made it possible for us to occupy these peaceful valleys of the mountains, that we may live out in perfection the life that God has given us, so that when we shall pass away from this earth there shall await us the glorious reward of salvation in the kingdom of our God, I humbly ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Elder Melvin J. Ballard sang a solo : "I'll go where You want me to go, dear Lord." 

ELDER SERGE F. BALLIF. 

(President of the Cache Stake of Zion.) 

My beloved Brethren and Sisters: I can assure you that I feel very humble and dependent upon the Spirit of the Lord in standing before you here this afternoon; and from the bottom of my heart I de117  that the Lord may prompt me in the words that I may utter in your hearing. We are living in an age when God has again spoken from the heavens, and established his work upon the earth. That work will remain; it will not be taken away, and it will not be given to another people, because it has been established of our heavenly Father. It matters not what we might or might not do; it matters not what influences may be brought to bear in the world, my testimony is that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been established in the earth and it will remain to accomplish the full purposes of God, our heavenly Father. I have a testimony that is burning in my bosom which declares to me that. God lives. It declares to me that Jesus is the Christ. It declares to me that Joseph Smith is indeed a prophet of God, raised up in our day as an instrument in the hands of God to accomplish divine purposes. 

Today we say there are a great many prophecies going into fulfilment. The prophets have said that there would be a change of seasons, the seasons would be changed, that mens' hearts would fail, that all the former signs would be changed, and the peoples of the earth would change in their opinions, and that wars and rumors of wars would agitate the hearts of people in the world. My heart goes out today to the people in the world. 

A number of years ago I was called to go upon a mission, and in the commencement of my mission I was assigned to labor in the little kingdom of Belgium, in the little city of Liege. I was afterwards appointed to travel without money and without price in all the cities and hamlets in that little , and had the privilege of bearing my testimony to a great many people in that land. With all my heart I am thankful to my heavenly Father for the privilege that I had to go to that land, and to raise my voice of warning unto that people, to declare unto them that the heavens had again been opened, that the gospel of Christ had again been established upon the earth in our own day. It was indeed a great pleasure to me, and I want to say, that during my labors there I found a good people. I found them to be hospitable. They have taken me into their homes. They have given me a bed to sleep in, food to eat, and clothing to wear, and many of them have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ and I believe that the testimonies of the elders who have traversed that land stand out before those people today, even as the handwriting on the wall. They remember the testimonies, and they are burning in their bosoms. 

I want to testify to you that it is not alone the testimonies and the acceptance of the gospel; it is not alone the fact that you received the gospel and that you went down into the waters of baptism and were born again; but the great question for me and for you to know is, that we have accepted that gospel with clean hands and with repentant hearts, and that we came out of the waters of baptism and received by the servants of the Lord through the laying on of hands the Holy Ghost. I testify to you that though you go into the waters and come out of the waters, if you have not repented in your souls, your baptism will not be accounted unto you for righteousness. Therefore, I say it is important for us to realize and understand that when we GENERAL CONFERENCE.  into these sacred covenants we have not finished, but have simply commenced the great work that lies before us. 

After laboring a short time in Belgium, I was called to labor in the Swiss-German mission, to preside over that mission, and I had an experience during my time in that land, in France, in Switzerland and Germany, and I want to say to you that my heart is filled with gratitude to our heavenly Father that 1 did have the privilege of bearing my testimony in all the provinces of Germany, in Austria, in Hungary, in France, in Switzerland, in many of the homes of the people. I feel thankful for the privilege that I had of going into those lands and bearing unto them a warning testimony of the establishment of the Church of Christ in our day. It was not without a great .deal of opposition that the gospel was preached in Germany. I remember many times of attending meetings in the great city of Berlin, the capital. Many times before we met, in fasting and prayer, we implored the Lord that he might protect us in the secret meetings that we were about to hold, that we might not be molested by the hands of those who were our enemies, that they might not overtake us and banish us from their land. We had the message of peace and of love, and our souls were filled with love and our desires were to deliver our message to that great people in the land of Germany. Ofttimes the secret officers entered our meeting houses, dressed as civilians, and there they have taken our missionaries, thence to prison, and many times our elders have served .days and weeks behind the bars for the gospel's sake, but I want to testify to you that our el did not murmur. They sang praises to God, and the testimonies of the gospel burned in their bosoms. There was no doubt in their souls that God lives, no doubt in their souls that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and that God was able to take care of them and protect them. They were always ready and willing to go where they were called to go, it mattered not what the danger might have been. And I believe today there are thousands of people, yes, I was going to say there are millions of people directly and indirectly who have heard the testimonies from the lips of our elders as well as from the many tracts that they have distributed in those lands, I believe, today, that their hearts are pricked. They believe in their souls that they rejected the message of life and salvation which was delivered unto them. I remember at one time in my travels throughout the mission, I went up to attend a conference in Koenigsburg on the Baltic, near the borders of Russia, and we held a splendid conference, and the Spirit of the Lord was manifest, although we were in secret, and our house of worship was filled with strangers. The Spirit of God was made manifest in great power. And I believe that in my broken German I stood before that congregation and bore my testimony to them, and for the first time during the six years that I was in the mission field, after the services were ended, the officer of the law tapped me on the shoulder and said, "Come with me." Those were indeed trying moments', but there was no fear in the souls of our elders. We knew that we were engaged in the work of the Master, and that he had the power to protect his servants. I went with 119  man to the court of justice, and for many hours they questioned and cross-questioned, and then sent me from one department of the court to another, and finally, for the first time in all my experience (this I have never told before), the judgment came, and I was banished from Posen. I did not make it known to my brethren in Zion. And those few who were with me, I told them, this shall not go further. But on my dismissal I continued my labors, and I visited all of the large cities in that land, and notwithstanding the fact that the officers of the law were watching for us, our enemies were on the lookout for us in all the cities of that land; yet from time to time we visited those cities, and we preached the gospel of Christ unto them unmolested. I want to say to you here, when I came out of that house of judgment I was directed to the American Consul, and if ever in my life my heart was touched, it was when I passed before that building where was located the American consullate, and there I saw the Stars and Stripes unfolded. If ever my heart went out in gratitude to God that I was born under the Stars and Stripes, I felt then like bowing my knees and thanking God for the flag, which declares peace and liberty to all men; and in my soul I felt that the time sometime will come when freedom will reign in that great land of Germany, when they will, in the providences of our heavenly Father, have a land of freedom in that country, when men can go and proclaim their belief in God according to the dictates of their conscience, and proclaim it in that land as they can now do it in the land of America, the land of the Stars and Stripes. 

That was my thought and desire when I visited that splendid people, and I want to say here that the masses of the people in Germany today are not responsible for the conditions that exist in their land. There is the blood of Israel in their veins. The handdealings of the Lord will be meted out in justice unto the rulers of that people, and the time will come, and is not far distant, when the meek and the lowly, the humble, in that land will have the privilege of hearing and embracing the gospel of Jesus Christ. In all my experience in the German mission — and in my experiences I met some sad ones — it was my privilege, my duty, I will say, to lay away two of our elders who were overcome in sickness. We sent the body of one of them to his native land. The other one today lies in the cemetery, near Berb'n. It was indeed a sad time in my life when I laid his remains to rest in that foreign land. But I have burning in my soul a testimony that, on that great day which we commemorate today, the spirit which actuated the body of Brother Coombs who lies there will again take up its abode, and he will have a part in that glorious resurrection of the just. 

My brethren and sisters, I testify to you that this is God's work, in which we are engaged, and the only things that can prevent us from enioying the blessings and the promises of the gospel are our own sins and transgressions. 

Of all those trials that I have borne in the misssion field, there was one more trial that was harder to me than them all, that was the time when one of our elders — only one in all the time that I was in that mission — transgressed the laws GENERAL CONFERENCE.  God, and when I had to send the recommendation for his return dishonorably. My brethren and sisters, there was a trembling in my heart and in my hand when I had to sign the dishonorable release of one of our elders. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May the spirit of this conference go home with you, and may it be disseminated in your hearts. May your little ones, your sons and your daughters, partake of that good spirit and influence that has been made manifest here in this conference. God bless you, is my prayer and testimony, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

An Easter anthem was sung by Don Priestly and the choir: "Hozanna!" 

President Melvin J. Ballard of the Northwestern States mission presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, as presented in the session at the Tabernacle. Each and all were sustained by unanimous vote, in the positions named. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of the Northwestern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters: In conclusion, I desire to add my testimony to that of my brethren. My heart has rejoiced through this conference that the Latter-day Saints have the opportunity, the wonderful privilege, to be guided by the word of the Lord; for, go where you will in the world, unrest is there, uncertainty, men are wondering what is coming; their hearts are filled with anxiety, they are asking the question, "Watchman, what of the ?" and none seems able to answer. Our watchmen have answered us in this conference, from the chief watchman to those who stand with him. They have told us of the hour. They have advised us what is coming and what shall be, and have pointed out to us our duty as members of the Church. 

I rejoice in the comfort, the consolation, the safety and security with which we are surrounded, with wise counselors inspired of the Lord to direct Israel in these momentous and wonderful times; and I feel that it is a time of all times in the history of this Church for Latter-day Saints to live their religion, to stand in holy places, and "watch the salvation of God," as it shall be worked out in the midst of the nations of the earth, and fear not for the future, so long as we keep the commandments of the Lord. 

I .doubt not that God lives. His providence is over his Church and over the world, and a good time is coming. I can see behind the dark clouds present, the silver lining of a better day, the glorious consummation of those precious promises that have inspired the utterances of the prophets of God from the beginning until this day, that this is but preparation for the coming of the great Son of God to live upon the earth. 

I am loyal to my country. I want my young brethren and sisters to feel that the institutions founded and established in America are God-given; the constitution of the United States is a revelation from the Lord, for all the earth, and not only for America; and that the Lord has committed unto this land the mission of lifting up an ensign to the nations of the earth. And if 121  nations of the earth had heeded the warning, the invitation and the message, no such trouble and mistrust as we now see would have been among men. But they would not heed; those who had for ages believed that by divine right they ruled and governed would not yield to God's plan wherein he advised when this great instrument was established, the constitution of the United States, that into the hands of the people shall be given the right to the people to change the rulers and to govern themselves. And this is only a short cut to the glorious end to establish equity and justice in the earth. I cannot help but feel that there has been a wonderful providence of the Lord over America. The Book of Mormon is full of promises and predictions concerning the future of America. It is a land of liberty, and the people shall be preserved against all other peoples as long as the people of this land serve God and keep his commandments. I feel that it is also essential and important that we shall not lose sight of this latter injunction, namely, that if we are to hold our place as a nation and be ourselves preserved from disruption and disintegration, it shall be upon the basis that we, not only the Latter-day Saints but all the people of this land, observe the law of the Lord, and believe in God and keep his commandments, or chastisement shall come also to the peoples of this land. I do not fear but that even yet, notwithstanding the wickedness that now abounds, the Lord loves this nation, and that he still labors with us, and that he will bring us into our right place and position. And my heart goes out now in a feeling that the present trouble into which we are coming is only, per, to call us also to repentance. I have witnessed in the British Columbia section of the Northwestern states mission, from where so many have gone to the war, scarcely a home from which a relative has not gone, or has had a willingness to turn his hand to the defense of the 'right. I feel that that spirit of stopping and looking and listening to the word of the Lord will come when from the American homes the feeling shall come that is entertained for loved ones that have gone to the front. I feel that it is right and proper that we should take part in this trouble, that we will be more organized and more brought back to the ideals of the establishers of this great government. 

Some have interpreted Nebuchadnezzar's dream so as to make it apply to the establishment of the kingdom of God in the latter-days; have interpreted its fulfilment as meaning the establishment of America. Others have given other interpretations. But I can feel in my heart a growing love the more I know of the gospel of the Son of God, the more I appreciate America, and the more I love the institutions of this land. If there is anything that inspires me with the glorious mission of America, it is the knowledge of the Son of God and the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I can see no compet'tion between the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ and America among the nations of the earth. We have largely felt, and we were right when we felt, that when the Lord spoke to the Prophet Joseph Smith, he cut a stone out of the mountains without hands, so to speak, the stone that would roll forth and fill the whole earth. This is indeed the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  that is to grow and to roll forth to fill the whole earth, and I am coming to feel in my soul that only a part, perhaps, of that great vision has reference to us; and yet I am conscious of the fact, or feel in my soul, that a part of the miraculous work, the kingdom of God, unlike the kingdoms of this world, which are political, the kingdom of Go.d is spiritual, it is religious, and it gives to man the consolation that in it is found the solution of all the problems of life; and I feel that in the two important matters, the establishment of the United States of America among the nations of the earth and the establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ again in the earth, is the fulfilment of that wonderful prophecy. These two shall go forth as twin images, and not as competitors, one helping and sustaining the other. For I believe that the most patriotic thing that the Latter-day Saints can do is to save America and the Americans from sin. and from violating the law of the Lord, and if they will do this, this nation will prevail and shall not come to trouble. So that I feel that there can be no competition to come from the conditions we now see being brought about. America has lent her powerful influence, making it possible in this free country for the truth to be established and to go unto the nations of the earth, for the Church of Jesus Christ to be organized and grow and develop; protected with her tremendous power to protect the elders of this Church, and so it will be in the future. These two will go forward in the future fulfiling their mission, and holding up to the nations the ensign of freedom and of truth. And other nations like Russia will shake off their  and come forth unto their own, to the enjoyment of liberty and freedom and truth, and right. There shall be an emancipation of the people, and they shall look up to America, and thus these two shall go along, equally, and more especially working for the principles of law and of righteousness in politics and in the affairs of men, and bringing peace and good will to men, which cannot come to mankind outside of the adoption and the acceptance of the gospel of the Son of God. So the greater mission rests upon our nation, to go where the elders of this Church shall go, to extend the message of this gospel, and to wipe aside the prejudice and the darkne ss that rest upon the minds of the children of men; and they shall be taught that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the principles of the gospel of the Son of God are true, and will emancipate men and bring them into the true knowledge of his wisdom and his love. That is my hope, and I would not put a straw in the way of a patriotic young man who wants to enlist in the service of his country; but .do not forget the other, let him carry with him the principles and the love of the truth. This country can take part in the establishment of righteousness politically, but only a few have yet carried the mighty responsibility of holding the power that bears the world's destinies in its hands; for we have been called here, not to be isolated from the peoples of the world, but to train and teach them to go forth as teachers to all the world, and it is our mission to go and lift up the ensign of this gospel to the nations of the earth, and only "Mormon" elders can do it. 123 

So, as one calling now for recruits, for soldiers of Christ, I am calling for those who do not hesitate to come, and to those who have not yet entered into the ministry of the Lord Jesus, and I testify there is coming an awakening of our brethren and sisters such as we have never witnessed before. Thousands will heed the call where hundreds ( go today into the field and bear off the great and responsible work that the Lord has placed upon our shoulders. So this, too, is patriotic for America and for the whole world. Do not forget it in the midst of the enthusiasm of the moment. I feel that we should remember our obligations to the Lord and to the world. 

I know as I live that this gospel is the simple truth, and that no possibility ever shall come, now, henceforth nor forever, for men to find peace on earth and salvation in the kingdom of God without this gospel. I know it is true. I know that the Latter-day Saint boys and girls who will stand faithful will win the laurels and plaudits of the world. I heard a man of national note say to a group of our "Mormon" missionaries, lately, in the city of Portland, this : He turned to them, and asked them, "Do you desire to stand in meekness before the world ? If von do, stick to the fa'th of your fathers, follow their example, for what they did is what the world wants, and do not follow the failancy, the false philosophy and the vanity of the world. Stay by the standard of your fathers, and you will win the highest place of honor and distinction in the world." I know that is true, and O, after you have fought the battle and kept the faith, the joy, the consolation and the glory of those who win is be any power of tongue to describe, for you cannot conceive it. I know that my Redeemer lives. Men may doubt, men may be filled with the spirit of uncertainty with reference to these troubles; but we know, not by reason so much, but by the power that touches and controls us, that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, — know it just as I know when I strike your hand I feel its pressure upon mine. When I put my arm around you, do you not feel that I live? Yes. Equally sure am I that my Redeemer lives, and that he will come again to live upon the earth, and that he is with this Church. 

God help us as we go now from this house to keep the faith, and to heed the warning voice of the watchmen and servants of the Lord, that we may stand blameless and secure in safety as we see the plans of God working out in the midst of the nations of the earth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang an anthem : "Gospel restoration," followed by the Doxology, and the assembly was dismissed by prayer by Elder Grant of the Big Horn stake. 


