Overflow
08 04 1917

An overflow meeting of the conference was held in the Assembly Hall, adjoining the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., presided over by Elder Joseph E. Robinson, president of the California mission. The singing was by the Richards ward choir, Granite stake of Zion, under direction of Leonidas Fisher. 

The choir sang: "Send out thy light." 

Prayer was offered by Elder F. F. Hintze. 

An Easter anthem, "Christ is risen," was sung by the choir, the duet by Myrtle Docile and Joseph Kjar. 

ELDER DON. B. COLTON. 

(President of Uintah Stake of Zion.) 

I have been very much pleased, my brethren and sisters, with the spirit of this conference. I have rejoiced in the assurance that seemed to be in the minds of each of the speakers thus far concerning the future. In fact, to me it is a source of great joy in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that there is a spirit of faith and assurance concerning the work of the Lord. I am convinced that without this faith and this testimony the work would not have reached the proportions that it has now reached in the earth. The Lord has said, "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me : and if any man will do the will of the Father he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or of man." It has seemed to me that this spirit has characterized the Church since its beginning; and so today, troublous as the times are, we face the future with a calm  that if we do our part all is well with reference to the future, notwithstanding perilous times are in the earth and men's hearts are quaking within them. I say we face the future with faith in God's work, and it will triumph. What your particular mission may be, and what mine may be, is of little consequence, so long as we do well our work, and trust the rest to the Lord. Some of us may be called upon to give our lives even, in defense of our country. We have been willing to risk our lives in defense of the truth, facing always the future with the thought that God w'll take care of us; and if it should so be that in the performance of this work we should lay down our lives, we still have the assurance we shall rise again. The Easter, which is now being celebrated, means to us not only that Jesus of Nazareth arose, but that we too shall, in God's own due time, arise from the dead, and that in the future, in the eternities that stretch out before us, we shall st : ll work out all that God has planned for us to accomplish. It is a splendid thing to face the world with this faith. It is a splendid thing to face the problems of life with this faith. It is a splendid thing to know that there is a great leader watching over this great work and directing its destiny. I appreciate this faith and this assurance. I thank God every day of my life for the testimony of the truth, for the knowledge I have concerning his work. 

O how beautiful is the light given to the Latter-day Saints! Not longago I was reading a book by a man who, I believe, is recognized as one of the leading theologians of the day. True, he accepts the doctrine of evolution, and in view of that he  the task of explaining the soul of man and its origin, for he recognized that in his great treatment he must deal with man as a dual character, that there is a spirit within man, and he must .deal with him in that light. So, he attempted in the light of science to evolve a theory consistent with the Christian belief that there is a soul within man, a spirit entity, a being that when death comes lives separate and apart from this body which walks upon the earth. This, mind you, was the theory of a learned man who had spent his life in studying theological and scientific problems, and he said man's spirit remains, and his theory could be explained from three different standpoints. We believe consistently, said he, that somewhere in that great primeval forest, when the monkey man first stood erect and walked, that God breathed into that monkey man who assumed the form that man now has, a spirit, and that all men descending from that first primeval parent have inherited that spirit. Or, said he, it is not inconsistent to believe that not all the animal family have spirits within them; that only those who begin to think righteously, who yearn for eternal life, who want to live hereafter, have each of them a spirit within them, a spirit that, in some mysterious manner, will live after death. Said he, there is nothing inconsistent in believing that the wicked man who does not care to live hereafter will evolve nothing within him that survives this mortal existence; and so the .doctrine of a limited number of spirits and souls is enunciated by this learned man. Or, said he, if any of these are tenable, it is easy and consistent to  that at the birth of every man and woman, God breathes into their body a spirit that lives, except in a few cases of idiots who do not comprehend. In some cases, he said, there may be accidents, whereby the spirit fails to enter into those bodies that are thus given but who are lacking some of the natural faculties of man. 

When I read this learned book and compared these theories with the testimony and the knowledge that are given to the Latter-day Saints, my heart went out in thanksgiving, as I contemplated our belief in Jesus Christ, and the glorious truths revealed to the Latter-day Saints in this day through the Prophet Joseph Smith; for to us is given the testimony that we know of the origin of the spirit of man. We know that we are children of God, the eternal Father, not in any mysterious way, but actually the offspring, a spark, as one has put it, of the eternal blaze of the eternal Father. We were created in his image in a natural way, born of heavenly parents. Born into this earth, we live and die, and our spirits return to the God who gave them life, children of a great Father whose glory is to bring to pass the salvation and eternal life of his children upon the earth. We know of a surety this great truth that man is of a dual nature, and that there is a spirit within him that will survive forever. What a splendid thing to start out with, a knowledge of our origin and destiny, that there may be no doubt in our souls. We advance each day of our lives with the thought that we are indeed the children of God, living as he would have us live if we obey the commandments he has given to us. What a splendid thing to know that our course in life is accepted of God; to know how to be initiated into his Church. 

Do you know how many there are who have accepted different forms of baptism from ours ? Some believe in sprinkling, some in pouring, some in immersion; but most say it is unnecessary. God has revealed the law so that we do know the way to enter in at the door and feel that we are accepted of him, even by baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, administered by one having authority. This is assuredly the way God has pointed out for us to be members of his Church. So I might go on and point out, if time would permit, a number of other things upon which the human family are in doubt and are divided, that God has revealed to us so that we know. And then last, but greatest of all, God gives to us an assurance, a testimony of his own life and love for us; and we know that this work is true, and that if we follow its teachings and listen to the leaders of this Church, not as blind followers of the blind, not as i,gnorant worshipers, but as enlightened, God-fearing worshipers, we have in our own souls a testimony that "Mormonism" is true, and that if we live it, irrespective of what others may do, God will reward us with eternal life and salvation. 

There are trying times coming to the earth. We live in a trying time when men's hearts are quaking, but we calmly face the future with an assurance that if we do our duty God will bring us safely through. What is our duty at this time? Why, it is so plain we need not err. "We believe that all men are bound to  and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments : and that sedition and rebellion are crimes in every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgment are best calculated to secure the public interest, at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience" (Doc. and Cov. 134:5)., As pointed out to us, we believe that this government has been established under the direction of God, for a great and mighty purpose. We believe that liberty is one of the inalienable rights of a free people. It is our right, it is our duty to stand for the right, to stand for the portection of that which God has given us, with the calm assurance that never will a king rule over this land, that it is a land dedicated to liberty and freedom; but it may require acts upon our part to maintain and sustain that liberty and the blessmgs vouchsafed unto us by this government. It may require even our lives, but it is our duty to face the future, to do whatever is required of us as it comes to us by the light which God gives us; to do our duty, let ' the consequence be with Him who, as we know, will cause this his work to be ultimately triumphant. We know that we are not to s : t supinely down and do nothing, because He had made these great promises, after all that he has revealed. The laws of the gospel we cannot refuse to obey when he has given unto us covenants and marked out plainly our duty. We cannot sit by and say that he will do it. He expects  to walk in the light given us, and to do our duty well that we may be worthy to receive his glorious blessings. He has given unto us that we should preach the gospel in every land and clime. 

To me this is a great blessing; it brings a spirit of thankfulness and gratitude that in the gospel I can find a sweet assurance to lead me on to a better life; that in the midst of the conditions we find in the world in the forms of government, God has revealed the way for me to walk and to be a good citizen. To be a good member of this community means to be a good Latterday Saint, means to be a good member of the Church and kingdom of God, and so with reference to the future, with this assurance, in the words of the poet, 

"Conquer we must, for our cause it is 

just, And this be our motto, in God shall 

we trust." 

This to me, my brethren and sisters, is the light of truth. I want to seek to do God's will, and work out the mission he has given me. 

"Blind unbelief is sure to err, And scan his works in vain; 

God is his own interpreter, And he will make it plain." 

Amen. 

ELDER ALMA MERRILL. 

(President of Benson Stake of Zion.) 

My heart is filled with gratitude to my heavenly Father for the privilege I have of attending this conference of the Church. I am reminded that coming to conference is becoming a habit with me. I believe that the more we avail our of this privilege the more it will become a habit with all the Latter-day Saints. It is a habit that we should acquire — going to meeting on the Sabbath day. We commence to go to meeting on the Sabbath day when we are small children, because our parents teach us that that is the right thing to do, and as we grow older in life this becomes more and more a habit with us; and this being the case it causes our faith to grow and increase in the knowledge of the gospel as we grow and advance in years. 

We have in the Church teachers, who are required to visit the homes of the Latter-day Saints. As our brother who preceded me was speaking of the faith we have in the future, my mind went directly home to the ward teachers who are required to visit the homes of the Latter-day Saints once every month, to teach them their duty in the Church, to instruct them, to see that there is no iniquity among them, that nobody is suffering, to teach them to pray, that their faith may grow from day to day, to teach them that we should observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy. The Lord has said that we should remember and worship him on the Sabbath day, and assemble together and speak to one another as the Spirit may direct, that we may be edified in the worship of the Lord. We have assembled together on this Sabbath day in the continuation of our conference to worship our heavenly Father. To see so many people who have availed themselves of this privilege makes my heart rejoice, and I rejoice to be one with you in this vast congregation, and to listen to what the servants of the Lord have to say. It fills my heart with joy to know that we have men inspired of the Lord to teach us the gospel, to show us the way, to mark out for us the directions that will enable us to keep ourselves in tune with the Lord, so that we can walk in the straight and narrow path which will eventually lead us back to life everlasting. These principles have been taught all who have received the gospel, since we first heard the sound thereof. In following our leaders, we find we are walking in the path that will bring us to salvation in the kingdom of our Father. This is what we have sought to do, for we have a desire in our hearts that we may gain something in this life that will be worth while. In order to do that, it requires our whole time and attention. It requires the very best efforts that we can put forth, so that we will be able to perform the duties and labors required of us as Latter-day Saints. I*t is intended, my brethren and sisters, that we will seek the Lord in youth, in middle age, and in old age, that the spirit of the gospel may ever burn in our hearts, that we can teach it to our children — teach them the principle of faith. We find that it requires faith in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, to do their work — all the faith that we can muster. This we should cultivate from day to day that we may be able to perform the duties required of us, as the children of our Father. If we continue to do this, we shall finally gain an exaltation in the kingdom of God. 

I bear testimony that this is the work of the Lord, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, raised up in this dispensation to establish  work of the Lord in the earth, so that faith might be implanted in the hearts of the children of men. This gospel is being proclaimed by the humble elders and handmaidens of the Lord, who are preaching to the world and telling them that the Lord has again established his work and is calling the children of men to repentance, calling upon them to turn from evil and walk in his paths. We are sending our young men and our daughters into the mission field, to preach the truths of the gospel to the inhabitants of the earth. During these troublous times, there are not so many of the elders in the field, but after these disturbing conditions are over, I presume there will be a call for more elders than ever before. So we ought to be prepared for the great future, because there is something for this people yet to perform, because the end is not yet. 

May the Lord bless and help us that we may be prepared for any event, and put our trust in God, so that all may be well with us. May the Lord assist us to serve him and keep his commandments, and may we always be found faithful and true to the calling whereunto we have been called, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang : "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

ELDER WM. C. PARKINSON. 

(President ,of the Hyrum Stake of Zion.) 

To me this is a very trying position, and I feel almost on the verge of mental collapse. I am not altogether a stranger in this position of standing before the Latter-day Saints to talk to them about the plan  salvation as it has been revealed in this dispensation; but I never stand before a body of people of this kind but my heart is filled with fear and trembling. I really and earnestly desire your sympathy, faith and prayers, that the few moments I occupy will not be in vain. I was born and reared in the Church and have attended general conferences for the last thirty-five years. Some people say, "I guess they could get along without you, Brother Parkinson, if youdon't go down this time." No doubt they could, but I want to say it is a very hard thing for me to get along without them, hard for me to feel as I should and keep the faith, the spirit of the gospel, and up with the times, unless I come closely in contact with the spirit of inspiration and revelation that emanates from the prophets of God. It requires more, perhaps, to save some men than it does others, and I feel I ought to be pretty close to the powers that be, and to the things of our Father in heaven, if I may successfully resist the influences of the world, and maintain my standing in the Church, and finally win out in the great battle of life, and obtain the reward of the righteous. Perhaps the influence that first started me to thinking seriously, the most serious impression that was ever made upon my mind with reference to the restoration of the gospel in this dispensation, was made in what was called the Endowment House, here on this block, when I listened to some words uttered by President Joseph F. Smith. At that time he was only a young man. But those words penetrated my soul from the crown of my head to the very soles of my feet. I have never  them. I made a resolve then within myself that if God would give me health and strength I would always respond to the requirements of his servants who were presiding over me. So far, I have never refused; so far, I have never hesitated. When the call has come to me, I have responded with fear and trembling, and, I think, perhaps to the best of my ability under the circumstances. 

Our first speaker referred to the origin of life, the final destiny of the human race. As far as the origin of man is concerned, the final destiny of man and the human race and the purpose and object of our mortal existence, it is something that troubles me but very little. I feel sure and satisfied that we had an existence before we came here. I feel that this mortal existence through which we are now passing is a matter of the very greatest importance in the great plan of final development, I feel that the sphere beyond is the reward of eternal life to those who are faithful, exaltation, power, principalities and blesssings and privileges beyond our power to understand. And still, there are many problems yet in human life that have not been solved, but there is this one thing that I am absolutely assured of, and that is, that the God of heaven has come to the world and he has spoken. Jesus Christ, his Son, also appeared in this dispensation, and has given to us the power of the holy priesthood, the authority to officiate in the name of God, and restored the truths of the everlasting gospel, line upon line, principle upon principle, here a little and there a little, until all of the principles we possess of the great plan of redemption have been revealed for our benefit. 

There are many sacred and very encouraging promises made in this book of Doctrine and Covenants, that should be a source of comfort and consolation, in this period of our existence, when there is so much trouble and sorrow and uneasiness in the hearts of the children of men all over the world. This truly is a time when men's hearts are failing them for fear, for something they know not what is comirfg on them; and if during these terrible times the righteous hardly escape, where shall the wicked and the ungodly appear ? 

The Lord promised, in the early history of his Church, that if his people would keep his commandments, he would fight their battles, he would preserve them, and he would take care of them. If we keep his commandments, are we entitled to have verified to us these promises that God has made? Individually perhaps we have erred, gone astray, done many things that are careless and indifferent and out of harmony with our profession as Latter-day Saints. But I am grateful to say, and I find great consolation in the fact, that the Church itself, with the heads of the Church, have always marched on in the line of progress, have always kept the faith; they have never forsaken the principles of revelation that have come from the Lord in this dispensation. They have mainta : ned them with all their might and with all their strength, from the beginning up to the present hour. Thank God for that. Individuals may not be entitled to these promises, but I feel that God, our Eternal Father, will not forsake his people and his Church, and when it comes to the great struggle that is now going on  the world, I think we have no fear whatever as to the final outcome of this nation, of this government, or the destiny of this nation and this government. The history of the past has been pointed out, the various events and conditions before they occurred, almost as clearly as they could be presented after they have happened, and there are predictions yet to be fulfilled in the future that are just as clear, and I have no doubt that they will be fulfilled also. There is to be a time come when the Zion of our God shall be built upon this continent, and the law shall go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Then all nations shall yield obedience to the laws of God. Sometimes we wonder; I hear men say who profess to be Latter-day Saints, they wonder why our prophets are not having revelations that are being written like those contained in this book. How is it that for so many years, revelations have not been written and published to the world? I have long since come to the conclusion that we have all the revelation now that we are willing to live up to, and a great deal more, and I do not know but we have all that we really need, and I cannot see for my part the necessity under these conditions why the Lord should be giving us more revelation. You must remember that in the beginning the Lord was dealing with a boy, with a young man, only a youth, unlettered, and who knew nothing about his great purposes in the great plan of redemption which he designed to bring about, and he came and instructed him, and sent angels and messengers time and time again and taught him until every branch and authority of the priesthood was re and bestowed upon him. He came and gave comfort and consolation through the revelations. Why, a prominent man scarcely joined the Church but he would go to the Prophet and want to inquire of the Lord what he wanted him to do. That was frequently done, and men were called by absolute revelation to do this, that and the other. But after a while the great plan of salvation was revealed, the organization of the Church was established. There were prophets and apostles in our midst who had been chosen by revelation, and they were endowed, with power from on high, to bear the authority of the holy priesthood and to minister unto the people, and they have been doing it ever since, and they have carried with them the power and the spirit and the mission of their calling. And if we would yield obedience to them and listen to their teachings, we would have no need to fear for the final result and as to whether the Lord would take care of this people as he has promised. 

I thank the Lord we live in these isolated valleys today. I do not believe there is a better people on earth than the Latter-day Saints who are gathered in these valleys of the mountains, where we find greater freedom, greater liberty, and still we will have all the trials, I imagine, that we are able to stand. We are to be tried as gold seven times purified in the furnace. 

I was talking with one of the bishops recently with reference to the reports that are sent in annually from the various stakes all over the Church. He called my attention to the fact that sometimes even government officials come into the presiding bishop's office to get information with reference to these re. They want to know about the death rate and the reason for death, and something about our marriages and divorces, etc. They inquired, he told me, a few days ago what was the cause of death among our people, whether it frequently occurred from venerial diseases, or from diseases that are recognized as being caused by unrighteous living and by impure and immoral habits or manner of life. They were surprised to learn that there was scarcely any of that kind, scarcely any at all. Then again, they inquired into the marriage statistics, and found very few divorces. I do not suppose there is a people in the world, and especially in a land where it is so .easy to secure divorces as in the United States, that have so few as are found among the Latter-day Saints. I have discovered that those who are married in the temples are seldom divorced. Most of the divorces among our people are those who have not been married in the temple. We sometimes talk about this kind of marriage. We refer to it in speaking to our young people, and we advise them to go to the temple and be sealed for time and eternity, and try to impress upon them the importance of it. Why, it is the only marriage law in the world that has been revealed from heaven. It is the eternal order of marriage. Some people when they read the great revelation found in this book of Doctrine and Covenants, 132nd section, imagine that it refers only to plural marriage, when the fact is that it refers to the eternal or celestial order of marriage, including the plurality of wives, which has been done away. But this celestial order of marriage, this divine system of marriage, is something that should ' be taught to our children. I am always grieved and very much surprised when I find our young people drifting away and marrying outside of their own people and outside of the temple. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I know the gospel is true. I rejoice in it. I thank the Lord that I live in this dispensation. I thank the Lord that I am numbered with the Latter-day Saints. I rejoice in the fact that the Prophet Joseph Smith came forth, and had the courage and the manhood and the spirit to withstand the world, and bring forth the message which he delivered unto us. I am thankful that the priesthood which was bestowed upon him by heavenly messengers has been handed down without a break, and we still have that divine authority and the right to act in the name of the Lord. I could wish we might act more intelligently, more readily, more universally, because practically all of us have the priesthood, and we should use it. The priesthood means service, and there is always plenty to do. It is hard to find men and women enough to carry the responsibility of presiding and helping others. 

I have enjoyed this conference, so far, and I have no doubt but we will enjoy it to the end. May the Lord bless us all. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER C. AUSTIN. 

(President of the Bingham Stake.) 

I am very grateful for the teachings of this conference, and the few moments that I shall occupy, I desire that the words I may say may be in harmony with the spirit of the conference and the teachings that we have received. 

T have listened with a great deal of interest this morning to the testimonies of our brethren who have spoken to us the sensible and practical suggestions concerning our duties as Latter-day Saints. J sometimes think that if the Latterday Saints could put into practice in their lives a very small percentage of the instructions that we receive, from time to time, from the servants of the Lord, there would not be very much the matter with us. I was especially impressed yesterday morning with the opening discourse of President Smith, wherein he was pointing out to us as members of the Church our duties, not only in the Church but as citizens of this great government of: which we form a part, and he called our attention to the crisis that is now confronting this nation and the trying experiences we are having, and he tried to impress upon the Latter-day Saints their duties to God and as citizens. I was reminded by the remarks of President Smith, that good citizenship and loyalty to the government does not consist altogether in wearing the uniform. President Smith called our attention to some of our temporal affairs as Latter-day Saints. He endeavored to encourage us in the cultivation of the soil, and I, being a farmer, the proposition interested me more perhaps than it would some others. I have always been engaged in the occupation of tilling the soil. I was impressed with the counsel of President Smith, and we know that the most serious thing that is now confronting the nations that are engaged in th : s deadly conflict is the question of providing food for the people, not a question of winning battles in the western part of France and other places, but it is a  of feeding the armies, and it is a question of feeding the people, producing things that are necessary to sustain life. And so seriously have our brethren viewed this question that they have offered through the Trustee-in-Trust from the funds of the Churah, a reward for the quorums of the lesser priesthood, and other organizations of the ward and of the priesthood, that they may enter into contest, to see which organization or quorum of priesthood can produce the greatest amount of food upon a small tract of land. If I remember right, there is a reward of $1,000 offered by the Church for the Church organization that can produce the greatest number of bushels of wheat on a tract of five acres of land, a reward of $500 for the next greatest number of bushels, and I believe a thir.d prize of $250. And similar prizes are offered to the organizations that can produce the most bushels of marketable potatoes on an acre of land. These things should stimulate. They should not only stimulate us to endeavor to secure these prizes — of course there is always pride in the contest for superiority, — but it seems to me it should impress us with the fact that the Prophet of the Lord has admonished us to be industrious, to cultivate the waste corners of our farms, to more intensely prepare our soil, look after our crops, give attention to the proper seasons of planting, and the selection of the soil, and everything' that goes to increase the products of the soil, so that we may aid in th : s great work of feeding humanity. Now you know we have become, in a measure, the allies of some of those Euporean nations. If we are not their allies we have become engaged  the great conflicts that they are engaged in, and their troubles will be our troubles, and we should see to it that we partake of the spirit of good citizenslrp, and we should hearken to the counsel that is given to us by our leaders. 

Our brethren have said this morning that in the counsel of the servants of the Lord lies the path of safety. Now I need not dwell upon that, because the Latter-day Saints are thoroughly converted to it. If "Mormonism" stands for anything, it stands for good citizenship, loyalty and right government, and we can only be loyal Dy taking these things seriously because we know not today what tomorrow may bring. Some of those who are the best informed, some of those who believe they know the most about it, predict some very startling surprises for us, and we do know, my brethren and sisters, that we are confronted with a crisis that this nation has never been confronted with before. 

Now let us assume the responsibility that belongs to us as Latterday Saints. Not all of us will wear the uniform; not all of us will go to the front; but many of our boys, many of our young men. will enlist in the army, will respond to the call of the President of the United States, and they will go to the front and fight the battles of this country, shoulder to shoulder with the young men of other states. And there may be a place for us; there may be a need for older men, we cannot tell. I am reminded of the patriotism of our brother, B. H. Roberts, and of his willingness to serve his country, of his desire to go out and encourage the young men in their duties as citizens. Now, my brethren, let us observe the counsel that is given us by the Prophet of the Lord, and by the brethren whose right it is to counsel with us, and let us live our religion. Brother McKay yesterday delivered to us a powerful discourse on the necessity of observing the Word of Wisdom, that we might not bring down the standard of manhood among the Latter-day Saints. Our brother who has just sat down has spoken to us about the minimum death-rate and the maximum births among the Latterday Saints, and I can bear witness with him, that there is a minimum of divorces amongst our people who are married in the temple. They seem to be impressed with that sacredness of marriage, to the end that they are not so likely to become dissatisfied, not so likely to murmur, and they are impressed with the divinity of that eternal marriage covenant. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, let us remember our responsibilities. Let us observe the Word of Wisdom. Let us not destroy the manhood of this Church by engaging in habits of dissipation, the drinking of liquor, the use of tobacco, the taking of tea and coffee and engaging in those things that the Lord has said are not good for us; and if We will do this, we will be blessed. We need not fear the outcome. We need not take any concern as to this crisis. We can face the future with that .degree of confidence and assurance that the Lord is with us, and that we are his people. He has guided and directed the affairs of this Church and this people from the very beginning, and I have all the confidence in the world that the Lord will not desert us, if we do not desert the Lord. 

This is a great and a mighty work  we are engaged in. It has for its purpose the saving of our souls, the rendering of service for the saving of the souls of others, and if we shall be faithful and true to the covenants that we have made with the Lord, it will be well with us. I trust that we may have the disposition to keep the commandments of the Lord and hearken to the counsel that is given us from time to time. I realize that this is a great conference. It has been an occasion when our brethren, the servants of the Lord, have felt more concern for the salvation of the Latter-day Saints than usual. We have received so many good instructions concerning our duties, and those things that we ought not to do, those things that we ought to leave alone, and also those things that would be good for us to do; and if we will hearken and let our spirits enter into this work, we shall be blessed. May God grant that we may have a disposition to do this, I pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang an Easter anthem : "As it began to dawn," Myra Baer and Don Priestley, soloists. 

ELDER JAMES DUCKWORTH. 

(President of the Blackfoot Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters: Like you, I have rejoiced in the teachings of this conference, and can bear testimony of the spirit of inspiration that has directed all of the teachings to which we have ii.itened; and while I stand before you for a few moments I earnestly desire an interest in your faith and prayers because, unless I may receive that assistance which cometh from on high it will be sureiy im for me to add anything that would be of an edifying character to you. I feel keenly the responsibility which rests upon me in having been called upon to address this large assembly at this time upon the principles of life and salvation, though it be but for a few moments. 

I have rejoiced in the remarks which have been made here this morning, that is, I have rejoiced as much as I possibly could in view of the fact that I have been trembling every moment looking forward to the time that I would be called upon to address you. I know that "Mormonism" is true. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God, and that his successors in the presidency have equally been prophets of the same living God. They have been endowed with the same divine authority and, from time to time, as they have been called upon or felt impressed to speak to the Latter-day Saints, they have given unto us the mind and will of God the eternal Father. 

Reference has been made to the fact that the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ as delivered through the teachings of the Church authorities today has to do with temporal things as well as spiritual things, and I would like to say that any religion that may be professed by any people in the world today that does not teach with reference to temporal things as well as spiritual, is not worth the name of being called the religion of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

We understand by revelation that the soul of man comprises the body and the spirit of man, and the Lord desires to save the soul of man, and that means not simply the spirit but the spirit and the body of man. 

Some years ago it was my privilege and pleasure to labor in Aus as a missionary. There was a gentleman there who was handed some discourses delivered by the general authorities of the Church, at these general conferences, and in speaking to me sometime later regarding the .discourses he had read, he made this remork : "Mr. Duckworth, one thing that has impressed me, with reference to the teachings that are delivered in your general conferences by the general authorities of your Church, is this, that they are essentially of a practical character; they deal with the every day problems of life, and they are not related solely to the spiritual concern of your people." It made a deep impression upon my mind at the time, and I have often remarked about it since, that the teachings that were given by our general authorities in the gatherings of the Saints relate to the takink care of the body just as well as the taking care of the spirit of man. They teach us how to take care of our bodies; they teach us that beautiful law known as the Word of Wisdom. They teach us that we should be clean in our bodies, that we should keep our bodies pure and in such a way that we may be in a fit condition for the enjoyment of the Spirit of our Father, for he will not dwell in unclean tabernacles, and it is just as essential that we shall keep our bodies clean as that we shall keep our spirits clean. 

With this teaching also, we are impressed with the fact that it is binding upon us that we shall do our part in saving the souls of others; and as Latter-day Saints, if we hold this gospel to ourselves, seeking only to save ourselves, we shall not have acceptance of the great mission that God has given us here upon the earth. It is our duty to so live that we shall save the souls of others. We are surrounded by many that are not members of the Church. I come from a town where four-fifths of the people are not members of the Church, and I claim it is the duty of the Latterday Saints living in that town to preach the gospel that they themselves have received, to the world; and when I say preach it, I mean not by speaking of it only, but by living it in their every day life. I want to bear testimony to this fact that if we would be held up in esteem by those not of our faith, those whose souls may be full of prejudice, if we want to preach the gospel in the most effectual manner, we should do so by example as well as by precept, exemplifying the fruits of the gospel of Jesus Christ. "By their fruits ye shall know them," is an illustration of what I refer to. 

It may not be amiss to refer to another thing in my experience. A few years ago an old gentleman who had come from Great Britain, who was a musician and had set out to make a tour of the world together with a young lady accompanist, happened to stay in our town for some weeks. In the course of his visit, my wife and I became very well acquainted with him; and on one occasion we invited him to our home to spend the evening and have supper with us. At that time we had become habituated to having our family prayers in the evening, before the evening meal, following the counsel that was given me by President Lyman, on one occasion, who said, "we always have family prayer before our evening meal, and I want to counsel you to do the same thing, and I want you to teach that  the stake over which you preside." I did so, for I have always found it best to carry out the counsels of those who preside over us, and who have the right to give us counsel as they may be inspired to do by the Holy Spirit. President Lyman said, "if you wait for the evening prayer until bed time, the older boys and girls may be out at a dance, at a picture show, or indulging in some other form of amusement; the smaller children get sleepy and retire to bed, and the result is that the prayer that is had may not be a family prayer." On the occasion I was speaking of, when the meal had been prepared, my wife beckoned me to come into the room. She said, "What are you going to do about the family prayer this evening?" I said, "What is the matter?" Said she: "Here is this Professor; he does not make any profession of religion; he has faith in a Supreme Being but he belongs to no Church. It may be very embarrassing for us, if we go right along with our regular custom of having family prayer." I said in reply, "If he is an honorable gentleman, I am sure he will take no exception, for I have absolute faith in 'Mormonism,' and I am not ashamed of it before any man or woman in all the world, and my feeling is that we should go right along as Latter-day Saints, no matter who may be our visitors." 

We returned to the dining room, and when the time came, all the chairs were turned with their backs to the table. I spoke to the gentleman and said, "Professor So-andso, you understand that we are Latter-day Saints. We are about to participate in a custom that has been practiced from the beginning  our people. We believe it to be right, and that custom is that before retiring to rest we appeal to the Throne of Grace, upon our bended knees, for the blessings we need through the night. We do so again in the morning before we go forth to the labors of the day, and we will appreciate it if you will join with us." He knelt down with us without a moment's hesitation and took part with us. He then saw that we asked the blessing upon the food. After that whenever he came to the evening meal he always took part in the family prayer. Sometime later it came to about the time for him to leave. His accompanist had not then visited us. This time she came also, but they did not come until after the evening meal had been partaken of. We spent several hours in enjoyable entertainment. When the time came for them to take their departure we rose from our seats and, to my surprise, he walked across the room to where I was standing, and he held out his hand and said, "Mr. Duckworth, before we leave this house I would like to make a request. I want to leave this house with the same good spirit that I have always felt here, and I will appreciate it if you will allow us to kneel with you in family prayer." I was overcome for the moment, but as soon as I regained my composure I said, "All right, we will do so," and we knelt down just as we had done several times before when he was with us, although the young lady merely knelt on one knee. This was as far as her prejudice would permit her to go. They joined with us in family prayer. They left Blackfoot. Sometime later they came back again, and as the result of  first beginning, they became, and are today, some of the most friendly investigators I have had in all my experience. I have learned from other experiences of like -character that it always pays to be a Latter-day Saint at all times and under all circumstances and before all people. Whenever we become vascillating, whenever we fail in our duty before others we always lose in their estimation; but when we are Latter-day Saints, consistent in our daily lives, they think more of us, and we all preach the gos-' pel in the way that I have indicated. May the Lord bless us, that we may understand and appreciate what "Mormonism" is, and may we have his Spirit to actuate our lives, I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of the California Mission.) 

With you, my brethren and sisters, I have rejoiced in the testimonies borne by our brethren this day, and I know that your souls have been uplifted by the praise and melody of song, that your hearts have been centered upon the things of the eternal world. One of our brethren, President Austin, remarked that never on the earth in our history has there been so much concern manifest relative to the future. We all appreciate the fact that we are confronted with a crisis, yet the feeling of equanimity manifested among our people is most admirable and praiseworthy. From whence does it come? From the conviction that we are the very children of God, that we have not descended from any anthropoidal ancestors — ourang outang, chimpanzee or any kind of monkey, but our spirits were born of eternal parents before the world was, and by adoption we come into his family and kingdom in this age and generation. There is no thought nor care manifested upon the part of any other creature of our Father. He shapes our destiny. They follow out the impress of a superior will; their wants are provided for; they are suited to their habitat and time of living. They have their com' panions and their natural affection for them, but aside from this there is nothing in them, or within them, that is devout, that looks to God, that has a yearning after immortality and eternal life. Aside from man there is no comprehension of abstract truth, not even in the most intelligent of all our Father's creatures. It remains for his children alone to have the capacity and possibility of worship, the desire to worship. It remains for his children, let them be ever so humble, the barbarian of our country, the Hottentot of Africa, or the so-called heathen of all foreign lands, with the Christian, to entertain the hope of eternal life and seek after it. These impressions come not alone from the emotions nor from earthly things, but they come from above. The soul finds expression in praise and song and prayer, seek : ng unto the Father for life eternal, seeking to know how to live and how to do that we may reap the crown of eternal lives. The wondrous hymn so beautifully rendered by this splendid choir, betokening the resurrection of the dead, the "first dawn of the day" when Christ took up his body from the tomb and the angels bearing witness that he had risen, must give joy unto you. The  savants of the day, who have sent their boys to the front "somewhere in France," have been giving time and attention to this fact, "Does the dead soldier live, and does he return to earth?" Sir Oliver Lodge, Crookes, Lombrozo, Stead, and many others of the rank and file of England's nobility, engaged in deadly conflict, have each ~f in turn given their testimony to this end, that the spirit of man does not die, but is made alive for ever more; that the soldier dead live, and return again to their former friends as well as the places that they have frequented. This is the testimony of the scientists in face of the dread things that have come to them in the world's war today. I want to bear witness that the same spirit of trust, the same spirit of hope that is within the true Christian, permeates those who are here today. So it was with the Latterday Saints when earthquake and fire destroyed the great city of the Pacific coast. There was a peace that came into the souls of the Latter-day Saints there that "passed the understanding of men." There was no hysteria; there was no fear manifest by trembling or excitement, but a confident trust in the providences of Almighty God that, living or dying, all was well with them. I saw the same spirit manifest when four thousand people were driven out of the republic of Mexico. I heard their songs on the plains of Hachita and Columbus, and in the city of El Paso : 

"Though deepening trials thr.ong your way, Press on, press on, ye Saints of God, Ere long the Resurrection day Will spread its light and truth abroad." 

"I will go where you want m.e to go, dear Lord, Over mountain or plain or sea, I will say what you want me to say, dear Lord, I will be what you want me to be." 

Those songs were sung by our good people under strenuous and pathetic circumstances with the same spirit that actuated the Prophet Joseph when he returned to his friends and his enemies after he had set his face to the west, — hoping, perchance, to find a respite from persecution and from the trial and a haven of refuge long denied him in the east, — -that spirit that enabled him to say, "I go like a lamb to the slaughter, yet am calm as a summer's morning, and my conscience is void of offense towards God and all men." Men and women who hold these sentiments have found the precious pearl of great price, and they are not upset nor filled with doubts and fears and misgivings by the things that try the hearts of the men of the world who know not the Christ nor have kept his commandments. 

I want to speak briefly of the lives of two men of ancient times. Solomon, the great king of the chosen people of Israel, seated upon his throne at Jerusalem, then upon the highway of the commerce of the world, between Damascus in the east and Alexandria in the west, or the Valley of the Nile; whose ships went forth to all marts of trade, who gathered the precious things, the dye-stuffs, the rugs, the spices, the silver and gold, and the precious stones of all sections of the world, who said that he had acquired more wisdom and knowledge than any of his predecessors, added, "It is all vanity, all vanity and vexation of spirit." He had wan in his old age after false gods and strange women, and the spirit of truth, the precious "pearl of great price," had departed from him, and left him standing in his own strength alone; and shorn of his hope as was Sampson of his locks, — there was nothing worth living for, and in his bitterness he wrote that "it is all vexation of spirit." There was another prince, the greatest amongst his fellows, whose riches were greater than any others of his time, to whom God had been gracious and kind until the enmity of the adversary was aroused, and he criticized God for the care he had bestowed upon Job. And the Lord gave Job into satan's hands. He took from him all of his possessions, all the things that men prize in worldly affairs; he destroyed his brave sons and fair daughters, and he was left sitting in the ashes of a once happy home clothed upon with the most humiliating of diseases. The only comfort given him was that he might scrape his diseased flesh with a potsherd. His comforters upbraided him, that he had been unmindful of his obligations to God; and his own wife, who had been given to him to comfort and cheer, turned upon him and said, "Why do you not curse God and die?". Did Job feel like Solomon, that life was vain and evil, that it was vexation of spirit, and that "all was vanity of vanities?" No, because of him having taken hold of the plan of life and salvation, and having in his heart the testimony of Jesus, he said : "Though he slay me, yet will I trust him," * * * "for I know that my Redeemer lives, and in the latter day he shall stand upon the earth, and though, after my skin, worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, and mine eyes shall behold him for mine own self and not another, though my reins be consumed within me." Have you the faith of Job? Have you the faith of the Prophet Joseph Smith? Can you meet every condition without fear, without asking favor, with a conscience void of offense towards God and all men? If so, all is well with you, and you will come off victorious. And though we may die for our country, our flag and religion, God, out of the maelstrom of war shall bring the millennium of peace, when Christ shall rule and reign, and the dead shall be brought forth; for just as surely as Isaiah prophesied of ancient Israel, "Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead hody shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that .dwell in dust; for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead," — just so truly has the Psalmist David, poet and king, declared that his soul should not be left in hell,- — so surely shall the dead arise, clothed upon with immortality and eternal lives, and then shall be brought to pass the fulfilment of the scripture, "O grave, where is thy victory, O death, where is thy sting?" All swallowed up in the newness of life, and the fact that we are God's, and shall be his forever to rule and reign throughout the endless ages of eternity with Christ, our God and King. With him we shall arise and inherit kingdoms and powers, principalities and dominions. This is the ultimate condition that will be attained to by those who love the Lord and keep his commandments. No wonder that he who entertains such thoughts strikes hands with the Infinite, and does not fret over  mundane things of this earthly life. 

May the Lord keep us in his love, and finally place upon our heads crowns of eternal righteousness, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem : "Lord in heaven." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Newel K. Young, principal of the North Sanpete stake theological seminary. 


