Outdoor
08 04 1917

An open air meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information building at 10 a. m., Walter P. Monson, president of the Eastern States mission, presiding. 

The congregation sang: "The happy day has rolled on." 

Prayer by Elder Francis M. Lyman, Jr. 

The congregation sang: "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President of the Eastern States Mission.) 

It is indeed a pleasure to me to have this opportunity of meeting with you, my brethren and sisters, in this open air meeting. If the people of the world could only see the splendid audience that has gathered today to receive the word of the Lord, they could no longer charge that the Church is failing in numbers, or in interest pertaining to the doctrine that has been revealed. With the missionary who is in the world and with the Lat-day Saint at home, as well, we have learned to regard all seasons as summer, every place a tabernacle; and I know of nothing more glorious than to meet with the children of our Heavenly Father under the canopy which he has spread over our heads. I sincerely trust that you will pay close attention to the speakers and remain, although standing is tiresome. Why should not the Latter-day Saints stand for an hour or two and listen to the word of the Lord, when we expect it of those who are not of the Church? 

ELDER URIAH G. MILLER. 

(President of the Cottonwood Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I most sincerely and deeply crave an interest in your confidence, and your faith and prayers, for the few moments that I shall stand before you upon this important occasion. There never has been a time in my life when I have felt more in need of the assistance of the Spirit of our heavenly Father than now, for I recognize that all of you assembled together in this great audience have come to conference for the purpose of receiving some word of inspiration to take to your homes and carry with you individually, or to disseminate to those among you with whom you are called to labor in the various wards and stakes of the Latter-day Saints. 

I realize that these conferences are of very great importance to you. Those who attend the meetings from the beginning to the end of conference realize this to a greater extent than if they attend only one or two sessions of the conference. 

I am very grateful, personally, my brethren and sisters, for a membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I have enjoyed a great many privileges and blessings that have come to me as a member of the Church. Like many who are assembled here upon this occasion, I was born in the valleys of the mountains. No doubt there are many men and women in this congregation who received the gospel in the nations of the earth, and I recognize that there is a vast difference between the men and women in this congregation who received the gospel in the nations of the earth, and the boys and the girls, or the men and women, who received the gospel in the organized wards and stakes of the Church. We who have been born in the Church have practically automatically become members of the Church. Our fathers and mothers have been interested deeply in the work, and we have arrived at the age of eight years without overmuch knowledge of the gospel. We have been baptized by the servants of the Lord, had hands laid upon us for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and in a certain sense almost have become automatically members of the Church. Its teachings have then rested upon us as we have grown. Years and experience have brought unto us the power to receive deeply within our hearts the same kind of testimony of the gospel that the members of the Church who have accepted the gospel in the. nations of the earth have received. I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, to Jmow that we who are born members of the Church, so to speak, are placed in a position by which that testimony can be given to us, and are also able to say and to know beyond a shadow of a doubt that God lives, that in this day and age of the world in which we live, he has established his Church upon the earth. 

There are many responsibilities, my brethren and sisters, resting upon us, as members of the Church, not only as presiding men and women in the Church, but as members : we are to be careful in our lives to set before the world an example that will be worthy of emulation, and to adopt principles that have been revealed from heaven, that will make its better citizens of our country, and better members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I trust that as members of the Church we shall live worthy of the cau5e that has been established, and endeavor to overcome the weaknesses of our own flesh and the difficulties that surround us, in the way of temptations presented to us in our various walks and avocations of life. I trust that we shall endeavor to observe the Word of Wisdom, particularly to overcome the habit of using cigarettes, tobacco in any form, and intoxicating liquors. 

I am very grateful indeed to know that those states in this intermountain region that have not passed laws already governing the sale of intoxicating liquors will have laws go into effect soon. We who are living in the State of Utah are grateful to know that soon a prohibition law will go into effect to help us in conquering the liquor traffic that is with us at present, and overcome the use of intoxicating liquors. 

In my experience, my brethren and sisters, I do not know of one thing that I abhor quite so much as  use of intoxicating liquors. All my life I have been thrown directly where I have observed the effects of the use of intoxicating liquor. The misery that has come to men and women with whom I have come directly in contact and known intimately has caused an abhorrence in my soul for the use of liquor. I hope that the men and women who are here who have boys and girls will use every effort to teach them that the use of intoxicating liquor is detrimental to their welfare as well as contrary to the teachings that God our heavenly Father has revealed unto the children of men. Misery has been brought into the world through the use of intoxicating liquors beyond the power of the human tongue to describe. No doubt many of you, my brothers and sisters, have witnessed these things in your lives. You have seen, perhaps, a gray haired mother unfortunate enough in her life to have to stand on the door step and wait for the father to return, or a son who has gotten away from the shadows of the roof and come in contact with the influence of the world, and who, before he returns to his home, has been overcome with intoxicating liquors, to come home and fall into the arms of the mother who has been tearfully praying that her boy would not be overtaken by that sin or other sins directly connected with it. 

Temperance is an important thing in our lives, because it builds up the individual — and the strength of the Church and country is as the strength of the individual. If we could have a race of men and women who had never touched intoxicating liquor, who knew not the evils of the use of tobacco, nor what the taste of tea or coffee is, how  would that generation of men and women be in our midst, as well as in the nation and the world at large! We have striven, undoubtedly, for that end, and I am very much convinced of the fact that we are greatly growing in that direction. There may be some who believe that we are not achieving a great deal along those lines, but personally I believe we are gaining ground, and will be able to establish the truth in the hearts of the boys and girls with whom we come in contact in our homes and in the organizations and otherwise, that it is not good for them to indulge in these forbidden things. We are able to convince the older men and women who, in their younger days, adopted the use of tobacco or intoxicating liquors, that it is wrong for them and wrong in the sight of God to continue in the use of these things. And consequently, one step after another, one effort after another, we are able to accomplish a great deal along this line. I am led to the belief, as I come in contact with the people, that we are gaining ground, and that the Word of Wisdom is being more thoroughly established amongst us. 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that we may enjoy ourselves and have the peace and the blessings of the gospel of the Redeemer within our souls. The comforts of the world are great blessings to have. I believe it would be a good thing if we could enjoy the riches of the world. It has never been my privilege, thus far in life, to enjoy them to any great extent, but as I come in contact with other men and women who enjoy the temporal blessings of the world, I am convinced it would be pleasant to possess them. But, my brethren and , it would be better for us to be in rags, at the door of starvation, than not to possess within our hearts, the sweet, peaceful, directing influence that comes from our heavenly Father — that gift and blessing of the Holy Ghost promised unto the children of men if they would be obedient to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. 

I testify, my brethren and sisters, that God has again restored the gospel to the earth, that he has bestowed the Holy Ghost upon all who have obeyed the gospel's first requirements. The Holy Ghost is given to the children of men, to be a teacher and a comforter unto them, to guide them unto eternal truth, and to assist them when trials and tribulations come upon them, and to give unto them the peace and the happiness that their souls crave. 

I ask that the blessings of God may be upon us, that we shall be able to become better men and women, and to carry out in our lives a little more closely the things which we have covenanted with God to obey. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY. 

(President of the Deseret Stake.) 

Notwithstanding I have spent three years of my life upon a foreign mission, calling men unto repentance and bearing witness to the divinity of the work of the Lord, and that I am the father of fourteen children, one of my boys being now in a foreign clime proclaiming this same gospel, yet I am undergoing for the first time in my life, right now, the experience of speaking to a congregation in the open, and I tremble in every part of my body. I feel and sense the need of help and inspiration, and I pray that the Lord will he my helper and my inspirer. 

I cannot hope to rise to any heights to proclaim the beauties of the everlasting gospel, but I can express my gratitude unto the Lord that he has blessed me with ears to hear, with a heart to understand, with willing feet to follow, and willing hands to serve, and has impressed upon my soul the veritable fact that in this the dispensation of the fulness of times he has really spoken from the heaven and restored the everlasting gospel. 

I sometimes think that it is impossible for us as Latter-day Saints to quite sense fully the wonderful facts that have actually transpired; the facts that the Lord did speak with Joseph the Prophet face to face, that he did introduce his Son Jesus Christ, and invited Joseph to hear him; that he did teach him through the ministering of angels, and that Moroni, for four successive years, did teach the prophet as a father would a son — except on a greater scale, as a servant from the Almighty, from the heavens above, would teach one of the children of the Lord, to prepare him for this great work. 

I have often wondered how marvelous it must appear to all when they think of this wonderful message. Though the prophet had listened to the voice of the Lord, though he had listened to the voice of the Savior, though he had been taught by the angel Moroni, yet so far he never ventured to organize the Church. He never ran before he was told to go, he never spoke without the voice of author. And when the Lord did reveal unto him that the priesthood should be restored, and when he did manifest unto Joseph and Oliver that John the Baptist should come, then what a wonderful work Joseph set about to do! Do we appreciate it that he who, at his death, carried the keys of baptism by immersion, that that very being, resurrected, revived again, should come to men living in this dispensation and place his hands upon their heads, call them fellow servants, and restore unto them the priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the gospel of repentance and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins ? And that he should give unto them the promise that it should not be taken again from the earth until the sons of Levi should offer again an offering in righteousness unto the Lord ? Still no organization! Then Joseph waited for the promised visitation of the very men who under the hands of the Messiah himself had received their commission, Peter, James and John, who should come and upon the banks of the Susquehannah river, ordain them to the Melchizedek priesthood. Then they received authority and power, and then, under the direction of the Lord, the right time came and the Church was organized. Then men were commissioned. And that is the reason that we have the courage to say that there is no other church under heaven, good though it may proclaim itself, having the whole and the complete truth, and the authority to preach it and to officiate in the ordinances of the gospel. That is the bold message that we deliver to this world, without apology, for when the Lord spoke he said that his Church was  only Church with whom he was well pleased. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, this is my knowledge, your knowledge, and that which enables us to carry conviction wherever we go. We speak in no uncertain terms, for the Lord has spoken to our soul, has given us a testimony, so that we do not have to say, we hope, we believe. We do not proclaim a philosophy of men, but we speak with certainty, and say that through the mercy of the Lord the gospel has been restored, we bear witness that we have a testimony of its divinity. 

Now that these perilous times are upon us, are we moved ? are we distressed? One of my sons walked up to me the other day and said, "Father, what about this 'Reply to the call of your country' ? What shall I do? I do not want to be sent, I would rather go." I said, "My son, look at your mother, look at your father, look at your brothers and sisters and all, and sense what you are asking. Then do not expect from me that I shall ever offer a word of discouragement to you, for you live in this blessed land of liberty. Here we have had our home, here we have had peace, here we are blessed; and as a citizen you must answer, and answer understanding^ what it means. Go if you feel you must go, like your brother abroad proclaiming the gospel. Go in the same spirit, if you feel it. Go when you are needed, go where you are needed." 

Those are my convictions, this is my spirit, this is my feeling today : I love my fellow men. In the early days of a mission, when I was in the Netherlands and could not speak nor understand, and I  left my family and all — when I walked the streets of a great city and looked into the faces of those honest people, I thought, Oh, if I could but open my mouth and speak unto you what I feel, deliver unto you the message that I carry, how happy I would be! 

We do not have to go off to Holland, to any country. Even in the stake where I preside, the Deseret stake, men are gathering by the hundreds, thousands, strangers within our midst, who have never heard this gospel yet. I commend unto you this little thought : One man, coming into our midst, sat beside a good bishop, and a good minister said to that man, "Are you letting your children go to this 'Mormon' Sabbath School?" 

"Yes," he said, "they are going." 

The minister said, "Beware. Do not have them tainted with this 'Mormon' spirit." 

He said, "I have lived beside this man and watched him every day since I have come. Whenever I want a wagon it is available. When anything is to be brought from the store to the country, that good man proffers to bring it for me. These little lessons carry conviction to me that the bishop is a good man. I know nothing of that man but good. I hear nothing from my children but good. Call it 'Mormonism,' call it whatever you choose. The name will not affect it. The fruits are good." 

So I say, our mission is not only to proclaim, but to live as witnesses who have received the truth, and who love the truth. And if we live the truth, my brethren, and sisters, no man can come within the circle of our influence without being impressed with the fact — somewhat after the same spirit as the disciples, when the Master met them on the way to Emmaus, and when they walked with him. The Scripture says, "Their eyes were holden," and when he came in and broke bread with them, then they beheld, and it was revealed unto them positively who it was. Then, in counseling with them, they said, "Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us?" So it will be with you, so it will be with me, so it will be with every man who, having received the light, walks in the light. 

As the beloved disciple John said concerning Jesus, "Ye who have received the light walk in the light, as he walked in the light," and his spirit will characterize you, and its influence will be felt wherever you go. The Lord bless us to live righteously, and living so our lives and good works will be seen by others, that they shall be led to glorify God. 

It is my joy to bear testimony that I know the truth of these things without a doubt. I thank God for the teachings of a good father and a good mother. I have never been beset with doubt, but I can stand up before my own children as my father did before me, and say, "I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that you are members of the true Church. Live it as your grand-father lived it. Live it as I hope you see your father live it. Live it as sure as the authorities of the Church live it, and be happy forever more." 

God bless us and help us to do it, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ¥M. H. SMART. 

(President of Duchesne Stake.) 

I crave not only your attention, but your faith and prayers, that my words may be seasoned with truth, and that my strength may be equal to this outdoor meeting occasion. 

It is said that out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh, but we do not always speak those things of which our lives speak. Sometimes we dream of being full, but wake and find ourselves empty. And so some principles that may be nearest our heart may be farthest from our active lives. What I say may be principles that I should like to incorporate in my life, but in which I find myself weak. 

The preceding speaker announced that he is the father of fourteen children, and he admonished us to follow in the footsteps of our fathers and grandfathers, and so forth. I am impressed with this counsel, and in connection with it I remember one of the commandments that was given to ancient Israel and reinforced and brought forth unto this modern Israel, "Honor thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." I sometimes think that we take too short a view of this commandment and the blessing which is to follow obedience thereunto. 

I used to think when I was a boy that it meant that I might live long in this particular life, upon this land, and be possessed and blessed with long life here; but in later years another thought has come to me. It has come with the thought of my dual parentage, one parentage the Father of my spirit, the other parentage the father of my  — the Father of my spirit and the father of my body having entered into a copartnership in this dual soul composed of the body and the spirit. If I would live long upon the land which the Lord my God hath given me, I must not only be obedient to the father of my fleshly tabernacle, but I must also, and first, be obedient to the Father of my spiritual tabernacle. 

I have felt that the very foundation stone of happiness and progress here and hereafter, is to be in harmonious corespondence with my temporal and spiritual environment; and the first thought, the first thing to be discovered, is this relationship to these dual fountain heads, to observe the harmony and correspondence that I should hold with reference to the fountain heads of my being. When I have recognized that thought in the spirit of obedience, I am in a condition to honor them and listen to their commandments. 

The Father of my spirit, through h : s Son Jesus Christ, using the Prophet Joseph Smith as a medium of communication between heaven an.d earth, has given unto us this mighty principle with reference to law: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated; and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. " That is written in the law, in section 130 of the Doctrine and Covenants. 

Then again, in Sec. 88 :42, the Lord says, "And again, verily I say unto you, he hath given a law unto all things by which they move in their times and seasons." All things! That embraces man, the animal kingdom at large, the min kingdom, the vegetable kingdom. Further, the Lord says in connection with this subject, "Even the earth abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the measure of its creation." In other words, it is obedient to the law of its creation, the law of its fountain head. It transgresseth not the law, therefore it shall be sanetified. 

Why shall it be sanctified? Because it transgresseth not the law of its being. "Yea, notwithstanding it shall die, it shall be quickened again, and shall abide the power by which it is quickened, and the righteous shall inherit it." Who shall be the righteous ? The men and the women who, like the earth, recognize the law of their being, their fountainhead, for notwithstanding they shall die, all souls shall rise again as spiritual bodies. 

If we are to live upon the land a long time, which the Lord our God hath given us, we must abide the law given to control our being, just like the earth; for it says the earth shall be resurrected, shall be redeemed, -because it abideth the law, and the righteous shall inherit it. 

God has given unto his children a code of laws : faith, repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, by those who have authority, to administer in the ordinances of his kingdom, the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, the law of tithing, the law of consecration, the law of the sealing ordinances in his house, wherein man and woman are sealed for time and all eternity, and all the various cardinal principles of the gospel. These are the laws of our being, unto which we must subscribe if we would inherit this earth when it has lived its law, the celestial law, that we may live upon it many, many years, even until the time when Christ shall present it unto the Father as a finished work in the end. Therefore, we recognize the law of God, we recognize our spiritual Father as we recognize our temporal father — and not only recognize, but feel and live the law. We recognize God as the owner of ourselves, the owner of this earth form that we are allowed to live upon and cultivate, and bring up to a high state of' cultivation. 

With regard to the ownership of God as well as the brotherhood of man, let me present a thought that came to me when I was presiding over the Eastern States mission many years ago. I remember it, because President Monson, who presides over this meeting now, was there. It was when President Lorenzo Snow quickened the principle of tithing, that will redeem us from our temporal degradation and save us temporally. I was wondering how I could diffuse among the people of that mission this principle of tithing, that we should consecrate a part of our earnings, temporal blessings, unto the Lord. I was sitting at my desk pondering over this principle, and I turned to a hymn that I had never noticed before, and it went through me like an electric shock. It revealed the principle of the ownership of God and the stewardship of man, and I thought, if the elders of this mission and the Saints can recognize that principle, then the law of tithing is easy — no more a sacrifice, but a blessing in disguise : 

"The silver, gold and precious stones," Thus saith the Lord, "ar.e mine, 

The cattle on a thousand hills I own by right divine. 

"The forests, rich-stored mountains, plains, 

The fertile valleys, too,  The earth and all that is therein 

Are but my righteous due. 

"And men themselves beLong to me — They hold from me a lease 

Of health and strength, and even life, Which at my word may cease." 

Then why should men so much desire To seize on all they see — 

Cheat, covet, and appropriate, To self so greedily? 

The Saints have learned a purer faith; 

They own the Lord's just claim; They're stewards o'er what they possess, 

And hold it in his name. 

Their flocks and herds and lands and wealth, Their wives and children dear, Their all, themselves, they bring to him; Thus they his rights revere. 

I want to say to this congregation that if we will recognize the ownership of God our eternal Father, the author of our spirits, and recognize and honor our earthly fathers, even back to father Adam — recognize them in their respective spheres, in their ownership, and remember that Latter-day Saints never become of age, know not the year of twenty-one — and that through the endless ages of eternity we are our spiritual Father's children and our temporal father's. All that we do brings dishonor to their names, or honor to them in our rigtheous obedience to law, and will exalt us in the kingdom of our God. 

Th : s is the end of the keeping of the law pertaining unto our temporal and spiritual beings. May God enable us to keep the laws he has given unto us. I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER LARS P. OVESON. 

(President of the Emery Stake.) 

My beloved Brethren and Sisters and Friends: I rejoice exceedingly this morning in having the privilege of meeting with you in this open air meeting, not that I covet the place that I occupy at the present time, for I can assure you, like one of the former speakers, that I tremble in every part of my being, but I do rejoice in the testimony of the gospel of the Son of God, in having membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in being associated with the people of God. 

When I look upon this vast congregation, realizing that that Tabernacle is full to overflowing, that the Assembly Hall likewise is crowded, it tells me that the Church of Christ is growing, that we are increasing in numbers. When I first set foot in Salt Lake valley as a little boy, Salt Lake City was then as one of our villages is now out in the country. In the few years that have passed, it has grown to be a mighty city that is envied by people in all parts of the world. Our desert country has been made to blossom as a rose. Towns, villages, and cities have sprung up in the various parts of this intermountain region. 

When I look upon this picture, my brethren and sisters, and realize that it is the outgrowth of the work of the Lord, and that magnificent organization which was effected eighty-seven years ago last Friday, with only six members, the Prophet Joseph Smith an instrument in the hands of God in organizing this great and mighty work, which has grown and increased until it has become one of the great common of the world, it gives me joy to realize what the Lord is doing for his people! 

It is not only the people gathered here in the valleys of the mountains, from Canada to Mexico, from California on the west to Colorado on the east, but in the foreign mission fields scattered abroad in the earth. When we realize that there are more than 75,000 members of the Church scattered in the foreign mission fields of the world, and when we see the records that come to us of the work that is being accomplished in the mission fields, the faithful Saints scattered abroad in the world, it sometimes makes me wonder if we, the Church assembled here in the valleys of the mountains, could not take a lesson from the scattered Saints in the nations of the earth. 

I observed recently, in a bulletin sent from the Presiding Bishop's office to the various stakes of Zion, stating to some extent the work being accomplished in the mission field and the faithfulness of the Latter-day Saints, that the tithing being paid by the Saints in the mission fields sets a pattern for some of us here in the valleys of the mountains. When I realize that in one of the mission fields more than $9 per capita had been paid by the people in that condition, I could not help but realize that it set an example for the Saints in my stake of Zion, and I believe in many others. 

My brethren and sisters, the gospel has been revealed for the salvation of the human family. The Lord has been merciful and kind to his children, has offered unto us a plan whereby we may eventually return into his presence, may prepare ourselves to go back and .enjoy that glory and exaltation which he has in store for his children. He has gathered this people from the nations of the earth, has taken us one of a city and two of a family, and we have been gathered here in this goodly land. Today, when we look at the conditions surrounding us in the European nations and in the countries of the world, we must acknowledge that we are in the most favored spot upon all the face of the earth, here in the tops of these mountains, a place of safety, of refuge, where we enjoy peace and happiness, where we can enjoy prosperity. 

This has all come to us, my brethren and sisters, through the blessings of the gospel. What manner of people should we be? How should we appreciate these favors that the Lord has so abundantly given us? Does it not behoove us to be faithful and true to every covenant that we have made with our Heavenly Father? to observe to the best of our ability every law and requirement that has been made of us? We must acknowledge that they have all been given not for the Lord's benefit, but for us his children, for our development, advancement, growth, that we may prepare and qualify ourselves here in this school of experience, in this mortal state, in this probation, to go back and enjoy his glory, his presence, and the happiness that will come to those who are faithful and true. 

I do not desire, my brethren and sisters, to take up your time any further this morning, but I have a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, and I thank God for it, and I desire to lift my voice whenever an opportunity is given to me, to bear that testimony to mankind, for I know that the Lord lives, I know  Jesus is the Christ, that he is the Redeemer of the world. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet, and that we see before us every .day of our lives the fruits of his great mission and ministry upon the earth. I know that the servants of the Lord who have the control and who direct the Church at the present time are men of God, and I can testify to you of the truthfulness of the statements that were made yesterday in our meetings, that they are men of honor, of integrity, men of faith; and if we will hearken unto their counsels and admonitions from time to time, we will prosper and increase both spiritually and temporally. 

That the blessings of the Lord will continue to be over us, and that the spirit of peace and of love and of harmony may grow and increase in the midst of the Latter-.day Saints, is my humble prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

(Assistant Church Historian.) 

This is perhaps the first time in the history of the Church that a president of the Eastern States mission has presided over a general meeting at the headquarters of the Church. It brings to our remembrance the infancy of the Church and the thought that in the Eastern State? was the cradle of "Mormonism," and that we have presiding over this meeting, today, a man who in the presidency of a mission succeeds such distinguished personages as Brigham Young, Wilford Woodruff, John Taylor, Parley P. Pratt, Orson Pratt, Samuel Brannan and a number of other prominent men, who at one time  another have presided over the Eastern States mission. 

We will remember that it is within the present boundaries of that mission that the so-called "Mormon" hill, the Hill Cumorah, is located, and that the Church was organized in that region of country eighty-seven years ago; it was also in these eastern lands that John the Baptist, and Peter, James and John appeared and gave to us the holy priesthood. 

It may be proper for me to call your attention to what the Eastern states .did for the Church at an early date. When I mention the state of Vermont, you will, of course, remember that Joseph Smith the prophet and his brothers Hyrum Smith and Samuel H. Smith were born there, and so also were the late Presidents Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball. There were many natives of Vermont who became very prominent factors in this Church and helped indirectly to lay the foundation of this great commonwealth in the valleys of the mountains. Did you ever think of such men as Newel K. Whitney (one of the first bishops of the Church), Apostles Luke S. Johnson, Wm. Smith, Lyman E. Johnson, Albert Carrington, Erastus Snow, Hyrum Page (one of the eight witnesses to the Book of Mormon), and others who first saw daylight, so far as life in mortality is concerned, in the Green Mountain State? 

Then, when you think of the state of Massachusetts you can remember such men as Thos. B. Marsh, Willard Richards, Chas. C. Rich, Ezra T. Benson, John F. Boynton, and Franklin D. Richards, all of whom are prominently known in Church history. You can also think  the first patriarch of the Church, Joseph Smith, Sen., and Bishop Edward Partridge, who were natives of the state of Massachusetts. 

Next you can think of the state of Connecticut for Wilfor.d Woodruff and Orson Hyde, and you think of New Hampshire in connection with Amasa M. Lyman and Patriarch John Smith who were born in that state. 

Let me next draw your attention to the state of New York, where such men as Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer, Jun., and Martin Harris (all witnesses to the Book of Mormon) were born. You can then call to mind Apostles Lyman Wight, John E. Page, David W. Patten (the first prominent martyr in the Church in this dispensation), Parley P. Pratt, Geo. A. Smith, Orson Pratt, Jedediah M. Grant and Daniel H. Wells, who were all born in the great Empire state. 

If you cross over the boundary line into Pennsylvania, you are led to think of Sidney Rigdon, Bishop Edward Hunter, and such witnesses to the Book of Mormon as David Whitmer, Christian Whitmer, Jacob Whitmer, and others who were born in that state. 

I desire to attract your attention to the fact, also, that from the City of New York, in 1837, went forth the first Latter-day Saint missionaries to Great Britain. Furthermore, I desire to remind you that it was in the City of New York that Parley P. Pratt first published his famous Voice of Warning, one of the first books printed in the early clays of the Church — a book that perhaps has done more good and made more converts to "Mormonism" than any other single book written in the early days of the Church. It was also in the City of GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

New York that Parley P. Pratt, in 1837, first introduced the fulness of the gospel; and, twenty years later, in the year 1857, he left that city to go to his martyrdom in the distant state of Arkansas. 

We may also remember that the port of New York was the place where the first Latter-day Saints immigrants from Great Britain landed. Heber C. Kimball and the other missionaries who went to England, in 1837, commenced to preach the restored gospel in Preston, and thence went into the regions round about. They preached several years, however, before the emigration of Saints to America commenced; but when it did commence it is recorded in Church history that on the 6th .day of June, 1840, forty-one souls (members of the Church) landed in the City of New York, having crossed the Atlantic Ocean in the sailing vessel Britannia, in charge of Elder John Moon. This marked the first emigration of Saints from the old world to America in an organized capacity. In that same year ( 1840) the ship North America brought about two hundred Saints from Great Britain. The next year (1841) eight or nine ships arrived from Europe with Saints hound for Nauvoo, 111. The emigration continuing, eight ships sailed in 1842, five in 1843, five in 1844, three in 1845, and one in 1846; all these vessels landed immigrating Saints at New York and New Orleans hailing from Great Britain. After that the immigration was temporarily suspended because of the exodus of the Saints from Nauvoo to these mountains, and when it was reopened, in 1848, New Orleans was chosen as the landing place for the immigrants from Europe. This  until 1855, when the route was changed again, and since that time nearly all our immigrants from Europe have landed in the City of New York,except a few who landed at Philadelphia and Boston; of late years a number of ships with Saints on hoard have also ended the voyage at Montreal, Canada. 

We should not forget that it was from New York also that the ship Brooklyn in the year 1846, set sail and on her long voyage, doubling Cape Horn, and in due course of time arrived at San Francisco, Cal. — no, there was no such place at that early day; it was the small village of Yerba Buena. Among many other things which the Brooklyn company of Saints brought with them to California was a printing press which had been used by Samuel Brannan (one of the presidents of the Eastern States mission, and one of the predecessors of Brother Monson here) for publishing a paper in New York called the New York Messenger. On this printing press, which was taken around on the ship Brooklyn to Yerba Buena (afterwards San Francisco), was printed the first real newspaper in California, the so-called California Star. From among the immigrants who made the voyage mentioned in the ship Brooklyn came also some of the first founders of Utah. 

I will here add that several years after the presidency of Samuel Brannan in New York, Apostle John Taylor, who presided over the Eastern States mission, published a noteworthy periodical called The Mormon in the interest of the Church. For about three years The Mormon was the distributor of light and truth in the Eastern states so far as the fulness of the gospel 101  concerned. Its motto was : "It is better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others." 

I have felt impressed, my brethren and sisters, to draw your attention to these historical facts this morning, in connection with this outdoor meeting. Perhaps it is because I am more historically inclined than most people in the Church that I cannot overlook the fact that on this occasion the memories of events connected with the earliest days of the Church are brought to our very doors, and that we have the eastern country, the New England States, the states of New York and Pennsylvania, to thank for a great many things which we at the present time enjoy. In the providences of Almighty God it so happened that many prominent men, prophets and apostles and others, who have figured conspicuously in this Latter-day dispensation, were born in those states of our great and glorious republic which border on the Atlantic Ocean. It contradicts the assertion frequently ma.de that Palestine has produced all the prophets that ever lived and that to Palestine has come all the angels that ever brought a message from heaven to the inhabitants of the earth. That assertion is not true. In the Eastern states of our own country and elsewhere the Lord has raised up prophets and apostles in our own day, and in the great state of New York God our Father and his Son Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, appeared in a glorious vision to the Prophet Joseph Smith; angels also came and visited America, just as literally as they ever visited Palestine in olden times. 

May God help us, my brothers and sisters, to appreciate the gos and its accompanying gifts and blessings, as restored in our day to the earth, which gospel must ultimately be- preached in all the world. Long ago our elders would have preached it in all the countries on the earth, if the inhabitants had been willing to receive their testimonies. 

I trust that the time is not far distant when the pure gospel of Christ, first proclaimed by divine messengers on the Hill Cumorah, in the village of Fayette and on the banks of the Susquehanna River, may be heard in every land and clime, and that all nations, kindreds, tongues and people may have an opportunity to listen to that gospel as it has been restored to the earth in these latter days. Amen. 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President of the Eastern States Mission.) 

I deem it a great pleasure to have this opportunity of standing before you a few minutes in this open air meeting. I rejoice in the spirit under which the remarks have been given. My heart has been thrilled by the precious truths which have been uttered. 

When I think of the great responsibility resting upon one who occupies this position, I tremble in my own weakness, and yet the Lord has said that he will support those who are in h : s service. For upward of eight years I have served in the ministry, and I know that the Lord will not desert those who will place their entire dependence upon him. I wonder if we as Latter-day Saints realize how precious the truth which we have received is. To me there is nothing so precious and GENERAL CONFERENCE.  as the gospel of Jesus Christ and the testimony which seems to have been horn into my nature. Knowing full well that it has been bequeathed unto me by my noble parentage. I thank God always that my father and my mother had the courage of their conviction.; to turn their backs on the old world and come as pioneers to this western land and help make these valleys the pleasant abode which they now are to the Latter-day Saints. 

The gospel is not merely a code of ethics resulting from the fervent thought of man, neither is the organization of the Church a mere congregating together of a few who would like to proclaim those ethics to the world, but the organization ,of the Church was divinely inspired and men were commissioned to go forth into all the world to preach the gospel to every creature, and to baptize those who will be baptized, and to save the meek and the lowly of the earth. It is not the wise — those who are proud and puffed up in their own conceits, — that will listen to the testimony of our humble missionaries, but it is the meek and the humble and those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. They are they who are being filled. I want to enjoin upon the Latter-day Saints that you turn not away from the spirit and power of this great work, for I want to bear testimony to you that no greater blessing has ever come to this earth and been bestowed upon the heads of men and shared in blessing by the women, than the priesthood and authority of Almighty God. We sang, "We thank thee, O God, for ' a prophet" — I believe every true Latter-day Saint is thrilled with that  hymn, but I thought while we were singing the third verse, there may be some who have sung it time and time again without getting its full meaning : 

"We'll sing of his goodness and mercy; We'll praise him by day and by night, Rejoice in his glorious gospel, And bask in its life-giving light; 

Thus on to eternal perfection The honest and faithful will go; 

While they who reject this glad message Shall never such happiness know." 

The Lord revealed to the prophet Joseph Smith, as is recorded in the eighty-eighth Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that the gospel is his celestial law revealed to terrestrial beings, which, when applied to our lives uplifts us from the degradation of the world and plants us on a higher level and in closer relationship with God our eternal Father. 

"And bask in its life-giving light." Perhaps the author of the hymn had in mind what Paul said in the 15th chapter of his first letter to the Corinthians, "There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars : for as one star differeth from another star in glory, so also is the resurrection of the dead." I would not have you believe that the gospel brings blessings only in the future life, or rather in the world to come, but that the blessings of the gospel are to be realized this very minute and this very hour, and will purify your lives, that when you shall have laid off this mortality, you will rise to greater heights than would have been possible for you had you not obeyed the truth as it has been revealed. 103 

Now to the illustration of Paul : if the gospel is the celestial law, and the celestial kingdom is likened unto the glory of the sun, let us not think only of the light which the sun diffuses, but think of the power and influence of light without which nothing can grow. We might liken the light of the sun to the intelligence of man. There is something else besides the light of the sun. There is the warmth which coaxes the tender plant from the cold earth, raises it in the teeth of gravitation, makes the earth lovely, gives greenness to the vegetation. We might liken the warmth of the sun unto love, and where there is no intelligence and love, there the law of the celestial world does not reign. Is there anything can grow, even the attributes of God in the heart of man, without love ? The very glory of God is intelligence and his nature is love. 

The glory of the sun is the light thereof typifying the celestial glory the place where God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ dwell. The glory of the moon, which gives light by night, though not so illuminating as the sun, and possessing no warmth — typifies the terrestrial world. We are told those who inherit this glory are those who are the honorable men of the earth. You will find that terrestrial law working among the children of men today. They have a smattering of intellectual light, and are classed as specialists, who are not interested in anything that they are not familiar with. Take the purely scientific mind — it loves nothing except science. It is like the moon, cold, inducing nothing to growth. But it does give light to many a weary terrestrial traveler! 

The law of the telestial glory,  is typified by the glory of the stars, gives not sufficient light to cast a shadow, yet there is that star of hope held out for all of God's children, that sometime, somewhere, they will come into the love of their heavenly parent, and enjoy his munificent blessings prepared from before the foundations of the world. 

Looking at vegetable life, we see plants that grow in darkness. They are pale; they possess not the beauty of those that grow in open sunlight. When I was a youth, I remember being sent into the cellar late in the spring to sprout some potatoes. Every sprout was reaching out for that ray of sunlight that came through a little aperture! And yet we go through life and see God's highest creation, man, turning his back on the light, and not as the potato sprout struggling therefor. I wonder if we are magnifying our calling and are growing toward the light in a desire to be warmed by Christ's love? I wonder if we know just who we are? If we do, let us be obedient unto every commandment of the Lord our Father. 

I want to say one word with respect to what Pres : dent Hinckley said touching the Word of Wisdom. If a call were made of this audience to know how many of you drank tea or coffee for breakfast, how many of you would be forced to hang -you heads in shame! I receive letters from those whom I have been instrumental in bringing into the Church in the old world when I labored as a missionary in London, who are traveling from place to place, and who say there is tea and coffee drunk in the homes of some of the prominent people of this land. What is the use of sending GENERAL CONFERENCE.  missionaries out into the world if you are not going to live the gospel here? Why neutralize all the efforts that they put forth in a desire to satisfy your appetite? You say, "It is a little thing, it does not hurt me." It hurts you and it hurts everybody who sees you do it, and I want to tell you that the judgments of Almighty God will overtake you, if you do not quit it. 

In New York City last year the scourge of infantile paralysis brought sorrow into many a loving home. The doctors do not know the cause of it. But I am willing to take the Lord at h : s word as given in the 89th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. I have often wished that I were a germinologist, and with faith an.d confidence in the Lord I would start my investigation with the tea and coffee drinker, to find out if there does not lie the cause of the burning out of the tender nerve cells in the children. There were over 10,000 children stricken with this dreadful disease, in 1916, in New York City, and as many more in the State of New York outside of the city. Twentyfive per cent of those afflicted succumbed to this .dreadful disease. You can scarcely go along the streets of New York for one day that you do not see some poor child with limbs shriveled, hobbling along on a crutch. 

The Lord has warned us, and I am willing to take his warning. He says, 

And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones, 

And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; 

And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying ange! shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. 

One instance where a family of saints were located, three children were carried out of the apartment with infantile paralysis. They thought it contagious, but praise God, not one saint was afflicted. I have faith and confidence that God will preserve the lives of the Latter-.day Saints in so far as they will yield obedience unto his laws and commandments. 

May God bless and help us to see these things, and give us strength above all things, to overcome the weaknesses of the flesh, that we may grow more like him each day of our lives, that while we are children in the workshop of Divinity, we may learn to build clean and holy temples for the indwelling of His holy spirit. 

May God bless us to this end, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the doxology, and benediction was pronounced by Elder Benjamin Goddard, of the Bureau of Information. 


