Afternoon
07 04 1917

The conference was called to order at 2 o'clock p. m. by President Joseph F. Smith who presided. 

The Juab stake choir, under direction of Carl Nelson, sang: "Let the mountains shout for joy." 

The opening prayer was offered by Elder Richard W. Young, president of the Ensign stake of Zion. 

The Juab stake choir sang the anthem, "Praise the Lord." 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

If I were to express my present wish and feeling, I would say, the Lord bless the Juab stake choir. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY. 

God is Love — He is not causing the misery of the war-torn world; disobedience to his laws lies at the root of the misery — It is God's desire to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man — Man, with his free agency, must choose his own course, and the results of his follies cannot be charged to our loving Father — He would have men and nations choose the right, and not the wrong path. Indulgence in strong drink is destructive of manhood — When the nations wanted efficiency they were compelled to abandon drink and thus to obey a commandVnent of God — ^^Comparison of loss of life through war and intemperance — The hand of God in the rise and fall of nations, the whole pointing to the preaching of the peaceful gospel of Christ to all the world — Our obligations to bear the message of the Love of God to all mankind. 

As I came to conference this afternoon, one of the presidents of stakes accosted me, saying : "Well, are your nerves shattered because of the war?" I answered, "No, not because of the war, but they are pretty well unstrung at the thoughts of having to speak this afternoon," and that is a fact. 

I seldom, if ever, approach this duty of standing before an audience without a feeling of timidity; and I sincerely pray that the Spirit of the Lord will remove that feeling from me now as it has on other occasions. I desire to keep in harmony with his Spirit, and with the spirit of this most excellent conference. I testify that we have received the word of the Lord, and I am sure that all of those who have been in attendance at these meetings will bear the same testimony. I rejoice in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I rejoice in the faith and assurance I have that God is guiding this people, and that he will over-rule the destinies of nations so that the gospel of Jesus Christ may be preached in all the world as a witness before the end shall come. 

John, the beloved disciple, once wrote, as we find in first John, 4th chapter and 16th verse, "He that loveth not knoweth not God, for Go'd is love," and, in harmony with this truth, the poet sings: 

'Earth with her ten thousand flowers. Air with all its beams and showers, Heavens infinite expanse, Sea's resplendent countenance, A.11 around and all above, Bear this record, God is love." 

I am not one of those who see in this world catastrophe the hand of God as its cause. I do not believe that God has caused the misery, the famine, the pestilence, and the death that are now sweeping the war-torn countries of Europe. I do believe that the conditions of the world today are a direct result— an inevitable result, of disobedience to God's laws. I was surprised to read recently, in a current magazine, the expression that came from a school of free thinkers in London. Prominent men in that city were discussing the problem as to the effect that this world-war would have upon Christianity. One of those men recorded his views as follows : 

"Never have the souls of men been more sorely tried than at present. Across Europe rolls the roar of guns. Peaceful villages burst into flames. Ships of death sail the midnight sky and rain murder on the innocent. At every moment brave men are slain. Under the weight of overwhelming calamity the world staggers and groans. Was this all designed before the foundations of the earth were laid?" Then he asks : 

"How then can one worship the designer? Is it a by-product, and undesigned and unexpected result of creative power? How then can omnipotence exist? Does not the state of Europe make the belief in God a superstition? In the shadow of the immense disaster the figure of the living Father recedes into dim and formless outlines. Trust in his care grows faint and feeble. Human tears blur the vision of eternal bliss as human love has quenched the fires of hell." 

Such men, certainly, have lost the vision of the Creator as being a God of love. In answer to  gentleman, I cannot but repeat the words of the Redeemer : "Ye do err, not understanding the scriptures." I think, too, the words of Shakespeare are appropriate in which he said : 

"This is the excellent foppery of the world, that when we are sick in fortune, — often the surfeit of our own behavior, — we make guilty of our disasters the sun, the moon, and the stars; as if we were villians by necessity; fools by heavenly compulsion; * * * and all that we are evil in, by a divine thrusting on." 

I believe that God is love, that he is our Father and desires the happiness and eternal life of his children. Indeed, this is his glory, "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." He has placed man upon earth and, as he revealed to the Prophet Joseph, as recorded, in the 19th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, "he gave to man that he might be an agent unto himself." Men may choose the right or they may choose the wrong; they may walk in darkness or they may walk in the light; and, mind you, God has not left his children without the light. He has given them in the various dispensations of the world the light of the gospel wherein they could walk and not stumble, wherein they could find that peace and happiness which he desires, as a loving Father, his children should enjoy, but the Lord does not take from them their free agency. The Prophet Lehi, in speaking to his son Jacob, bears testimony to that truth in unmistakable terms. He ^ays : "Wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man that he should act for himself. Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be that he was  by the one or the other." And then, in the 27th verse : "Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh, and all things are given them which are expedient unto man, and they are free to choose liberty and eternal life through the great mediation of all men, or to choose iniquity, and death according to the captivity and power of the devil, for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself." 

God is watching over the destinv of nations. Someone has said, "there is a divinity that shapes our ends, rough-hew them as we may." We may "rough-hew our ends," we choose our course, but God will overrule our acts and the acts of nations for the consummation of his divine purposes. If what that free thinker in London says were true, that God designed all this misery to come upon the nations, we should read the maxim, just quoted in this way: "There is a divinity that shapes our ends rough — hew them as we may." 

God is standing in the shadow of eternity, it seems to me, deploring now the inevitable results of the follies, the transgressions and the sins of his wayward children, but we cannot blame him for these any more than we can blame a father who might say to his son, "There are two roads, my son, one leading to the right, one leading to the left. If you take the one to the right it will lead you to success and to happiness. If you take the one to the left it will bring upon you misery and unhappiness and perhaps death, but you choose which you will. You must choose; I will not force either upon you." The young man starts out and, seeing the allurements and the attractive ness of the road to the left, and thinking it a short cut to his happiness, he concludes to take it. The father knows what will become of him, he knows that not far from that flowery path there is a mire hole into which his boy will fall, he knows that after he struggles out of that mire hole he will come to a slough into which he will flounder. He sees others who have chosen that path in that same slough, and he knows that in their struggle to get on dry land there will be fighting. He could see it long before the boy reached that condition, and he could, therefore, foretell it. The father loves the boy just the same, and would still continue to warn him, and plead for him to return to the right path. God, too, has shown the world, through his prophets in ages gone by, that many of his people, individuals, as well as nations, would choose the path that leads to misery and to death, and he foretold it, but the responsibility is upon those who would not heed God's message, not upon God. But in his infinite wisdom, he will overrule these transgressions for the good of all his sons and daughters. His love for them is already manifest, for great as is the destruction that is now sweeping the world, greater will be the good that will come out of it through God's love for his chlidren. When, for example, these nations, prompted by bitterness, some of them, selfishness, enmity, fear or other feelings contrary to the spirit of the gospel and the spirit of love, began to grapple each other's throats, they could see that to succeed they needed the highest efficiency of the manhood of the country, so what did they do ? Russia forbade her people to drink vodka, France prohibited the use of absinthe. England, Italy and  nations restricted their people in the use of intoxicants, thus testifying to the world that indulgence in strong drink is destructive of the manhood of a nation. It matters not, as far as the lesson is concerned, whether after the war those nations again throw down the bars, the testimony to the world is already given. When they needed young manhood at its highest efficiency they had to accept one of the commandments of the Lord as he revealed it. They do not call it that, but you know what it is, and the world will never forget after this, that we need efficiency of manhood in times of peace just as much as we need it in times of war. It is my opinion, however, that they will never go back to it, never. Thus, in this one great thing of temperance, a great blessing will come to the world. Suppose, as it is estimated, that perhaps an average of fifteen hundred men die on the battle field every day, and will continue to die at that rate until the war is over. Half a million men a year, not counting those who are missing and who are wounded — it is a terrible loss. But do you know that in America alone the violation of God's law by indulgence in strong drink is rushing to a premature death over two thousand every day? It is estimated that every year in America alone more men are sent to a premature death by alcohol than have been killed on the fields of battle for the last two thousand years. At a convention of insurance men held recently, men said that through the prohibition of vodka in Russia alone, that nation is saving fifty thousand men annually. Can anyone, in view of that, stand aside and not see the hand of God working? 

Another thing. The other day, almost within twenty-four hours, the shackles of dynasty were torn from the limbs of Russia, and millions of people set free. One hundred thousand prisoners are now either at home, or are marching over the snows of Siberia back to their homes and freedom; and it looks as if Russia will have a government "by the people, of the people, and for the people." Many years ago the Lord said to the prophet, speaking of America : "No king shall ever rule this land." It was the land of the free; and it has become an ensign to the whole world. In this land was first revealed in this dispensation, the gospel of Jesus Christ. As thrones topple and monarchies crumble, you will see that the people who are given their free agency will begin to appreciate the principles of self-government, preparatory to their accepting the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the perfect law of liberty. I can see in all this a step toward a truer brotherhood — a preparation for the millennium. It may yet be far in the future, no one knows, but I can see Divine influence over-ruling the destiny of nations, at least preparatory to the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

One of our poets sees the same thing, and writes : 

"Oh, Lord, God of Hosts, whose hand Dominion holds on sea and land, In peace and war thy will we see, Shaping the cause of liberty. Nations may rise and nations fall, Thy changeless purpose shapes them all." 

In conclusion, fellow workers, men holding the priesthood of God, what is the responsibility resting  us as God's servants? Oh, how happy we should be that we are living in this land, the best in all the world, — this nation, the most glorious, guided by the constitution, inspired by God. Thankful? Why. that fact alone ought to make every American bow down and thank his God for the blessing of liberty that he enjoys. In addition to that, however, you and I have the greatest blessing that can come to man — membership in the Church of Christ and a testimony that God lives and that he loves his children. If we do appreciate it, I think we cannot shun the responsibility or fail to sense the responsibility that rests upon us to bear that same message to the suffering people in the world. People in distress are going to look for liberty, they are going to look for succor. Not all men and women in those war-torn countries are going to say that God is not omnipotent. Only a few of the skeptics who do not know God and who are struggling in blindness can draw that conclusion. The honest millions are going to look for relief; and you, my fellow workers, must give that message which will lead them to peace, happiness and salvation. Only a few thousand may have the privilege of bearing that testimony abroad, but all the membership of the Church will have the opportunity to live in obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ, and show that they are using their freedom, and their free agency in treading the path that leads to life eternal. We can do this by the observance of a thousand little things, especially by keeping our lives pure and unspotted from the sins of the world. Refrain from speaking ill of our neighbors, of creating contention, and of stirring up strife. The responsibility and opportunity comes to us to be an example to all the world. God help us so to be, that in thus conducting ourselves the Church may be an ensign to the nations, such as will indeed be a guide to them as they try to get back into the presence of their God, whom they will recognize, some day, as a God of love and not one of destruction and hate. In the words of the poet, let us pray: 

"For those who minister and heal And spend themselves, their skill, 

their zeal, Renew their hearts with Christ-like 

faith, And guard them from disease and 

death; And in thine own good time, Lord, 

send Thy peace on earth 'til time shall end." 

May the Lord grant this to his people, with his Holy Spirit to guide them, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Members of the Juab stake choir sang a trio : "To thee, O Father." 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

The definite and unchangeable purposes of God to be accomplished — Priestcraft and the divine right of kings to be stricken down and the civil and religious liberty of all men to be recognized — The uniting of the sturdy and intelligent peasantry of many nations, in America, the land of destiny, a beginning to help bring about this purpose — The establishment of the true and worldwide Church of Christ in America, having the greatest moral code .ever known, also a contributory means to this end — America has thus a Government and a Church founded upon principles of eternal truth — These Civil and Church truths applied to the great issue before the world to — It remains for us to live and, if need be, to die, for them — These civil and religious liberties, shall not be destroyed, but shall prevail from the rivers to the ends of the earth. 

"Come unto me, all ye that labor, and are heavy laden and I will give you rest." 

Since this conference commenced, as I have listened to the remarks made, I have been thinking of these words of the Redeemer, and applying them to the past, present and future, as they are related to the country in which we live, the government to which we profess allegiance and service, and the Church to which the great majority of us who are present, belong as members. 

The foundation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as has been repeatedly stated at this conference, is laid in God the Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost. The Church recognizes God as the creator of the universe, and that he dominates, governs and controls the destiny of all nations. It is not a doctrine of the Church, as has been stated by Brother McKay, that all of the events which have signalized the history of the world, the rise and fall of nations, the war, the bloodshed and devastation which have occurred, have been by God's decree, or with his approval, but rather that man, because of transgression and disobedience has brought these great judgments upon his own head. We do believe, however, that God has had, and now has foreknowledge of all that has occurred among the nations of the world from the beginning, that which is now occurring, and which will occur in the future. That he has certain definite and unchange purposes to be accomplished among his children, which the power of neither men nor devils can stay, and that, from time to time, he has revealed to his servants the prophets, and does now reveal to them, his purposes as they apply to the inhabitants of the earth. 

At the close of the fifteenth century the then known world was growing old, as man counts time. Chaldea, Egypt, Babylonia, Greece and Rome, each with a civilization which it had been thought would always endure, had flourished and passed into history, leaving only magnificent ruins to testify of their greatness. The great kingdom of Israel, the chosen people of the Lord, had been scattered to the four winds of heaven. A multitude of nations had come out from these kingdoms, each burdened with the memories, traditions and errors of the past, in both civil and religious life. 

The doctrine of the divine right of kings had been securely established; the doctrine that some men were born to serve, and others to receive service, was accepted without protest, the gospel of the Redeemer had been so changed that it was not recognizable. The time had come for the emancipation of the human family, when they were to be liberated from the thraldom of ages, in both civil and religious life. 

This could only be accomplished in a new world, under primitive conditions, 'in a world and among a people whose vision was not obscured by the moss and rust of ages, and so the Spirit of the Lord wrought upon a man among the nations of the Gentiles, and he declared that, if permitted, he could sail out upon the great unknown ocean and find a new world. Wise  shook their heads in doubt, the ignorant tapped their foreheads, as he passed and said, "pobre-cito, esta loco," "poor fellow, he is crazy," he thinks that by sailing away to the west he can circumnavigate the globe, and return home without turning round to come back; but the man persisted, and when men refused to listen, under the patronage of a woman, he sailed away from Spain, and landed on the shores of the new world. 

The beginning of the end, so far as old conditions were concerned, had dawned. Kingcraft and priestcraft were to be stricken down, the liberty of all men recognized that Christ's kingdom was to be establ : shed among men, and his will done upon earth as it is done in heaven. 

For the accomplishment of this great purpose there came to the new world, not people of a single race, speaking one language, to establish here the ideals and race prejudices of their old homes, but a community of men adapted, because of their cosmopolitan character, to evolve the great nation which this was designed of the Lord to be. 

To the devotion and faith of the Puritan of New England came the integrity and sturdy patriotism of the Dutch from New York, the dash and gallantry of the Cavalier from Virginia, and the light-hearted energy of the French from Louisiana, a combination of temperaments never before brought together, and calculated to produce the great composite American of today. 

It was under such circumstances, by such men, that the foundation of our government was laid. For the first time, at least in modern times, the declaration was made to the world that all men were created with cerain inherent rights. All men. Not all Englishmen, nor Dutchmen, nor Frenchmen, but men of all nations. That they were entitled to certain rights and privileges which could not in justice he taken from them : the right to pursue the avocations of life, to possess property and pursue happiness, without molestation, so long as they did not infringe upon the rights of others. They made another startling declaration, they had the effrontery to say that all governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. The day that declaration was made, the death knell of every crowned tyrant in the world was sounded. 

They did another thing, this heterogeneous body of men, whom the old world called a mob; they said to the oppressed of all nations, come unto us, all you who labor and are heavey laden and we will give you rest. And they came. Not kings and princes, not many dukes and counts and barons, but the sturdy and intelligent peasantry of the world came, and here under the Stars and Stripes they have found rest, until today one city of our land has more Jews than can be found in all Palestine, the strength and intelligence of Ireland is here, liberty loving men from all nations have come to these United States, and here they have found rest. They love this country because it is theirs, because it belongs to no particular race or people, because it is not a country of men of American birth, not a country of Englishmen, nor Dutchmen, nor Frenchmen, nor Germans, but a country of Americans, where every man who is loyal to its institutions, stands equal with every other man before the law. 

The time had come for the accomplishment of another great pur, indispensable to the welfare of mankind, and as clearly foreordained of God, and designed in his economy for the redemption of the world, as any event which has occurred in its history. The errors and injustice of civil government, which had crept into the systems of the old world, were not more marked than those which had come into the : r religious life. Notwithstanding the fact that the Lord had manifested himself to the world through his only begotten Son, and that the Redeemer had made the doctrines of his gospel so plain and simple that none need mistake them, had organized his Church with its powers and duty clearly defined, and that the people of the world had his written word before them, men had drifted away from the truth into a religious system as destructive of real faith, and as powerless to satisfy the religions aspirations of men, as were their systems of civil government to satisfy the demand for political reform. 

The scripture was misinterpreted, the clearly defined laws of the gospel transgressed, the ordinances of the Church entirely changed. A multitude of conflicting creeds had sprung from the mother church, each teaclrng its own doctrine, preaching for hire, divining for money, teaching for doctrine the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. One declaring that all men who had heard' the name of the Redeemer, and rejected it, or even those who had never heard his name, and died without knowledge of his mission or mhrstry, were consigned to endless torment, in a hell of eternal burning from which there could be no escape worlds without end. Another declaring  some men were foreordained to salvation, and others to eternal damnation, and that no act of theirs could in any way change this inevitable decree of God. This doctrine may be found in the creeds of existing churches. I warrant that the man who conceived the thought, like the man who believed in the divine right of kings, believed himself to be the one divinely favored as against other men. 

Such was the religious confusion which existed in the world when the time came for the restoration of the simple truths taught by the Redeemer, and the re-establishment of his Church for the salvation of mankind. The time, the place, the circumstances under which this restoration was to be effected, had been as clearly set forth by the prophets as any event in the handdealings of the Lord with his children. The old world had rejected the Redeemer, had crucified him, and persecuted the Church until it had ceased to exist. 

The new world was the proper place for the restoration, this glorious government the proper guardian of the Church, old things were passing away, all things were becoming new, the first was to be last, the last first. Just as the establishment of our government was accomplished by simple means, so was the restoration of the gospel. Just  as the men who, under God, founded this Republic, gave to the world the best fundamental civil law ever offered, so did Joseph Smith, through whom the Lord established his Church, give to the world the greatest moral code it has ever known, not his, but Christ's, restored through him. Just as this government is world-wide, and belongs to no race of people, so is  Church world-wide, and belongs to no sect or creed. Just as in the state the more exalted place within its gift is open to the humblest citizen, so in the Church is righteousness and good works the standard by which men are judged, and not by the heritage of birth. Like the State the Church says to all men, come unto me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. But you must come as true Americans, leave behind the prejudices and traditions of the past, disavow allegiance to all other governments, you must support and defend the constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign or domestic, and true faith and allegiance give to its institutions, if you would participate in the God-given privileges which this country affords, and if you are to enjoy the eternal blessings which the restored gospel offers to all men, you must repent of your sins, forsake them, and have them washed away by baptism in the name of the Redeemer, and continue to live in righteousness during your mortal life. 

Yielding obedience to these principles you find here a government, and a Church, both founded upon principles of eternal truth, designed of God to bring civil and religious emancipation to the world. The state declaring the personal liberty of the individual, in civil life, but restraining him when he infringes upon the rights of others, leaving him free to exercise his right to worship as he may desire, or to not worship at all, declaring that no law shall ever be enacted establishing a form of religion, or denying the free exercise of religious belief. The Church declaring its unqualified adherence to these principles, exercising- among its members the right to trial for fellowship only, where conduct is unbecoming and contrary to the word of the Lord. That this latter statement may not be doubted, let me read: 

"We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man, and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, either in making laws or administering them, for the good and safety of society. 

"We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and protection of life. 

"We believe that religion is instituted of Gad, and that men are amenable to him, and to him only, for the exercise of it, unless their religious opinions prompt them to infringe upon the rights of others; but we do not believe that human law has a right to interfere in prescribing rules of worship to bind the consciences of men, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion; that the civil magistrate should restrain crime, but never control conscience; should punish guilt, but never suppress the freedom of the soul. 

"We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government, whereby one religious society is fostered, and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members as citizens, denied. 

"We believe that all religious societies have the right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct according to the rules and regulations of such societies, provided that such dealings he for fel and good standing; but we do not believe that any religious society has the right to try men on the right of property or life, to take from them this world's goods, or to put them in jeopardy of either life or limb, neither to inflict any physical punishment upon them, they can only excommunicate them from their society, and withdraw from them their fellowship." 

I want to ask you, my brethren and sisters, if a better declaration, defining the attitude of the Church to the State, and the State to the Church, has ever been offered to the world than that which I have read. It is not a reformed doctrine of the Church either, but one which has stood from its inception until today; one which is in perfect harmony with the laws of our country. 

I have been thinking of these civil and Church laws and applying them to the great issue which is before the world today. Are we to revert to barbarism? Is the divine right of kings to be established among the children of men ? Are the Godgiven liberties which are guaranteed under our constitution to be trampled under foot, and the great work which has been accomplished since the restoration of the gospel of Christ destroyed by ruthless men who honor neither God, man, nor religion? These things are in the balance, the wage of battle is on, these great questions are to be decided one way or the other. If we love them, if we are determined in our hearts that they shall not perish from the earth, it remains for us not only to live for them, but if necessary to die for them, as men who have lived before us have done. I feel authorized to say, here this afternoon, that these liberties which have come to men, both religious  civil, have not been established by the Lord to be destroyed, but that they are here to remain until liberty shall prevail from the rivers to the ends of the earth, until God's kingdom shall be established among men, and his will done upon earth as it is done in heaven. Until the universal Fatherhood of God, and brotherhood of man shall be recognized, and the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of Christ, who shall reign as Prince of Peace, which may God grant, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Juab stake choir sang : "God is our refuge." — Dudley Buck. 

ELDER J. C. BENTLEY. 

(Of the Juarez Stake, Mexico.) 

Brethren and Sisters: The few moments that I shall occupy this afternoon, I earnestly pray that I may be inspired by the Spirit of the Lord, that I may say something that will be instructive and may perhaps be an incentive to our devotion to our heavenly Father. 

The testimonies of this conference, and in fact everything connected with it, the hymns that have been sung, and the sweet music that we have heard this afternoon, have had a peculiar sweetness to me, something that has been divinely sweet, and yet with it all, it has impressed me with a feeling of sweet sadness, an impression that in our history as a people we are perhaps commencing upon a new chapter. The impression to my mind is almost like we were starting out upon a journey. The end is not so certain, and yet we know that the end will bring us victory  peace and happiness. The impressive testimonies that have been borne, it seems to me should inspire us to start upon this journey with a faith in our heavenly Father that will bear us triumphantly through this journey to the end. 

The few Latter-day Saints, who have been located in the republic of Meixco, have had now over five years of experience in war, and I want to bear you my testimony that there is no pleasure in war. It has always been my prayer to the Lord that this people may be kept out from war, that we may not be mixed up with the war of the nations of the earth. I have always hoped for peace, and in my own country, the country of Mexico, to which I belong, I have always prayed that the Lord would bring us peace. After our exodus from the Juarez stake of Zion, the Lord inspired a few of his children — not because of their goodness nor their extreme faith — but he inspired a few to return to those colonies. What his purpose was I do not know. It was not our business to know. But I want to bear my testimony to you that the few Latterday Saints who returned to those colonies were inspired of the Lord to return, without arms, without protection, so far as this world was concerned, absolutely helpless, and we returned, few in number, and our conditions were such that the Lord was the only source in which we could put our trust. I want to bear testimony to you, to the youth of Zion, to the young men who shall embark upon this journey which we seem to be inevitably forced upon, that I know, as I know I have an existence here this afternoon, that the Lord has preserved that handful of people. When men have come into our midst with the determination in their hearts to commit murder, to ravish families, and to destroy the homes and the property of that little handful of people, our escape has heen marvelous to us, and I want to bear my testimony to the youth of Zion that God has preserved his people by his power. It has been thought foolishness, and we have been called foolish — the world, even our neighbors, our Mexican friends, have felt that we were very foolish indeed, and yet, my brethren and sisters, the Lord has preserved his people. 

I want to bear my testimony to the youth of Zion today that we are living in perilous times, so far as the things of this world are concerned, those things that will detract us from the service of the Lord. We must come to the parting of the ways. If we expect to maintain ourselves during the coming period of our existence, we must have faith in God; we must put our trust in him; and we cannot do it unless we live conscientiously the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Men and women and families who do not pray to the Lord, who do not keep the Word of Wisdom and observe the Sabbath day, cannot have faith in God, the eternal Father. It requires the observance of these things in order to have faith in the Lord. 

I want to bear testimony to the good work that has been done by the American army cdming into that country. It has been thought by some to have been a failure, and many have branded it as a failure and a mistake, that the American army was * ever sent into our country; but through the splendid course of the men who stood at the head  that army, they have won the hearts of the Mexican people. Instead of destroying life and property, instead of trampling down the rights of the Mexican people, a spirit of kindness, a spirit of humanity was extended, and today the Mexican people feel much more friendly to the people of the United States; that is, the peaceable Mexicans, feel far better today, than they ever have felt before. I don't know what shall be the result of this contention, it may be that our boys, the boys of this country, the young men of this Church, may have to go into Mexico. I don't know what the result will be, but if they can go with the spirit of this conference, if they can go with the instructions that have been given to us by those who have spoken here during this conference, I know that victory will be with the people of God, if we can maintain the spirit and the teachings of this conference. I hope the time will come, if we shall ever go into the army of the United States, that we can plant there the seeds of the everlasting gospel, and that we can establish the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and a reputation for honesty, for clean lives, for virtue, and peace, and for the kingdom of God, that will bring honor and credit to the Latter-day Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, the few people who are still remaining in Mexico have enjoyed a period of peace. After the coming out of the American army there was considerable concern as to what would be our condition when the forces of General Villa should reach us. It was well understood that they were only waiting to occupy the territory that was vacated by the American army, and there were rumors that  had been instructed to kill all foreigners, all Americans especially, and to come to the colonies as soon as the army should retire. They came and visited us, and we are grateful to say that they left us feeling better than they did when they came. They were awful hungry when they came, and when they went away they were somewhat filled up, because we had given them a part of our substance. When they reached our colony General Salazar was somewhat ugly and gave us to understand that they did not want any "Pacificos" in Mexico, they only wanted fighting men, and we could either fight or leave the country. But after a short conference with them and explaining the purpose of our being there and our mission among them, they felt better, and General Salazar gave me his word that so far as he was concerned our people were welcome to remain in Mexico. We have continued, up to the present time, to maintain in friendly relation with that people, simply by carrying out, as near as we could, the instructions that had been given to us, and as  have been given to us here during this conference. 

May the blessings of the Lord rest upon us and help us as a people to magnify our calling wherever we shall go, carrying with us the spirit of the everlasting gospel; that we may be worshipers of the Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity, and carry into the army, or wherever we shall go, the teachings of the gospel of our Lord and Savior, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Notices of overflow meetings on Sunday to be held in the Assembly Hall and at the Bureau of Information, and of appointments for presiding brethren and speakers, were read by President Smith. 

The closing music was a baritone solo and mixed chorus by the Juab stake choir, entitled, "The Lord hath brought again Zion." — Arthur Shepherd. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph H. Dye, of the Shelley stake of Zion. 

The conference adjourned until 10 o'clock Sunday morning. Conference continued in the Tab : ernacle, 10 a. m., Sunday, April 8, 1917, President Joseph F. Smith, presiding. 

President Smith announced overflow meetings to be held in the Assembly Hall this morning under direction of Elder Joseph E. Robinson, of the California mission; also an open air meeting at the Bureau of Information, under direction of Elder Walter P. Monson, president of the Eastern States mission, both for the accommodation of persons who could not find seats in the great Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle choir sang : "The Lord is my Shepherd." 

Prayer by Elder James H. Robinson, president of the South Davis stake of Zion. 

The Tabernacle choir sang an anthem : "They that sow in tears shall reap in joy." 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. 

The moral and religious condition of the world today is no better than in the .early nineteenth century — There is a lack of geunine faith among the people in Jesus Christ as the Son of the living God, in his resurrection, and in his atonement for the sins of the world — The Latter-day Saints possess faith in these doctrines, and believe in the literal resurrection of the body from the grave — After the resurrection our bodies will be tangible, purified, bodies of flesh and bones, as was the body of Jesus before he ascended into heaven — Schools and colleges troubled with vain philosophies, theories, and "scientific fiction" — Duty of the Saints is to consider false any doctrine that conflicts with the revealed  of God, and to seek the Lord and obey his commandments. 

It is, my brothers and sisters, trusting in the Lord and hoping for the direction of the Holy Spirit that I stand before you this morning for the purpose of bearing my testimony in regard to the gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and to give expression to such thoughts as may come to me while I am here in this position, for I fully believe in the gospel which has been revealed in these latter days for the salvation of all mankind who will repent and believe. I have a firm testimony of the mission of our Redeemer, and it is my duty, so far as I have the power, to raise my voice and to declare unto the people, not only of the Latter-day Saints, but in all the world, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. I desire to read a few verses from section 84 of the Doctrine and Covenants which, I think, are very timely. This revelation was given in the presence of s : x elders of the Church after their return from a mission where they had been preaching the principles of the gospel in the western lands, as it was understood at that time. They had returned to Kirtland, in Ohio, rejoicing in the testimony of the truth, in the manifestations of the Spirit unto them and the goodness of the Lord in their ministry, and the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation in their presence in which the following occurs : 

"And I now give unto you a commandment to beware concerning , to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life; 

"For you shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. 

"For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ; 

"And the Spirit giveth l : ght to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit; 

"And every one that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit, cometh unto God, even the Father; 

"And the Father teacheth him of the covenant which he has renewed and confirmed upon you, which is confirmed upon you for your sakes, and not for your sakes only, but for the sake of the whole world; 

"And the whole world lieth in sin, and groaneth under darkness and under the bondage of sin; 

"And by this you may know they are under the bondage of sin, because they come not unto me. 

"For whoso cometh not unto me is under the bondage of sin; 

"And whoso receiveth not my voice is not acquainted with my voice, and is not of me; 

"And by this you may know the righteous from the wicked, and that the whole world groaneth under sin and darkness even now." 

That was true when this revelation was given, in the year 1832. It is true today, and perhaps these words can be expressed with greater force regarding the conditions that prevail in the world in this day than could be the case, speaking of the people in the day when the revelation was given. I  not one of those who believt that the world is growing better; I do not consider myself a pess : mist either, but I do not believe that the world is becoming more righteous, that the inhabitants are drawing nearer unto God, that there is in the hearts of the people a greater desire today to serve him than in the year 1832; but, on the other hand, since that day the peoples of the nations of the earth have been drifting, and drifting farther and farther from the truth. When I make this statement I am fully aware that there has been progression in certain directions. I am aware that in these latter days there has been a movement among the nations and in our own land to overcome the evils of strong drink, and all these things will bring their results for good, but so far as their observance of the doctrines of the gospel is concerned, so far as their righteousness is concerned, I do not believe that they are any better, nay, I do not believe that the people are as good now, as they were when this revelation was given. The world today is full of vain philosophy, full of doctrine that is not of the Lord, full of false conclusions, ideas and theories that were not a part of the gospel in the days of the Son of God, and hence are not a part of it now, but on the contrary are in absolute contradiction of the truth. There are fewer, in my judgment, among the Christian peoples, who believe in the Son of God as the Redeemer of the world. The tendency has been, during all these years, to get farther away from the principles of the gospel as they are contained in the holy scriptures. The worship of reason, of false philosophy, is greater now than it was then. Men are depending upon their own research to find out God, and that which they cannot discover and which they cannot demonstrate to their satisfaction through their own research and their natural senses, they reject. They are not seeking for the Spirit of the Lord, they are not striving to know God in the manner in which he has marked out by which he may be known, but they are walking in their own way, believing in their own man-made philosophies, and teaching the doctrines of devils and not the doctrines of the Son of God. 

Today, throughout the world, the people of the various Christian denominations are assembling in their churches because it is Easter Sunday. They have not assembled there because they have faith in the literal resurrection of the Lord; they have not assembled there because they believe in the literal resurrection of all mankind through the atonement of our Lord, and they have not assembled because they acept him as the Son of God. I want to make honorable exceptions, because there are some who have done so, but I speak generally. They have assembled there for a very different purpose — because it is the custom, because in, many cases among the sisters they want to show their millinery and the styles of their clothing, their dress. They are there more in the nature of a social function and fashion show than to worsh : p the Lord, and I say this notwithstanding the expression that appears in one of our morning papers to the effect that anybody who expresses this kind of an idea is cynical and expresses a perverted opinion. 

The people of the various nations, who call themselves Chris, today do not worship the Lord Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world to the extent that they did even in the day of the organization of the Church. The doctrines today that prevail are in opposition to that truth, and ministers stand before their people 'denying the atonement of Christ, and hence showing their lack of faith in and understanding of the resurrection of the Son of God, and denying the universal resurrection which the scriptures promise shall come to all mankind. I have an expression here that I desire to read. This is taken from a book published in the year 1914, the title of which is, A Century's Change in Religion, and the author, Mr. George Harris, speaking of these changes has the following to say in regard to the Son of God : 

"The virgin birth is not regarded as an essential doctrine of Christianity. The belief that Jesus transcended humanity, that he was sinless, rests on his life, teachings, and work, not on the manner of his birth. There are only two accounts of the miraculous conception and these are stories, written thirty years later, of visions that Mary and Joseph were said to have had. There is no reference to the virgin birth elsewhere in the New Testament or by Jesus himself. 

"The resurrection of Christ signifies the everlasting Lord. Whatever the appearances of Jesus to the disciples may have been, whether actual manifestations we cannot understand, or subjective visions in which his person seemed real, it is certain the disciples were convinced that Jesus lived. * * * 

"The physical world and the bodies of men are but temporary conditions in which the spirit is localized, while it responds to the  forces which know nothing of distance, but flash from life to life instantly, as the lowly plant responds to the light and heat and magnetism which pervade the universe." This is found on pages 99 to 101. Again he says: 

"My influence, shaping the life of others, has in view the values that constitute the man immortal. And the thought of immortality cannot be banished, but persists in one form or another, even if it be in so attenuated a form as influence on others. Corporate immortality, as the only immortality, is not much debated now, though we believe in it and delight in it, have pride in the family, — backwards to ancestry, forward to descendants; even as the scriptures saith, the promise is to the children's children, to a thousand generations. A rather hold writer, thinking of past generations of faithful, noble men, links them to the present, which surpasses them in knowledge of the truth, saying that not only do they help us, but also that we help them; that 'apart from us they should not be made perfect.' 

"The Jews at the time of Christ believed in the resurrection of the body, except the sect of Sad.ducees, who said there is no resurrection. For several centuries of the Christian era it was the common belief. The earlier creeds affirmed it in so many words : T believe in the resurrection of the body and the life everlasting.' The Apostle Paul disclaimed it, and called that man a fool, a foolish one, who supposed that this very body of flesh and blood will be raised up. It is not a physical body, that will be raised, he says, but a sp : ritual body. There are celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial; Out the glory of  celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. And as we have borne the image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly. I suppose nobody now believes in the literal resurrection of the body. When we repeat the pharse in the Apostles' Creed we think of that for which it stands and which immediately follows — the life everlasting." This is taken from pages 177 and 178. 

Another writer commenting in an Easter sermon, or editorial, in one of our leading magazines, a year or two ago, had this to say, speaking of the doctrine of the literal resurrection of the body : 

"All this is a beautiful and facile faith. It takes the world quite too easily. It rests everything on the power of God. It is harder for us, in these .days of science, to believe quite so readily what seems unreasonable, and on authority of a creed which the apostles never heard." — That in reference to this Apostles' Creed already mentioned. — "We prefer to talk of the spiritual body which is not the body of this flesh. It is the spiritual body which will arise, that is, will survive; and the spiritual body is the soul immortal. We do not understand any other body. So we interpret Paul. And in the assurance of the eternal life with Christ we rest on his promise, 'this .day shalt thou be with me in Paradise.' " 

That is the doctrine of a large part of the Christian world, and I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that it is false doctrine, that it is not the gospel taught by Jesus Christ, and there is no warrant in the scriptures for any such conclusions. Paul .did not express anywhere in his writings that there should not be a resurrection of the body and a re-uniting of the body with the spirit, and those who interpret the writings of Paul — and they have reference to his statement in the fifteenth chapter of first Corinthians — do not understand the scriptures. They have no idea of what Paul was speaking; they misinterpret, they put a false construction upon the teachings of the scriptures, not being led by the Spirit of the Lord. I believe, and you believe, all Latter-day Saints believe, in the literal resurrection of the body and its reuniting with the spirit, thus becoming, as the scriptures informs us, the soul of man. The resurrection of the Son of God was typical. We are informed that his body did not see corruption, although it was placed in the' tomb and remained there for the three .days, according to the predictions in the scriptures. Again, that body was taken up and spirit and body again united inseparably, and in that form he appeared unto his disciples who were unconvinced when he appeared to them and "were terrified and affrighted," the scriptures say, thinking they had seen a spirit. He manifested to them that it was himself, and called upon them, in order to convince them that it was the body that was laid in the tomb, to come and handle him and see for themselves that it was his body that had been pierced and they thrust their hands into the wounds in his hands, his feet and his side. 

As he arose from the dead, so shall all men rise; both the just and the unjust shall come forth from the grave. The sea shall give up its dead; the grave shall give up its dead; all shall come forth and stand before the judgment seat of God to be judged according to their . They shall not all come forth at the same time. Those who are Christ's shall come forth at his coming. Matthew informs us that following the resurrection of the Son of God "the graves were opened, and many bodies of the Saints which slept arose and came out of their graves and went into the holy city and appeared unto many." 

These modern blind teachers of the blind have a very false understanding of what is meant by a spiritual body. They have based their conclusion on the statement that Paul makes that the body is raised a spiritual body, and that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. They cannot conceive in their minds a body raised from the dead, being composed of flesh and bones, quickened by spirit and not by blood. When Paul spoke of the spiritual body he had no reference at all to the spirit body and there they have made their mistake. They have confused the spiritual body, or, in other words, the body quickened by the spirit, with the body of the spirit alone. They think that those who believe in the resurrection of the literal body believe that it shall be raised again, quickened by blood, which is not the case. I want to read another verse from the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Now, verily I say unto you, that through the redemption which is made for you is brought to pass the resurrection from the dead. 

"And the spirit and the body is the soul of man. 

"And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul; 

"And the redemption of the soul is through him who quickeneth all things, in whose bosom it is decreed that the poor and the meek of the earth shall inherit it. "Therefore it [the earth] must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness, that it may be prepared for the celestial glory; 

"For after it hath filled the measure of its creation, it shall be crowned with glory, even with the presence of God the Father; 

"That bodies who are of the celestial kingdom may possess it for ever and ever; for, for this intent was it made and created, and for this intent are they sanctified." 

"And again, verily I say unto you, the earth abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the measure of its creation and transgresseth not the law. 

"Wherefore it shall be sanctified; yea, notwithstanding it shall die, it shall be quickened again, and shall abide the power by which it is quickened, and the righteous shall inherit it; 

"For notwithstanding they die, they also shall rise aga : n a spiritual body : 

"They who are of a celestial spirit shall receive the same body which was a natural body; even ye shall receive your bodies, and your glory shall be that glory by which your bodies are quickened. 

"Ye who are quickened by a portion of the celestial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness; 

"And they who are quickened by a portion of the terrestrial glory shall then receive of the same, even a fulness;" and so on. 

After the resurrection from the dead our bodies will be spiritual bodies, but they will be bodies that are tangible, bodies that have been purified, but they will nevertheless be bodies of flesh and bones, but they will not be blood bodies, they will no longer te quickened by blood  quickened by the spirit whxh is eternal and they shall become immortal and shall never die. 

Now, if our good friends understood this, they would not fall into this error of thinking that Paul's doctrine was in conflict with that of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, when Paul declared that the body that would be raised would be a spiritual body. You read in the Book of Genesis, where the Lord said to Noah after the flood, that the blood was the life of the body; the blood is the life thereof, he says. Therefore, whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed, because blood is the life of the mortal body, but with the body brought forth in the resurrection, which is the immortal body, that is not the case, in it blood does not exist, but the spirit is the life-giving power and hence they are no longer bodies quickened by blood but bodies quickened by spirit and hence they are spiritual bodies, but tangible bodies of flesh and bones, just as was the body of the Son of God. Now this is the doctrine of the Lord and Savior of the world. 

I had a conversation with a man one time, a minister, and he took this view which prevails so largely in the world, and I forced him, by the reading of the scriptures, to admit that when the Savior appeared to his disciples and said unto them, "Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have," that the Savior really spoke the truth, and I asked h : m, "that being true, then how in the world do you believe, how can you believe, that today he sits in the heavens without a body of flesh and bones?" His answer was, "After he ascended from the Mount of Olives he shed his body of flesh and bones." I asked him for the chapter and verse and, of course, he was unable to give it. 

The Lord has very clearly set forth the doctrine of the resurrection. He declared shortly before his crucifixion that the hour was coming and, he said, now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live. Even his disciples wondered what he meant. They marveled at it, they could not fully comprehend it, notwithstanding the fact that they believed in the literal resurrection of the body in those days, and the Savior seeing their perplexity said unto them and unto the people who were there assembled: "Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming in the which all that are in their graves shall hear his voice and shall come forth, they that have done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil unto the resurrection of damnation." Now the world interprets that to mean those who are dead in trespasses and sin, those who are in bondage of iniquity should hear his voice, but the Lord meant literally just what he said when he declared that the dead should hear his voice and should come forth, they that had done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that had done evil unto the resurrection of damnation, for the resurrection shall come upon all mankind for they are not responsible for death. The Lord will not punish them for Adam's transgression. Therefore, he took upon him the sins of all mankind and redeemed every creature from death and granted unto each one of us a resurrection, but not eternal life, not salvation, not an existence in the presence of his Father in the  kingdom. That comes through faithfulness, through diligence, through perseverance on our part and through our belief and acceptance and our keeping of the commandments of the Lord. Now I said in the beginning that the World is full of philosophy. One prominent and intelligent writer has called these theories, "scientific fiction." I think he is right. We have the theories of evolution, of higher criticism, the ideas that prevail in the schools throughout our land that are dangerous, that are striking at the fundamentals of the gospel of Jesus Christ, trying to destroy the faith in the minds of the students who attend the schools. We are troubled with it to some extent even in our own state and the colleges throughout the country are full of it, and the professors teach it, they believe in it, at least they profess to believe in it, and it seems to me that the sole purpose of it is to undermine and destroy the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want to say to the Latter-day Saints that it is our duty to put our faith in the revealed word of God, to accept that which has come through inspiration, through revelation unto his servants, the prophets, both ancient and modern, and whenever you find any doctrine, any idea, any expression from any source whatsoever, that is in conflict with that which the Lord has revealed and which is found in the holy scriptures, you may be assured that it is false and you should put it aside and stand firmly grounded in the truth in prayer and in faith, relying upon the Spirit of the Lord, for knowledge, for wisdom, concerning these principles of truth. If you will walk in the light as I have read here, and will receive  doctrines of our Redeemer, he will grant unto you, through the inspiration that will come from the Spirit of the Lord, a testimony of the truth and you need not walk in darkness nor in doubt, but may have a clear and a distinct comprehension, and understanding of the truth which will make you free. It is our duty to seek the Lord, to obey his laws, to keep his commandments, to put away from us light-mindedness, foolishness, and the false theories, notions, and philosophies of the world, and to accept with fulness of heart and in humility these solemn, God-given principles which will bring unto us eternal life in the Celestial kingdom. That we may do this is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A tenor solo was sung by James H. Nielsen, entitled, "If with all your hearts." — Mendelssohn. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

The Kingdom of God and the Kingdom of Heaven. — Our Literal acceptance of the Scriptures. — The Lord's second advent affirmed. — The consummation of the ages near at hand. 

"Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven." 

Thus did our Lord and Master teach the Saints in olden times to pray. The pattern whicli He gave for prayer has never been superseded nor abrogated. Thus does the Christian world profess to pray today : "Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven." If ever there were rational and imperative need for such prayer as this, today witnesses that need. Who will dare affirm that  need no longer pray that the kingdom of heaven may come, or that the will of God is being wrought upon the earth as it is in heaven ? 

Do you believe that the kingdom of heaven has been already set up upon the earth? I do not. I know that the kingdom of God has been established upon the earth, but the kingdom of God is a preparation for the kingdom of heaven, which is yet to come. The expressions "Kingdom of God" and "Kingdom of Heaven" are ofttimes used synonymously and interchangeably in our imperfect English translation of the Holy Bible, particularly in the Gospel according to Matthew, where the expression "Kingdom of Heaven" is most commonly, used. But in these instances, as in so many others, the light of modern revelation clears up the darkness of ancient passages; and the Lord has in this day and age made plain the fact, beyond all question, that there is a distinction between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of God is the Church of Christ; the kingdom of heaven is that system of government and administration which is operative in heaven, and which we pray may some day prevail on earth. The kingdom of heaven will he established when the King shall come, as come He shall, in power and might and glory, to take dominion in and over and throughout the earth. 

Thus spake the Lord in the year 1831, calling attention to the imminent duty of the Church and, the Saints : 

"Hearken, and lo, a voice as of one from on high, who is mighty and powerful, whose going forth is unto the ends of the earth, yea, whose voice is unto men. — Prepare ye the way of Lord, make his paths straight. 

"The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth; 

"Yea, a voice crying, — Prepare ye the way of the Lord, prepare ye the supper of the Lamb, make ready for the Bridegroom; 

"Pray unto the Lord, call upon his holy name, make known his wonderful works among the people; 

"Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall come down in heaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet, the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth; 

"Wherefore may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven so on earth, that thy enemies may be subdued; for thine is the honor, power and glory, for ever and ever. Amen." 

Thus reads the revelation known to us as Section 65 of the Doctrine and Covenants. The kingdom of heaven shall come, and then shall justice rule in the earth. No longer shall men rise in unrighteous dominion over their fellows. No longer shall men exalt themselves on thrones, nor adorn themselves with crowns and scepters. The best form of government possible unto man is a monarchy with the right kind of a monarch, who will do only justice, full justice, and with due regard to the claims of mercy, give unto every man his right. Such a government will be democracy and monarchy combined, and such is the government of the kingdom of heaven. 

The work of the Church of Jesus 

Christ of Latter-day Saints may be summed up as the preparation of the earth for the coming of its Lord and King. As in the meridian of time the voice of the Baptist was heard in the wilderness, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand," so has the voice of that same John the Baptist been heard in this day, restoring the authority of the Priesthood requisite to the administration of the ordinance of baptism, whereby remission of sins may be obtained; and the proclamation is made now, "The kingdom of heaven is at hand." That proclamation is authoritatively sounded throughout the world; and the work of the Church, which is veritably the kingdom of God, is to prepare the earth for the coming of the King of earth and heaven, and for the establishment of the kingdom of heaven upon the earth. 

We Latter-day Saints are peculiarly literal in our acceptance of plain scripture. We believe that the Scriptures are very simple to understand, if we can only get the theologians to leave them alone and not confuse us with explanations. The Spirit of the Lord will enlighten the mind of the earnest reader, and will interpret the Scriptures, for that is the spirit in which the Scriptures were written. When we read in prophecy, ancient and modern, and find in all predictions bearing upon th : s subject a strict unanimity, without any shadow of contradiction or inconsistency, we hold it to be a fact beyond question that the Christ, Jesus of Nazareth, who lived in the flesh, who was actually crucified, and who .did take up that same body of flesh and bones that had lain in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, shall come in that same body and stand upon the earth and  with His people, and rule and reign. 

Forty days after the day in commemoration of which this Easter Sunday is celebrated throughout Christendom, Christ led out His faithful servants, those who had been commissioned to administer in the authority of the holy Priesthoo.d after He would leave, led them out to the historic little mount, Olivet; and there after communing with them and giving them final instructions, answering some of their eager questions, and putting others aside with but partial answer because the brethren were unprepared to fully comprehend, He ascended from their midst. They saw Him ascend; there was no shedding of body or robe; and as they watched Him disappearing in the upper deep they became aware of the presence of two white-robed angels, who addressed them saying: "Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven." 

I admit that we Latter-day Saints are behind the times in many respects. We are still simple-minded enough to believe what the Scriptures say, which is the truth, and which cannot be gainsaid. Time forbids me citing even the most important and most striking of ancient prophecies relating to the coming of the Son of God in the .dispensation of fulness, which is known as the day of vengeance. It was shown unto the prophets, however, even in the most ancient of times. Adam learned of it. Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of it, declaring that in the last days Jesus the Christ would come with ten thousand of His saints to rule in  upon the earth for a thousand years. I find nothing ambiguous in that, nothing requiring an interpreter. If I understand English at all, if I am more than a child in understanding, I can comprehend what that declaration means; and I believe it in its impressive literalness and in all its grand and glorious simplicity. 

In preparing the world for the coming of the Lord there is a duty laid upon the Church as an organization, and upon every member of the Church individually; and that duty or obligation is to carry the word to our neighbors, to all with whom we may come in contact. Remember the mission of the Church is not wholly and solely to convert men to the acceptance of its principles and to bring them into membership. The duty laid upon us is also that of warning the world of the judgments that are to come. Can you doubt that the present dread scenes of conflict and slaughter on land and sea, in the air and beneath the water, are insignificant as signs of the times ? 

In that solemn interview which Christ had with His apostles just after their departure from the temple for the last time, in the course of the evening walk back to Bethany, He rested on the slopes of Olivet, and the apostles came to Him privately to ask certain questions regarding the time of His coming, which He had in part explained to them. Read for yourselves the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew and the twenty-first chapter of Luke. The burden of the Lord's instructions was this : Watch, for ye know not the day nor the hour. He went so far as to tell them that not even the angels in heaven, nor at that time did the Son himself know the time appointed for His return in glory to exercise dominion on the earth. That knowledge He said, rested with the Father only. So in our assurance that the Lord shall come, and that His coming is very near, let us beware of those who undertake to set dates, to .designate months and years; for the Lord hath positively declared that that shall not b.e given to man to know, nor even to the angels who stand in the presence of God. But certain signs are specified, and those signs are today ripening like the fruit in autumntide, when the fulness of summer is past. Who can doubt the imminence of this event, which shall be known as the consummation of the ages? 

We do well to bear in mind the fact that the coming of the Christ is not the event spoken of in the Scriptures by the figurative phrase "the end of the world". That is not to be the occasion of the final judgment. Yet when Christ comes He shall execute judgment; and the wilfully hopeless, the unregenerate wicked shall be destroyed. Then there shall be a general resurrection of the righteous .dead, and a change from mortality to immortality in the case of many who are living in the flesh at the time of His coming. But following the millennium, a thousand years of peace, shall be the final resurrection, in which men shall stand in their bodies of flesh and bones before the judgment seat of God. 

I ask your attentive consideration of one of the many utterances of the Lord concerning His coming, given to us in these modern days, as recorded in the 88th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Tn 1832, the Lord said unto His elders  the Church generally, through the mouth of the Prophet Joseph: 

"And I give unto you a commandment, that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom; 

"Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; # $ $ ♦ * 

"Behold I sent y,ou out to testify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who hath be.e:i warned, to warn his neighbor. 

"Therefore, they are left without excuse, and their sins are upon their own heads. 

"He that seeketh me early shall find me, and shall not be forsaken. 

"Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord come; 

"For not many days hence and the earth shall tremble and reel to and fro as a drunken man, and the sun shall hide his face, and shall refuse to give light, and the moon shall be bathed in blood, and the stars shall become exceeding angry, and shall cast themselves down as a fig that falleth from off a fig tree. 

"And after your testimony cometh wrath and indigation upon the people; the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground, and shall not be able to stand. 

"And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds. 

"And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people; 

"And angels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump ,of God, saying, Prepare ye, prepare ye, O inhabitants of the earth; for the judgment of our God is come; behold, and! the Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him. 

"And the saints that are upon the earth, who are alive, shall be quickened, and be caught up to meet him. 

"And they who have slept in their graves shall come forth; for they shall he caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven." 

I believe it all without question or mental reservation. And now, as I know that I may be criticized by some, who pride themselves on scholarship, for the child-like simplicity of my acceptance and for my belief in the literalness of these events, I say to you in paraphrase of the utterance of Paul : Brethren, I come not to you with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I am determined not to know anything amongst you save Jesus Christ and him crucified, the Christ who is to come. And I am with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching unto you is not with the .enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. That our faith may not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. So be it, in the name of Christ. Amen. 

PATRIARCH HYRUM G. SMITH. 

Testimony that the Lord lives — Christ's love for little children is boundless; they cannot commit sin, and are saved without baptism — Comfort assured to mothers who have lost little children — The Lord loves the .obedient, and such as have faith as a little child — More poignant sorrow comes from disobedience than from separation for a time — Let us honor the law of the Lord that we may claim our loved ones in the glorious day of the resurrection. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in being permitted once more to see this vast throng of people in this place of worship, and I bear testimony that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us in every session of this conference, both with those who have spoken and with those who have sung praises of the Lord, also with those who have offered prayer. The Spirit of theLord has prompted all the exercises of this conference thus far, and I pray that the Spirit of the Lord will be with me in my brief testimony, that what I may say may be so impressed upon the minds of those who have gathered "here that it may be beneficial. 

We have heard much about the mission and characteristics of our Savior and our Redeemer. We have heard the testimonies of his servants in these the last days, and I bear testimony to their truthfulness, and would like to add my testimony thereunto. I know that the Lord lives, that he actually lives, and my faith in my Father in heaven is as firm and clear from doubt as the faith of a little child, knowing that his father and his mother are his actual guardians, protectors and providers here upon the earth. 

I have a great deal of sympathy and love for little children, and I bear testimony that the Lord loves little children. The instance related of him, where his disciples would forbid little children to come to him, he rebuked them and said, "Suffer little children and forbid them not to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven" (Matthew 19:14). 

"Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God. Behold, I came into the world not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance; the whole need no physician, but they that are sick; wherefore little children are whole, for they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power ,over them; and the law of circumcision is done away in me. 

"And after this manner did the Holy Ghost manifest the word of God unto me; wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children. 

"Behold I say unto you, that this thing shall ye teach, repentance and baptism unto those who are accountable and capable of committing sin; yea, teach parents that they must repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as their little children, and they shall all be saved with their little children. 

"And their little children need no repentance, neither baptism. Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the fulfiling the commandments unto the remission ,of sins. 

"But little children are alive in Christ, even from the foundation of the world; if not so, God is a partial God, and also a changeable God, and a respecter to persons; for how many little children have died without baptism. 

"Wherefore, if little children could not be saved without baptism, these must have gone to an endless hell. 

"Behold I say unto you, That he that supposeth that little children need baptism, is in the gall of bitterness, and in the bonds of iniquity; for he hath neither faith, hope, nor charity; wherefore, should he be cut off while in the thought, he must go down to hell. 

"For awful is the wickedness to suppose that God saveth one child because of baptism, and the other must perish because he hath no baptism. 

"Wo be unto him that shall pervert the ways of the Lord after this manner, for they shall perish, except they repent. Behold, I speak with boldness, having authority from God; and 

T fear not what man can do; for perfect love casteth out all fear; 

"And I am filled with charity, which is everlasting love; wherefore all children are alike unto me; wherefore I love little children with a perfect love; and they are all alike and partakers of salvation. 

"For I know that God is not a partial God, neither a changeable Being; but he is unchangeable from all eternity to all eternity. 

"Little children cannot repent; wherefore it is awful wickedness to deny the pure mercies of God unto them, for they are all alive in him because of his mercy. 

"And he that saith, That little children need baptism, denieth the mercies of Christ, and setteth at nought the atonement .of him and the power of his redemption. 

"Wo unto such, for they are in danger of death, hell, and an endless torment. I speak it boldly, God hath commanded me. Listen unto them and give heed, or they stand against you at the judgment seat of Christ. 

"For behold that all little children are alive in Christ, and also all they that are without the law. For the nower of redemption cometh on all them that have no law; wherefore, he that is not condemned, or he that is rnder no condemnation, cannot repent: and unto such baptism availeth nothing" (Moroni 8:8-23). 

There are many of our Latterday Saint mothers who have mourned the loss of their litle children, and many mothers have felt that they themselves had committed some great sin, else their little ones would not be taken from them. Now, to such mothers let me say, do not accuse the Lord of taking vour little ones from you, nor feel that you have committed any great sin, that those little ones are taken from you, because the Lord loves little children and he will not treat them unkindly, nor without mercy, for through the blood of his atonement they shall come forth in the  of the resurrection with his Saints, and they shall be glorified according to the works they would have accomplished in the earth had they lived. I have great hope and great consolation in the blessings of our Lord, in the promises of our Redeemer, that through our faithfulness in keeping his commandments we shall meet our loved ones, and especially those who have left this life in the time of infancy and innocence. Now, with the little children, the Lord loves those who keep his commandments, those who obey him and render faith like unto that of little children; and those who are obedient to his commandments will receive his greatest love, and his greatest blessings. 

I am very grateful to my Father in heaven for the testimony that I have of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I know that my Father in heaven actually lives, and that he will hear and answer our prayers when we seek him in faith and in humility. I have a testimony of the power of faith in the earth, and I know that the Lord will accept our faith when we humble ourselves, and that he will help us to exercise our faith, that his purposes may be accomplished in the earth through our efforts. 

Now, there is one thought that comes to me in speaking of the lives of little children, and of the bereavement that is left in the homes on the separation from these little ones. To my mind it is only typical, and perhaps there is some sadness in it, but it will be no comparison to the sadness that our fathers and mothers will partake of when they come forth in the morning of the resurrection with a desire to meet their loved ones, if  find that they have not obeyed the law of the Lord which is now being administered, in the holy temples, by the servants of the Lord. When these fathers and mothers discover that they have no claim upon their little ones who have left them in this life, because of their own disobedience to the law, having heard and known the law, and never obeyed it, then will there be sorrow and weeping and wailing that will be sorrow indeed. 

With the moments that are left me this morning I urge my brethren and sisters, the sons and daughters of the Latterday Saints, that we honor the law of the Lord, that when this glorious day of resurrection shall come, which we know will come, that we may hold cla : m upon our loved ones in that glorious day, through our obedience to the law of the Lord that is now administered in the houses of the Lord, by the authority which God has placed upon the earth, and the work performed by that power will be acknowledged both in this life and in the life to come, both before the resurrection and after the resurrection. I urge this principle to be taught in your homes, and to be obeyed by the Latter-day Saints both young and old, and I bear you my testimony to the truthfulness of it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Tabernacle choir sang the chorus : "My pilgrim staff may rest thee here." 

Benediction by Bishop David A. Smith. 


