Second Overflow
07 04 1907

ELDER JOSEPH A. M'RAE. 

(President of Western States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, there have been many thoughts pass through my mind during the time that this conference has been in session, and I am truly thankful to my Father in heaven that I have had the opportunity of attending the meetings which have been held. I have rejoiced in the testimonies that have been borne by my brethren, and I rejoiced in the declaration that was read the first day of the conference by Brother Whitney, the declaration by the President and his counselors, that was accepted by the body of the Church in conference assembled. When that document was *being read I could not help but reflect on- the first hymn in the book : 

The morning breaks, the shadows flee; 

Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled! The dawning of a brighter day 

Majestic rises on the world. 

The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine; 

The glory, bursting from afar, 

Wide o'er the nations soon will shine. 

The Gentile fullness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand : 

Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin, Shall in their promised Canaan stand. 

Jehovah speaks! let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live; 

His mighty arm is making bare, His cov'nant people to receive. 

Angels from heaven and truth from earth 

Have met and both have record borne; Thus Zion's light is bursting forth, To cheer her children's glad return. 

It seemed to me that a dawning of another day had come upon us, and that we are beginning a new era in the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I wonder in my mind what influenced each of you to come to conference. I know why I came. It was to become acquainted and to be associated with you, to partake of the Spirit,that I might return again to the mission field over which I have been called to preside, and tell the people there, the elders, the Saints and those who are not members of the Church, what a glorious time we have had. 

In sitting here this afternoon, looking over this congregation, seeing throngs of people that are passing to and fro on the outside, and realizing that many thousands are assembled in the tabernacle to hear the word of God, I could not help but say within myself, This people is of necessity a social community. They are not hermits, they are not a law unto themselves, but we each depend upon our brothers and sisters to a degree for strength to bear that portion of the kingdom that has been committed to our care. I rejoice in the Gospel of Christ, and in the testimony the Lord has blessed me with. I rejoice in the opportunity I have had of laboring in the mission field for a few years, presiding over some of your sons and daughters, directing their footsteps and teaching them the Gospel, telling them how to go among the people and do the work which they are appointed to accomplish. In viewing the work they have done 

I rejoice exceedingly. They are a noble band of brethren and sisters, doing their duty, keeping the commandments of the Lord, and striving every day of their lives to preach the Gospel unto those who do not know it. The people in our field are inquiring for the Gospel, asking for it, and listening to the testimony of the elders; but we do not have enough elders and sisters to preach the Gospel in the districts where we have been called. We have, practically, three states in our mission that have no elders preaching in them. One has only two elders covering the entire state. Of course they cannot cover it as a whole, we have to confine them to a small district, which keeps them busy. Two other states have not had elders in them for three or four yea'rs, because we can not spare them. We have letters now, in our desk in Denver, asking for elders to come and preach the Gospel to the people, invitations that we cannot comply with. I feel that the Gospel is spreading abroad in the land. I often ask the Elders in the mission field, Are we keeping pace with the rapid progress that the Gospel is making? Are we keeping up with this great movement that has been established by our Father in heaven? Are we keeping the commandments of the Lord, so that we can go back into the presence of our Father in heaven with those who shall be received in His kingdom? When I see the rapid strides that are being made in the mission field, and the progress of the people, I wonder if our friends and relatives at home, who are offering up prayers and petitions for our welfare, realize what is being accomplished today by the missionaries in the field. We have a corps  missionaries striving to the utmost of their ability to preach the Gospel; we have no place for drones in our hive, we have all resolved to be workers in a great cause. I could not help but realize, as I said before, that our associations together here are accomplishing good. My association with the mission presidents, visiting their headquarters, has done much for me, I have blessings in my heart for President Ellsworth, who presides over the Northern States mission. I say God bless him; he has been an inspiration in the things that I have learned by visiting his mission. When he asked me to take 1,500 copies of the Book of Mormon, more than two years ago, 1 thought it was more than we could afford to carry. So I solicited President Robinson to take some off our hands, and I sent him 200. We kept the remainder on our shelves, and did not send them out to the missionaries. A few months ago an inspiration came to me, and I decided to send each elder in the mission six copies of the Book of Mormon, and to the conference presidents I sent twelve each. We sent 450 Books of Mormon out in one week. Some of the elders said, 'What do you want me to do with these?" I said, Put them in your grip, do anything you please, but I am going to send another half dozen in a very short time, and follow that up. Some of the elders were at first timid and backward in their efforts to place the Book of Mormon before the people, and we realized that to get them to work we must throw responsibility upon them. In the 23 months preceding the first day of last December, we sold in the mission field 700 copies of the Book of Mormon. In the four months since then we have sold 800. Not only that, but there were hundreds more of our Church books distributed among the people. The elders also had an ooportunity of getting in the homes of the people and explaining the principles of the Gospel unto them. I wonder many times, if we, as a people, understand the Book of Mormon, do we comprehend what it is ? do we know why it was revealed in this dispensation? Evidently there was a wise purpose in it, for God thought it of sufficient importance to reveal it before the Church was established. Read the title page to that book, and observe what obligations we are under to distribute it among the people. I have sent letters to the elders telling them we have placed the mark on disposal of the Book of Mormon in our mission field during the present year at 5,000 copies. President Ellsworth, I expect, will tell you a bigger story than that, but he has nearly three times the number of missionaries that we have. I feel thankful for the interest that has been taken in this great work. You may think that your sons and daughters are made book agents in distributing this book, but it is not so. We have elders in the mission field today who have been book agents before they went there, but while pursuing former tactics, they failed in getting the people to purchase the Book of Mormon, so they had to change their plan. The plan that they have adopted now is to hand the individual a Book of Mormon and ask him to read. It makes no difference what portion he reads, anv of it is good. As he reads it, the Elder stands there and silently prays that our Father in heaven will touch the heart of that indi and cause him to want the book. Invariably it has been sold under such conditions. They are not ordinary book agents, but they are filled with the power of the Lord. We believe the spirit of that book has permeated the hearts of the people. One of the elders, the other day, going into a dry goods store, took a book out of his pocket. He had hardly taken it out when a gentleman, a stranger, saw it, and held out his hand and said, "I have been looking for the Book of Mormon for months, how much is it?" Another instance I recall, of my own experience recently in the city of Denver. I went into a business house and took a book out of my pocket and handed it to the proprietor and. said: "Did you ever see that book before?" He said. "No; what are you going to do with it?" I said, "I am going to let you have it to read if you want it." He said, "All right, what is the price?" He wanted the book, and he took it. And so the people in our mission have become aware of the fact that Mormonism has something to give them, and they are inquiring after it, they are desiring to learn the principles of the Gospel. These things that I am telling you about are developing the elders. The elder that I mentioned who took the book into the dry goods store was a timid, backward young man. He said, "I can't give a book away, I can't loan it to the people," and the president of the conference had been doing everything to get him filled with the spirit of the work, and he took the young man with him that morning, and decided on that peculiar action which resulted as I stated. We do not feel like book agents, but feel that we are going forth bearing the message that God has given to this generation. I have often said to the elders who are laboring in our mission, The Book of Mormon has been written as a message to this generation, and if we withhold that message from them, we will be hell responsible to God, as we would be held responsible before the courts of the land by withholding any letter we may have received for delivery. 

I feel well in the Gospel. I feel to press on and do all that I can for the furtherance of this great cause. I love my brethren and sisters, and the principles of the Gospel, and I hope that I shall ever have a firm testimony, and not be afraid to stand forth and bear it wherever the Lord shall see fit to send me. May He bless us and help us to do right and keen His commandments, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

( President of Northern States Mission.) 

I do not believe I ever attended a conference which has appeared to me to be of more importance than the present one, nor at which I received more inspiration and felt more impressed concerning the position of God's people throughout all nations. The reading of the Declaration at the opening of this conference, seems to place us in a different position before the people of the world, and I am confident that the SDirit and import of the same will reach to the ends of the earth. All the world will know more clearly our position toward  children of men than ever before. I thank God that our brethren, the First Presidency, have made this declaration to the people of the world, that it was approved by the Quorum of the Twelve, and that it has been sustained in this conference unanimously. I am sure that the spirit of the declaration will be felt throughout the earth, for it is a message of truth, bearing the stamp of authority. It is a mighty testimony to the honest in heart and to those who desire to know the truth; and I rejoice in it. My heart rejoices in the spirit of this conference, and in the powerful teachings that have been given unto God's people during the services. I hope and pray to live to see the day when the Latter-day Saints will feel a pride in keeping the commandments of the Lord. That it will be a joy to keep themselves so clean and pure that through them the light of the Gospel shall be disseminated to all the honest in heart of the earth, that they, too, may see and know the way laid down by the Master for the salvation of His children. There are thousands and tens of thousands of honest hearted people in the world who are praying and worshiping devoutly, but all the light and knowledge they have has come to them from uninspired teachers, and they are not to blame for their state of mind. They have been brought up to look upon these self-styled teachers as men called of God, and to believe the things that have been taught by them. They are taught that a calf to preach Christ comes from the Holy Ghost, and that ordination is a secondary consideration that may be administered by any preacher. The people never stop to examine the abstract of title to a man's anthority. If their interests were centered in a few feet of ground they would look well into the title, but they fail to examine it in such an important thing as everlasting life. I think the time is not far distant when the light that shines from the lives of the faithful Latter-day Saints will draw many of the honest in heart into the straight and narrow path. This is the gospel of liberty, restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. The world has long worshiped with a gospel of faith only, believing and teaching that faith alone is all that is necessary; but the Gospel of faith and works was restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith and, as an evidence of this, wherever this people have established themselves, they have made their faith manifest by their works. They have built towns and cities, and have beautified the earth. They have gone into waste places and have demonstrated to the people of all nations that they have received a gospel of works as well as of faith. We have endeavored during the time we have had the privilege of laboring in the mission field to show to the people that we have come among them to work, to thus show our faith to teach them the better way. For several years we have given three rules to our missionaries, as a means to sucess; the first rule is Work, the second Hard work, and the third Persistent, prayerful, honest work. We bear testimony that success has come to every one who has followed these three rules. We have never had an elder go into the field, who has complied therewith, but who has come home with his heart full of joy, with a testimony that God lives, and the messengers of our Father  been sent before his face to guide his footsteps in the way of the honest in heart, and in the way of friends. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the wonderful interest that is being taken by the people in the Northern States mission, as well as in the other missions. I believe truly that it is the dawning of a new era, or a new opening for presenting the Gospel truths to the thousands and tens of thousands that desire to know the true way. During the past four years the people's attention has been wonderfully turned toward the doctrines of the Latter-day Saints. As evidence of this, we sold about twenty-five Books of Mormon during February from the office alone, in answer to letters coming from individuals who had met some of our elders. That is almost as many as we sold in twelve months some few years back; not because the elders were less faithful than they are today, but because of the awakening of the people. I rejoice in this, and in the testimony that is given to me by the brethren who are constantly striving to present this great book of scripture to the people. They have related interesting and faithpromoting testimonies concerning the manner in which our heavenly Father has opened up the way for them to bring this book into the homes of the people. 

We are meeting hundreds of individuals who speak in very warm terms concerning the work that is done by the Bureau of Information upon this block. I have had several intelligent persons state that it is very strange such a bureau was not established 25 years ago, so that much misrepresentation that has been going on these many years  have been stopped. Many duly appreciate the very kind treatment they have received at the hands of our self-sacrificing brethren and sisters who come here daily to show people around these premises, and to give them a little information concerning the doctrines and history of the Latter-dav Saints.. Some have written to us inquiring for other books to supplement the literature they have received from the Bureau of Information workers. 

We also receive many kind words from people who spend their winters on the Pacific Coast. They ask questions that convince us immediately that they have come in contact with some of our elders, for their questions are those referring to matters peculiar to the faith of the Latter-day Saints. 

The closing months of 1906, we had a very instructive and beneficial visit from our brethren, Apostle Hyrum M. Smith, and Elder Charles H. Hart of the First Council of Seventy, and I can say that they did us a great deal of good, and strengthened our mission. They gave the people who came to listen to them much valuable instruction. Their visit strengthened the faith of the Saints, assuring- them that the Gospel that has been delivered to us is a Gospel of common sense, a Gospel that teaches men and women to be natural, and that true religion is good common sense revealed from our Father to His children. 

We do not take any glory to ourselves for the condition that now prevails in the mission. We feel that our Father in heaven is pour out His spirit upon the people throughout the nation; the spirit of inquiry concerning this Gospel is being awakened in their hearts. All we have to do is to labor and seek earnestly to be led to those who are prepared to receive it. We feel very much encouraged in that the Book of Mormon, which is scripture to this generation, is being widely circulated in the Northern States mission. We succeeded in distributing over 6,000 Books of Mormon during last year. Besides there was about 20,000 10-cent books and over 400,000 tracts distributed. This is a much better showing than we were able to make the year previous. I do not believe our street meetings, or our Gospel conversations were any fewer on account of the increased labor in disposing of books and tracts. The Saints are faithful concerning their tithing, which has steadily increased during the past five or six years, as also have the offerings of the people. This is evidence that God has implanted in the hearts of the Saints in the mission the love of the Gospel, and has given them faith to keep the commandments, and to impart of their substance to help build up His kingdom on the earth. 

May the Lord bless the Latterday Saints throughout Zion, both gathered and scattered. May He help us keep the commandments that we may reflect the light of the Gospel, that the honest in heart may be gathered together to sing His praises, build up His kingdom, and establish the reign of righteousness in the earth, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. ELDER JOSEPH E. ROBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

I sincerely desire, my brethren and sisters, your prayers of faith, that what I say to you shall be dictated by the Spirit of Truth, that it may be beneficial to you as well as to myself. I have rejoiced in the testimones of my brethren this afternoon. I have drank in from them inspiration in the mission work. I have rejoiced exceedingly in meeting with the Saints in this conference. It is grateful to ones' soul to come from the world where there is opposition, or if not opposition, indifference that is more hurtful to us in our labors than opposition, to find such a vast concourse of people of one thought, one purpose and one mind, that are serving the Lord and keeping His commandments, who can truly say that we do know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that our souls shall live again. It has been, it seems to me, an epochmaking conference. The spirit that will go forth from it will be felt, doubtless, wherever the messengers of truth and salvation are sent, and it may be that even the spirit shall reach beyond the footsteps and go farther than the voices of our elders are heard; for in my experience I have learned that we never know the result of our efforts nor how far-reaching their effects. I was approached today upon the stand by a young man who heard us a few months ago in San Francisco, now come with gladness of heart to tell me that he had joined the Church. We lost sight of him just before the dreadful earthquake that came upon us. I remember once in traveling through  State of Nevada and stopping for a brief moment at one of the little side stations I was intercepted by a young man who came up to me and wanted to know if he had heard me speak upon the corner of Grant and Geary, in San Francisco, upon a certain date. I told him I was there about that time. He shook hands with me very warmly, and told me he wanted to come to Utah and to know more about that which he had heard that night on the street corner. When I arrived in the city, coming up the street here, I saw a gentleman looking at me rather peculiarly, and he approached and asked if he had not heard me on the occasion before mentioned. I told him, yes. He said that he was going east, and he had been constrained to stop off and visit the city, and if he could have found employment here it was his purpose to have remained. I will say that these two incidents were brought about by the one meeting, each of the young men having heard me speak just that once; and I thought to myself, how far and how wide do our testimonies go and whence are they carried ? I have met men from various parts of the country who have said that when they heard our testimony, that "that is the same thing that I heard some elder say in the South," and another, "in New England," and another told me "in Australia;'' and one man said, "How is it that wherever you people are you alwavs bear the same testimony; you do not differ like us fellows of the world do. I am a Sunday School teacher, but another teacher differs with me in the interpretation of the Scriptures, but you fellows all speak the same way." He wanted to know if we were schooled and  in our academies or seminaries of learning to that end. I referred him to the words of Isaiah concerning the last days : "Thy watchmen shall lift up their voice, with the voice together shall they sing, for they shall see eye to eye when the Lord shall bring again Zion," and that He had brought again Zion. And the same testimony that Isaiah bore, along with the ancient prophets, and that was borne by the elders in these various places is borne by the Latter-day Saints in Zion. This was a testi.mony to me that we are of the house of Israel, that we are that which we claim, the true worshipers of the Lord Jesus Christ, seeing eye to eye, to His glory, understanding alike the precepts of His Gospel. 

I rejoice very much, as my brethren have, in the Address that has been issued to the world. It is manful and able; it carries conviction with it. The proof of each statement is in the matter set forth in itself. I thought what a splendid tract it would make for us in the missionary field, that here authoritatively by the Presidency of the Church, endorsed by the body of the same, are these very principles brought together before the world. We elders have possibly been discredited, in part, because of our youth and inexperience, and people have said, "that may be the way you look at it," and ofttimes they do make such remarks, when we meet them. Sometimes they say : "Well, you are different from the rest of them; if they were all like you, they would be all right. If they would teach the same at home that they do in the world we could accept it." Now they have it authoritatively from the heads of the 

Church, endorsed by the people in conference assembled, 

I am glad to report, my brethren and sisters, that the condition of the California mission is much better than it was a year ago. This I hardly thought possible, following in the wake of the fire and the earthquake, that destroyed our home and the homes of many of the Saints in San Francisco, that shut us out of any hall, that precluded all our street work, or any particular efforts in that city for some time. But despite it all, the Saints in that district paid a greater tithing last year than the year before. The tithes of the mission are several hundred dollars more than they were the year previous, an evidence of increased faith and zeal. The work done by the elders ha-; also been very much greater, so far as statistics are concerned, than ever before. The number of homes visited by "invitation" has increased over 100 per cent. The number of homes visited in tracting, has in  creased about 60 per cent above the year before, and the number of tracts distributed about 35 per cent, and the number of books distributed about 300 per cent, and baptims more than 100 per cent above the previous year. I have hardly ever spoken of statistical matters, because I thought it not particularly interesting, but the reports of my brethren made me feel to say this much for our mission in California. 

When it comes to speaking .of your sons, my brethren and sisters, I want to tell you that some of the choicest souls that are upon the earth have been laboring with me in that mission, and I know it because God has loved them, He has magnified them in the eyes of the people. He has made the weak strong, and given wisdom to those who seemed like babes and sucklings. Some of the mighty of that land have been confounded, and have been made to stand in awe, almost, at the wisdom of some of our boys. Some of the leaders of that state have complimented me upon the appearance which they make upon the streets. One physician, who is a member of the State Board of Medical Examiners, tpld me : "Elder Robinson, whenever I see one of your boys on the street, I want to take him in my arms and bless him, because I can see cleanliness of life in his face and bearing. Before I knew you, before I knew of the mission of the Mormons in this state, I had this same desire and feeling in my heart, whenever I saw any of them." He has written me some letters calling me "Dear Brother," and saying "God will reward you and your boys for the work you are doing in uplifting humanity. You doubtless will sit with them at Tesus' feet, and I trust that I may be there, or be permitted to be where I may at least look on." The Chief Executive, or Ex-Governor of our state has been a friend of our people. The Secretary of State, a long-standing friend. Also the mayors of the largest cities. And of the two million and odd inhabitants of Californit, three-fifths of them are grouped within seventy miles of San Francisco and Los Angeles. 

We have done some work in Arizona. We went into the great mining camp of Bisbee, and found a little branch there almost disrupted, the presiding elder partly discouraged. We assisted them a little while, and then went to Douglas, where the branch work had ceased , and helped them. Brother Kimball,who presides in that Stake, followed our footsteps, and made a full ward organization at Bisbee and established a branch in Douglass. We felt that this was largely through the work of the elders in those two cities. We have had good success in Tucson, Arizona. We have finished recentl" our labors in the city of Phoenix, the capital of the state; and while there, this winter, had the privilege of meeting with some of the lawmakers of that territory, and with some of the leading commissioners of the counties, who met there to advise about ways and means for the improvement of their various districts. So that in this wav we have come in touch with some of the leading spirits of these two states. In Nevada we have done but little. It is filling up rapidly with people, and when the mad rush for gold somewhat relaxes, we hope to be able to do some good there. I wish to say that possibly the most joy that has come to us is the fact that we have been able to interest anew some of our brethren that have gone into those states or territories, that we have been able to reclaim some of the girls that have been led awav by the glamor of the world, by the thought of better employment, through the specious tales that designing men have told them. In this we have had a great deal of comfort and consolation come to us, in the thought that we have been able to save some, or cause their return. Who are more precious to us than the sons and daughters of the Saints ? 

I want to refer just briefly to one of the thoughts put out in our Address to the World. It is a matter that I have brought before the lead men that I have come in contact with in the state of California, and that is respecting our -osition toward the general government of the land and the hope that we entertain in relation to it. 

I do not know that the Latterday Saints themselves fully realize all that the Lord has in hand, or intends for the Gentiles, the peonle of these United States. In the Book of Mormon wondrous promises are made to them. The Lord speaks of this land as the chosen land of Joseph, where the tree of liberty should be planted, that all the nations of the earth should find protection under its branches, that \a its beneficence it should reach out over the nations of the land with its succor and protection to all who should come to it; that, for this pur pose, the Lord inspired the constitution, the men who framed it being raised up by Him, that His kingdom or His Church might be established here under the nrotecL n of the most benign and free "ov ernment of the world, and thus make its propoganda of the truth These are the words which the Lord sneaks in relation to it: 

"According to the laws and constitution of the people which I have suffered to be established and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles, that every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto them, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. Therefore it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. [So that he could claim that he was not responsible for his acts, or that another might be held responsible for them.] And for this purpose have I established the constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this  purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." 

In the prayer which was offered, and which was given by revelation to the Prophet and Seer, Joseph Smith, and which was read in the Kirtland temple at the time of its dedication, March 27, 1836, these words occur : 

"Have mercy, O Lord, upon all the nations of the earth, have mercy upon the rulers of our land, may those principles which were so honorably and nobly defended, viz., the Constitution of our land, by our fathers, be established forever." 

How can they say that we seek to tear down our Constitution and laws in view of these words? Again : 

"Now these words, O Lord, we have spoken before thee, concerning the revelations and commandments which thou hast given unto us, who are identified with the Gentiles." 

"We," the Saints of God, then assembled in the temple, "who are identified with the Gentiles." Their interests, my brethren and sisters, are our interests; our interests are their interests, as a commonwealth, and we cannot be separated from them. A kingdom cannot grow up within a kingdom established upon democratic principles as this government has been. I might make a broader interpretation, probably, than is justifiable in reading to you from the great Prophet Daniel, but I read from the seventh chapter and 27th verse, speaking of the times when the Lord shall again establish His kingdom, the works which should follow in its wake, and how the little stone that was cut out of the mountains without hands should roll forth and fill the whole earth, he says : "And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the Saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him." Now in our declaration, we state that God does nothing arbitrarily. Then He does all things naturally, and they follow as the natural sequence of conditions or events. He has predestined the events of the nation. He did intentionally set up kingdoms for various purposes, and He made Joseph a savior to his father's household and people in Egypt. If it had not been for the power of the kingdom in which his life and destiny were cast, he could not have done it. King Nebuchadnezzar, whom God placed at the head of the nations of the earth, made it possible for Daniel to exercise the wondrous power which he did. Otherwise I believe that we would not have known of him as a prince of the House of Judah. Even Rome, which was set so bitterly against the Christian Church, as well as the Jew, enabled Paul to accomplish most successfully his mission in the earth. When the forty members of the Jewish scribes had said that they would neither eat nor drink until they had consummated the apostle's death, that power was taken away by the strong hand of Rome. And when Felix and Agrippa would have freed him, he had made the appeal to be tried according to the rights of a Roman, by the Roman law. By that means his life was saved, and he was taken to the household of Caesar, and had the privilege df de for upwards of two years, if I remember aright, the Gospel in the very household of the emperor, to the reclamation or conversion of many souls of Caesar's household. Conditions in this time and this day, thank the Lord, are different than in the cases to which I refer, for the Lord has not designed that His work should be thwarted or brought to naught in this dispensation, but I believe that this government and the people of this government will help us to maintain it. I believe God's king dom could not have been set up under other conditions or under any other government. How then is the law going forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem? You will remember that Christ is to come and reign as King of kings and Lord of lords. When He comes we will not all be Latter-day Saints; but there will be Protestants, and there will be Catholics in the nations of the earth and in this land. Christ will reign over the kings of the earth, and they will acknowledge Him as the King of kings. They will pay tribute to Him, and kings and queens shall be the nursing fathers and mothers of the Saints of the Most High, and the kingdom which will be set up will protect the Church, as I understand it, which will then be a protege of that kingdom and the Gospel shall be preached by the people of the Church, and the Great King will see that we have liberty in those states and countries which today shut their doors against us. Scarcely more than a decade ago, the Iron Chancellor, Bismarck, of Germany, speaking of the United States, said it was only a great "Commercial Ox," that it should not be taken into consideration in connection with  affairs. What is the condition today? When John Hay, Secretary of State, voiced the general policy of this nation in regard to the Japanese war, declaring that Manchuria should not be divided, that the integrity of China should be maintained, the whole world stood aghast at his boldness. And Russia, even if she had won, would have lost under that policy, for then she held Manchuria in her own grasp; but the policy that was sent out by the United States was maintained and accepted by the peoples of the old world. Again, the question of the republics to the south of us, our position with relation to them has been fully defined by President Roosevelt, by Secretary Taft, also by Secretary Root, in convention at Rio Janerio, recently, as well as the policy that we propose to follow in Oceanica. And the peoples of the world have accepted the position of the government of the United States in reference to these matters, and received our sentiment, and it has molded their legislation, while ten years apo they would not have listened to us, nor dare we have presumed to undertake to set forth what we would do in their territory or upon their continents. President Roosevelt has intimated to the powers of the earth what position the United States would take in regard to the government of the Congo Free State in Africa, and they have accepted it. Are we beginning to mold the sentiment of the world? 

Are we preparing for the law to go forth from Zion, as well as sending the word of the Lord from Jerusalem? Who are the people of the Saints of the Most High God? Are they the people of Germany?  they the people of England? are they the Scandinavian people? .are they the people in the republics to the south of us? are they the people of China, or India, or of Africa? You will say, doubtless, in your hearts, that they are the people of the United States, the Gentiles, with whose interests our interests are identified in the constitution and government which was prayed for, that it might forever stand. Then do I make too broad the application when I say that the government should be given to the people of the Saints of the Most High God ? It is something, at least, for us to think about, for we are but a handful of people, and the prophecies made concerning us must certainly be fulfilled soon, if fulfilled within the time stated. We are scarcely 400,000 people, and look at the four and a half millions of souls in New York City alone. We could scarcely police that city properly, let alone govern the eighty millions of this Republic. I tell you that our interests are identified with the interests of the Gentiles, and when the^ come to understand our purpose and our mission, as this oroclamation will give them to know, they will not look upon us as a menace to the nation, nor as threatening the powers of government, but, quite the reverse, they will be brought to the knowledge of the fact that we are the true worshipers of the Lord Jesus Christ, that we would be the true conservators of peace on the earth and of good will toward men — rendering that which is just and true to all our fellows, by giving them a greater and better conception of that which God has destined for this nation and people, and not only for those who are living, but for those also who have long since died. 

May the spirit of this conference, the spirit of truth, the spirit of liberty and of fairness, go abroad in the world. May the spirit of faith, of courage and integrity rest down upon our people, and find place in their hearts, that we shall not set our feet in forbidden paths, that our faces shall not be turned away from the light, but that we shall follow after the worthy example of our sires, and emulate the virtues of our mothers, until our Father shall say, "Enough, mv son, or my daughter, come home, for you have kept the faith, you. have finished your course, you have fought a good fight, and henceforth there is laid up for you a crown of righteousness, and not for you only, but for all those that love the Lord Jesus Christ." Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

O God, Thou God who rules on high, Bow down Thine ear to me : 

O listen to my humble cry, O hear my fervent plea. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

One of the quorum of the Twelve expressed himself the other dav. that it seemed to him a very short time indeed since our last general conference; and so it seems to me at this time. Since that conference in addition to visiting the Northern States mission, as referred to by President Ellsworth this afternoon, it was my privilege to accompanv Elder Hyrum M. Smith through the Central States mission, and I had an opportunity of noting the excellent conditions of missionary work in both of those missions. We  an opportunity to observe missionary life in various stages of de j velopment. There was the young missionary, fresh from the field, or from the forge, with hardened, caloused hands, but with determination written upon every feature of his face, that, with the help of the Lord, he would make a success of his missionary work. There was th^ sick elder, who was trying partially to conceal his illness, lest it might result in an untimely release, — the missionary who was willing" to take his chances on laying down his life in the missionary field rather than to return home before having fulfilled what is generally considered to be a full missionary term. Then there was the older missionary, the family man, who had left his wife and little ones at home praying for his safety and anxious for his return only after he had filled an honorable mission; the strong man weeping for joy at receiving an honorable release, realizing that he had fought a good fight as a soldier of the cross, had received an honorable release and was about to return home to his loved ones. The sight of fifty missionaries coming in almost as it were by magic, at a set time, from all points of the compass, walking in, some . of them a distance of hundreds of miles, to attend the conference and, strange to note, not one of them appearing to be the worse for wear, neatly dressed, cheerful and joyous, not speaking of any hardships they had suffered, but rejoicing in the oooortunity of bringing souls unto Christ. And then I remembered that, formidable as the number appeared to be in a small village, the missionaries in the world number more than thirty-five times such a band as this, and that here at home  are tens of thousands of elders who have performed similar unselfish service in behalf of mankind, and there are thousands of others at home waiting to receive the call, and that those numbers are duplicated by faithful wives and mothers who are content to remain at home, some of them, perchance, enduring toil and privation, that their husbands, sons and brothers might perform this act of self-sacrifice for the good of mankind. As keenlv as they might miss the company of the husband or the brother, they would not have him return before having fulfilled a faithful mission. And all this in a commercial age, an age of greed and graft, when men generally are seeking - , exclusively almost, "the almighty dollar." Surely here is something new in the world — a system such as this, a people such as this, in an age when newspaper and magazine writers, and preachers, are commenting unon the lack of faith that exists in the world, the falling off of church attendance, people ceasing to read the Bible, the spirit of skepticism, the spirit of graft and greed and unrest; when preachers concede that the middle class of people are losing interest in religion, debating the question whether it is a loss of faith in the church or whether it indicates something more deep-seajted than that, and means the loss of faith in God Himself. Surely in an age such as this, when special programs of classical music have to be advertised in order to induce people to attend a short service of sermonizing, to have the interest that is now shown by the Latter-day Saints in meeting together, in proselyting — it is certainly in strange contrast to the  I have mentioned as existing in the world. 

In visiting, recently, a number of the stakes and a large number of the wards. I have been fully convinced of the accuracy of the report that was made by President Smith at the opening of this conference. There is a lively interest taken by the people in religious matters, in meeting together and in observing the laws and ordinances of the Church. In one town the Bishop was able to report that not one young person in that town was a breaker of the Word of Wisdom, boy or girl; and that the men who broke the Word of Wisdom, or at least, who used tobacco or liquor, could be counted upon the fingers of one hand, and then there would be fingers to spare. In a number of settlements every person could be accounted for, those who were not sick or absent from town were at the meetings. 

An elder renorted to me during this conference that he had almost secured a choice convert to the Church, a learned man, educated for the ministry, a practicing lawyer, a man who took an interest in religious affairs; that he had been converted in reference to the principles of the Gospel, and that the only thing lacking was that he was not yet convinced that an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph, the Prophet; that he was not convinced of the angelic visitations or the revelations upon which the Church is founded. Certainly a very important element was still lacking for his complete conversion, for Mormonism with angelic visitations and revelations omitted would be in the religious world what in the drama of Hamlet that play would be with the character of Hamlet omitted. 

An elder told me a short time ago of a visit that he made to Kirtland, in the late seventies. A venerable guide showed him through that temple, the different apartments, the pulpits, etc., and during the time he was complaining somewhat concerning Brigham Young, who was then president of the Church. The guide was no less a person than Martin Harris, and the elder said to him, "How is it, Mr. Harris, that you now complain of the Church? How about that visitation of an angel that you claim to have had ? At that the old gentleman straightened up, new life seemed to come into him, and he said, "Just as sure as there is- a God in heaven, just as sure as that sun is shining in the firmament, just as sure as the moon and stars give their light by night, just so sure I know that Joseph Smith was a Proohet of God, just so sure I know that I saw the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, and that I handled them with my own hands, and saw the angel and heard his voice." And he said, "So long as I live I shall bear the same testimony, and when I die I shall die bearing the same testimony." And, strangely enough it so happened, that after Martin Harris came to Zion and re-joined the Church, and received his blessings in the terrmle, at his death-bed the same elder was present, and the last audible words of Martin Harris that could be distinguished were words of testimony, supporting the statements that he had always made as to the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon. 

I have sometimes wished that I might have had from some of these witnesses a less formal statement  the beautiful one which is printed on the fly leaf of the Book of Mormon, signed by the three witnesses, and which carries with it the spirit of inspiration under which it was given; that we might have something more in detail, more particulars from some of those brethren. I chanced to find recently, a statement from Oliver Cowdery, in a letter to W. W. Phelps, and with your forebearance, I will read that statement, as it seems to me to have the true ring, and should have an effect in convincing individuals who have not already been converted, that the man who wrote these words was a sincere man, and that every word he uttered is the truth. In this letter dated September 7. 1834, after telling about the desire for a manifestation from the Lord and how he and Joseph, apart from the abodes of men, had fervently asked the Lord for this condescension, he goes on to say : 

"On a sudden, as from the midst of eternity, the voice of the Redeemer spake peace to us, while the veil was parted and the angel of God came down clothed with glory, and delivered the anxiously-looked-for message and the keys of the Gospel of repentance. What joy! what wonder! what amazement! While the world was racked and distracted — while millions were groping as the blind for the wall, and while all men were resting upon uncertainty, as a general mass, our eyes beheld — our ears heard, as the "blaze of day," yes more — above the glitter of the May sunbeam, which then shed its brilliancy over the face of nature! Then his voice, though mild, pierced to the center, and his words, 'I am thy fellow servant' dispelled every fear. We listened, we gazed, we admired. 'Twas the voice of the angel from glory — 'twas a message from the Most High, and as we heard we rejoiced, while his love enkindled upon our souls, and we were rapt in the vision of the Almighty. Where was room for doubt? Nowhere; uncertainty  fled, doubt had sunk no more to rise, while fiction and deception had fled forever. 

"But, dear brother, think further, think for a moment what joy filled our hearts and with what surprise we must have bowed (for who would not have bowed the knee for such a blessing?) when we received under his hands the Holy Priesthood, as he said : 'Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer this priesthood and this authority, which shall remain upon the earth, that the sons of Levi may yet offer an offering unto the Lord in righteousness.' I shall not attempt to paint to you the feelings of this heart, nor the majestic beauty and glory which surrounded us on this occasion; but you will believe me when I say, that earth, nor men, with the eloquence of time, cannot begin to clothe language in as interesting and sublime a manner as this holy personage. No; nor has this earth power to give the 'joy, to bestow the peace, or comprehend the wisdom which was contained in each sentence as it was delivered by the power of the Holy Spirit. Man may deceive his fellow man; deception may follow deception, and the children of the wicked one may have power to seduce the foolish and untaught, till naught but fiction feeds the many, and the fruit of falsehood carries in its current the giddy to the grave, but one touch with the finger of his love, yes, one ray of glory from the upper world, or one word from the mouth of the Savior from the bosom of eternity, strikes it all into insignificance, and blots it forever from the mind. The assurance that we were in the presence of an angel; the certainty that we heard the voice of Jesus, and the truth unsullied as it flowed from a pure personage, dictated by the will of God, is to me past description, and I shall ever look upon this expression of the Savior's goodness with wonder and thanksgiving while I am permitted to tarry, and in those mansions where perfection dwells and sin never comes, I hope to adore, in that day which shall never cease." 

How strange, after a man had been given such a glorious visitation and testimony as this, that he should afterwards grow lukewarm in his adherence to the principles of  Gospel. But at the same time these witnesses never faltered in their adherence to the first testimony that they gave. There may have been a design in this circumstance of their departing from the faith, all three of these great witnesses, in order to strengthen the testimonies that they gave; for do not their testimonies stand stronger and more convincing today, from the fact that they parted from the faith but never departed one iota from the testimony that they gave as to the divine restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in this dispensation ? 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with you, and that we may be able "to pray always, .keening our lamps trimmed and burning and oil with us, that we may be ready for the coming of the Bridegroom." I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON. 

I have a few reflections in regard to what has been said here today and a few historical dates and facts which I would like to give in connection with the missionary reports that we have listened to on this occasion. Nearly all those who have been appointed to address you this afternoon in this hall may be said to represent the missionary department of the Church, and it is very interesting to note the missionary work that has been accomplished by the Elders of the Church so far; and yet the great missionary work that lies in the future to be accomplished is of incalculable dimensions. 

Christ commanded His Disciples, just before ascending into heaven, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  they were to go forth and preach the Gospel to every creature. We find it also recorded that the disciples on a certain occasion approached Jesus, as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, and asked Him about His second coming and the end of the world. In his answer to them he said. "This Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world as a witness to all people, and then shall the end come." 

This Gospel as referred to by the Savior on that ocassion,is certainly not to be preached in a great many different ways; but it is to be preached in power; it is to be preached by authority; it is to be preached by the servants of God who have been properly commissioned to go forth for that purpose; it is to be preached as a witness, and for that reason, John, the Revelator, while on the Isle of Patmos, saw that an angel should fly through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto those who dwell upon the earth. The Latter-day Saints bear testimony ,that that angel has come and that the true Gospel of Jesus Christ was restored through him; but they also believe that the work, the main work of communicating it to mankind, has been committed to mortals who are ordained in the flesh to go forth into all the world and proclaim the Gospel. 

I find that this Church, commencing with the time when it was first organized, has ever been true to its calling, to bear witness to the world; since its first organization it has been diligent in sending forth its Elders to perform this great work. 

I find that before the close of the year in which the Church was or, namely 1830, the restored Gospel had been preached to a considerable extent in the States of New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio (the eastern part of Ohio), in the latter State by Oliver Cowdery and four other Elders who had been sent out on a special mission to the Lamanites. 

The next year, 1 831, the Elders of the Church extended their missionary labors westward as far as Illinois and Missouri, and preached also in Indiana and Michigan, and going eastward they went as far as Vermont, where the first branch of the Church in New England was raised up by Jared Carter in the latter part of 1831. 

In 1832, the Elders reached, in their ministry, the state of Virginia, and preached in that part of said State which is now included in the state of West Virginia; they also crossed the Ohio river at Cincinnati into Kentucky. Other Elders, among them Orson Hyde and Orson Pratt, the same year introduced the Gospel in New Hampshire, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Maine. 

In 1833, the labors of the Elders were extended into New Jersey and in 1834 into Tennessee and Arkansas. During the few following years, the Gospel was introduced into nearly all the Southren States. 

Then came the martydrom of the Prophets and the exodus of the Saints from Nauvoo, and it seems as though nothing has ever happened in the history of this Church to verify the saying of the Savior in regard to the mustard seeds, so perfectly as that same exodus. Hit the head of a mustard, plant, when ripe, and it will scatter the seed abroad, so that it will cover a great area. The departure of the Saints into the western wilderness 101  the immediate means of introducing the restored Gospel into the western half of the United States. The circumstances connected with the driving out of the Saints from Nauvoo, at this particular time led, among other things to the sailing of about two hundred Saints from New York on the ship "Brooklyn," in the month of February, 1846. This ship doubled Cape Horn and introduced the Latter-day Saints with their Elders to the people of California, where they commenced immediately to preach the Gospel on the 31st day of July, 1846, when they landed; and until the present time California has never been without a Latter-day Saint. 

I find also that as the Saints were driven westward, and as their camps moved across Iowa, and through that part of the country which is now Nebraska and W yoming ,the influence of Mormon Elders and Saints generally were felt in those parts. I find furthermore, that the Mormon Battalion, in being called to perform their grand march westward in the service of their country, in the latter part of 1846, traversed over what is now the state of Kansas in almost its entire length. "Mormon" Elders prayed, preached and sang the songs of Zion around their campfires as they traveled along toward the setting sun. Also a part of what is now Oklahoma was traversed by these same Latter-day Saint soldiers in their, journeyings, as were also New Mexico and Arizona. And when the Mormon Battalion arrived in southern California, in the early part of 1847, there was another introduction of "Mormonism" into that state from the east. 

Tn the year 1847, also, the exiled 

Saints pushed their way through to these western valleys of the mountains and founded their first settlement in what three years later became by congressional act the Territory of Utah. A fraction of the Mormon Battalion, as they journeyed from California eastward to join their families and friends in the valley of the Great Salt Lake, passed through portions of what is now Nevada and Idaho in the fall of 1847. 

Retracing my steps a little I mayadd that as early as 1837 the Gospel, as restored by the Prophet Joseph Smith, was preached by the Elders of the Church in Wisconsin and Maryland; as early as 1838 in North Carolina and as early as 1839 in South Carolina and Mississippi. Before 1843 the Elders, in their travels, had reached Alabama, Florida, Delaware, Georgia and Louisiana. A branch existed in New Orleans as early as 1848. Oregon first became a missionary field for our Elders in 1856. 

I will now, for a few moments, direct your attenttion to our missionary labors in foreign lands. In 1832, when the Church was only about two years old, the restored Gospel reached Canada through the instrumentality of Joseph Young, Brigham Young and others. Joseph the Prophet, Sidney Rigdon and others preached in Upper Canada in 1833 and Parley P. Pratt opened up a great mission in and about the city of Toronto in 1836. From Canada the Gospel spread to England. Elder Heber C. Kimball and others were sent to that country in 1837 and laid the foundation of that great and fruitful mission. Scotland was first visited by our Elders in 1839, Ireland in 1840 and Wales in 1 841. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

But so far the Gospel had been preached only to English-speaking people. In 1843 the fi rst Elders were called to the Pacific Islands. This mission was in a certain sense really the first foreign mission of the Church that is as far as foreign languages are concerned. Four Seventies were called that year from Nauvoo to go to the islands of the Pacific. One of these (Brother Knowlton F. Hanks) found a watery grave before reaching his destination. He was the first of our missionaries who was buried at sea. The other three Elders arrived at the Society Islands in safety, and about the time Joseph and Hyrum Smith were martyred in Carthage jail the first branch of the Church was organized by Addison Pratt on the island of Tubuai among a people who did not speak the English language. One of these first missionaries to the Pacific Islands, Elder Noah Rogers, was the first of our Elders to circumnavigate the globe. In that first mission in the Pacific Ocean still known as the Society Islands Mission there are today about I'Soo members of the Church. 

In 1849 the restored Gospel was first introduced into France by the late William Howell and the following year by Apostle John Taylor and fellow-missionaries who organized a branch of the Church in Paris. 

In the fall of 1849 a number of missionaries were called from this valley — the first Elders called to foreign fields from Great Salt Lake Valley. Nearly all of these were called to open up new missionaryfields among non-English speaking peoples and while it took some oi" these Elders many months to reach the different countries in which  had been assigned to labor, the next year, 1850, found them all entering upon their missionary work with more or less success. Thus, in 1850, a very successful mission was opened up in Denmark through the instrumentality of Apostle Erastus Snow and others. The first converts were also made in Sweden that year by Elder John E. Forsgren. Another mission was opened in Italy by Apostle Lorenzo Snow and missionary companions, and another one in Hawaii by Hiram Clark, George Q. Cannon and eight other Elders. 

In 185 1 the Gospel door was opened to the inhabitants of Switzerland, Norway, Australia and Chili, while William Willis brought the glad tidings to India and missionaries from Denmark first visited Iceland in the far off north. 

In 1852 the Elders penetrated further into their missionary fields, but did not open up any new ones of very great importance that year. 

I forgot to state that as early as 1841 the first Latterday Saint missionary visited the Holy. Land Apostle Orson Hyde was the man who went there, and on the top of the Mount of Olives he dedicated that historical land for the gathering of Israel in the last days. Subsequently Palestine became a regular missionry field as a part of the Turkish mission. 

In 1853 our elders first preached the gospel on the island of Malta,in the Mediterranean which once was a missionary field of the Apostle Paul. Two elders also went to Gibraltar and commenced to preach the Gospel in Spain. Their work, however, was almost confined to the garrison under the English flag for when the elders attempted to cross the isthmus into Spanish Territory proper they were forbidden 103  do so by the civil authorities. 

In 1853, a l so > th e elders entered the West Indies as missionaries, but met with little success. They also went to Prussia that year, but the elders going there were promptly banished from Berlin, and not till years later were missionary labors successfully commenced in the German-speaking part of the world. China was also tried as a missionary field in 1853. Brother Hosea Stout, an old stalwart Nauvoo "Mormon," went there, together with others, but they soon got discouraged and returned home. The Chinese, however, have become more enlightened since that time, and we have reason to expect that a successful missionary field will be opened in that land in the near future. 

In 1854 the Gospel was first preached in New Zealand, but scarcely any attention was paid to the Maoris until 1883. In 1884, missionary work was first commenced in Turkey in Europe. In 1888 the Samoan mission was opened, and in 1894 our elders began missionary labors in Tonga, another group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. In 1900 the Hervey group or Cook Islands and also the Marquesas group were made missionary fields by our elders. In 1901 Japan was entered by Elders Heber J. Grant and others. 

In summing up, I may state that so far we have preached the Gospel quite successfully in all the states of the Union, also in Canada, on the north, and in Mexico, on the south; but I might say that North America is the only grand division of the globe that we have fully covered by our missionary operations. 

In Central America we have done next to nothing. In 1902 some of  Elders established themselves temporarily in Gautemala; but we have not preached in San Salvador, in Honduras, in Nicaragua, in Costa Rica, or in British Honduras. 

In South America, we have done some preaching in Chili and Peru, but we have not done any missionary work in Columbia, Venezuela, British Guiana, Dutch Guiana, French Guiana, Brazil, Bolivia, Paraguay , Uruguay, Argentina and Equador. All these countries in South America will yet be made missionary fields by our Elders. 

In Europe, we have done extensive missionary work. We have large a.ad numerous branches in Great Britain, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, Netherlands, and Belgium; but we have only a few Saints in AustriaHungary, Italy, Greece, Turkey in Europe, Russia, Romania, Servia and Bulgaria. We have not preached at all in Spain and Portugal. 

In Asia, we have done limited work in Turkey (in Asia) including Palestine and Asia Minor, and also in parts of India, and we have visited China and Siam; but we have done nothing in Asiatic Russia, Afghanistan, Baluchistan, Persia, Thibet, Arabia and Korea. 

In Africa we have only established a mission in the Cape Colony but there are other states there in which we have not yet preached the Gospel. Some of our Elders have visited Egypt, but have done but very little preaching there. As stated the only place where we so far have preached in Africa is the Cape Colony, in South Africa. Our Elders went to Cape Town in T853 and continued their labors in that colony for 11 years. Nearly all the saints then emigrated, and it is only of late years that the GosGENERAL CONFERENCE.  door has been again opened to the people in that part of the world. 

We have preached the Gospel in all the Australian colonies, including New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, West Australia and Tasmania, and also on both islands of New Zealand. 

In Oceanica, or the smaller islands in the Pacific Ocean, we have preached the Gospel in the following groups : Society Islands, Tuamotu Islands, Hawaii, Samoa, and Tonga, and to a limited extent, also, in the Marquesas, and on the Cook Islands, (Harvey group) . 

My brethren and sisters, we expect to preach the Gospel in all the world; and by way of conclusion I will say: May God speed the day that religious liberty may be given to all the inhabitants of the earth; may the time soon come that all may enjoy the fruits of the Gospel as freely as they now enjoy the sunshine of the Almighty; and may that love of liberty which has been kindled in the hearts of the people in our own land spread throughout the entire world, until our elders can go forth in peace and safety and preach the Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. This is my sincere prayer in the name of Jesua Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the hymn, "Jesus, lover of my soul." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder William Spry. 

Outdoor Meeting. 

The great Tabernacle and commodious Assembly Hall were crowded beyond their capacity, and  outdoor meeting was conducted, from the steps of the Bureau of Information building, in behalf of the multitude outside. 

Elder George Albert Smith presided, and Prof. Charles Kent led the singing. 

The congregation united in singing the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Frank Sheffield. 

The congregation sang the hymn : "O my Father, Thou that dwellest." 

ELDER WM. T. JACK. 

Elder George Albert Smith introduced William T. Jack of the Cassia, Idaho, stake. Elder Jack was much pleased with the conference and the excellent spirit which prevailed. From the crowds of people thronging the space, unable to gain admittance to the meetings in the buildings, it is evident that Zion is growing. He rejoiced in the possession of a testimony of the truth of the Gospel which he had received through the Holy Spirit. This is the privilege of all who have embraced the Gospel, and carried out the teachings of the same. The speaker testified of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and said his work was the beginning of a marvelous work in the latter days. There is no fear regarding this work, nor for those who abide by the principles of the Gospel, for it will lead them to eternal life. 

ELDER F. S. BRAMWELL. 

President F. S. Bramwell of the Union, Oregon, stake, was the next speaker. "I am reminded very forcibly, on this occasion of the vision seen by the ancient prophets, when 105  said that in the last days the house of the Lord should be built in the tops of the mountains and that all nations should flow unto it." The fulfillment of that prophecy is here and now, for Israel has gathered here from all nations. Whenever the people of the world become converted to the Gospel the spirit of gathering: comes upon them at once, and in following; the promptings of this spirit they come to Zion. When we look to the Temple on our right, we behold one of the works of Mormonism; when we gather to praise the Lord we have the witness of the Spirit, and we sing and praise God with the knowledge in our souls that the Gospel is true and that God lives." 

ELDEE GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Elder G. F. Richards said he had cause to be exceeding joyful in the manifestations of the goodness of God to him, and for the testimony of the truth of the work which he possessed. "I rejoice in my testimony of the truth of the mission of Joseph Smith, and it is the privilege of every man to obtain the same testimony. The Lord approves those who acknowledge their testimony under any and all obstacles, and show by their lives that they acknowledge God, for we are in His image and have attributes that may assist us to attain perfection." 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

ELDER NEPHI U. S. C. JENSEN. 

Elder Jensen also expressed himself as much pleased with the soirit of the outdoor gathering, and with the practical workings of Mormon. There is nothing that attracts the people so much as the preaching of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Every Latter-day Saint can give an answer to the question, "Do you know that Jesus Christ lives ?" They do not hesitate; they do not stop to explain; with all the fervor in them they answer, "Yes, I know that Christ lives, and that He is the Redeemer of the world." Let us be charitable and forgiving. The genius of the Gospel of Christ was expressed in Christ's words to the Magdalene, when her accusers had fled, "Go thy way and sin no more." It is not that you have sinned; but it is that you sin no more, that will save your soul. 

ELDER RTJLON S. WELLS. 

Elder Rulon S. Wells said in part : "To me there is ample evidence that this is the work of the Lord. The impress of divinity is upon it. Surely the Lord has wrought a marvelous work and a wonder since He revealed to the boy prophet the fulness of the everlasting Gospel. The angel seen by John on the Isle of Patmos has flown through the midst of heaven with the everlasting Gospel, and all who will may obey it and receive a salvation. The great obstacle in the way of the world is that they will not turn away from their evil ways. If they would do so and repent, they would become susceptible to the truth. The speaker bore a strong testimony to the truth of the Gospel. 

ELDER GEORGE S. YOUNG. 

Elder George S. Young, of the presidency of the Teton stake, made a brief address in which he expressed his pleasure in meeting with GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Saints here, and added his testimony regarding the truth of the Gospel. 

ELDER JAMES G. DTJFFIN. 

Elder James G. Duffin said that during the seven years of his incumbency of the presidency of the Central States mission, in receiving and releasing more than 600 missionaries, he had not had occasion to release a single elder for misconduct or sin. The manv attempts to defile Zion had proven fruitless, and the good old doctrines taught the young men and young women by their mothers at home had saved them in their hour of trial, and he thanked God for such young men and women, such mothers and such a Gospel. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

closed with a few appropriate remarks, commending the patience of the large crowd, and bearing testimony to the truth of what had been said. 

The congregation sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," and benediction was offered by Elder Henry D. Wallace. 

Closing Session. 


