Afternoon
05 04 1907



ELDER DAVID 0. M'KAY. 

Regeneration of life the result of true faith and repentance. — Importance of power of resistance. — Statement of evils that should be resisted. 

My brethren and sisters : I hope that the Spirit of the Lord will prompt the words that may be spok by me during the few minutes 1 stand before you. 

One expression in the document that we supported this morning remains in my mind, and I feel to touch upon it, because I believe that it contains much food for thought, as does every sentence in that declaration. It is implied therein that the Latter-day Saints are members of the Church "for the fostering oi spiritual life, and the achievement of moral and charitable ends;" in other words, for the developing of the religious sentiment, the true religious spirit. This may be done in two ways : first, by seeking the truth and living in harmony with it; and second, by resisting every influence, every pozver that tends: to destroy or to dwarf in any way the religious sentiment. When the Latter-day Saint stood at the water's edge, before being buried witli Christ in baptism, he had within him an implicit faith that the Church of Christ is established upon the earth, and that this organization is the best in the world today for the fostering of spiritual life, for the attaining of true religious devlopment, for the salvation of his soul. I repeat that this implicit faith was within him; and with that, there was a true repentance, and that repentance carried with it a desire to leave off everything in the past life that was contrary to the teachings of the Gospel or the Church he was about to ioin. Llis old life, and the sins, if there were any connected with it, he truly repented of. He looked forward to the time when he would be born anew in the Kingdom of God. Lie was about to go through the ordinance of baptism, typical of the burial of his old life and with it all the imperfections, the frailties, the evils.  sins that accompanied that old living. He was to be buried by baptism, that like as Christ was raised from the dead by the power and the glory of the Father, he might come forth in newness of life, a member of the Church of God, a child of the Father, a citizen in the Kingdom of Christ. By bap tism he was born again, and became a fit recipient of the Holy Spirit. His body came forth anew, and the Holy Ghost was bestowed upon him; he was confirmed a member of the Church of Christ. That is where we all stood at one time. Those were our feelings, our faith, our hope. We stood that day forgiven of past evils and follies. Now, the whole mission — the life, if you please, of soul development — was before us, and we had thus bestowed upon us the light that emanates from the Father, to lead us that our feet might not stumble, that the truths of His Holy Gospel might sink into our hearts — the truths that will give us knowledge, that our souls might be saved in intelligence. The Holy Ghost was to bring all things to our remembrance, to show us things to come, to testify of the Father; and as we seek that light, and live in accordance with the duties that are placed upon us by that obligation, we are seeking the true religious development, we are fostering the true religious growth. 

But what is the other element which we must consider? Along with this new life, with this seeking for truth, there should be a strong power of resistance. Someone has said that when God makes the prophet He does not unmake the man. I believe that, though being born anew, and being entitled to new life, new vi^or, new blessings,  the old weaknesses still remained with us. The evil one was eager and ready to attack and strike us at our weakest point, and he has been striking on it ever since. Why? That he might thwart the very purpose for which we entered the Church of Christ. That is his mission. Take as an example the Savior/. After He passed through that ordinance to fulfill all righteousness, after He had received the commendation of the Father, and the testimony from on high that He was the Son of God, the "Beloved Son" in whom the Father was well pleased, Satan was there ready to thwart His mission. Jesus went forth in fasting and prayer, preparatory for the great mission resting upon Him; and when in His weakest moment — as Satan thought — when His body was weak and exhausted bv long fasting, the evil one presented himself in temptation; and what was the temptation? An appeal to His bodily weakness : "If thou be the Son of God — (note the taunt — the verytestimony on the bank of the Jordan was, "This is my beloved Son;") "If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread." In a moment of weakness and hunger, that temptation would be strongest, other things being equal. There was the moment of resistance on Jesus' part. His seeking had been manifested in prayer and fasting; His resistance came, at the moment of bodily weakness. Though the body was weak the Spirit was strong and Christ answered : "It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by everv word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." Then Satan tried Him on another point. Failing in that, the tempter tried Him still on the third, tempted Him first on His love for physical comfort; second, tempted Him on vanity, and third, tempted Him on love for worldly wealth, and the power to rule the world. But all these temptations Christ resisted; and the final resistance was : "Get thee behind me, Satan, for it is written : Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God and Him only shalt thou serve." We may not have heard audibly on the water's edge, the words : "This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased," but the Spirit bore testimony in our souls that God was well pleased with the act, and He was pleased to lead us as we sought His guidance, in fasting and prayer. We might not have heard in audible tones : "If you are a member of that Church, a member of that Kingdom, entitled to the Holy Spirit, do this or that — command these stones to be made bread." Our temptation may not have come in that form. It may have come in the form of the old love; for the passion which we had satisfied for years. It may have been, and I doubt not that it was, in the form of some bodily temptation — some longing. It may have been the love of the old pipe which we determined — if we were sincere — to put aside when going into the waters of baptism. O when that longing came, after we were in the Church or Kingdom, who was it that said: "Though you pretend to throw that aside, take it only once more; this once will not hurt." There was the necessary moment of resistance. How many of us stood as Christ our leader and said: Get thee behind me! This element of resistance in regard to our bodily longings — satisfying the passions, applies to ev member of the Church of Christ. In some way the evil one will attack us. In some way he can weaken us; in some way he will bring before us that which will weaken our souls, and will tend to thwart that true development of religious sentiment; and what I mean bv that is this : the development of the spirit within, the strengthening of the inner man, the strengthening and growth of the spirit, that time cannot kill, but which is enduring and lasting as the eternal Father of that spirit. And the things that will tend to dwarf this spirit or to hinder its growth are things that the Latter-day Saints are called upon to resist. 

We have in the 89th section of the Doctrine & Covenants, the word of the Lord upon a few little things — little as considered by many, and particularly by the men of the world, which the Latter-day Saints are asked to. observe. It is a temporal law, and pertains to our physical welfare. We can say nothing about resisting the temptation of vanity. That, too, comes to us; but O I hope it will keep out of the Church. I hope our sisters will resist all the temptations of the world that may come under that heading — vanity. I hope that we may have strength to resist all the allurements that come with wealth and worldly position, when we make those two things an end in themselves. Today we have only time enough to consider those few little things with which Satan tempts us, in regard to our body: 

"Verily, thus saith the Lord : In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned , and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation; that inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before Him; and behold this should be wine, yea pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make. And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. And again, tobacco is not for the body neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and -all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. And again hot drinks are not for the body or belly. And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man. Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving. Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly; and it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used only in times of winter or of cold, or famine. All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth; and all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their nave!, and marrow to their bones; and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; and I the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." 

These things mentioned here — strong drinks, tobacco, hot drinks — tea and coffee included, — are a few of the temporal things that Latter-day Saints who would follow the true religious sentiment of this Church should resist. Every young man throughout Zion, when he  forth from the waters of baptism ought to know that it is part of his duty to resist smoking a cigarette. Every young person in the Church should be taught, when coming from the waters of baptism, that he should resist the wine cup that is passed around at the social gathering. Every young member of this Church should know that tobacco in any form should not be used. He should resist all these habits, not only for the blessing that is promised herein by our Father, but because of the strength that will come to him to resist greater temptations. 

Now, just a word in regard to this resisting under circumstances that seem difficult. A younp- man who may refuse his coffee or tea at the home, and who may find it easy to do so, might yield when he is out in company at a social. When ail the others partake of coffee, he might not have strength to resist the temptation. That is the moment when the true soul growth should be made and fostered. That is the moment, in the hour of greatest temptation, when the strongest resistance does the most good. It is not when it is in the family circle, when father and mother's influence help to keep these things away. In this respect it is to be hoped that every father and mother will set a good example. I hope that parents will not set bad examples so that the children indulging in weakness may say, "I am following you." As far as possible let our fathers and mothers restrain themselves in these things. Parents, resist that appetite. What though you do love it? The more you love it, the greater should be your resistance and the greater will be your soul development. It is no credit for us to resist drink, who do not love it. The man who grows most by resisting, is the man who resists what he loves, who will say, in the strength of the Gospel, "I will stop it, I will resist it." 

"It's easy enough to be pleasant When life flows by like a song, 

But the man worth while 

Is the man who will smile, When everything goes wrong. 

"It's easy enough to be prudent, When nothing tempts you to stray; 

When without or within, 

No voice of sin 

Is luring your soul away. 

"But it's only a negative virtue 

Until it is tried by fire, And the soul that is worth The honor of earth, 

Is the soul that resists desire." 

May God grant that as we are seeking the further establishment of the Kingdom of God, that we may instruct our young people, and the members of the Church everywhere, to resist the temptations that weaken the body, that destroy the soul, that we may stand truly repentant as we were when we entered the waters of baptism, that we may be renewed in the true sense of the word, that we may be born again, that our souls might bask in the light of the Holy Spirit, and go on as true members of the Church of Christ, until our mission on earth is completed, and God receives us and rewards us according; to our merits. May this be our lot, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Edith Grant sang the soprano solo, "Fear not, O Israel." 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Great extent of information concerning purposes of God. — Testimony obtained by obedience. — The Church encourages acquisition of intelligence. — Intelligent obedience only is desired. — Integrity of the Saints. 

I rejoice with you, my beloved brethren and sisters, in the privileges and blessings of this another conference of the Church, and in the possession of the Good Spirit which has been with us thus far in these conference meetings. I rejoice in the condescension of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, in that He came upon the earth in the meridian of time and Himself taught the children of men the great plan of life and salvation, which plan was instituted from before the foundations of this earth. He, so far as it was possible, made an object lesson of every principle of the Gospel, by living and yielding obedience unto the same Himself. He lived a perfect life, filled His mission completely, and has asked of us to do only what He has done, perform our duty as it is made known unto us. It is the design of the Father that the Gospel shall be taught to all the children of men, that they may learn the will of the Father, and know what requirements are made of them in order to obtain eternal life. Through the mercy of our Father in Heaven, all His children will have that privilege. I rejoice that we have such a complete record of the Savior's mission, and His teachings, as that contained in the New Testament. I appreciate the additional knowledge that has come to us concerning the great plan of salvation by the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, by  revelations contained in the Book of Covenants, and by the words of inspiration that have come to us from time to time through the mouths of His servants, whom He has honored with the Holy Priesthood and authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof. 

I rejoice that there have been so many of our Father's children who have heard the truth, who have been willing to accept it, and make the sacrifices that were required at their hands, for assuredly it has required great sacrifice. Our fathers and mothers, many of them who heard the Gospel in the world, have forsaken their homes, their occupations, the love and friendship of their parents and brothers and sisters, and all that was dear to them in this life, and have cast their lot with a despised people, and made these sacrifices because of the love which they had for the Gospel and the testimony which the Lord gave them of the truthfulness of this work. The Lord has borne record to every faithful son and daughter who has yielded obedience to the principles of the Gospel, that this work is true, that there is no other plan devised, no other way under heaven, by which mankind can obtain salvation and eternal life. There is no way to exaltation except by yielding obedience to the principles which are taught by the Latter-day Saints, revealed in this last dispensation through the prophet Joseph Smith, the same principles, in the same order, as they were taught by Jesus Himself, having the same saving power. Those who have yielded implicit obedience to these principles know of a surety that the work is true; and they have not only obtained this knowledge and strength and courage from the 

Lord, which enabled them to make the sacrifices that have been required at their hands, but many have laid down their lives for the truth of the Gospel and the testimony which the Lord has given them. I rejoice that today we have a multitude of men and women of like integrity. I have no doubt that all those whom President Smith has mentioned in his opening address in this conference, all those officers, with very few exceptions, if any, would be willing to lay down their lives, if necessary, for the salvation of the children of men, and that they themselves may obtain eternal life. 

It is a rare thing to find a man in this Church, in full standing, who refuses to do anything that he is asked to do. Why? Because he has an intelligent understanding of the plan of life and salvation. He knows that it is God's work, and that man does not elect himself to office, or assign to himself the part he is to perform in this kingdom, but every man who has heard the word and had the privileges of the Gospel is expected to give his time his talents, his means — all that he has, if need be — for the building up of the kingdom, the salvation of the human family, but he does not yield a blind obedience. 

It is a mistaken idea, prevalent in the world, that the perpetuity of this work depends upon the authorities keeping the masses of the people in ignorance. The truth is the direct reverse, else why have we all these auxiliary organizations and quorums of priesthood in the church, for the education of the rising generation. Their being established in the faith depends upon their knowledge of the Gospel. Our greatest fear concerning our children in Zion is the possibility of their growing up in ignorance of the everlasting Gospel, for it is only that class — with few exceptions — who give up the faith. Possibly some who have had a little faith in the Gospel have been overcome by temptation and fallen from grace; they have not had enough faith to bring about repentance in their hearts, to humble themselves and regain their standing. It may be we have lost a few of our sons and daughters on this account, but we never see them uniting with other churches and denominations. They are sure we have the true Gospel and Church of Christ, with all its saving power. Respecting those who have received the testimony of the Gospel, our fear is that they may become indifferent, that they will not join the auxiliary organizations, and that they do not always receive at their firesides in their homes the instructions concerning this work that they should receive, and because they have not retained a knowledge of the Gospel their eyes may be blinded. But we do know that where our sons and daughters are virtuous and upright, and have a knowledge of the Gospel, that they love it; it appeals to their judgment and intelligence, and they will hardly lay down the truth for a falsehood. We believe in our young people being educated in the district schools and in the colleges, for we believe that intelligence gained from those sources is necessary to enable them, as they grow up, to assume the responsibilities that now rest upon the shoulders of their parents. This education is necessary to make them more proficient in preaching the Gospel abroad, and in ministering among the people at home. Above all, we believe in the religious training of our children, and we give evidence  the world that we are sincere in this expression. 

I do not see how the people of the world can consistently charge the Latter-day Saints with being insincere, or that our union and strength are caused by the alleged fact that we are ignorant as to the methods, designs, and purposes of the authorities of the Church. Before coming into the Church, men and women are taught the principles of the Everlasting Gospel, the principles of righteousness, and are informed concerning the course of life they will be expected to pursue as members of the Church; and, without a covenant on their part to observe and keep the commandments of the Lord, to live righteous and pure lives, and make complete reformation, they are not received into the Church. There is no way to become members of this Church except through faith in God the Eternal Father, and in His Son Jesus Christ, and repentance from sin. We must confess our sins; we must come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and give evidence that our repentance is genuine, that we are sincere in what we are undertaking; when we have done this, and have' yielded obedience to the principle of baptism, we receive as a result the forgiveness of sins. Then follows the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, and we receive light and intelligence, and the fulfillment of the promise of the Lord that we shall know of the doctrine; thus we are made better for. having received the Gospel, if we have been true to our covenants. 

The fact that we are not all of us true under ail circumstances is evidence of the necessity for officers in the Church whose duty it  to encourage the people to works of righteousness, not to force or oblige them to do something regarding which they have not become converted. No man nor woman is asked to do anything that they are not first thoroughly convinced is the right and proper thing for them to do for their soul's salvation. We labor with men and women in all kindness and gentleness, and with love unfeigned. We do all we can, pray for them, counsel with them, and help them along; that is the method of the officers in the Church, not to force men and women into a line of duty. Men come into this Church of their own free will and choice, and they can just as easily leave it, if they think they have made a mistake. I thank the Lord that there are very few who have in all sincerity embraced the Gospel that ever had any desire whatever to retrace their steps; those who have fallen away have done so because of their own disobedience to the laws of righteousness, not because they have discovered in the principles of the Gospel, as taught by the Latter-day Saints, any error, or anything that tends to degrade mankind. They must acknowledge that those principles are ennobling. 

If all of us would yield implicit obedience to the principles of the Gospel, we would indeed be a happy people. The evil results of the use of strong drink would be averted if we all yielded obedience to this word of wisdom, to which reference has been made this afternoon, and so with the other laws. One of the greatest arguments in favor of faithfulness on the part of the people, in observing the word of wisdom, is that it gives evidence to our Father in heaven, and to one another, our willingness  obey His wishes. We do not care to argue as to the effects of drinking a little liquor, or smoking a pipe or cigar, or drinking tea and coffee. When the Lord commanded Adam to build an altar and offer sacrifices to His name, do we hear of Adam arguing with the Lord? Adam did not say: I see no necessity for offering a sacrifice, and I would like to know why this requirement is made of me." When the angel came to Adam and asked why he offered sacrifices, what was his reply ? He said: "I know not, save God has commanded it;" and then the angel explained this matter to him. When the Lord commanded Abraham to offer up his son as a sacrifice, we do not hear of Abraham parleying with the Lord and wanting to know why. It was sufficient for him to know it was the will and word of the Lord unto him. He undertook to do what the Lord required; he made the sacrifice in spirit, and it was accepted of the Lord. And so, obedience to the will of the Lord is the principle we must learn. This simple word of wisdom, adapted to the weakest of those who may be called "Saints," is given that we may manifest to the Lord, in this little thing, whether or not we are obedient and willing to do what He requires at our hands. As a matter of intelligent obedience — not blind obedience — we should observe to keep the word of wisdom. For the same reason we should observe to keep holy the Sabbath day, and the name of our Father in Heaven, and His Son Jesus Christ, and intelligently yield obedience to every requirement that is made at our hands. 

I love the Latter-day Saints. I pray God to bless them and keep them in the faith. I have had the pleasure of associating with a great many of them during the past year, having traveled more than twenty thousand miles, visiting the Saints in the stakes of Zion and in the mission field. I have found them in the world, and in the stakes of Zion just as true to the Gospel as the most faithful of these men and women here near the headquarters of the Church. I know of their integrity; I have heard their testimonies; I have heard their presidents speak well of them. I have seen them in the auxiliary organizations working like bees in a hive. I do know something of the strength of the veterans of Zion, and the faith and integrity of the youth of Zion, and I doubt them not. There is a very small percentage of the boys and girls, sons and daughters of the Saints, who will be recreant to the faith of their parents. Our young people are, in a large measure, as I have said, true and faithful, and they will continue so, and the Lord will prosper Zion, and bless His people. Zion will triumph; the truth will prevail, and God's purposes will be consummated in the earth. May the Lord help us all to be faithful, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

Faithfulness and zeal manifest in the missions. — Observance of the Word of Wisdom a means of exaltation. — Faith and intelligence increased by obedience to the laws of health. — Transmission of tendency to physical and mental weakness. — Evidence of faith is keeping the commandments. 

It is very remarkable to me how rapidly the time passes. It does not seem six months since we were in our last general conference, and 

I occupied this same position. Since then it has been my privilege to go into the mission field, and to visit some of the branches of the Church in different portions of the United States. The testimony of President Smith of the worth of our Mission Presidents coincides with my feelings. I met a number of Presidents of Missions in their fields of labor, and found them desirous of building up the Church of God, and they are laboring diligently to that end. I had the pleasure of meeting many of your sons and some of your daughters also, who are giving their time and ability to the promulgation of the work of our Father. I rejoiced in the testimonies they bore. I discovered that the sweet Spirit of the Lord was with them, and that they were happy, even though their names, in many cases, were cast out as evil because they were members of the Church of Christ. I listened to the testimonies of those who are members of the Church, in the Eastern and the Southern States, and they bore the same witness that is expressed in our meetings at home when opportunity for testimony is afforded. I find, wherever I go among the branches of the Church, that the spirit which should characterize the Elders of Israel and the members of the fold of Christ is strongly manifest in the lives of its devotees. 

Speaking of the apparently rapid way that time passes, I am reminded that none of us are here in this life very long. We believe that we are harvesting the fruits of our pre-existent lives, and earning here the reward we expect to reap when we go hence. The Lord has indicated to us that by faith we can please Him, and that by keeping His commandments we  draw near unto Him. We are fold that faith is a gift of God, and that in return for obedience our faith is increased. Thereby we grow in strength, and we feel the presence of the Holy Spirit more abundantly. Some of the brethren have spoken to us today concerning one of the temporal laws of the Lord — the Word of Wisdom. I sometimes wonder if Latter-day Saints realize that it has been given to us for our exaltation;not only for our temporal blessing.but to prepare us for spiritual life. It was my observation in the mission fields that the Elders who manifested the most faith, who seemed to have the greatest assurance of the divinity of this work, were those who had kept this law of the Lord. I found that many of those who, in times past, had questioned the divinity of this Church, had tampered with things which the Lord has said are not good for us. We are told that the glory of God is intelligence, and we all admire intelligent men and women, therefore it should be our desire to lay the foundation for increased mental power and not do anything to weaken it. It is evident in the lives of some that they deprive themselves of the brain power they might enjoy, by the continued use of things our Heavenly Father has said are not good; they become less intelligent as a result, and fail to make the preparation for Eternal life that should be their ambition. 

I am fully convinced that the Lord in His mercy, when He gave us the Word of Wisdom, gave it to us, not alone that we might have health while we live in the world, but that our faith might be strengthened, that our testimony of the divinity of the mission of our Lord and Master might be in, that thereby we might be better prepared to return to His presence when our labor here is complete. I fear that, as sons and daughters of Zion we sometimes fail to realize the importance of this great message to the world. Sec. 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants is not only a Word of Wisdom to the members of this Church but it is a law for the temporal salvation of all of our Father's children in the world, and it behooves the Latter-day Saints to declare the truth of this law to all men. We observe that compliance with the laws of health produces mental and physical strength, and we discover that through disobedience thereto, mental and physical deterioration follows. It is our Creator, the Father of our spirits, who gave us opportunity to dwell upon this earth, who has said that certain things referred to in that revelation are not good for us. He has made us valuable promises, if we will obey this law, — promises of wisdom, of health and strength, and that the destroying angel shall pass us by and not hurt us, as he did the children of Israel. I look upon the Word of Wisdom as kind advice of our Father in heaven, who desires to see His children become more like Him. He sent me into the world that I might develop my manhood and magnify my opportunities. I take it as the fatherly counsel of one who, knowing what I needed, said to me: "Mv son, these things are not good for you, and if you will avoid them I will give you the companionship of my Holy Spirit and joy while you live in the world and in the end eternal life. How foolish I would be then to partake of these forbidden things, having the assurance that it is the counsel of the Lord I should abstain therefrom. I would feel under condemnation if I should partake of them,when He who knows better than anybody else says that they are harmful, and has warned me against them. 

Tobacco often affects the heart; and many men who have been physically strong in their childhood have weakened that vital organ in young manhood by the tobacco habit, and in many cases the malady is transmitted to their offspring. Sometimes consumption results from the use of those things God has forbidden; the tissue of the lungs and the membranes give way, disease sets in, and the violator of the law of health goes to an untimely grave. Unfortunately the scourge does not always stop with them; they transmit it to their children — those blessed jewels in whose development they expect to rejoice in the Kingdom of God. It is well known that many dread diseases are transmitted from one generation to another, and have the effect of weakening the mental and physical powers of the race. Surely we do not want to be among those knowingly guilty of increasing the burdens of those yet unborn. The Lord has warned us that the sins of the fathers will be visited upon the children to the third and fourth generation; and it is said that those who walk uprightly before the Lord and obey His counsel will bequeath virtues to their offspring. I believe that the Word of Wisdom is a natural law, and that it is incumbent upon the Latter-day Saints to obey the Lord in this as in other matters. In the world today we find that consmption, heart troubles of various kinds, tuberculosis, cancer and other dread dis, usually regarded as of a hereditary nature, are on the increase, and they send thousands to the grave annually. There is no doubt that, in many cases, their beginning is traceable to the causes I have named. How terrible we would feel if, having weakened our physical structure and mentality by the use of these forbidden things, we should find that we have left as a heritage to our children, weaknesses that may be handed down from generation to generation until our names shall be obliterated from the earth! Oh, how I wish the sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints could understand the importance of this law! How I wish that the fathers and mothers who tamper with these things, and then offer excuses for themselves, might understand that they are bringing humiliation and distress upon their children. We are taught that the glory of our Heavenly Father will be shared by us, if we are faithful. If I am honorable and keep the commandments of the Lord, I believe that my children will inherit similar strength of character. On the other hand, if I plant in them appetites and desires for those things which the Lord has forbidden, whereby they transgress His laws, forfeit the companionship of His Holy Spirit, and go outside the pale of the Church, when I go to the other side and find that by my unfaithfulness and determination to be a law unto myself, I have placed a stumbling block in the way of my children, so that they are deprived of exaltation in the presence of the Father, all the excuses I have made in this life will be of no avail. Brethren and sisters, let us not be a community of excuse-makers. Let us not be among those who say , because they are old and feeble, they must have these things. The Lawgiver made no distinction for age; let us make none. The older we are the mo're exemplary should be our lives. I do not feel to criticise or condemn any of those who have violated laws of the Lord, I do not feel to say unkind things of them; I sympathize with them deeply, and I pray that the Lord may come to their rescue before it is too late, and assist them to overcome. 

Brethren and sisters, we cannot with impunity look slightingly upon the Word of Wisdom. It was given as counsel and advice, not by commandment or constraint, but as a word of wisdom, from our Father, for the temporal salvation of our bodies and the preparation of our souls for eternal life. He thought it of enough importance to give it unto us, and to warn us and if He who knows all things thought it necessary to give advice and counsel upon these temporal matters, how carefully we, who know not what the morrow has in store for us, should observe that divine counsel. I feel that the Latter-day Saints have in the Word of Wisdom a law that will exalt them and lift them above those who fail to keep it. As I have already said, fathers and mothers, if they will keep the Word of Wisdom, may transmit to their offspring virtues and strength that they could not otherwise give to them. I believe that the companionship of the Spirit of our Father will be in the hearts and homes of those who keep this law, and their desire to be obedient will be transmitted to their children. Brother McKay, who spoke on this subject, has had evidences in his educational work of the im of students observing this law. It is a well known fact that the effect of tobacco upon the child brain is most harmful, destroying the memory and dulling the finer senses; also, that the effect of liquor upon the youthful brain is very deleterious : it breaks down the desire to be honorable and upright, and leads to vice and crime. The baneful effect of tea and coffee upon the nerves of womankind is too well understood to admit of argument. And so it is all along the line. The Lord has given us this law in kindness and love, promising certain blessings if' we will obey His counsel. I feel to exhort you, by brethren and sisters, to teach this in your homes. Call the attention of your growing children to it, and to the reward predicated on its observance. Let me say to you that the best evidence of our faith in that law, that we believe it came from God, is a consistent observance of it in our lives. We may preach it all day long, but if we transgress it in practice, our example may be disastrous to those we love better than life, for they will feel that they can safely follow where we lead. 

I am thankful for the sons and daughters of Israel, for their virtue and temperance, and rejoice in their righteousness. I thank the Lord that we have been planted in this land of Zion, which He- has said is blessed above all other lands. Today, I raise my voice in humility and pray that we may have strength to observe the Word of Wisdom and all other laws of the Lord, that our lives may comport with the dignity of the great Church with which we are identified, that men and women everywhere, seeing our good works. may be led to glorify our, Father which is in heaven; that in the future the sons and daughters of Zion may bless us for examples of integrity bequeathed to them; that our brothers and sisters of other faiths may be able to say, "There are men and women in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains, who live According to their teachings to others, evidencing their belief that those principles are from God." 

I pray that our Father may bless the man who stands at the head of this work, with his counselors, and those associated with them, that each may be inspired to teach in power and plainness the truths of heaven; that the Presidents of Stakes, who so faithfully and energetically discharge their duties in the organized Stakes of Zion, may find joy in their ministry, and that the Bishops and other officers may receive abundant blessings from the Lord for their labors among His children. I pray that love for the Gospel may be found in the hearts of the rising generation, that they may prepare to teach its truths to the convincing of the honorable of the earth. That day and night, by reason of our devotion to those things that are right and pure and true, the Spirit of our Father may tabernacle with us, that we may rejoice in its companionship. I pray that His Spirit may be poured out upon all the world, wherever men and women desire to know His will and keep His commandments; and that it may find its way to those who are not disposed to keep the laws of God, that the spirit of repentance may come upon them; that all may be prepared for the time which we are assured is not far distant, when the Lord will suddenly come to His temple; that His children may rejoice in His  and receive eternal life at His hands, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

General unanimity of the Priesthood and members of the Church. — Vain following of fashion censured. — The Saints "a menace" to crime. — Warning against the skating rink craze, and excess in amusements. 

My brothers and sisters, there is nothing gives me more happiness than the knowledge that the Latterday Saints are progressive and prosperous, both spiritually and temporally. I am exceedingly well pleased at the large attendance upon this conference, and with the addresses that have already been delivered. I rejoice in the opening statement of President Smith concerning the condition of the Church, because I myself know that statement to be the truth. My experience in traveling throughout the lands where the Saints are gathered confirms the truth of his remarks, and proves to me that they are conservative and just. I rejoice in the general faithfulness of the Latter-day Saints, in keeping the commandments of the Lord. The counsel and advice that was given to the Presidents of Stakes, the Bishops of Wards, the Presidents of Quorums and other leading brethren, that they be united and see eye to eye, is veritably complied with by those authorities, with few exceptions. Not only is this the case with the authorities of the Church throughout Zion, but it is the case with the Latter-day Saints universally; as to the Gospel of Jesus Christ they see eye to eye. The fundamental principles and  of the Church are understood alike by all its members. They all understand faith to be the first principle, and you will not hear any one declaring that some other principle i's first. They also see eye to eye in relation to repentance, the second principle in the Gospel. The same as to baptism, the manner and purpose of it, and the condition that the individual should be in at the time of baptism, are all understood perfectly, and there is no schism in the Church in relation to this ordinance. There is not more than one plan, there is only one way, and that is, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, being buried in water, and being brought forth out of the water into newness of life. As to the reception of the Holy Ghost, there is no difference of opinion among the Saints. That He can be received only by the laying on of hands of one having authority is a doctrine of truth revealed anew in this dispensation through Joseph Smith. It was a doctrine promulgated by Christ and practiced by Him and His Apostles in primitive times. And thus have we all received the testimony of the Spirit, and He has borne record unto us that these are the doctrines and principles of the Gospel of Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, and which we all understand alike. Is it not an evidence, if we do comprehend them alike, that we possess the same Spirit, which has given us the same testimony and revealed to us the same truths? In relation to tithing, it has already been said that the Saints are faithful in observing this law, and there is no misundertanding in relation to it. 

As to the Word of Wisdonj, I believe many of the Latter-day Saints  in a measure to observe that law. I do not know that any of them fail to understand it. Those who do not keep the Word of Wisdom will admit that they do wrong. If those who neglect to observe that law could but develop within them the power which cometh of repentance and righteous desire, and resist the temptation, it would be better for them and their children, and for the Church at large. 

There are other follies that find place among us and that are indulged in to some extent despite the general faithfulness and integrity of the Saints. Brother McKay suegested to the sisters the hope that they would not become vain after the manner and fashion of the world. I endorse his remarks on this subject. I will go further than that and apply the same reflection to the men; for, so far as I have observed, the men are as liable to be vain as the women. As to their clothes, and other things, they are as punctilious and as anxious to observe the fashions as are the women. They want the latest cut of trousers, coats, and vests, tV>~ newest style of hats, the latest shoes and so on. So that we may as well apply the plaster to cover the whole wound, because men also are inclined in this direction. I believe in being moderate in these things, that it may not be said of us as it was said by a prophet in former times, that all is vanity under the sun. We find a little of it now and again, of course. Let us clothe ourselves becomingly and neatly, even richly if we can afford it, without catering to the fashions and ways of the world. 

Brethren and sisters, we who have supported this declaration of principles which has been read will, I hope, live according to its precepts; that our lives will conform to the truth; that we will desire to know the truth, and knowing it, seek power from the Lord to live according to it; that we will not yield to the temptations and evils that beset us, and that would lead us astray. Many of these evils and temptations are now in our midst. The Latter-day Saints are frequently called by our enemies a menace to good government, to good order, to law, etc., which we deny. If the Latter-day Saints are a menace at all, they are a menace to sin and vice of all kinds, to error, to falsehood, to outlawry, and anarchy, and all such. We are opposed to these things, nevertheless some of these unwelcome evils creep in stealthily among us. Saloons are a menace which, if we had our way, would be absolutely, abolished from among the people. They are the greatest destroyers of the home, American and others, and I am sorry that there are men of intelligence who do not so regard the saloons. The Sunday theaters and amusements are a menace to the morals and welfare of the people, both young and old. So far as I am concerned, I disapprove most emphatically of all such things on the Sabbath day, and I disapprove of some species of amusements on week days as well; I believe they are evil, and their influence is bad. Skating rinks are a menace, and at the present time the desire to frequent them is a craze. They are being introduced in certain Stakes of Zion, and the young people are going wild over this pastime, which they carrv to excess. As a result of enthusiasm in relation to this so-called pleasure we mark the downfall of far too many  men and young women. I disapprove of these and other places of amusement where young people are thrown promiscuously into the society of the wicked, who care neither for God nor man, for virture nor decency. To allow pure girls and virtuous boys to mingle in the society of men and women who are steeped in sin is little short of a crime on the part of parents and guardians of the young. To the extent that these things are carried to excess and are not governed properly I disapprove of them, both Sunday and week days. I warn the Latter-day Saints against them They ought to warn their children against them, and keep them away from Sunday theatres, from Sunday dance-halls, from skating rinks and other like resorts. If they attend such places on week days, thev should be accompanied by their parents, or by responsible people who can keep them from being led astray and from falling into sin. I look upon these resorts as dangerous. If we value the innocence, virtue, and purity of our youth, then we should see to it that their innocence, virtue and purity is guarded, that our children are kept away from contaminating influences, and that such influences are kept away from them, just as far as lies in our power. 

Wherever the Saints are assembled in the land we find a goodlv degree of faithfulness. They are observing the laws of the Gospel, they are prayerful, but it would be well if they were more so. Wherever there is room for improvement, I hope we will take advantage of the opportunities within our reach to make anv needed reformation. 

May* God bless vou, guard you  evil and give you the power to guard from evil those entrusted to your care. May He give to the Priesthood wisdom and foresight to warn the Saints of evil and sin, and to instruct them in the ways of righteousness; and may He put int j the hearts of the people the love of the Holy Priesthood, and willingness to listen to good counsel and follow it. In the history of the Church the Saints have never gone wrong, not in one instance, when they have followed the advice of the Holy Priesthood; neither will they ever go wrong in following that advice, because it cometh of God, through the proper channel, and must lead the people aright and eventually into the presence of the Father, being justified by a righteous life. The Lord bless vou. May He bless our brethren who shall speak, bless the interests of Zion and the honest in heart everywhere. May those upon whom responsibility is placed, feel their responsibility and acquit themselves as true servants of the Lord, to the uplifting of their fellow-men to a higher plane of righteousness, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH P. SMITH. 

I would like to say to the Presidents of Stakes and counselors, and to the Bishops and their counselors, who are present today, that we commend to their careful consideration the subjects that have been treated upon this afternoon by the brethren who have spoken — the observance of the divine law of health and life, the Word of Wisdom, abstinence from folly and from the wild, foolish pleasure resorts that are being so freely patronized by young people in these days. I think that the presiding priesthood everywhere should pay attention to these things, and carefullv guard the youth of Zion, as well as the middle aged and a?ed, against these foolish excesses. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The latter-day glory begins to come forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, 

And angels are coming to visit the earth. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Charles H. Hart. Saturday, April 6th, 10 a. m. 


