Afternoon
06 04 1907



ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for this privilege, and I cheerfully respond to the call made upon me, believing that I have, the confidence, the faith and the prayers of my brethren and sisters; and I ask a continuation of these favors at this time, in my behalf; praying that the Lord may inspire me to say those things that will be for your edification as well as mine. 

I rejoice that I have a name and standing in the midst of this people. How great you look to me this afternoon I can hardly tell you. The immense capacity of this building filled with human beings, your faces all turned toward the speaker, is, indeed, an inspiring sight. I am grateful to the Lord for this conference, for this grand assemblage of His children, for the united vote that you gave this morning, and in respect to questions on doctrinal points that were given you to answer this forenoon. The way they were answered is in strict keeping with the spirit of the faith you have adooted. When President Brigham Young entered the Salt Lake Valley in 1847, he raised himself upon his elbow, in the carriage  Brother Woodruff, where he was reclining, and looked over the valley, from the mouth of Emigration Canyon, and said : "This will do; drive on, Brother Woodruff; this is the place for the gathering of the Saints." That saying was prophetic, as manifest in the events which have transpired since that vision to the prophet of the Lord, and evidenced in the prosperity that has attended the people. Their united faith has drawn them together in greater numbers year by year, and so I believe it will continue to be. 

In relation to the document that was read in your hearing yesterday, I endorse every word of it now in my testimony as I did in my vote yesterday. I am delighted with the prospect, which I consider is brighter today than ever before, that the whole world shall learn of the faith of this people; and our probable future destiny will be studied with greater interest, I believe, by the thinking people of the world, than it has been heretofore. The truth of the old song is evidenced to me today: "Zion is growing; give us room that we may dwell." If this were not so, I think that some of us would feel very much disappointed. The work of the Lord is destined to make progress; it means progression. In the common parlance of the times, this work "has come to stay," and, having come with this purpose, it must grow; it must extend, because it cannot stand still. If there is any project that comes to a stop, retrogression, a movement backward, is the natural condition that ensues. 

In regard to the beautiful exposition that was made this morning of the hymns we sins", I was delighted with the statements made by 

Brother Clawson, and the allusion to those hymns by Brother Grant and others. I was also interested in the reference that was made to the sacred purpose that the Saints have in their hearts, while diligently laboring in the stakes and wards of Zion. 

' My brethren and sisters, I believe firmly in the doctrines you have so honestly announced today to be your convictions, that the God of heaven lives, that He is our Father, the Father of our spirits, the Creator of the universe; that from His presence we have come to our earthly probation; that He chose His well beloved Son, Jesus of Nazareth, to be the Savior of the world. He was the only begotten of the Father. That is the stand we take in regard to the matter of relationship between God the eternal Father and His Son, Jesus Christ. As Brother Smoot properly observed today: If any of our Sunday School children, ten years of age, had been in that congregation of ministers, and had been asked the question : "Do you believe in a personal God, of body, parts, and passions ?" every Sunday School child would have answered that they do believe in such a God. They have been perfectly taught in these matters, and so have the Saints, not alone by the doctrines of the Church, but we also endeavor to individually obtain a living tes 1 timony that God lives, that His Son Jesus Christ lives, and that the Holy Ghost is a personage of spirit. We believe in the passage of scripture which gives an account of the baptism of the Savior. John was baptizing in the river Jordan, and the Savior came to him and asked for baptism, but John forbade him, saying: "I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me ?" and Jesus said : "Suffer it to be so now, for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness," and so he suffered Him, and they went down into the water. As they came up out of the water and stood upon the bank of the river, a voice was heard from heaven, saying: "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased;" and the Holy Ghost descended upon Him in the sign of a beautiful white dove. 

In a Sunday School gathering in the city of New York, not long ago, (not a Latter-day Saints' Sunday School, however), a young lady teacher approached the minister who was presiding over the school, and asked : "How shall I teach God to my children — the class that I am teaching?" The minister replied: "You must teach God according to the intelligence of those whom you are teaching." The lady replied that this did not answer her question. Then the minister appealed to the congregation, and asked if there was any one present who would answer the question of the lady; and it is said that a "Mormon" elder who was present volunteered this information on the subject: He referred them to the first chapter of Genesis where God declares that He "created man in His own image, and in His own likeness — male and female, created He them." This was in keeping with the teachings of Scripture, and no doubt satisfied the query that was in the mind of the lady, as no further questions were asked. We have declared in our articles of faith that "We believe in God the eternal Father, and in His Son Jesus Christ and in the Holy Ghost. We believe that mankind will be punished for their own sins and not for 

Adam's transgression." This doctrine is in perfect accord with the teachings of the Holy Scriptures, and harmonizes with the divine teachings given through the Prophet Joseph Smith in the day and age in which we live. When the Savior was upon the earth he gave the promise : "If any will obey the doctrine that I teach he shall know whether it is of God, my Father, or whether I speak of myself. It is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that this people have been called to teach, and to exemplify in their lives. Although there has always been some opposition to the truth, ever since the Church was organized, that has not, however, resulted in staying its progress. The Church of Christ, the ordinances of God's house, and the organizations of the Holy Priesthood are upon the earth, and they will remain until they have accomplished the purposes that the Lord has designed. 

It was fortunate for us, my brethren and sisters, that the Church was organized under the protection of the constitution of this great government. This grand constitution and government was established under the inspiration of Almighty God by our revolutionary fathers, and we have had the privilege of living under these favorable conditions, and becoming numerous and strong; and the State in which we live is now one of the bright stars in the galaxy of our national starry host. We are proud of the State of Utah; we are proud of the products of Utah. We are proud of our boys and girls, and we are not afraid to compare them with any that the world can produce, for moral, physical, and intellectual strength. The Gospel net has gathered people from many nations of  earth, we are therefore a cosmopolitan people, and the mixture has produced a race of men and women gigantic in health and physical powers, as well as in moral and intellectual development, and their understanding of Gospel philosophy. There was no cold, dead response, no myth, no shadow in the answers on Gospel philosophy that were given this morning. Every man and woman knew what they were declaring. They understood the questions they were answering. They knew in their hearts that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ. They also know that Joseph, the prophet, through the inspiration of the Almighty, brought to pass the organization of the Holy Priesthood upon the earth; that Zion is being built up, and Israel is being gathered, through the efforts of that mighty prophet and those who have followed him. " 

My brethren and sisters, I pray the blessings of the Lord upon you. I testify that the Gospel is true. I know that my Redeemer lives. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that we are being led under the prophetic influence of the Spirit of God today, by His servants who preside over us. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS. 

The present conference has been to me full of the deepest interest. To my mind, this has been a memorable occasion, one that has made an impression upon the people, and which, I believe, will make an impression upon the world; for, in the declaration of principles that has been adopted and approved by the 

Latter-day Saints, in conference assembled, is a plea for fair play, for justice. It is a plea to the world not to believe the misrepresentations that have been sent out by the enemies of this people. It is the protest of a great people against being maligned by a world which has been misled by unscrupulous men and women. I echo the sentiment expressed, that it is better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others. It appeals to me that that is the proper thing for us to do. I endorse with all my heart the principles set forth in that document. They are principles that have been taught to me from my infancy. They are not new to the Latter-day Saints. It is something that we do not need to deliberate upon. The moment we heard the declaration of these principles every soul was ready and prepared to vote upon the proposition. They are principles that are dear to our hearts. They have been revealed from heaven in the dispensation in which we live. I also endorse and believe that all the good that has been spoken of Zion and her people is true. There are no better people upon the face of the earth than the Latter-day Saints, and whatever superiority we have attained to is the direct result of obedience to these principles which our Father has revealed unto us. While I believe these things with all my heart, nevertheless there is danger that we might think we have already attained to so much excellence that we should stop. I wish to bear witness that there is ample room for improvement among the Latter-day Saints, as well as in the world at large. 

The Gospel we have received is the Gospel of repentance; and during this conference, it seems to me, a great deal of stress has been laid upon that principle. Sometimes we are prone to think that because we have yielded obedience to the principles of faith and repentance and have received baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, we have no further need of repentance. My brethren and sisters, we have -daily need of this saving principle of repentance. It should apply to our daily lives. The one great reason why the world does not accept the message which is borne by the missionaries of this Church is because they are not willing to practice the principle of repentance. There seems to be a deep-seated feeling among people — I mean the higher class of people — that they have no need of repentance. And sometimes many of the Latter-day Saints appear to think similarly. The truth is, we all need repentance, day by day, in the common, ordinary walks of life. Repentance is a saving principle, and we will be saved through yielding obedience to that law. We are inspired to it through the faith we have in God our Eternal Father. Without repentance we cannot grow spiritually, we cannot advance. It is because we have to some degree repented and turned, away from evil practices and bettered our lives, that we can today point with pride to the condition of the Latter-day Saints as compared with other people in the world. Repentance is not simply a grieving and mourning over sin. It is something to influence us in every business transaction, in every dealing that we have, in every labor we perform. When we arise in the morning it  be with a determination that through our faith in the Lord we are going to live in obedience to His laws and commandments, that we are going to apply the principle of repentance by turning away from every evil deed; and if I deal with my brother, that dealing will be honest, and if I speak I will speak the truth. 

Some people have an idea that if we become so religious that we must take the Lord into consideration in everything we do we will become so holy and so good that nobody can speak to us. People say, "Oh, he is altogether too good," and he is referred to as "goodygoody" — as if it were possible for men to be too good. I recollect talking with a gentleman a short time ago, and he referred to a certain individual as being altogether too good. I asked him the question, Is it possible for a man to be too good ? Oh, yes, he said; and then he went on to describe a certain individual whom he knew, saying that he was altogether too good. He described a man who was somewhat fanatical, a sort of a bigot, a sanctimonious hypocrite, and called him "too good!" Why, that is not goodness at all. A man cannot be too good. Can a man be too honest ? No. Can a woman be too virtuous? No. Neither can anyone be too good. The trouble is, none of us are good enough. So we need to improve by a practice of that saving principle of repentance, that will eventually make us like our Heavenly Father. If we find that we are dealing in a way that our Father will not approve of, repent, because we are doing wrong; and never stop repenting until we can harmonize our con with the will of our Father in heaven. Repentance is a saving law. We all have weaknesses, and we may confess them freely; it is good to do so. But we must not glory in our weaknesses. We must not think it possible for us to walk too closely to the line. We should be ambitious to become better every day, by a practice of this principle. Our prayers to the Father are a practice in the principle of repentance. If we go before Him in the spirit of prayer, with broken hearts and contrite spirits, the spirit of repentance is with us. By practicing this principle we learn to know ourselves; we behold our weaknesses because we are trying to overcome them, and as we become conscious of them, and have a desire to overcome them, we grow stronger day by day. 

The kingdom of God has been likened to a city set upon a hill, whose light cannot be hid. Such will be and is the position of the Latter-day Saints today. They are as a city set upon a hill whose light cannot be hid. Never mind the calumny that goes abroad in the land, never mind what people think of us. I am not half so much concerned in what they may think of us as in what we must think of ourselves, and what is the truth in regard to our own condition. If we are living up to the laws and commandments of God, if we are dealing righteously one with another, if we are practicing the principles that the Lord has revealed, our light will shine, and the whole world will behold it. May the Lord help us to be always on the alert, always willing to improve, always full of the spirit of repentance, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

EIDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

Of late years it has been the custom of the Church to publish in pamphlet form the proceedings of the annual and semi-annual conferences of the Church, and I presume that the present conference will be no exception to that rule. I take it for granted, therefore, that the important document presented by the Presidency of the Church and accepted by the conference in behalf of the Church will be published in the proceedings of this conference. It will find its way into the hands of the Elders who are engaged in the foreign ministry, and I doubt not but it will furnish them with very important data, by which they can meet much of the misunderstanding and some of the misrepresentation that obtains in the world concerning the work of the Lord in these last days. In view of this probable use of the document, I have it in mind to make a supplemental contribution, in the way of argument and historical illustration of some one or two points in it, which, while it may not be of so very much interest to you, may yet be of some use to your sons and husbands who are abroad in the world on missions. 

You will remember that we express a desire in the document (and I say "we" advisedly; for while the document is signed by the Presidency of the Church, it -becomes "ours" by reason of the unanimous adoption of it in this conference) to live at peace with all men. We desire to live in peace and confidence with our fellow-citizens of all political parties and of all religions, is the hope expressed. Then attention is called to the fact that there exists a doubt as to our ability to so live with our fellow-citizens, because we believe in revelation from God, and that a revelation may come from Him at any time, even as He wills, as He may determine, and upon whatsoever subject He may choose to reveal Himself to His Church. For the sake of accuracy I quote the passage I have in mind verbatim. 

"It is sometimes urged that the permanent realization of such a desire is impossible, since the Latter-day Saints hold as a principle of their faith that God now reveals Himself to man, as in ancient times; that the priesthood of the Church constitute a body of men who have, each for himself, in the sphere in which he moves, special right to such revelation; that the President of the Church is recognized as the only person through whom divine communication will come as law and doctrine to the religious body; that such revelation may come at any time, upon any subject, spiritual or temporal, as God wills; and finally that, in the mind of every faithful Latter-day Saint, such revelation, in whatsoever it counsels, advises or commands, is paramount. Furthermore it is sometimes pointed out that the members of the Church are looking for the actual coming of a Kingdom of God on earth, that shall gather all the kingdoms of the world into one visible, divine empire, over which the risen Messiah shall reign. All this, it is held, renders it impossible for a 'Mormon' to give true allegiance to his country, or to any earthly government." 

In relation to that expressed fear we say : 

"We refuse to be bound by the interpretations _ which others place upon our beliefs, or by what they allege must be the practical consequences of our doctrine. Men have no right to impute to us what they think may be the logical deduction from our beliefs, but which we ourselves do not accept. We are to oe judged by our own interpretations and by our actions, not by the logic of others, as to what is or may be the result of our faith." 

At first glance a statement of that  may seem very bold and somewhat egotistical. It is not, however, without illustrious example and precedent if we need precedent to guide our conduct, which, of course, we do not especially need; still if there are illustrious examples that justify such a position as this, there can be no harm in referring to them. The position here taken is not only the position of the Church of Latterday Saints, but is the position also of the great Catholic Church. Rev. Dr. John Milner, a most able exponent and defender of the Catholic faith, in his great work, "The End of Religious Controversy," published at the commencement of the nineteenth century, quotes with approval one of the early Christian fathers — Tertullian, of the second century of the Christian era — upon that subject, as follows. By the way, the Christian father is criticising the attitude of some of the heretics and reproving their presumption in using the Scriptures against the Catholic Church, he says : 

"Heretics are not to be allowed to appeal to Scripture, since they have no claim to it. Hence it is proper to address them as follows: Who are you? Whence do you come? What business have you strangers with my property? By what right, Marcion, [one of the heretics against whom Tertullian was contending] by what right are you, Marcion, felling my trees, by what authority are you, Valentine [another heretic] turning the course of my streams? Under what pretense are you Appelles removing my land marks? The estate is mine. I have the ancient, the prior possession of it. I have the title deeds delivered to me by the original proprietors. I am the heir of the apostles; they have made their will in my favor; while they disinherited and cast you off, as strangers and enemies." 

Dr. Milner, quoting with approval St. Vincent of Lerins (who flourished at the end of the Fifth century) on the question as to how the children of the Church were to use the scriptures so as to discern truth from falsehood, quotes the father as saying : 

"They are to interpret the divine text according to the tradition of the Catholic church." (End of Religious Controversy, Letter X.) 

Dr. Milner himself, in his controversy with Protestants (1801-2) says : 

"I have reminded you, that no prophecy of Scripture is of any private interpretation; and I have proved to you that the whole right to Scripture belongs to the Church. She has preserved them, she vouches for them, and she alone, by confronting the several passages with each other, and with tradition authoritatively explains them. Hence it is impossible that the real sense of Scripture should ever be against her and her 'doctrine; and hence, of course, I might quash every objection which you can draw from any passage in it by this short reply: The Church understands the passage differently from you; therefore you mistake its meaning." (End of Religious Controversy, Letter XII.) 

So with reference to our Scriptures. The Church, and the Church alone, holds the right of interpretation; and we are not bound to accept either the interpretation or the logfcal deductions built thereon that are made by others than the Church. 

I desire now to put in the record another important quotation; one. that has a bearing on the supposed impossibility of our giving true allegiance to government because we look for the coming of the kingdom of God. This time I quote not from a churchman, but from a great historian. At one time it was strongly  in England if Catholics, who held allegiance to the Pope, who regarded him as infallible as an interpreter of questions of faith and morals, and themselves subject to his spiritual direction — it was doubted if Catholics were capable of genuine allegiance to the British government; or if the Jews, who looked for the coming of a Messiah to stand at the head of a great and dominating Hebrew state, could give such allegiance to Great Britain as would warrant their participation in her civil affairs. These principles were discussed by Lord Macauley in his Essays, and I read you an extract from one of them : 

"It passes for an argument to say that a Jew will take no interest in the prosperity of the country in which he lives, that he will not care how bad its laws and police may be, how heavily it may be taxed, how often it may be conquered and given up to spoil, because God has promised that, by some unknown means, and at some undetermined time, perhaps 10,000 years hence, the Jews shall migrate to Palestine. Is not this the most profound ignorance of human nature? Do you not know that what is remote and indefinite affects men far less than what is near and certain? The argument, too, applies to Christians as strongly as to Jews. The Christian believes, as well as the Jew, that at some future period the present order of things will come to an end. Nay, many Christians believe that the Messiah will shortly establish a kingdom on the earth, and reign visibly over all its 

inhabitants Now wherein 

does this doctrine differ, as far as its political tendency is concerned, from the doctrine of the Jews? If a Jew is unfit to legislate for us because he believes that he or his remote descendants will be removed to Palestine, can we safely open the house of commons to a 'fifth monarchy' man, who expects that, before this generation shall pass away, all the kingdoms of the earth will be swallowed up in one divine empire? 

"Does a Jew engage less eagerly than a Christian in any competition which the law leaves open to him? Is he less active and regular in his business than his neighbors? Does he furnish his house meanly because he is a pilgrim and sojourner in the land? Does the expectation of being restored to the country of his fathers make him insensible to the fluctuations of the stock exchange? Does he, in arranging his private affairs, ever take into the account the chance of his migrating to Palestine ? If not, why are we to suppose that feelings which never influence his dealings as a merchant, or his dispositions as a testator, will acquire a boundless influence over him as soon as he becomes a magistrate or a legislator. ... To charge men with practical consequences which they themselves deny, is disingenuous in controversy, it is atrocious in government." 

Discussing the principle in hand still further, and with that wealth of illustration so characteristic of him, our author says : 

"The doctrine of predestination, in the opinion of many people, tends to make those who hold it utterly immoral. And certainly it would seem that a man who believes his eternal destiny to be already irrevocably fixed is likely to indulge his passions without restraint, and to neglect his religious duties. If he is an heir to wrath, his exertions must be unavailing. If he is preordained to life, they must be superfluous. But would it be wise to punish every man who holds the higher doctrines of Calvinism, as if he had actually committed all those crimes which we know some Antonomians to have committed? Assuredly not. The fact notoriously is that there are many Calvinists as moral in their conduct as any Arminian, and many Arminians as loose as any Calvinist. 

"It is altogether impossible to reason from the opinions which a man professes to his feelings and his actions; and in fact no person is ever such a fool as to reason thus, except when he wants a pretext for persecuting his neighbors. A Christian is commanded, under the strongest sanctions, to be just in all his dealings; yet to how many of the twenty-four millions of professing Christians  these islands would any man in his senses lend a thousand pounds without security? A man who should act, for one day, on the supposition that all the people about him were influenced by the religion which they professed, would find himself ruined before night; and no man ever does act on that supposition in any of the ordinary concerns of life, in borrowing, in lending, in buying, or in selling. But when any of our fellow-creatures are to be oppressed, the case is different. Then we represent those motives which we know to be so feeble for good as omnipotent for evil. Then we lay to the charge of our victims all the vices and follies to which their doctrines, however remotely, seem to tend. We forget that the same weakness, the same laxity, the same disposition to prefer the present to the future which makes men worse than a good religion, makes them better than a bad one." 

There is one other quotation I desire to make, and this time from an eminent American statesman, not long since deceased, and I trust that he will for a long time live in the memory of the Latter-day Saints, cause of the evident fairness that he manifested in dealing with the questions in which the Church was involved in the recent investigation had before the Senate Committee on Privileges and Elections. Influenced, though perhaps unconsciously, but influenced, I believe, by the doctrine of Macaulay just set forth, Senator Hoar, of Massachusetts, said : 

"We have no right to deal, in determining Mr. Smoot's case, with any article of religious faith of his; and I suppose further — now I speak only for myself — that I have no right to impute to him what I think may be the logical deduction from his beliefs, but which he himself does not accept. He is not obliged to be judged by my logic as to what is the result of his creed. That is the great source of all religious persecution and tyranny in this world." 

Here, then, is where we stand on this question of the interpretation of our doctrines — we insist upon our own interpretation — we refuse 'to be bound by the interpretation of oth ers, or by what they may consider logical deductions from our beliefs; and in this position we are sustained by the example of the great Catholic Church; by such authorities as Macaula^ and Senator Hoar; and, what is better still, by the reasonableness of the thing itself. And now, placing our own interpretation upon our own doctrines, "We deny," to use the language of the Address read and adopted by this conference — "We deny that either our belief in divine revelation, or our anticipation of the coming king dom of God, weakens in any degree the genuineness of our allegiance to our country. When the divine empire will be established, we may not know any more than other Christians who pray, "Thy kino-dom come, Thy will be done, in earth as it is in heaven;" but we do know that our allegiance and loyalty to country are strengthened by the fact that while awaiting the advent of the Messiah's kingdom, we are under a commandment from God to be subject to the powers that be, until He comes "whose right it is to reign." 

These things may not be of so much interest to you as some others would have been, but I desired to cet a statement of these principles and arguments into the record of this conference. May the Lord bless them to the good of our cause, is my prayer. Amen. 

Sister Delia Daynes sang the sacred solo, "Jerusalem." 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MURRIN. 

In standing up in the midst of this great congregation I trust I may be assisted by my Heavenly Father to say such words as shall be appropriate and profitable for you to hear. In common with my brethren, who have already addressed those who have assembled in these conference meetings, I can say that my heart has been made happy, and I have felt in very deed to praise the name of my Maker, for giving me standing in the midst of the Latter-day Saints, and for giving me fellowship with my breth ren with whom I am privileged to labor. We believe, my brethren and sisters, that our Father in heaven has called us to the accomplishment of a marvelous work. We feel satisfied that we have not been led astray, and that we are in no way deluded in giving the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-dav Saints our allegiance. I can say as an individual that I could not discover the truth of the work the world calls "Mormonism" through the teaching and persuasion and example of my parents alone, although my parents, before I was born upon the earth, had been convinced of the truth of "Mormonism," and had separated themselves from their friends, and relatives, and country, for the Gospel's sake. They were filled with a strong desire that their children might have faith in that Gospel and system of religion that had brought them from a far-off land. I could not comnrehend the truth of this work merely because my parents had yielded obedience to it, notwithstanding they were very devout, and believed intensely in the truth of "Mormonism," and they sought by every means within their power to transmit to me a knowledge of that truth, and to impress me with the fact that they had planted their feet in the right path. While I believed measurably in the representations they made concerning the principles of Mormonism, because of the honesty of their lives, their uprightness in every action and in every labor to which they set their hands, yet I could learn that Mormonism was the power of God unto salvation only by the revelation of that truth to me as an individual. When I obtained that knowledge it came to me in the very same manner in which it had been revealed to my parents in the land of their birth. 

I believe there is a feeling, a conscientious disposition on the part of the young men and women of "Mormondom," to hesitate in saying that they have knowledge concerning the truth of the Gospel, until every doubt has been swept away by the power of the Holy Ghost, and the knowledge has been given to them by the inspiration that comes from our Father in heaven. This revelation of truth to the individual is the secret of the strength of "Mormonism." It is not, as has been supposed and ofttimes intimated, that the ignorant of the world have been gathered together, and that presiding over them are a few men of great intelligence, who have had power to control the people, and to keep them in ignorance. Who are the men, my brethren and sisters, who preside in the midst of the Latter-day Saints today ? I cannot help but think and remember that in my life time — and when I consider my age in comparison with the age of President John R. Winder, I feel that I am only a boy —  my recollection every man who occupies a prominent position in the counsels of the presiding authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today, has been brought up from the ranks of the people since I attained my majority, with the exception of President Joseph F. Smith alone. They have not come to the positions they occupy through any royal road, or because of any special preference for them or the names they bear, but because of the duties and labors they have faithfully accomplished in assisting to build up and bring to pass the work of our God. It has fallen to my lot, just in recent years, in attending to the labors and responsibilities that have been assigned unto me in the Holy Priesthood, to preside over two of these men who stand today as Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. I have directed them in missionary labors, and I have this testimony to bear concerning them : that they are men of humility, that they appreciated the responsibility of the Priesthood that had been conferred upon them, and they honored that authority in the men who presided over them. I take it, my brethren and sisters, that if we were to study the history and the lives of the men who have been called to responsible positions in this Church, we would discover that they had been anxious to keep the commandments of our Father in heaven. We would discover that into their souls had dawned a knowledge of the truth of the glorious Gospel of the Redeemer of men. We would discover that they have been men who, in the early days of their lives, have entered into sacred and secret covenant with our Father in heaven to honor Him and to keep His com, and to assist as God would give them light and power, to bring to pass His purposes among the children of men. They have not been men who have been anxious to wield the sceptre of power, rather they have been men who were willing to take lowly positions, willing to accomplish and perform without question every labor assigned unto them; because God had revealed to them that "Mormonism" is the power of God, the true religion of the Redeemer of men, given anew in this great and last dispensation, according to the promises of the holy prophets. 

God decreed long ago that His word, in the latter times, should be re-established among men, that the truth should go forth from nation to nation, that the honest among men should be pricked in their hearts by the power of God; and that, by His power and His revelation, they should be brought together from the East and from the West, from the North and from the South, to a place called "Zion," for the very purpose of learning more fully of the ways of the Lord and walking more perfectly in His path. Let us remember, my brethren and sisters,that this is the grand object of our being gathered together. I pray that it may be fully accomplished in our lives. Our hearts, and the hearts of our sainted parents before us, have been pricked by the power of God, we have all been made to know — father and mother, son and daughter — in the same marvelous manner, that this is the truth, the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

This is my testimony. I rejoice in it; I know that I speak the truth, for it has been given to me by my Father, my Redeemer, my Creator. 

Thank God for it, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

President Joseph F. Smith presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, a£ Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as first counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as second counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, George Teasdale, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney and David O. McKay. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The counselors in the first presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies: Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Toseph W. McMurrin and Charles H. Hart. 

William B. Preston, as Presiding Bishop, with Robert T. Burton and Orrin P. Miller as his first and second counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, A. Milton Musser, Brigham H. Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., assistant historians. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Duncan M. McAllister as Clerk of the Conference. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR. 

Evan Stephens, Conductor and Manager; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, Organist; Edward P. Kimball  Walter J. Poulton, Jr., Assistant Organists; Noel S. Pratt, Secretary; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Treasurer and Librarian, and all the members. 

AUDITING COMMITTEE. 

Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, William W. Riter, Charles W. Nibley, August W. Carlson. 

All were sustained by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

The choir and congregation sang : 

Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation, 

No longer as strangers on earth need we roam, 

Good tidings are sounding to us and each nation, And shortly the hour of redemption will come. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Andrew Jenson, and Conference adjourned till Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. Sunday, April 7th, 10 a. m. 


