Afternoon
07 04 1907


ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Be not "lovers of pleasure more thanlovers of God." — A reasonable degree of recreation and amusement unobjectionable.— Excess is dangerous to morals.— Responsibility of parents in controlling pleasure-seeking children. 

I think, if my memory serves me correctly, it was St. Paul, in one of his epistles to Timothy, who said that in the last days men shall be "lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God." It occurs to me that the truth of this is now being realized, and that the tendency to become lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God is growing in many parts of the world; nor are we ourselves asfree from this disposition as we should be. President Lund this morning, in dwelling upon reverence and respect for the Sabbath day, recognized by the Christian peoples of the world as the day appointed for rest and worship, pointed out to us the necessity of remembering the suggestions contained in the revelations of our Heavenly Father to us in our own time. I believe we are more censurable in regard to this tendency of pleasureseeking than perhaps in any other respect, without it may be our continued disregard of the Word of Wisdom, concerning which the 107  have been speaking. The spirit of the times leads us in the way of amusement. I am not one of those that have serious objections to amusement; on the contrary, I am in sympathy with a reasonable amount of recreation and pleasure. But when we note the fact that the weekdays are devoted largely to pleasure, and the Sabbath day is also taken for that purpose, we cannot help but feel that there is an overstepping of legitimate bounds in this direction. From the beginning of this work, the Latterday Saints have been accorded the privilege by our Heavenly Father, through His servants, of enjoying themselves in a reasonable way in the dance, in representations upon the mimic stage, and in social gatherings in keeping with legitimate exercise, to lighten the heart and give the mind release from the turmoils and struggles that corne to every man and woman who perform their part and discharge the responsibilities of life. But when we find our young people engaged in a variety of amusements nearly every evening in the week,with scarcely an evening spent at home, and indulging in companionships that are not in keeping with the right, going to places of amusement where men and women of all classes are permitted to congregate, and mingling with influences that tend to demoralization, it would seem to be time to call a halt. I believe that a more thoughtful and prudent course of conduct should be pursued by us in connection with these matters, and that these general gathering places, wherein our sons and daughters are permitted to congregate, should be modified in their effects. Where places are open continuouslv for those classes of  that bring the immoral and impure into contact with the innocent and the pure, and the door is opened for the introduction of immorality and crime into every village, town and city throughout the land, the Latter-day Saints should be much more thoroughly upon their guard in regard to this than they have been perchance. As I remarked before, I am a believer in legitimate and proper amusements. The boys and girls, the fathers and mothers, should mingle together and have proper recreation and pleasure, but free from the possibility of vicious and impure association. The children entrusted to our watchcare should not be turned loose thoughtlessly, without guardians or chaperones, into the companionship of men who scheme and devise for the injury and overthrow of their kind, who boast of their conquests, and who rejoice in the opportunities offered them to lead from the path of rectitude any young or thoughtless girl that may be brought into their company. The same is true in regard to the other sex, where there are abandoned and impure women, whose companionship is a menace to thoughtless and imprudent boys. Thrown into that species of company, they are apt to be led from the path of rectitude and the mark of shame written upon their brows by some overt act of an impure character. 

I trust that the suggestion of St. Paul may be held in remembrance by the Latter-day Saints, as well as by all other Christian people who reside in the communities where we have companionship, that in the enjoyment of the pleasures which come from legitimate association we shall si jw reverence and regard GENERAL CONFERENCE.  onr Father in heaven, that blight shall not come upon us by the spread of that spirit of thoughtlessness and recklessness and extreme desire for pleasure which shall carry from the home circle every evening and during much of the day, as well as upon the Sabbath day, members of so many households among us. I ask my brothers and sisters to look at this matter thoughtfully and prudently, and that as a community, standing at the head of homes, having the salvation of the community at heart, we shall seek to make this impress upon our own children; and that we may not find ourselves, because of the liberality of our neighbors in connection with these things, unable to throw around our own the proper restraints necessary to keep them in that purity of life and that consistent course of conduct which we so much desire; that respect and regard for the Supreme Being may be maintained, and that they may not drift with the current, lose their power of control, and become unthankful, inconsiderate, and in every way improvident, so far as reverence for our Father in heaven is concerned. I believe that when the great judge of the quick and the dead shall look into the lives of His children and consider the problems involved in the well-being of his sons and daughters, we will find ourselves under most serious condemnation for the extent to which we 'are permitting these children of ours to go unchecked. I recognize the experiences through which you go, from my own experiences along the same line. It is impossible to put a wise head upon young shoulders, and to impress upon the mind of a boy or a girl that their companionship should be guarded most . They say to you, Why, this brother or that sister allow their boys and girls to go hither and yonder; they have no objection to their being found in restaurants, enjoying the companionship of undesirable persons; they do not object to their sons and daughters frequenting the skatinp- rinks, or in the great resorts that grow up in our communities; why should you object to our going when all around us have these privileges? I presume such remarks are brought to the home of every father and moth er. But I am satisfied that our regrets will be much greater in the future than they have been in the past unless we shall bear in mind the sacredness of the obligation of fatherhood and motherhood in this connection. Let them sing the songs of Zion; let them enjoy themselves legitimately in the dance; let them have their privilege of visiting these pleasure resorts under conditions that shall restrain them from the possibility of being thrown into the companionship of vile men and women who would lead them from the path of rectitude and implant in their hearts the seeds of their overthrow and destruction. T ask you to weigh this problem, that our children mav not stand with those who shall be lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, but that in the enjoyment of the proper pleasures of life, guarded by the companionship of the wise and prudent, they shall receive their lawful opportunities, rightly honoring the Supreme Being and the moral rules given of Him, sustaining the principles of righteousness, and bringing out the powers with which their Father has endowed them in the most complete and proper manner. I realize that in order that we 109  accomplish this, and restrain our children from the possibilities of immorality and crime, more care and thought must be bestowed upon these matters than we have been wont to give them in the recent past. Not that I would deny any boy or girl those proper pleasures which relieve them from the toil and struggle that some may have to undergo in life; but when they break out in open rebellion against every principle of good government, when they propose to mingle with the vile and the impure, when they find companionship pleasurable with those whose lives are to be censured by every thoughtful father and mother, we shall be under condemnation if we permit them without effort on our part to drift in the line of that destruction, and our regrets will be great at no distant day, for it may be your boys and my boys, your girls and my girls, that will by their misdeeds bring to u? sorrow and heartache. 

I bear my testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and to the wisdom of the Apostle Paul when he appealed to the people to guard against becoming more the lovers of pleasure than the lovers of God. I commend the spirit that has been manifest in this conference, in the instructions that have fallen from the lips of the elders from first to last. Reformation is requisite among the Latter-day Saints in the care we bestow upon the children which God has given to us. May the Lord bless you with understanding and faith. May the good work move forward in the accomplishment of its great destiny, that as our boys and girls shall go into the world they shall be entrenched in the moral virtues of the Gospel of Jesus, and be clean and sweet  the children of men, in the fulfillment of the great destiny He designs they shall accomplish; that they shall indeed not be lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, but that they shall be lovers of God and enjoyers of legitimate pleasures, under the influence of the good Spirit that comes from on high, designed for their uplifting and betterment. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Emma Ramsey Morris sang, as a solo, the hymn, "Come, come ye Saints." 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

Priesthood and people are one.— Prominence provokes criticism. — President Joseph F. Smith. — Government by consent of the governed. — What it means to "sustain" our leaders. — Union the price of safety. 

A great many good things have been said during this conference, and a great many good things remain unsaid. The main care of a speaker at such times, is, not to find a subject, but to select one, to choose the thoughts and ideas that will best suit the occasion, and then have the power to impress them upon the minds and hearts of the hearers. No man can do this of himself. The Holy Ghost is the great teacher, and all that God's servants can do, all that they are expected to do, is to put themselves in a position and keep themselves in such a state of heart and mind that they can be acted upon by that divine Spirit which makes manifest the things of God. I hope I shall have this Spirit during the few minutes that I shall stand before you. 

Many of the texts dwelt upon GENERAL CONFERENCE.  elaborated in the previous meetings have been drawn from the Declaration that was read here upon the opening day. Lingering in my memory are a few lines of that Declaration, which, it seems to me, we might profitably reflect upon. They run something like this : "The effort to differentiate the 'Mormon' priesthood and the 'Mormon' people, by allowing that the latter are a good, honest, though misguided folk, while alleging that their leaders are the personification of all that is bad, is a most futile one. The great majority of the male members of the Church hold the priesthood, and though constituting the official body of the Church, they are a portion of the people. Priesthood and people are inseparable, and, vindicated or condemned, stand together." I invite your attention to these lines. 

Why should it be thought that there is a great gulf of difference between the priesthood and the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? Who are these men that have been chosen to be the General Authorities of the Church, to be the Presidencies of the Stakes of Zion. and the Bishoprics of the Wards? Who are the men and women that stand prominently before the people in our auxiliary organizations? Have they come from outside the Church ? Are they angels from Heaven, or demons from Hades, immortal beings, sent here to preside over a mortal Church and its departments and institutions? Why, no. They have come up from the ranks of the people. True, their spirits came down from God; but so did the spirits of all the members of the Church. The spirits of all men have come from God, and  taken upon them mortal bodies, to undergo experiences that will prepare them for honor and glory and eternal lives in the worlds to come. But the men who have been chosen to preside over the Church, over the Stakes of Zion, over the various Wards, and the men and women who are officers in the auxiliary organizations- — are only a portion of the people. They have the same faults and weaknesses, and the same virtues, as their fathers and mothers, and are no better and no worse than the average of the people from whom they came. 

But because they are prominent, because they have been placed on high, their weak points are more manifest than they would be if they had remained where they were. They are not one whit more perfect for having been lifted into prominence, although they are expected to set an example to the people. President Heber C. Kimball was once conversing with a friend.when he stopped in his talk and picked up a twig or stick from the ground. It had been raining, and adhering to this little stick were particles of mud, and he held it up to illustrate the conversation. He said to his friend, "If that stick had remained upon the ground, you would not have noticed that it was covered with mud, but when I lift it up, the mud is about all that you can see; you can hardly recognize anything else. So it is with men and women when they are singled out for positions in the Church." How true this is. Such men and women become targets for criticism; their faults are more apparent, or are more dwelt upon, than their virtues, because of the positions they hold. 

Who is now the President of Ill  Church? He was a "Mormon" boy, born at Far West, Missouri, in the midst of trials and tribulations, eleven days, I believe, after his father had been torn from his wife and children, cast into prison and condemned to death. His home was sacked and pillaged by a mob, who, in their efforts to rob the helpless family whose husband and father had been taken from them, tore to pieces a bed and tossed it upon the sleeping form of an infant child, almost smothering him out of existence. That child was President Joseph F. Smith, born in the midst of persecution, cradled in peril, enduring from childhood the hardships and privations of a pilgrim and a pioneer, manifesting his faithfulness and integrity in the midst of the people; his whole life an open book. Finally he becomes the head of the Church, chosen of God to be His prophet, and sustained by the people as their president. A "Mormon" boy! 

And who are the Twelve Apostles? Who are the First Council of the Seventies? Who are the Presidents of Stakes, the High Councilors and the Bishops? They are mostly the sons of Latter-day Saints. They are the boys who have grown up among you. Chosen from the ranks of the people, they have all the virtues and all the failings of their ancestors. Why look for perfection in them? Why expect the priesthood to be tetter than the people, or the people to be better than the priesthood? "As with the priest, so with the people." They belong to the same class; they are inseparable, "and vindicated or condemned, stand together." 

Nevertheless, there is a difference between the people and their ; it is not a physical difference, it is not a moral difference, it is not a spiritual difference; it is simply this : these men who hold authoritative positions in the Church have been chosen for those positions, not only by God Himself, but also by the people of God. That is the difference. Joseph F. Smith is God's prophet, because God wants him to be; and he is our President because we want him to be. And he could not be the one nor the other a moment past the time when he would cease to be acceptable to God and to His people. Neither could any man, nor any woman, in this Church, perpetuate their power and authority beyond the time that God and the people were willing to sustain them. 

You saw yesterday an exhibition of the doctrine of common consent, which prevails in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The great principle enunciated in the Declaration of Independence, that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed, permeates this Church and lies at the foundation of its government, determining the manner of the choice of men and women to hold office therein. This has always been the rule of the Church. There is no room in it for tyranny, for usurpation, for the exercise of unrighteous dominion. As our President has often informed us, this work is not only the work of God, it is also our work; every man, woman and child in the Church has a personal interest in this cause and is a joint proprietor with God in all that pertains to it. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith, who was sustained in the beginning as the President of this Church, did GENERAL CONFERENCE.  make himself the President. God chose him to be His Prophet, and the people sustained him as their President. Yes, this man who had looked upon the face of the Father and the Son, who had communed with angels, who had had revealed to him the "sacred record" long "concealed," concerning which we have been singing, who had received the imposition of hands by holy angels, conferring upon him the priesthood — the Aaronic priesthood, which empowered him to preach faith and repentance and to baptize for the remission of sins, and the Melchisedek priesthood, which empowered him to bestow the Holy Ghost upon those who had been baptized, — after all these wonderful exhibitions of the power of God, . this man and his associate, Oliver Cowdery, were required to submit their names to a little congregation on the 6th day of April, 1830, when this Church was organized, that it might be seen whether or not those assembled — a little over thirty in number — would sustain them as their leaders. They were sustained, and thus became the first and second elders of the Church. But the query arises, Suppose they had not been sustained? Suppose that little flock had voted against, instead of for, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, what would have been the consequence? Would it have taken from those two elders the priesthood which God ha_d conferred upon them? Would it have taken away the gifts which He had given them? Would it have blotted out the fact that the dispensation of the fulness of times had been opened by the personal appearing of the Father and the Son to Joseph Smith? Would it have re-consigned that sacred record to  Hill Cumorah? Would the work have gone backward from that hour? Not at all. It would have had this effect, and this only : that little congregation would have been without the gifts and powers that God had conferred upon those men. It could not have been the Church of God. It would have been a body without a head. The priesthood would have been separated from the people. The Prophet, just before going to his death, speaking to the Nauvoo Legion and denouncing mob violence, said to them, "Will you stand by me in the vindication of these great principles which God has committed to my care?" And they threw up their hands and shouted "Yes!" The Prophet replied, "It is well. You are a good people, and I am willing to lay down my life for you. Had you done otherwise, I should have gone out there (pointing to the west) and should have raised up a mightier people." This shows what would have resulted had that little flock, the Church of God, on the 6th of April, 1830, rejected Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery as their leaders. They could have gone anywhere on earth, where men and women would have been willing to receive them, and could have built up the Church and Kingdom. But God recognizes the rights of His people, along with the rights of His priesthood, which are His own rights. God and His people constitute this Church, and these men who have been chosen to be the teachers, the counselors, the leaders are the Lord's servants, His representatives, the instruments and agents through whom He acts, to guide and bless His people. 

I want to remind this great con113  that you who raised your hands to sustain these men in their positions, made a solemn covenant with God that you would sustain them in very deed. In effect, you covenanted that you would pray for them, that you would uphold and defend them, that you would exercise your faith for them, and would listen to their counsels; and that you would not go forth from this conference to tear down these men, to stab them in the back, and seek to weaken their influence among your brethren and sisters and among the children of men. You made that covenant. See that you keep it; for it was a covenant with God, and cannot be broken with impunity. You had the power to reject any and all but you chose to sustain them. Now see that you do it. 

There is little danger to this work from the outside. The worst perils that threaten us are always from within. God has pledged His word that this kingdom shall never be thrown down nor given to another people. But if there ever was a time when this work was really in danger, it was because there was something wrong within, and not because the powers of earth and hell were arrayed against it. A captain of a ship in a storm was approached and asked if there was any danger. The tempests had been beating upon the vessel for days; she had been driven out of her course; the waves were rolling mountain high; the appearance of things was perilous, and the passengers were fearful. "Captain, is there danger?" asked one. The Captain smiled reassuringly, and replied, "Not one particle, so long as conditions remain as they now are. I have been down be; I have examined the machinery; every wheel is moving as it was ordained to move; every pin is in its place; every man is at his post; everything is working well, and as long as this continues, there is no danger whatever; but," he added, "if a single wheel refused to move, if a single pin were out of place, if a man were to rebel and mutiny, there would be danger that we might all go to the bottom of the sea." I think this an apt illustration of the Church of God, of the good ship Zion, plunging her way majestically through the billows of tribulation in this world of pain and trouble and tears. So long as we serve God, and are one with each other, the storms that come from without and spend their fury upon us, pass harmlessly over; they only have the effect of driving us together, making us feel for one another, love one another, and strengthen one another. But let there be ope traitor in the camp; let there be disobedience, treachery, indifference, or division in the Church, and the danger is great until that condition is removed. But God has pledged His word that this work shall never be thrown down, and it is my faith and my testimony that if we remain united, if we refuse to listen to those insidious voices that would introduce schism and dissension between the people and their leaders; if we present an unbroken front, and are one in faith and practice of the principles of the Gospel; if the priesthood and the people stand together, then shall the good ship Zion weather every storm and land her precious cargo of souls in the harbor of eternal peace. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn commencing, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Need of preparation to perform Priesthood duties. — Admonition to Priesthood and Saints to set themselves in order. — Experienced missionaries should accompany the inexperienced. — 'The Lord is pleased with His people," and guiding His Church. 

The time of our conference is very precious, and I presume every one who occupies a portion of it feels as though he were in a hurrv. and perhaps the congregation sometimes wishes that the speaker would hurry. 

This has been one of the most interesting conferences that the Latter-day Saints have ever held, and I believe that it will prove most profitable to the Latter-day Saints for all time. I am convinced that our faith will be strengthened, and that we will return to our homes better prepared for our ministry. When I listened to the elders who are presiding over the missions abroad, I was admonished that it is very important that the body of the Priesthood be suitably trained and prepared for the great work entrusted to our care. It is important that we should be well trained from our first reception of the Priesthood, for no man is fully justified who does not magnify the authority which the Lord confers upon him. This authority, held by nearly all the male members of the Church, has come from the Lord, through His servants; and we are a Church of ministers, teachers, exhorters, expounders of the faith and of the 

Scriptures, and are expected to be laboring, efficiently and acceptably, at home and abroad. Missionaries are constantly being called for from among the Latter-day Saints; hundreds of them are needed every year. This Church, I suppose, is doing more in the line of missionary work than any other people of the same number. All the churches have their force of ministers; but 1 know of no church, except this that is made up entirely of ministers. The ministry in this Church is not confined to the male members; for our sisters are also teachers, and advocates, and expounders of the faith. They have a work in the ministry, besides taking care of their homes and families; but of course they are almost entirely home missionaries. A few of our sisters have gone into the world to preach the Gospel, and I suppose there is no sister in the Church but what would go as readily as the brethren if she were called. And that is the difference in Churchmembership between the brethren and the sisters, just as Elder Whitney has explained the difference between the authorities of the Church and the people. The Elders are called and designated by the voice of the Lord, through His servants, and sustained by the people, to hold the Priesthood, to officiate in the foreign ministry, and to preside in the affairs of the Church generally. The brethren are supposed to be in the work from the time they are ordained. 

The Spirit seems to prompt me on this occasion to draw the attention, particularly, of the presiding brethren in the Stakes, and Wards, and quorums to the necessity of giving more care to the interests of the brethren entrusted to their 115 . We want you to give a little closer attention to their condition. The brethren who have spoken in this conference have seemed inclined to commend to us the importance of the Word of Wisdom. I believe that the presiding brethren in the Church set a suitable example before you, and we feel that it should be carried out by all the various quorums and departments of the Priesthood. You should give greater thought and care to your own condition, my brethren who stand in responsible positions. In this regard I commend to you the counsel of the Twelve and the brethren who preside over us, that we take particular pains to examine ourselves, and to be examined by one another, to be considered, questioned, trained, instructed, corrected and reproved, and to be exhorted and placed in order, as you have heard from President Joseph F. Smith. We report to him our condition; we want you to report to us in regard to your condition. We would like you to take particular pains with your brethren. Having first set yourselves in order, set your brethren in order — the High Priests, Seventies, Elders, and members of the lesser priesthood; tor you are held responsible, as we are. The First Presidency surely feel that the Twelve should always be in good condition; and when any of these brethren visit you, we would like you to notice them and follow in their footsteps and good examples. You presidents of Stakes and you Bishops, when you are within reach of the Twelve, ask what instructions they have for you and for your assistants in the Priesthood. What is necessary to be done? How shall we take care of those holding the Priesthood who  entrusted to us. These are questions it would be well for you to ask of the brethren, and they will counsel you. This applies to ail the brethren who have the forces of Israel to direct in the different Stakes and Wards and quorums. We ask you to put these forces in order. 

As the work requires and as the Lord directs, we make requisitions upon the Presidents of Stakes. We need twenty elders, or forty or fifty, as the case may be, from your Stake. We wish you to furnish us one-third of them veterans, men who have seen service either at home or abroad, men who are established in the faith, and who have ability and integrity. One-third of all we ask for should be trained material, that the young and inexperienced may feel in the presence of these, tried and proven men that they have strength and support, and that they can follow in their footsteps and take instruction from them. How well I remember when I went to Europe in 1860, with President Joseph F. Smith and others. We were young men at that time, and when I was sent out into the missionary field I was placed in the care and company of John Brown, the late Bishop and Patriarch, of Pleasant Grove. Joseph C. Rich, son of Elder Charles C. Rich, was placed in company with James S. Brown. These were two mature, able men, expounders of the faith, men of experience, men of God. So it was with the rest of the brethren. Broth er Joseph F. Smith did not need an experienced man with him, for he was already trained, having been four years on the Sandwich Islands, where he had been a faithful and devoted elder. He was a veteran, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  a young man. He had had training and experience such as we had not received. The Presidents of missions should have in the field at least one-third of trained men, and we ask you to furnish that kind to us. We expect them to be in good condition, clean and sweet. We do not want to have to purge and cleanse them when thev come here. Bishops, labor with your young men. If they have any faults and failings, let them be corlected, and reproved if necessary, at home. Do not let them be humiliated before the brethren when they come here. Have them so well prepared that we shall be proud of them. Take pains with them, and do not leave it for us to do. I do not leave it for the Presidency to train these brethren of the Twelve. I take particular pains with my brethren, and they take particular pains with me. It is their business to help me, and it is my business to help them. We wish you to help one another, and train one another, so that all will be in good condition and none will be ashamed. I would be ashamed, and so would my brethren, if President Smith had to stand up here and say that the Twelve were not in order, that they would not listen to him, nor take instruction from him, and that they would not reform and improve That would not do at all. No; we try to labor with ourselves. We 1 ave our weaknesses, and we neee to be trained and cared for, just vhe same as you and your brethren We are of the same kind of material, the same kind of flesh and blood. We are of the roval lineage, just as you are; for we have descended from the Father; our Father who is in heaven, and your Father. We are His sons, and our wives  sisters are His daughters. There is no lineage more roval than that of the Father and the Son. We are the brethren of Jesus, and you, my sisters, are His sisters. 

Now, the Lord is pleased with His people and their condition today. I thank the Lord for what we have witnessed here, and for the union that dwells among the Latter-day Saints. I speak in this way because I realize the Bishops, the Presidents and their Counselors, and the High Councilors are here, and we require and expect of you just what the Presidency require and expect of us. The Presidency would not be satisfied unless these Apostles were proper in their conduct and in their lives. When they travel among you, the Presidency feel that the" are properly represented, and that the Lord is properly represented among His people. Our lives are before them, as they are before you, and they have n ) fear concerning us; we have been before you as long as you can remember us. Now, we want vour lives to be at least as good as ours. No man should be worse than we are. It is not pleasing to the Lord that your lives should be worse than curs. We want you to be better, to set us a good example, and to help us. You pray for us; we want you to live and labor with us. Bishops, it is a reproach to you when you send men to us that are not in a proper condition, and that have to be labored with here, or at Liverpool, or in any other mission, by the authorities. We ask you to send them to us in proper condition, that we may know they are conscientious, honest, undefiled, pure and clean, that we shall not be ashamed of their conduct when they go out into the world. The life of 117  elder is more to the people than anything he says. The chief thing: is what a man does. It was what Jesus did, the example He set, that lifts Him above all others. He walked in the fear of God. He loved the Father and honored Him. He did the Father's will, instead of his own. He was submissive to Him. He was without sin. He set the pattern for us. We should be as like Him as it is possible for us to be. ♦ 

I have felt thankful to the Lord for the ministry of our brethren in this conference. How beautifully and splendidly they have talked to us! In the doctrines they have laid down no mistake has been made. I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters in regard to this Church. From its beginning, with thirty or forty members, on the 6th day of April, 1830, I testify to you— for I know as I know that I live — that this Church has been and is the Church of Jesus Christ. It is the work of the Lord. It was brought to the world and established under the personal direction of the Father and the Son. Such a vision and experience was never given before on this earth, so far as we have any account, as the personal appearing of the Father and the Son at the same time. The voice of the Father had been heard several times, presenting His Son; but it was left for the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the nineteenth century, to be the witness of the Father and the Son, that they live, for they both appeared to him in person. And surely the world needed that witness. No man had seen the Father or the Son for many centuries. Their faces had been hid from the world, until the world had come to believe that God was not a  at all, that He was not really our Father, that we were not in His likeness; or, if He was a personage, that in some mysterious way the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost were just one person. It remained for the Prophet Josenh Smith to bear record to the world that the Father and the Son both lived, and that they are as separate and distinct in their personalities as any father and son on this earth. 

I bear testimony that this Church was organized by the Lord, and He has maintained that organization from the Prophet Joseph Smith down to the Prophet Joseph F. Smith, without any mistake; for God has directed the choice of every President, every Counselor, every Apostle, every President of Stake, and every Bishop in this Church. The Lord has done it, and it has not been the work of man. He has designated these men, by His own Spirit and voice, and they stand just where they belong, and they will always stand there as long as they are worthy and are not placed in some other position. The Lord is caring for His work and for His people, and He will do it to the end. I want this testimony to come to this congregation, and to all Israel. It is our business to do our duty and to perform our part of the work; for, as Elder Whitnev has testified, we are interested in it as well as the Lord. We share with Him, as His children and His trusted servants The Gosoel has been delivered to us, it is in our hands, and we are exnected to be the expounders and teachers of this faith until theworld is filled with the light and knowledge and power of God. Amen. PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

(closing remarks.) 

I desire to say to you, my brethren and sisters, God" bless you. I invoke the favor and protecting care, the mercy, forgiveness and loving kindness of the Father of light, in whom there is no variableness nor shadow of turning, upon all the Latter-day Saints, and upon all the honest in heart and upright in all the world. May the Lord God bless the people of this State and of the nation, as well as the rulers of the nation. May peace reign in the midst of all the people. May the strife, contention and discontent which exists more or less all over our land be settled amicably, that peace may dwell withi i our borders, and that our people may be prosnerous and happy, and continue to grow in power, number and glory in the land. May the Lord God bless the President of the United States, and his Cabinet, and all the honorable men in public life in our nation, and in the other nations of the world, that peace may dwell on earth and good will towards man. 

Our mission is to save, to preserve from evil, to exalt mankind, to bring light and truth into the world, to prevail upon the people of the earth to walk righteously before God, and to honor Him in their lives and with the firstfruits of all their substance and increase that their barns may be filled with plenty, and, figuratively speaking, that "their presses may burst out with new wine."' 

May God bless the Presidents of the Stakes of Zion and their counselors, and all the officers in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. May He help them to  pure, holy, honest, upright men, after God's own heart, free from the sins of the world, broadminded, full of the love of truth, charity, the spirit of forgiveness, mercy and kindness, that they may be as fathers indeed in the midst of the people, and not tyrants. You, mv brethren, are not called to be masters; you are called to be servants. Let him that would be great amon«you be the servant of all. Let us follow in the footsteps*of our Mas ter, the Lord Jesus Christ. He alone is the perfect example for mankind. He is the only infallible rule and law, way and door into everlasting life. Let us follow the Son of God. Make Him our exemplar and our guide. Imitate Him. Do His works. Become like unto Him, as far as it lies within our power to become like Him that was perfect and without sin. 

God bless the mothers in Zion, and the sons and daughters of Israel, and keep our children from the ways of the world, from transgression and from temptation that will lead them astray. May the power of God be over all the household of faith. May Israel flourish upon the hills and rejoice upon the mountains, and assemble together unto the place which God has appointed, and there prosper, multiply and replenish the earth, and thence spread abroad throughout the land; for the time will come when we will find it necessary to fulfill the purposes of the Almighty by occupying the land of Zion in all parts of it. We are not destined to be confined to the vallevs of the mountains. Zion is destined to grow, and the time will come when we will cry aloud, more than we do today, Give us room that we may dwell! 119 

Now may the Lord God of Israel bless you, my brethren, my sisters and my friends. May the mercy of God be extended unto our enemies. We wish them good, not evil. They will bring sufficient evil upon themselves by the course they pursue, and we need not wish evil to come .upon them for it will come soon enough if they do not repent. May God have mercy upon them. May He turn the erring from the error of their way, and he that wandereth into the paths of certainty and truth. This is my prayer, and I invoke these blessings upon this great congregation and upon all the people of the Lord throughout the land, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang, "Inflammatus, ' with solos by Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith, and conference was adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at all the conference meetings in the Tabernacle, -and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments and voluntaries on the great organ. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Arthur Winter, Franklin" W. Otterstrom and Frederick E. Barker. D. M. McAllister, 

Clerk of Conference. Which appears on the followingpages constitutes part of the official proceedings of the Conference, and its connection therewith is set forth in full on page nine of this report. THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS TO THE WORLD SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1907. 

The Church of Jesus ChrisT: of Latter-day Saints to the World, 

GREETING : 

In the hope of correcting misrepresentation, and of establishing a more perfect understanding respecting ourselves and our religion, we, the officers and members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in General Conference assembled, issue this Declaration. 

Such an action seems imperative. Never were our principles or our purposes more widely misrepresented, more seriously misunderstood. Our doctrines are distorted, the sacred ordinances of our religion ridiculed, our Christianity questioned, our history falsified, our character traduced, and our course of conduct as a people reprobated and condemned. 

In answer to the charges made against us, for ourselves and for those who, under divine direction, founded our religion and our Church; for our posterity, to whom we shall transmit the faith, and into whose keeping we shall give the Church of Christ; and before mankind, whose opinions we respect, we sol  emnly declare the truth to be : 

Our religion is founded on the revelations of G.jd. The Gospel we proclaim is the Gospel of Christ, restoied to earth in this the dispensation of the fulness of times. The high claim of the Church is declared in its title — The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Established by divine direction, its name was prescribed by Him whose Church it is — Jesus the Christ. 

The religion of this people is pure Christianity. Its creed is expressive of the duties of practical life. Its theology is based on the doctrines of the Redeemer. 

If it be true Christianity to accept Jesus Christ in person and in mission as divine; to revere Him as the Son of God, the crucified and risen Lord, through whom alone can mankind attain salvation; to accept -His teachings as a guide, to adopt as a standard and observe as a law the ethical code He piomulgated; to comply with the requirements prescribed bv 



Him as essential to membership in His Church, namely, faith, repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, — if this be Christianity, then are we Christians, and the Church of Jesus Christ of Lattei-day Saints is a Christian church. 

The theology of our Church is the theology taught by Jesus Christ and His apostles, the theology of scripture and reason. It not only acknowledges the sacredness of ancient scripture, and the binding force of divinely-inspired acts and utterances in ages past; but also declares that God now speaks to man in this final Gospel dispensation. 

We believe in the Godhead, comprising the three individual personages, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. 

We hold that man is verily the child of God, formed in His image, endowed with divine attributes, and possessing power to rise from the gross desires of earth to the ennobling aspirations of heaven. 

We believe in the pre-existence of man as a spirit, and in a future state of individual existence, in which every soul shall find its place, as determined by justice and mercy, with opportunities of endless progression, in the varied conditions of eternity. 

We believe in the free agency of man, and therefore in his individual responsibility. 

We believe that salvation is for no select few, but that all men may be saved through obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

We affirm that to administer in the ordinances of the Gospel, authority must be given of God; and that this authority is the power of the Holy Priesthood. 

We affirm that through the ministration of immortal personages, the Holy Priesthood has been conferred upon men in the present age, and that under this divine authority the Church of Christ has been organized. 

We proclaim the objects of this organization to be, the pi eachinc of the Gospel in all the world, the gathering of scattered Israel, and the preparation of a people for the coming of the Lord. 

"Mormonism" seeks its converts among all classes and conditions of society, and those who accept it are among the best men and women of the nations from which they come — honest, industrious, virtuous, and reverent. In their community life they are peaceable, law-abiding and exemplary. Their in, traditions and training are opposed to vice and crime. The icligion they have embraced, the Church of which they are members, condemns every form of evil, and their lives, with few exceptions, are exponents of righteousness. Many of the early proselytes to our faith were descendants of the Pilgrims and Puritans. Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, and other leaders among the Latter-day Saints, traced their lineaee to the founders and first defenders of the nation. Joseph Smith was a native of Vermont, and by vocation a farmer. All trades and piofessions were drawn upon for the membership of the Church. In England, its first foreign mission field, it was mainly the middle and working classes that responded to the Gospel message. All over the world it has been the same, — our converts have been men and women of character, intelligence, and integrity. There is nothing in "Mormonism" to attract the selfish or the vile. 

The effort to differentiate the "Mormon" priesthood and the "Mormon" people, by allowing that the latter are a good, honest, though misguided folk, while alleging that their leaders are the personification of all that is bad, is a most futile one. The great majority of the male members of the Church hold the priesthood, and though constituting the official body of the Church, they are a portion of the people. Priesthood and people are inseparable, and; vindicated or condemned, stand together. 

The charge that the Church relies upon duplicity in the propagation of her doctrines, and shuns enlightened investigation, is contrary to reason and fact. Deceit and fraud in the perpetuation of any religion must end in failure. A system of religion, ethics, or philosophy, to attract and hold the attention of men. must be sincere in doctrine and honest in propaganda. That the Church employs deceptive methods; that she has one doctrine for the priesthood and another for the people; that she teaches one set of principles to her members in Zion, and another to the world, is not true. Enlightened investigation is the very means through which the Church hopes to promote belief in her principles, and extend the beneficent influence of her institutions. From the beginning, enlightened investigation has been the one thing she has sought. To secure this she has sent her missionaries into all parts of the world, especially to the centres of civilization and enlightenment, where her literature has been freely distributed; yet too frequently her claims have been disallowed without inves, and judgment has been pronounced without a hearing-. At the Columbian Exposition, which celebrated the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America, the religions of the world were represented in a great parliament, for the purpose of showing "in the most impressive way, what and how many important truths the various religions hold and teach in common; .... to set forth by those most competent to speak, what are deemed the important distinctive truths held and taught by each religion; .... to inquire what light each religion has afforded or may afford to the other religions of the world." To this gathering the Church of Jesus Christ ~f Latter-day Saints, though the most distinctively American church, was not invited; nevertheless she sought opportunity to place side by side with the creeds of all the great historic faiths, a presentation of her principles, and to voice to mankind the truths she deemed most important and most helpful. This opportunity was denied the Church, except upon such terms as were humiliating and subversive of the end sought — a wider publication and a more just consideration of her faith. After such an experience, and others of like kind, though of varying degree, we submit that it ill becomes our accusers to charge us with shunning enliehtened investigation. 

It has been charged that "Mormonism" is opposed to education. The history of the Church and the precepts of its leaders are a sufficient answer to that accusation. Joseph Smith, the first President of the Church, founded schools, and attended them as a student, as did many of his followers under his advice and influence. Brigham Young, who succeeded Joseph Smith, emulated him as a founder and patron of schools : and every subsequent President of the Church, his associates, and the people generally, have been equally zealous in that cause. In the course of their exodus from Illinois, our people built log school houses while halting on the Missouri river, then the frontier of the nation; and after they had traversed a thousand miles of wilderness, and planted their infant colony in the valley of the Great Salt Lake, school houses were amon.r the first buildings they erected. Such Las been the course pursued in every "Mormon" colony. The State of Utah, now dotted with free schools, academies, colleges, and universities, institutions which have given her marked educational prominence, furnishes indisputable evidence that her people — mostly 

"Mormons" — are friends and promoters of education. To the Latter-day Saints, salvation itself, under the atonement of Christ, is a process of education. That knowledge is a means of eternal progress, was taught by Joseph Smith : — It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance. — A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge. — The glory of God is intelligence. — Whatever principles of intelligence we attain to in this life, will rise with us in the resurrection. — He who gains in this life more knowledge than another, will have so much the advantage in the world to come. These were aphorisms with the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

Neither is it true, as alleged, that "Mormonism" is destructive of the sanctity of the marriage relation; on the contrary it regards the lawful union of man and woman as the means through which they may realize their highest and holiest aspirations. To the Latter-day Saints, marriage is not designed by our heavenly Father to be merely an earthly union, but one that shall survive the vicissitudes of time, and endure for eternity, bestowing honor and joy in this world, glory and eternal lives in the worlds to come. 

The typical "Mormon" home is the temple of the family, in which the members of the household gather morning and evening, for prayer and praise to God, offered in the name of Jesus Christ, and often accompanied by the reading of scripture and the singing of spiritual songs. Here are taught and gently enforced, the moral precepts and religious truths, which, taken together, make up that righteousness which exalteth a nation, and ward off that sin which is a reproach to any people. If such conditions are not a sufficient answer to the charge that our homes are un-Christian, subversive of moral influence, and destructive of the state's stability, then we turn to the present generations, "Mormon" American citizens, products of our religion and our homes, for our vindication: — Here are our sons and daughters, submit them to any test of comparison you will : regard for truth, veneration for age, reverence for God, love of man, loyalty to country, respect for law, refinement of manners, and, lastly, in this issue between us and our accusers the crowning test of all, purity of mind and chastity of conduct. It is not inordinate self praise to say of the generations of our people, born and reared ii; "Mormon" homes, that they will compare favorably, in the Christian virtues, and in all that makes for good citizenship, with any community in this or any other country. 



The charge that the Church is a commercial rather than a religious institution; that its aims are temporal rather than spiritual; that it dictates its members in their industrial activities and relations, and aims at absolute domination in temporal affairs, — all this we emphatically deny. That the Church claims the right to counsel and advise her members in temporal as well as in spiritual affairs is admitted. Leading Church officials, men of practical experience in pioneer life, have aided the people in establishing settlements throughout the inter-mountain west, and have given them, gratuitously, the benefit of their broader knowledge of things, through counsel and direction, which the people have followed to their advantage; and both the wisdom of the leaders and the good sense of the people are vindicated in the results achieved. All this has been done without the exercise of arbitrary power. It has resulted from wise counsels, persuasively given and willingly followed. 

It has also been the policy of the Church to foster home industries. Where there has been a lack of confidence in some of these enterprises, and private capital has been afraid to invest, the Church has furnished funds that the practicability of the undertaking might be demonstrated; and repeatedly the wisdom of this policy has been made manifest. Thereby the resources of various localities have been developed, community industries diversified, and the people, especially the poor, given increased opportunity of employment and a better chance to become selfsustaining. 

We deny the existence of arbitrary power in the Church; and this because its government is moral government purely, and its forces are applied through kindness, reason, and persuasion. Government by consent of the pwerned is the rule of the Church. Following is a summary of the word of the Lord, setting forth the principles on which, the Church government is to be administered : 

The rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon men, is true; but when they undertake to cover their sins, or gratify their pride, their vain ambition, or exercise control, or dominion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of un, the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, amen to the priesthood, or the authority of that man. No power or influence can or ought to be maintained b*<- virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness, and meeknes.', and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy and without guile. 

Nominations to Church office may be made by revelation; and the right of nomination is usually exercised by those holding high authority, but it is a law that no person is to be ordained to any office in the Church, where there is a regularly organized branch of the same, without the vote of its members. This law is operative as to all the officers of the Church, from the president down to the deacon. The ecclesiastical government itself exists by the will of the people; elections are frequent, and the members are at liberty to vote as they choose. True, the elective principle here operates by popular acceptance, rather than through popular selection, but it is none the less real. Where the foregoing facts exist as to any system, it is not and cannot be arbitrary. 

The Church officers, in the exercise of their functions, are answerable to the Church. No officer, however exalted his position, is exempt from this law. All decisions, rulings and conduct of officials are subject to investigation, correction, revision and final rejection by the general assembly of the priesthood of the Church, its final court of appeal. Even the President, its highest officer, is subject to these laws, and special provision is made for his trial, and, if necessary, his deposition. Where these facts exist in any administration of government, it cannot be justly classed as a tyranny, nor considered a menace to free institutions. 

The tithing: system of the Church, so often denounced as oppressive, and as imposing an arbitrary ecclesiastical tax, is in reality a system of free-will offerings. True, the members, by the law of the Church, are under moral obligation to pay one-tenth of their interest annually. But from the very nature of the principles on which churches exist, they being voluntary associations for the fostering of spiritual life, and the achievement of moral and charitable ends — in which associations membership cannot be compelled — there is no compulsory means of collecting this or any other church revenue. Tithing 

 a voluntary offering for religious and charitable purposes, and not a scheme of extortion for the enrichment of the higher officials. Service in the interest of the Church is given, for the most part, without monetary compensation; where compensation is allowed it is moderate; the high Church officials are not rich, but in the majority of cases are men of limited means, and where it is otherwise their wealth did not come from the tithes of the people; — these facts are a complete refutation of the slander that our tithing is a system of extortion practiced upon the people for the enrichment of the priesthood. Like the Church government throughout, the tithing system operates upon the principle of free will and the consent of those who hold the faith to be divine. 

Neither in mental attitude nor in conduct have we been disloyal to the government under whose guarantee of religious freedom our Church was founded. The Book of Mormon proclaims America to be the land of Zion; a land dedicated to righteousness and liberty; a land of promise to certain branches of the house of Israel, and also to the Gentiles. It declares that. God will fortify this land against all other nations; and "he that fightetn against Zion shall perish." By revelation to Joseph Smith the Prophet, the Lord declared that he had established the Constitution of the United States through "wise men raised up unto this very purpose." It is also our belief that God has blessed and prospered this nation, and given unto it power to enforce the divine decrees concerning the land of Zion. that free institutions might not perish from the earth. Cherishing such convictions, we have no place in our hearts for disloyal sentiments, nor is there likelihood of treason in our conduct. Were we evil-disposed toward American institutions, or disloyal to the United States, we would be recreant to those principles to which by interest and education we are attached, and would repudiate the revelations of God concerning this land. 

In reaffirming our belief in the high destiny of America, our attachment to American institutions, and our loyalty to the United States, we declare that these sentiments, this loyalty, have outlived the memory of all the wrongs inflicted upon our fathers and ourselves. 

. If patriotism and loyalty are qualities manifested in times of peace, by just, temperate, benevolent, industrious, 

 virtuous living; in times of trial, by patience, resistance only by lawful means to real or fancied wrongs, and by final submission to the laws of the land, though involving distress and sorrow; and in time of war, by willingness to fight the battles of the nation, — then, unquestionably, are the "Mormon" people patriotic and loyal. 

The only conduct seemingly inconsistent with our professions as loyal citizens, is that involved in our attitude during the controversies that have arisen respecting plural marriage. This principle was introduced by the Prophet Joseph Smith, at Nauvoo, Illinois. The practice was continued in Utah, and published to the world, as a doctrine of the Church, in 1852. In the face of these facts, Brigham Young, whose position in the matter was well known, was twice appointed, with the consent of the Senate, first by President Fillmore, and afterwards by President Pierce, to be the Governor of the Territory. It was not until 1862 that Congress enacted a law forbidding plural marriage. This law the Latter-day Saints conscientiously disregarded, in their observance of a principle sanctioned by their religion. Moreover they believed the enactment to be violative of the Constitution, which provides that Congress shall make no law prohibiting the free exercise of religion. Notwithstanding this attitude and conduct on the part of our people, no decision of the Supreme Court upon this question was secured until 1878, more than thirty years after the settlement of Utah; nor were determined efforts made to enforce the law until a further period of five or six years had elapsed. Surely this toleration, under which the practice of plural marriage became firmly established, binds the United States and its people, if indeed they are not bound by considerations of mercy and wisdom, to the exercise of patience and charity in dealing with this question. 

If it be charged by those who find extenuation for offenses committed prior to the decision of 1878, that our subsequent duty as good citizens was clear and unmistakeable, we reply that the situation, as viewed by some of our members, developed a conflict between duty to Cod and duty to the government. Moreover, it was thought possible that the decision of the Supreme' Court might be reversed, if what was regarded as a constitutional right were not too easily surrendered. What our people did in disregard of the law and of the decisions of the 



Supreme Court affecting plural marriages, was in the spirit of maintaining religious rights under constitutional guaranties, and not in any spirit of defiance or disloyalty to the government. 

The "Mormon" people have bowed in respectful submission to the laws enacted against plural marriage. While it is true that for many years they contested the constitutionality of the law of Congress, and during that time acted in harmony with their religious convictions in upholding by practice, as well as by spoken and written word, a principle committed to them from God, still, when every means of constitutional defense had been exhausted, the Church abandoned the controversy and announced its intention to be obedient to the laws of the land. Subsequently, when statehood for Utah became a possibility, on the condition that her constitution provide by ordinance, irrevocable without the consent of the United States, that plural marriages should be forever prohibited, the "Mormon" people accepted the condition by voting for the adoption of the constitution. From that time until now, the Church has been true to its pledge respecting the abandonment of the practice of plural marriage. If it be urged that there have been instances of the violation of the anti-polygamy laws, and that some persons within the Church have sought to evade the rule adopted by her, prohibiting plural marriages, the plain answer is that in every state and nation there are individuals who violate law in spite of all the vigilance that can be exercised; but it does not follow that the integrity of a community or a state is destroyed, because of such individual transgressions. All we ask is that the same common-sense judgment be exercised in relation to our community that is accorded to other communities. When all the circumstances are weighed, the wonder is, not that there have been sporadic cases of plural marriage, but that such cases have been so few. It should be remembered that a religious conviction existed among the people, holding this order of marriage to be divinely sanctioned. Little wonder then that there should appear, in a community as large as ours, and as sincere, a few over-zealous irdividuals who refused to submit even to the action of the Church in such a matter, or that these few should find others who sympathized with their views; the number, however, is small. ... 

Those who refer to "Mormon polygamy" as a menace to 

 American home, or as a serious factor in American problems, make themselves ridiculous. So far as plural marriage is concerned, the question is settled. The problem of polygamous living among our people is rapidly solving itself. It is a matter or record that in 1890, when the manifesto was issued, there were 2,451 plural families; in nine years this number had been reduced to 1,543. Four years later the number was 897; and many of these have since passed away. 

In answer to the charge of disloyalty, founded upon alleged secret obligations against our government, we declare to all men that there is nothing treasonable or disloyal in any ordinance, ceremony, or ritual of the Church. 

The overthrow of earthly governments; the union of church and state; domination of the state by the church; ecclesiastical interference with the political freedom and rights of the citizen, — all such things are contrary to the principles and policy of the Church, and directly at variance with the oft repeated declarations of its chief presiding authorities and of the Church itself, speaking through its general conferences. The doctrine of the Church on the subject of government, stands as follows : 

"We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." 

Such is. our acknowledgment of dutv to civil governments. Again : 

"We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same, and that such as will administer law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people (if a republic), or the will of the sovereign." 

"We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government, whereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members, as citizens, denied." 

With reference to the laws of the Church, it is expressly 

said : 

"Be subject to the powers that be, until He reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under His feet. 

"Behold, the laws which ye have received from my hand are the laws of the Church, and in this light ye shall hold them forth." 



That is to say, no law or rule enacted, or revelation received by the Church, has been promulgated for the State. Such laws and revelations as have been given are solely for the government of the Church. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints holds to the doctrine of the separation of church and state; the non-interference of church authority in political matters; and the absolute freedom and independence of the individual in the performance of his political duties. If, at any time, there has been conduct at variance with this doctrine, it has been in violation of the well settled principles and policy of the Church. 

We declare that from principle and policy, we favor : 

The absolute separation of church and state; 

No domination of the state by the church; 

No church interference with the functions of the state; 

No state interference with the functions of the church, or with the free exercise of religion; 

The absolute freedom of the individual from the domination of ecclesiastical authority in political affairs; 

The equality of all churches before the law. 

The reaffirmation of this doctrine and policy, however, is predicated upon the express understanding that politics in the states where our people reside, shall be conducted as in other parts of the Union; that there shall be no interference by the State with the Church, nor with the free exercise of religion. Should political parties make war upon the Church, or menace the civil, political, or religious rights of its members as such, — against a policy of that kind, by any political party or set of men whatsoever, we assert the inherent right of self-preservation for the Church, and her right and duty to call upon all her children, and upon all who love justice, and desire the perpetuation of religious liberty, to come to her aid, to stand with her until the danger shall have passed. And this, openly, submitting the justice of our cause to the enliehtened judgment of our fellow men, should such an issue unhappily arise. We desire to live in peace and confidence with our fellow citizens of all political parties and of all religions. 

It is sometimes urged that the permanent realization of such a desire is impossible, since the Latter-day Saints hold as a principle of their faith that God now reveals Himself to man, as in ancient times; that the priesthood of the Church constitute a body of men who have, each for himself, in the sphere in 

 he moves, special right to such revelation; that the President of the Church is recognized as the only person through whom divine communication will come as law and doctrine to the religious body; that such revelation may come at any time, upon any subject, spiritual or temporal, as God wills; and finally that, in the mind of every faithful Latter-day Saint, such revelation, in whatsoever it counsels, advises or commands, is paramount. Furthermore it is sometimes pointed out that the members of the Church are looking for the actual coming of a Kingdom of God on earth, that shall gather all the kingdoms of the world into one visible, divine empire, over which the risen Messiah shall reign. 

All this, it is held, renders it impossible for a "Mormon" to give true allegiance to his country, or to any earthly government. 

We refuse to be bound by the interpretations which others place upon our beliefs; or by what they allege must be the practical consequences of our doctrines. Men have no right to impute to us what they think may be the logical deduction from our beliefs, but which we ourselves do not accept. We are to be judged by our own interpretations, and by our actions, not by the logic of others, as to what is, or may be, the result of our faith. We deny that either our belief in divine revelation, or our anticipation of the coming kingdom of God, weakens in any degree the genuineness of our allegiance to our country. When the divine empire will be established, we may not know any more than other Christians who pray, "Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done, in earth as it is in heaven;" but we do know that our allegiance and loyalty to country are strengthened by the fact that while awaiting the advent of the Messiah's kingdom, we are under a commandment from God to be subject to the powers that be, until He comes "whose right it is to reign." 

"Mormonism" is in the world for the world's good. Teaching truth, inculcating morality, guarding the purity of the home, honoring authority and government, fostering education, and exalting man and woman, our religion denounces crime, and is a foe to tyranny in every form. "Mormonism" seeks to uplift, not to destrov society. She joins hands with the civilization of the aee. Proclaiming herself a special harbinger of the Savior's second coming, she recognizes in all the great epochs and movements of the past, steps in the march of progress leading up to the looked for millennial reign. "Mormonism" lifts an ensign of 

 to all people. The predestined fruits of her proposed system are the sanctification of the earth and the salvation of the human family. 

And now, to all the world : Having been commanded of God, as much as lieth in us, to live peaceably with all men — we, in order to be obedient to the heavenly commandment, send forth this Declaration, that our position upon the various questions agitating the public mind concerning us may be known. We desire peace, and will do all in our power on fair and honorable principles to promote it. Our religion is interwoven with our lives, it has formed our character, and the truth of it: principles is impressed upon our souls. We submit to you, our fellow-men, that there is nothing in those principles that cells for execration, no matter how widely in some respects they may differ from your conceptions of religious truth. Certainly there is nothing in them that may not stand within the wide circle of modern toleration of religious thought and practice. To us these principles are crystalizations of truth. They are as dear to us as your religious conceptions are to you. In their application to human conduct, we see the world's hope of redemption from sin and strife, from ignorance and unbelief. Our motives are not selfish; our purposes not petty and earth-bound; we contemplate the human race, past, present and yet to come, as immortal beings, for whose salvation it is our mission to labor; and to this work, broad as eternity and deep as the love of God, we devote ourselves, now, and forever. Amen. 

JOSEPH F. SMITH, JOHN R. WINDER, ANTHON H. LUND, In behalf of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, March 26, 1907. 

Adopted by vote of the Church, in General Conference, April 5, 1907. 

Salt La:::2 City, Utah. 

wo w 

State Repository for School Books 

School Furniture, School Stationery, Supplies, Kindergarten and Busy Work Materials, Largest Stock in the State. 

LOWEST WHOLESALE PRICES .-. - SEND FOR PRICE LIST - /. 

DESERET NEWS BUILDING, No. 6 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY, - - - - UTAH  ~ — — > 

History of Church 

Have You Secured Vols. I, II and HI? Vol. IV is underway PROCURE THEM AS THEY ARE ISSUED 

s , * 

No. 6 Main Street Salt Lake City, V Utah. 7 

The history of the Prophet Joseph, written by himself, with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. €JLow prices have been fixed by the First Presidency, that the work may secure the widest possible circulation. JCloth Embossed, per vol. $1 .50, posT; paid. 

CftHalf Morocco, Gilt Top, per vol. $2.50, post paid. 

fJHalf Calf, Gilt Top, per vol. $2.50, post paid. 

CJFull Morocco, Gilt, per vol. $4.00, post paid. Every association, Sunday School, Quorum and private library should have it JSend for complete Catalog of Church Publications. 







