Afternoon
07 10 1939

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. 

President Heber J. Grant announced that the music for this session would be furnished by the Branch Agricultural College Chorus of Cedar City, William H. Manning, Director, and that the Chorus and the congregation would unite in singing, as an opening number, the hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

After the singing of this hymn, the opening prayer was offered by Elder Winslow Farr Smith, President of the Ensign Stake. 

The Chorus sang "God is Our Refuge," (Dudley Buck) . 

A double trio from the Branch Agricultural College Chorus sang "Dawn" (Curran). 

ELDER STEPHEN L RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I express unto you, my brethren and sisters, my love and my love also for the great cause in which we are engaged. I desire to render service to that cause this afternoon in discussing some practical and temporal matters. 

ONE METHOD OF INCREASING PROSPERITY 

My subject is The Gospel of Work. I invite your attention to the following figures which I take from a current magazine : 

If each of five million (American) wage earning families now under $1250 a year could get $2.00 more a day per family * * * 

they would spend each year: $213,000,000 more on fuel and light and refrigerators, 

$224,000,000 more on household furniture, 

$285,000,000 more on motor cars and other transportation, 

$208,000,000 more on medical and dental services, 

$234,000,000 more on recreation, 

$73,000,000 more on personal care, 

$416,000,000 more on clothes, 

$613,000,000 more on housing 

and $800,000,000 more on food. 

These items would total more than $3,000,000,000 in new sales for the five million families alone, and if all the families in the United States could have $2.00 a day more than they now have their purchasing power would be increased by $20,000,000,000 a year. 

The first question naturally arising from the figures I have quoted is : How can we get $2.00 a day more for each family in our country, and particularly for the five million families of the lower incomes? I give you in substance the answer of the author : By more and better work on the part of the employed of our country. 

And how will more and better work of the employed add to all incomes and purchasing ? Answer : First, by making it possible to reduce prices so that families even without raising present incomes may buy all that they now buy at lower prices and have sufficient money left over to buy more and other goods; and, secondly, the increased volume of commodities purchased will mean larger production, and larger production means the employment of more workers. 

It is of course very trite and commonplace to assert that what the country most needs is more purchasing power. Everybody knows that. But it is not so obvious that increased purchasing power is largely the result of lower prices and that after all our real problem is not so much with the unemployed as with the employed. This is so because whenever a man who has a job does his work better and more efficiently he makes it possible to reduce the price of the commodity or the service, thus adding, as I have heretofore pointed out, to the consumer's purchasing ability. There is very respectable authority and abundant statistical data to prove this conclusion. 

But do reduced prices always follow better work and methods? I am sorry to say that they do not, and it is chiefly because prices do not decline that the volume of sales does not increase, that our prosperity is stifled, that discouraging unemployment persists, that government pursues such costly experimental remedies, and that our whole system of free enterprise is threatened. 

Now I am induced to bring these matters to your attention because I firmly believe there is a very definite relationship between them and the concepts, practices, and teachings of our Church, and because I want our people to know that approved economic theory makes practical and feasible many aspects of our teachings. 

HAPPINESS IN HONEST LABOR 

We have always dignified work and reproved idleness. Our books, our sermons, our leaders, including particularly our present President, have glorified industry. The busy hive of the honeybee — Deseret — has been our emblem. Work with faith is a cardinal point of our theological doctrine and our future state, — our heaven, is envisioned in terms of eternal progression through constant labor. 

This fundamental principle of the honor of work is sorely needed in application in the world today. All the fraudulent schemes, the rackets, governmental corruption, and wide-spread public demoralization have their inception and support chiefly in the failure to recognize the dignity and the happiness that flow from honest toil. 

. What is honest work ? I believe it is rightly interpreted only in terms of service, and the value of true service is measured by someone's gain. Such a concept is not only Christian but it lies at the foundation of sound, profitable business. There are innumerable demonstrations of this fact. The kind of work that makes a better product for less cost is what our national economy demands. There are at least two indis66 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Day 

pensable factors in this kind of work and the efficiency it produces. First, integrity, which includes loyalty; and second, ability. No one can succeed unless he is dependable. If he works for another, he must make his employer's interest his own. If he works for himself, he must be faithful and true to his enterprise or he will fail. The "watch the clock" variety of service, with no interest in the job but to get the per diem, is as much responsible for bankruptcies as any other factor which I know. 

Not only must our workers be loyal but they must also be able to succeed. In the highly competitive markets for goods and services, locally, nationally, and internationally, the skills and acumen are usually the deciding features. Ability is generally the product of training and education. The most skillful not only have the .best chances themselves but they contribute most to the success of the enterprise with which they are associated. It is a notable fact that during the years of depression, with some exceptions of course, particularly in industrial centers, the really skilled worker has been little in evidence among the unemployed and even when he has been without a job it most commonly has been attributable to arbitrary manipulations of the price structure for services or goods. 

SKILLED LABOR DEFINED 

On the other hand, our recent history demonstrates that the unskilled laborer has a hard time of it. His service is the first to be dispensed with. He is the least wanted. And, I regret to say it for fear of hurting feelings, he makes the least contribution to economic progress. In saying this I want you to understand that I do not limit skilled labor to the professions, the artisans, or any white-collar or other group who may consider it beneath them to do any honest work. I class any man as a skilled worker who has cultivated the ability to do his assigned job exceptionally well. I know expert grave diggers whose skill commands my admiration and esteem. 

It is my privilege to travel around the country a good deal. I see many farm lands. I often note that on one side of a fence is an area of stunted crop growth, weeds, barren patches, and unproductive desolation, while on the other side of the fence with nothing but a dimension line between, with the same potential soil, equal water rights, the same air, the same sun, the same climate, lies a field, — a field beautiful beyond description with the abundant productivity which nature yields to the skilled husbandman. I see fat cattle and lean, good homes and poor ones. I go into stores, — some are attractive, merchandise is so arranged, service so efficient and courteous that goods sell, while in others, on the same block, perhaps, there is evidence of slovenliness, poor buying, lack of the art of proper display, and the proprietor wonders why customers do not come. There are service stations on every hand. It is not uncommon to see four located on the four corners of a prominent intersection. Sometimes only one out of the four succeeds. Surely location is not the determining factor. Almost countless millions of dollars  now invested in automobiles. These machines cost much to buy and much to maintain. Some last a long time and pay to their owners reasonable returns on the investment in more ways than one. Others are quickly ruined and the depreciation is enormous and shameful. 

Now what is the determining factor in these contrasted results and a world of others comparable to them? Why, of course, with relatively few exceptions, it is the personal equation, the skill and the energy of the proprietor or his employees or both. 

CAPITALISM IN ITS TRUE SENSE 

This doctrine of work lies at the very foundation of the capitalistic system. Many people misunderstand and misinterpret capitalism. They think that because the word "capital" is used to designate the system that its chief purpose is to make wealthy men who are usually called capitalists and whose wealth, it is feared, is too often accumulated at the expense of poorer classes. I admit that there are instances, altogether too many, where this comes about. But this is not the true concept of capitalism. The capitalistic system in its inner essence, is little, if anything, more than a man's free right to work, to choose his work, and enjoy the rewards of his efforts. In my estimation, it is a most precious thing and it is indispensable to the liberty and freedom of which America boasts. It is the only tried and tested system of free enterprise in this world and every other opposing system is built on an abridgment of personal liberty. For one I do not want to lose it. 

But we will lose it if we do not understand it and recognize its virtues. It is not the capitalistic system itself that makes some men rich and some men poor. The men themselves do that, again with some exceptions. The system merely offers the opportunities. There are, of course, abuses within it, as there must always be when humanity is imvolved. It does not.guarantee that all men will be rich, and it is worthy of note that all systems which do usually succeed only in making all poor. To eradicate the abuses within the system is almost as difficult as to reform humanity. But who would advocate killing humanity because they are slow to reform ? In this connection I shall be pleased to point out in a moment the bearing of religion on some of the problems of capitalism. 

THE NEED FOR COOPERATION 

We must be patient with our American system. It will take a long time to eliminate the imperfections in its operation. To be patient it is necessary to be tolerant, — tolerant of other people and their views. Everything we do in America is a composite of many opinions. The unifying element in our national affairs is common purpose and desire. I like to think that all Americans, however their views may vary as to methods and policies, have common desire to maintain our fundamental liberties, one of the most important of which is our system of free enterprise. So I hesitate to impugn men's motives, even though I do not 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Day 

agree with their methods. I make these observations because I want to enter a plea for intelligent cooperation among all who have regard for our American institutions and principles. 

There is a great need for cooperation in the field of economics. Our citizens must themselves be educated to understand the systems under which they live and work. They must know enough to establish the proper education for themselves and their children and reach conclusions for themselves. I believe that it is neither wise nor safe to leave the determination of our educational systems and policies exclusively to the professional educators. I do not discount the valuable service of our teachers. I should always want their expert advice, but I am confident that the patrons of the schools should have a much larger voice than they now have in the establishment of curriculums, school policies and management. This is a distinct subject in itself which I will not further pursue. I mention it because it has a direct bearing upon work and economic conditions which are my subject. 

THE GOSPEL OF WORK 

Now to return to the gospel of work, — and it is a gospel, if ever God gave us a message and principle for our salvation. It would seem apparent, without further comment, that the spread of this gospel of work is absolutely indispensable to the solution of the problems of our individual and national economy. I think we can lay it down as an almost unfailing rule, because the exceptions are so few, that the loyal, able, skilled, industrious worker is successful. His loyalty is his character. He makes that for himself. His skill is attained by training and education. Even genius is little more than the capacity for hard, sustained work. 

I am in favor of more concentration in our educational processes in the development of the useful skills. The student who comes out of a high school, college, or university without ability to serve in useful capacities has failed, whatever his alleged scholarship may be. I am willing that the term "useful" should be applied to every form of human endeavor that contributes to the welfare of humanity, but I demand that it be consciously useful in the mind and heart of the student himselt. 

What better could we do than to teach every boy and girl, and ourselves meanwhile, that the ambition of every life should be a distinct contribution to the economic welfare of the whole people. 

EDUCATION IN ECONOMICS URGED 

For the purposes of this discussion I lay the emphasis on economic education. I am sure that in the long view of our living that emphasis is not misplaced. It is not misplaced because happiness and contentment and progression come to people only who are not hampered by destitution and poverty and who are able to maintain the right kind of manhood and womanhood in reasonable independence and prosperity. Self-reliance, itself, is a necessary concomitant of the principle of free enterprise. 

There is no sin in proprietorship and every man and woman can be a proprietor if he or she but will. All may not be landed proprietors or the owners of great property but all may be proprietors of their services, so developed and executed as to make them indispensable units in the progress of the people. 

RESULTS OF UNFAIR METHODS 

Will you now consider with me another phase of the economic situation. I have advanced the doctrine for which I give credit to another that lower prices increase consumer's purchasing power and promote employment, and that better and more efficient service rendered by loyal workers makes possible reduction in prices. Why is it that the public do not always receive the benefit of advanced methods and more efficient service ? The answer is : short-sightedness and selfishness on the part of some men in industry. This short-sightedness and selfishness are most conspicuous in two forms, — first, in what are known as combinations in restraint of trade; and second, arbitrary and unconscionable control and manipulation of labor. While the two items may not occupy the same legal status, I place them both in the same category because they produce substantially the same effect in our national economy. Both tend to raise prices to the consumer and fail to pass on to him the benefits accruing from better methods and more efficient service; both increase rather than decrease unemployment, and both promote industrial animosity and discord where cooperation and unity are so much required. We have laws to deal with the former, — combinations in restraint of trade. Perhaps some day there will be adequate statutory regulation of labor. 

But it is not with reference to the legal aspects of the situation that I am now greatly concerned. That which does give me anxiety is the questionable motives and dispositions of men and the lack of foresight apparent in such uneconomic setups and policies. How is a $3.00-a-day farmer to pay for a $2.00-an-hour plasterer? How much 20c wool does it take to pay for $60 suits of clothes? How can a moderately paid clerk, however much his family may need it, build a house when the controlled prices for materials and labor subject him to a life mortgage on his gainful occupation to pay the debt? I am perfectly aware that profit is the life of business, and I have no objection whatever to the profit incentive, but I do not have any sympathy with the avarice and stupidity which in the long run cut off profits and stifle prosperity. It would almost seem as if the privilege of profit should not be permitted to those who, either through ignorance or lack "of humanitarian principles are not capable of being entrusted with it. It is here that the concept of the brotherhood of man plays such an important role. No one who recognizes the Fatherhood of God and mankind as his children can tolerate with equanimity the inequalities and injustices which such selfishness brings about. I am sure that our system of free enterprise could have no greater assurance of success than in true Christian brotherhood. 

70 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 ELEMENTS OF SUCCESS 

However, I am not a defeatist. I believe there is more good in men than bad and that the good will triumph. I am sure, too, that the people of the United States will, through work, create wealth and in that creation give employment and happiness, if only the natural laws upon which free enterprise has been established are allowed to freely operate. But wealth cannot be created in sufficient amount to go around and bring prosperity to all the people if those laws are seriously contravened by any group in our society, — capital, labor, or government. Nothing but work can create wealth in this day and age, — productive work of the laborer. Other manipulations may seem to do it but they do not create real wealth that feeds and clothes and houses and makes happy people. The Government cannot do it because in final analysis it is not possessed of the elemental necessities for the creation of wealth. Of itself it has no capital and it has no labor. All that it can do is take from one and give to another. It takes by taxation, its only ultimate source of revenue; and it gives in wages, subsidies, bounties, and many other ways, but it does not create wealth and the creation of wealth lies at the basis of prosperity. 

I want to make it distinctly clear that I am not attacking the motives or intentions of the Government or governmental agencies who have sought to meet emergencies and difficult situations with much novel and experimental legislation. I have never desired failure for any of the experiments. I have always wished for their success and I think some have succeeded. I disclaim any intention or any effort to influence partisan politics. My sole desire is to expound the principles of sound economics as I conceive them and believe in them and as I deem them to be in harmony with the well-established and time-tested principles of our religion. 

I hope I recognize as fully as I should the severance of church and state. I hope, too, that I recognize the influence of religion on life, — not only spiritual life, but social, economic, moral, and political life. Life is not a thing of severable segments. It is a whole course of conduct, a unity of experience and existence, and every aspect of our living affects every other aspect. I so justify a sermon on economics. 

PEACE RESTS UPON ECONOMIC FOUNDATION 

If it needs any further justification, I point to the state of the world. Behold the mad scramble of nations for territory and power! What lies at the foundation of this horrible, inhumane struggle? Chiefly economic advantage, control of the world's markets, outlets for industry that more food, more independence, and more of the comforts of life may be obtained. Oh, it is true that some few may be urged on by personal craving for self-aggrandizement but the real reasons why the masses are induced to enter and maintain such unholy warfare upon each other lie in economic considerations. So, peace, that most desired, most prayed for, and seemingly the most elusive and unobtainable thing in the modern , is found to rest on economic foundations. The economy that will support peace, however, will be tempered with brotherly love, mutual consideration, and intelligent and equitable concepts of men living together on the earth. 

THE DUTY OF CHURCH MEMBERS 

We of the Church are but few in number among the populations of the world. We can scarcely count on our size to wield great influence, but ideas are more potent than size and I believe that if we have the will to do it we can send out from our midst the gospel of dignified, honest, loyal, efficient service as it has not been preached in the world f or many a day. We can extol self-reliance, industrious manhood and womanhood, family solidarity and community cooperation, and demonstrate their essentiality in a civilized state. We can show that brotherly love is more than an ethereal ideal and that it works and makes for prosperity and happiness. I know of no other people anywhere that are so well prepared in organization, in leadership, in disposition and experience for the undertaking. 

I am grateful that we have taken a step in the direction of our opportunity and our duty. That step has served to open our hearts to kindly and charitable considerations and also to open our minds to new and great avenues of service. We will build upon the beginning we have made. We will produce better and more efficient workers who in turn will produce better and more abundant products and services. 

We do not believe in the doctrine of scarcity. We believe in production and plenty. We believe that the earth is designed for the comfortable abode of man and we believe that the righteous will inherit it. Good men, united, cannot fail. Free America, though she may falter, will in the end find peace, prosperity, and happiness. The Church of Christ will lead the way. Amen. 

ELDER ALFRED C. REES 

Former President of the East German Mission 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a divine institution. The men who have directed it, and who are now directing it, are men of God. That is my testimony to you today. It has been my testimony throughout my life. It has only been corroborated, intensified and strengthened through the experiences that came to me while presiding over the East German Mission. For when men, upon setting you apart, can outline to you in minute detail the experiences which are before you; can tell you some of the objectives that lie before you, to be achieved, that will challenge your industry, your humility and your integrity; and when in the course of your missionary experiences, these blessings and promises are literally fulfilled — there is no room for speculation or doubt as to the source from which those men, who are called of God to lead this Church, derive that inspiration and 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Day 

knowledge. It was not due to their skill in diplomacy, not on account of their acquaintance with world affairs that they were able to outline specifically the unusual experiences which should come to me at a very peculiar time in the whole history of our Church operations in Germany; at a time of historic note in the development of a social philosophy undertaken by that great government. No. They spoke as the spirit of revelation and inspiration dictated their words. 

It is my pleasure to tell you that in the East German Mission there are nearly eight thousand faithful Latter-day Saints, men and women of unquestioned devotion and integrity. Today we should be mindful of them, as we are of all of the Saints in Europe, who have suddenly been left to their own devices. As we think of them, we cannot escape the conclusion that they must be experiencing anxious despair and discouragement; that they are both amazed and confused in their present plight. May our prayers ascend to our Heavenly Father that they may be preserved against the ravages of war and against all the other concomitant evils that go with that tragic conflict. 

It is my pleasure to report the very happy, constructive and helpful visits which we received from the General Authorities. President Clark paid us a flying visit and gave us the benefit of his wisdom and deep understanding of world and Church affairs. It was a stimulating occasion. President and Sister Lyman were also with us. President Lyman had the opportunity to be the guest speaker before one of the most influential business groups in Germany. He was introduced as an Apostle of this Church. Sister Lyman spoke before an outstanding and select group of social workers representing governmental and private agencies. They bestowed upon her every possible courtesy and consideration and received her in the most gracious manner. As usual, she acquitted herself in a most creditably charming way. After her presentation of the work being performed by the Relief Society, she was literally bombarded by those who wanted to know more about our unusual achievements. 

Later, Elder and Sister Sylvester Q. Cannon came. Although their visit was short, we enjoyed their companionship immensely. 

Elder Joseph Fielding Smith and wife made a tour of the mission, and everywhere were received with joy and gladness because, as you know, Brother Smith is known as one of the clearest exponents of our faith. They were glad to hear an unqualified, unadulterated presentation of the Gospel in simple terms. The Elders flocked about him and showered him with the many questions that were agitating their minds. In the most gracious manner Sister Smith supplemented and complemented Elder Joseph Fielding Smith's activities among missionaries and Saints. 

It was our pleasure to take them up to the present war-torn city of Danzig, where we were guests of the government at a dinner, and a trip through the famous harbor. Everywhere, every conceivable courtesy was bestowed upon them. At one place, nine hundred Saints met; just in one district — evidence of the eagerness with which our people  forward to the appearance and visit of one of the General Authorities. 

The visit of President Grant was an unforgettable event. Everywhere people mentioned the sweet influence which that venerable leader had upon them, his quiet demeanor, his outstanding physical vigor, his clarity of understanding, the rich spirituality which radiated from him. 

Many events appear to us as unimportant incidents; yet in them all we see the hand of the Lord guiding, operating, directing. It was just a little over a year ago that we received instructions from the First Presidency to remove all our Elders out of Germany and take them to Denmark. That came as a great surprise to us, because we had little concern about the movements about us. Perhaps it is like a wheel; there is less agitation at the center than on the rim. The farther one is removed from the theater of activities, the more violent the agitation. 

I went to the U. S. Ambassador to inquire what his thoughts were about the gravity of the situation. He regarded it as trivial and of no consequence. Yet we were told by the Authorities of this Church to take our Elders to Denmark. We did so. A year later that order was repeated. Some were disposed to look upon that first venture as a useless procedure. But what an effective, may we say, fire-drill, that proved to be. So when the word came this year to take them to Denmark, and then eventually home, they merely had to repeat all the details of the procedure of the preceding year and that too without let, hindrance or delay. They were all safe on neutral soil within thirty-six hours. Surely the Lord works in a mysterious way. Then it was that every Elder looked back upon that previous experience and said: "Now we understand." 

We have been given every conceivable courtesy at the hands of those in charge of the government. What has been achieved in that direction has not been the work of any one man or group of men. The hand of the Lord has been made visible. He knew that events were coming to a climax. It seemed to all of us who were laboring in that mission, that we were being literally, veritably pushed by some unseen power into activity because the time was short. Now we look upon our activities as unmistakable evidence of that fact. 

The Saints in the East German Mission are devoted tithe-payers, not only in the amount paid, but in the number paying. Those of us who are interested in genealogical work will be pleased to know that through a complete change in the plan of organization, something new perhaps has developed in that work. Customarily there were about five thousand names gathered a year. Each Sabbath they were reminded : "There will be a genealogical meeting held this week. Please come." There as here, only a sprinkling attended. Then we raised these questions among all of the people of the mission: Did the visit of Moroni have any great purpose ? Why did he come three times in the same night? What was his message? Do you believe it? Was that merely a beautiful phrase, or did it have real meaning? Will it be a fact that we who have been privileged to come upon the earth to 

74 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Bay 

receive the Gospel will be held responsible for utilizing this blessed opportunity, and that our loved ones who are beyond the veil, who have never had that privilege, will hold us responsible for their redemption and salvation ? Where do we stand ? What will be the nature of the meeting and the reception when we see them on the other side? Can we then conceivably be idle respecting their salvation and our own ? 

These thoughts were implanted in their hearts, with the result that they solemnly entered upon a real constructive, helpful activity. Strange to say, we dismissed all genealogical classes and in their stead set up in the mission a supervisor (the Elder who is here today); a supervisor over each district — thirteen in number; a supervisor over each branch — seventy-eight in number. Then in each branch we appointed a committee of young and old people and instructed them in all the details of the mechanism of preparing the temple forms. These branch members were then assigned to visit the homes of the Saints by appointment. They went into these homes and began gathering and recording names. After one year, under that plan of organization and stimulation, instead of only five thousand there were eighty-six thousand names gathered — six thousand above the goal of eighty thousand. At the outset we said, "Let every one be responsible for ten names." We compared that great concourse of those beyond the veil with assemblages in this building. That vast number — eighty-six thousand — would fill this magnificent building over ten times — those who will be there to greet us when we pass beyond to give an account of our stewardship. 

You mothers and fathers will be glad to know something about the splendid young men with whom Sister Rees and I were privileged to associate. When people speak of sacrifice they surely don't understand the rich compensation that comes with the privilege of being identified with these dynamic, hopeful, inspirational young men, who come into the mission field to find themselves; groping and hoping that some time they will be able to understand the Why and the Wherefore. And then to see these young men return from their missions to you with a burning testimony of the divinty of the Gospel — and clean. What a compensation! 

We have often said to the Elders: "There is no sacrifice in this Church. If we in the missionary field can think of a sacrifice, it is only when we are not mindful of our opportunities." The only sacrifice is on the part of those who are supporting us, when we are derelict. Otherwise it is the most profitable and best investment that can come to any one who is supporting a missionary, even if it be a widow who must take in washing to maintain that young son who represents all her hopes, aspirations and ambitions. 

Guiding and inspiring these young men and women constitutes the greatest opportunity and obligation of a mission president. 

At this point I want to call your attention to the power, the force and the value of the mission mother; how at every point she supplements the work of the mission president. Her influence among the young missionaries is without limit. If she is a woman of abiding faith, she  it, and unconsciously these young men absorb it. She plays one of the most important roles in all the missionary service. 

It was very refreshing indeed to me to hear the scholarly, constructive, sound presentation given by President Clark yesterday respecting our international relations. We are disposed to criticize people of other nations because they have permitted themselves to be subjugated; yet that is only a repetition of history from time immemorial. There have always been Esaus, individually and collectively, who have been willing to sell their eternal, priceless possessions for temporary values and conveniences. That is not peculiar to the people beyond the ocean. We may well wonder whether we, ourselves, are being captured by that same glamor. 

This is a land of liberty. But as President Gark pointed out, there is one stipulation : that we shall serve the Lord according to the commandments which he has given us; then, and then only, will it be a land of liberty. We must be mindful of the fact that two great civilizations once thrived upon this continent, this same continent, with the same soil, the same potential wealth, the same opportunities, — and yet they passed into oblivion. It was to them, too, a promised land. 

We are faced with a challenge. Have we superior intelligence 5 Have we the clarity of vision, have we the spirituality, to make this, and to continue it, a land of liberty ? Civilizations have come and gone, never on account of economic poverty, but rather on account of their moral laxity, their low spiritual standards. Upon the gravestones of every defunct civilization could properly be written this epitaph — if we can put it in alliteration — "Purchased; Plundered; then we Perished." 

When people are in the throes of despondency, and economic uncertainty, and are threatened with revolution, some one comes forward with a dazzling slogan, and the masses accept it. People can be purchased. The temporary visible gains are exchanged for permanent possessions. It is not peculiar to any one time or to any one people. 

A short time ago I was called before the Chief of Police in Germany, and these challenging questions were put to me: "Why are you here? Who invited you? How do you differ from the other Christian churches?" He said: "You recall that we are attempting here to establish a certain social philosophy. We do not need any importation." How would you have answered? My answers were evidently sufficiently satisfactory for we were granted the privilege of continuing our operations in that land. 

Just yesterday I was very happy to receive from our mission headquarters in Berlin the statement: "All is going well," and with this addition: "The Lord is with us." Anticipating the present eventuality, an organization of local brethren was set up. They are going forward, much to our joy and happiness, and I am sure, to the satisfaction of the presiding brethren. It will be a difficult thing for our Saints in Europe to understand why they should be left to their own devices. When we returned from Denmark last year, we had to answer that question. Our reply was put in the form of questions : 

76 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 7 Second Day 

"Is this Church being divinely led?" "Yes." 

"Are those men who now stand at the head of this Church men of God?" "Yes." 

"What would you have done if you, as mission president, had received word from them, not a suggestion, but the command, to do as we did?" 

They saw the light. 

My brethren and sisters, it is difficult for us to understand the outstanding advantages we have over all the other nations of the world. May I, in closing, merely give utterance once more to my complete agreement with the statement of President Clark and the First Presidency, that it needs the moral force of America to bring peace into the world. Without that moral force any settlement in Europe will not be based on justice or fairness. It will not be the American way. After all, there is no thesis, there is no philosophy of life that will or can bring permanent peace into the world. We must look to the Gospel of Jesus Christ which takes care of all the needs of humanity and will eventually lead us back into the presence of God. 

My prayers are for the safety of Zion, that we may prepare ourselves to do what the Lord has outlined for us to do; so that when the world comes to us to learn, we may be prepared to teach — I pray through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

We are living today in one of the most crucial periods of all time. This is a day when men's hearts are failing them for fear of what awaits them as oppression and uncertainty increase, nations war against nations, and the elements themselves seem to be in commotion. 

PRESENT NEED OF THE WORLD 

We are living also in a time when those high principles of integrity and right, which are so fundamental to true progress, seem to be flaunted and cast aside by men and nations seeking to get gain. Even in high places, statesmen doubt the veracity of other statesmen. Distrust and intrigue abound, and the seeds of discord are sown with abandon. Thinking men wonder what we are coming to. Distressing, however, as these conditions may be, they throw into sharp perspective one great and basic truth : 

That what this world needs today are men of character and integrity, men possessed of brotherly love, and faith in the all-wise Providence who is obviously working out his designs in the earth; men who are willing to do right for right's sake, with due regard for others. 

God give us men. A time like this demands 

Strong minds, great hearts, true faith and ready hands. God give us men. Men whom the lust of office does not kill! 

Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy; Men who possess opinions and a will; 

Men who have honor; men who will not lie; Men who can stand before a demagogue 

And damn his treacherous flatteries without winking. 

Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above the fog, 

In public duty and in private thinking. For while the rabble, with their thumb-worn creeds, 

Their large professions and their little deeds, Mingle in selfish strife — lo! Freedom weeps; 

Wrong rules the land and waiting Justice sleeps. 

(J. G. Holland.) 

The world needs today men who will love and trust each other; men with vision to see the great underlying cause of the trouble which now afflicts us and with the courage to remove its cause. It needs men who understand that there can be no real stability without a knowledge and acceptance of God, men who understand that no matter how we try we can never escape the certainty in the words of Christ when he said : 

Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock : 

And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not : for it was founded upon a rock. 

And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: 

And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell : and great was the fall of it. 

Each generation throughout the ages has lived largely unto itself, and has failed to read in the history of the peoples of the past the story of their own success and failure. Great fundamental laws have prevailed throughout the centuries, and history now shows that when peoples of the past have complied with these laws, they have enjoyed peace and happiness, but when they have gone contrary to them, distress has been their portion. 

OBSERVANCE OF GOD'S LAWS BRINGS HAPPINESS 

These great fundamental principles of human conduct were given to Moses on Mount Sinai. They have been re-stated to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and are as binding today as they were when they were committed to ancient Israel. 

I quote them : 

I am the Lord thy God. 

Thou shalt have no other gods before me. 

Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. 

Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them. 

Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. 

Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 7 Second Day 

Honor thy father and thy mother. 

Thou shalt not kill. 

Thou shalt not commit adultery. 

Thou shalt not steal. 

Thou shalt not bear false witness. 

Thou shalt not covet. 

These principles are as fundamental to the well-being of all men and nations as any which have been declared. And may I call your particular attention to the first of those which I have read: / am the Lord thy God. * * * Thou shalt have no other gods before me. 

It is decreed that eventually every one must bow the knee and confess that Jesus is the Christ. They must acknowledge what this first statement to Moses makes clear — that there is one God, and that he lays it down as a basic principle that men must serve him, and keep his commandments if they would be saved. 

Godlessness has became a major peril in all nations, and the world is paying the price of it now in the distress through which it is passing. So I say, an acknowledgment of God is the first great need of mankind today. With that acknowledgment must come also a recognition of the wisdom of his ways and the truth of his precepts, for men must not only acknowledge him, they must turn to him and serve him. 

Is it any wonder then that the Lord, speaking to his modern representatives said that they must cry repentance to this generation; that we must call upon men everywhere to change their course of life, leave off their search for pleasure and the vain things of the world, and turn to that great Being who spoke to Moses on the Mount and announced the high principles contained in the Ten Commandments? 

Repentance from sin is the foundation of true manhood. It ennobles the soul, and takes bitterness from the heart, placing man in greater harmony with his Creator. 

In this day of unbelief, and at a time when disregard for these principles has led to war and bloodshed, we solemnly declare to all men that in very deed the Lord is God, as he said to Moses, and that he lives, also that he has appeared to men in our day and time. 

PERSONAL VISITS OF THE FATHER AND THE SON 

We know and teach that our Eternal Father and his Son, the Savior of the world did appear to Joseph Smith, the Prophet of modern times, and talked with him as he did anciently with Moses, face to face, as one man speaketh with another. And we further testify that the Lord committed to Joseph Smith and his associates the holy Priesthood, by which they were empowered to organize the Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth in latter days, and by which they obtained the right to baptize the believers for the remission of sins, and to admit them as members into the Church of Christ. 

This great congregation of Latter-day Saints knows that what I say is true, and that Joseph Smith spoke the truth when he declared that he had seen the Father and had talked with him. 

Referring to his first vision, the Prophet declares : 

I saw two personages whose brightness and glory defy all description standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said : This is my Beloved Son. Hear Him. 

And then Joseph says he talked with the Lord face to face, and received an answer to his questions. 

But this was not the only time the Lord appeared to Joseph Smith. On April 3, 1836, in the Kirtland Temple, once again the Prophet was privileged to gaze upon the face and figure of his glorified Lord. Of this momentous occasion the young man wrote : 

We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us, and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. 

His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun, and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: 

I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth. I am your advocate with the Father. 

On still another occasion did the Prophet have a similar experience. As he stood with Sidney Rigdon in the little village of Hiram, Ohio, February 16, 1832, these two men were permitted a glorious view of the Redeemer, concerning which they wrote : 

And now after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him : That he lives! 

For we saw him, even on the right hand of God, and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — 

That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God. 

The Latter-day Saints acknowledge the Lord as God, and they call upon men everywhere to do likewise. They know that whosoever will hearken unto his words and keep his commandments will be likened to the wise man who built his house upon the rock, and that they shall not be overcome when the strife and the storms come upon them as tribulations are poured out upon the earth by a just God who comes to judgment. 

We must not overlook the fact that those who believe in Joseph Smith and have a testimony of his divine appointment are the only ones upon this earth who have a knowledge and can testify that the Lord God appeared in the latter days, for there is no other people upon the face of the earth who have such a testimony. Upon this testimony we must continue to build until the world, wherever it is possible to send word, may hear and learn that Joseph Smith received the authority to establish the Church in the earth through a personal visit of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, and with such a knowledge we may trust that our salvation is assured if we keep the commandments of God. 

80 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 ELDER JOSEPH L. WIRTHLIN 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I shall enjoy the Spirit of the Lord in the endeavor to address you this afternoon. I am grateful for the testimony with which the Lord has blessed me, and of all of the gifts that he has given unto me this testimony is the most precious and important one. 

GRATEFUL FOR BLESSINGS 

I am grateful for an ancestry who had the faith and the courage to come to this great land, and bestow upon their posterity the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and bless us with the privilege of dwelling in such a pleasant place, where we might enjoy the blessings of the Lord's house, and the association with the prophets of God. 

SEEDS OF GOOD AND EVIL 

Recently, in passing a great public building, I noticed this inscription near the doorway. It read : "The seed of the past is the harvest of the future." This sentence stimulated some thinking on my part. I wondered, "What is the nature of the seeds being planted today, and what will be the harvest of the future?" I find there is a great variety of seeds being planted, some seeds that are good, and some seeds that are evil. I find that there are seeds of indebtedness. Without a doubt the peoples of the world today are being shackled by the bonds of indebtedness, as never before. The generation to which you and I belong will never live long enough to see these shackles broken. 

I find seeds of immorality; seeds which promulgate the idea and the doctrine that Jesus the Christ might have been a prophet and a great teacher, but that no relationship exists between him and the Father, in the sense that he was the Only Begotten in the flesh; seeds of disrespect for government; seeds which enslave the body through the use of drugs; seeds of the corrupt philosophy that men have a right to expect a living from the world without any personal exertion, mentally or physically. 

From these seeds we can largely determine what the future will hold for the men and the women of tomorrow. Those men and women of tomorrow are in your homes and my home. I sometimes think that as parents we are prone to leave the responsibility of training these children to the universities, high schools, and elementary schools. Their spiritual training, we feel, is a matter that should be left entirely to the Church; and perhaps the only responsibilities we have are to see that they are properly clothed and fed. 

THE HOME UNIVERSITY 

Thoughts and opinions of this kind are decidedly detrimental and dangerous to the welfare of the youth of the land, and dangerous to the  and the future of the Church and Government. The home is the greatest institution of learning. George Herbert once said : "The first university is the university of the home. Here the hours for recitation are the morning, the noon and the night. Here we find the round table of infancy and childhood. Here are discussed the problems of the present hour, and the possibilities of the coming years. Here sit the scholars of youth and maidenhood. Here are enthroned two great chairs, endowed by destiny and sustained by human affections Fatherhood and Motherhood. The greatest university in the world is the home. One good mother is worth one hundred school masters." 

The home being the greatest university, the great place of preparation for the men and the women of tomorrow, who are going to be faced with a most uncertain future, I wonder if in our planning and thinking, we are preparing those curriculums and courses which will give our boys and girls the training that they should have relative to their hearts, to their heads, to their minds, and some instructions pertaining to the fundamentals of health. 

FUNDAMENTALS IN THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN 

In training the heart, we will all agree that this great organ, which vitalizes the body and keeps it alive, is also the seat of all emotions, and the greatest emotion to be cultivated and stimulated is that of love. The first and great commandment is to love God the Eternal Father with all of one's heart and soul and mind; and the second one is like unto it, to love one's neighbor as one's self. 

In teaching our children to love God, what is the first lesson? I would suggest that the first lesson is the lesson of prayer, to take the child, although he may be barely able to walk, to the family altar of prayer. Teach him the necessity of communicating with God, his Eternal Father, from whose presence his spirit has but recently come. If we can establish that bond, between God the Eternal Father and our children, through prayer, we are inculcating into their hearts respect for, faith in, and love for their Eternal Father. 

We are anxious that our children should understand the principles of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We should encourage them to study these principles. Obedience to the principles should be taught. We will find that through prayer, obedience, and study comes understanding; and with understanding comes testimony, a testimony that God lives, that Jesus was the Christ, and that in the meridian of time the Gospel was restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

TESTIMONY COMES THROUGH REVELATION 

I often wonder if we ever endeavor to define testimony. Brigham Young defined it on one occasion. He said that every honest searcher of truth had the right to know that Jesus was the Christ, in the same way that Peter knew it. I wonder how Peter knew that Jesus was the Christ. 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 7 Second Day 

May I briefly relate to you the incident wherein Peter knew that Jesus was the Christ? I think we recall the occasion. 

As the Savior traveled he turned upon his companions, one day and asked them the question: "Whom say ye that I am?" Some of his disciples replied: "Some say that thou are John the Baptist; some Elias, and others Jeremias," and so forth. Finally this man Peter, this calm and humble man, stood up, and looking the Savior squarely in the eye, said: "Thou are the Christ, the Son of the living God." The Savior replied and said: "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." 

How did Peter know that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of the living God? He knew it through the power of revelation. And modernday prophets, have promised all of us if we seek the truth, with a righteous desire to know that Jesus is the Christ, we can know it, as did Peter of old. So we are anxious that the youth of this great Church and this great land shall have a burning testimony, and get it, if possible, in the same way that Peter got it, through revelation, through the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. 

ADVANTAGES OF A LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME 

The university of the home has some advantages that the institutions of learning have not, namely, at the head of every Latter-day Saint home there should stand a man who holds the Melchizedek Priesthood. In holding the Melchizedek Priesthood he has the right to inspiration and revelation, as far as it affects those who are attached to his household. If men are living the Gospel of Jesus Christ and attending to their duties in the Priesthood, God will bless them, as far as their children are concerned, giving them leadership and inspiration. 

There is another difference between the ordinary institution of learning and that of the home, and that is the fact that in the home there is the obligation of its faculty, namely, father and mother, to set the proper example to these children. The father cannot sit idly by on Sunday morning and say to his sons : "It is time for you to go to Priesthood meeting," while he remains home. It is not possible to invite children to attend Sacrament meeting, unless we set the example. The matter of example is just as important and is more far-reaching than is instruction which comes by word of mouth. 

GREATNESS OF THE CONSTITUTION TO BE TAUGHT 

There is another great love, not only love of God and love of one's neighbor— and might I say that love of one's neighbor is best exhibited in the service that we render to those who are around us — but there should be love of country, that which has been so impressed upon us here during this Conference. I wonder how often, as parents, we take dusty copies of the Constitution of the United States from our book or our libraries, spread them out on the table, and then invite our boys and girls to come and go over the articles of that sacred document, one by one. I wonder, if an examination were given to the citizens of the United States today, relevant to the Constitution of the United States, how many of us would pass it successfully? There rests upon us most definitely the obligation of acquainting our boys and girls with this great document; teach it to them article by article, that they might understand the principles involved therein, principles that make for liberty, freedom, and personal initiative, and of worshipping God according to the dictates of one's conscience. 

Our boys and girls should know and understand that the Constitution made it possible for the organization of a government under which the Church of Jesus Christ could again be restored to the earth. Do we ever read to our boys and girls the sentiments expressed by prophets of God in connection with this great document, such as the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith: "The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard. It is founded in the wisdom of God. "It is a heavenly banner. It is, to all of those who are privileged with the sweets of its liberty, like the cooling shade and refreshing water of a great rock in a dreary and thirsty land. It is like a great tree, under whose banners men from every clime can be sheltered from the burning rays of the sun." 

These words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, relative to this great document of liberty and freedom, should be so ingrained in the hearts of our boys and girls that they will feel we not only have standard Church works, such as the Bible and the Book of Mormon, etc., but that we also have standard government works, the first of which is the Constitution of the United States. 

Do we ever give our boys and girls any practical lessons in teaching them the true greatness of the Constitution? How often do we pass some great industrial plant, and notice hundreds of automobiles around it ? Some of us may think that those automobiles belong to the owners of the plant, or to the management, but such is not the case. Those automobiles belong to the men who work in the plant. You can see that sight only in America. You can't see it in Europe, because it is not there. These men own automobiles because of the rights that they have under the Constitution of the United States to earn and pay for those things that are within the buying and purchasing power of all of these people. 

We speak of Hitler and his ingenuity in accomplishing great things mechanically- — and might I say he has — but there is one thing that he has not given his people, although he has endeavored over a period of years to provide an automobile that would be within their purchasing power. But here in America we not only enjoy automobiles, some of the comforts of fine homes, and fine homes themselves, but practically every blessing that even the rich and elect of far-off Europe enjoy. All of these things are possible individually because we live in a country where personal initiative is not restricted, where each and every man can have anything he wants, if he will work for it. 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Day 

WARNING AGAINST UNPATRIOTIC DOCTRINES 

We should draw the attention of our children to the fact that there is now a war going on, so to speak, in America. Some years ago we fought a great civil war. It was fought mainly over two issues, whether or not this Government should exist part slave and part free, and also as to whether or not any one state had the right to secede from the Union. To the glory of those gallant men, both on the side of the South and of the North, they fought their battles openly, and we know what the results were and are. 

But the warfare we now find isn't one that is being fought on the battlefield, honorably and openly, but it is a battle being fought behind the names of so-called patriotic societies, names used to shield the activities of those who would have us believe that they are engaged in patriotic endeavor, when in reality they are doing the very things that will undermine the Constitution and the Government of the United States. I think our boys and girls should be advised constantly as to the dangers of these organizations, and what their objectives are. It is a known fact to all of us that the very nations of Europe today that would bathe the world in blood, have their agents in America, promulgating their doctrines. We must ever be on guard, and particularly should we so advise the youth and the leaders of our nation of tomorrow. 

TRUE INTELLIGENCE 

With regard to the educating and the training of the mind, it is true that technical training should be given in our institutions of learning, but I do think, as Latter-day Saints, that there are particularly one or two things that we should stress in this connection. One is the fact that our boys and girls should be taught to segregate the true from the false. We should teach them the definition of that glorious statement given to us by the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he declared that "The Glory of God is intelligence." The glory of God is intelligence, brethren and sisters, when we use true intelligence in righteous endeavor, and in the building up of the kingdom of God. I think these are thoughts and principles that should be instilled in the minds of our boys and girls as they pass through school. 

HOME TRAINING IMPORTANT 

In the matter of training the hands, this training begins in childhood. It begins in the home. A child should be taught to do the small, personal things for himself, to become independent just as soon as possible; always to remember that his clothing and his food are the result of someone else's labor. He should be taught to appreciate what it costs to earn clothing, to earn shoes, and to earn food. 

Horace Greeley has said, "The darkest hour in any man's life is when he sits down to plan to get money without earning it." And Brigham Young has said concerning work : "Laziness travels slowly and  soon overtaken by poverty. Investment of time, thought, and labor brings achievement of personal development. Out of indolence comes moral, mental and physical decay." 

Every child should be taught that the Government of the United States, as has already been said, is not an organization which produces, a profit, but rather an organization which is a perpetual consumer; that the people of the Government should support it, and in no instance should the Government support the people. When a child or an individual thinks that he can be dependent upon society, then he becomes an enemy of society. 

I think it is important that our boys and our girls should be trained in all of the simple small tasks of the home. Perhaps it would be difficult to give you exact statistics relative to the number of untrained people on the unemployment rolls of cities and states, but it is a known fact that there are great numbers of them. This does not only pertain to the male citizenry of America, but also to the female citizenry. Our own experience in the Salt Lake region has shown us cases where mothers did not know how to make bread; cases where there was taken to them bolts of goods to make clothing for their children, and they did not know how to proceed. 

In order' to overcome problems of this kind, it is highly essential that these tasks be taught in the home; that every child have placed in his hands some tool with which he can construct something that will be useful. 

THE LORD'S LAW OF HEALTH 

With reference to health, the fundamental law of health, as given to us by the Prophet Joseph Smith, directly from our Heavenly Father, is sufficient to guide and direct our boys and girls. 

The Lord has promised us very definitely if we will heed the Word of Wisdom and follow it, great blessings are in store for us. He said : 

And all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; 

And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; 

And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint.  And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. 

These promises are enough to inspire and motivate each and every boy and girl in Israel to hold sacred the Word of Wisdom, and to live it. 

PREPARATION FOR LEADERSHIP 

In thinking of the future, wherein there will be many perplexities and problems, I am sure that if we will use the opportunities that are afforded us in the university of the home to train our boys and girls, when the day of leadership and responsibility comes to them they will 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 1 Second Day 

be prepared and under the inspiration of God they will overcome all difficulties; that this great Government to which we belong will be preserved; and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will retain its place, for God has decreed that it is to remain for all time. 

So, as these young men and women leave the home to go out and build homes for themselves, let us not fail to advise them of the first and great commandment, to multiply and replenish the earth, the first and the great commandment. Thereby we will create new homes and new homes become units of the Government and of the Church. 

Let us remember the words of Jehovah to Joshua, as Joshua was about ready to lead the children of Israel into the Promised Land, when Jehovah said to him : 

Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed; for the Lord, thy God, is with thee whithersoever thou goest. 

I am sure, brethren and sisters, that the Eternal One will be with the leadership of tomorrow, your boys and girls, if they will but depend upon the Holy One, who will never forsake them. 

I often think of the spirit of Brother Melvin J. Ballard, expressed in his lovely song. If we could only inculcate that spirit into the hearts of our boys and girls, what a wonderful thing it would be! I have often heard Brother Ballard sing these words : 

I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, 

Over mountain or plain or sea; I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord, 

I'll be what you want me to be. 

May the sons and daughters of Israel be what God wants them to be, and may you and I, as their parents, so inspire them and motivate them that they shall reach toward the highest ideals, and thereby be enabled to solve the problems of the future, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

To occupy the position behind this pulpit is always an overwhelming experience, and one to which I never expect to become calmly accustomed. I ask that the Lord will give me help in expressing adequately a few of the thoughts that have been circulating in my mind during this Conference. 

OUR MESSAGE NOT OF MAN 

As I have traveled up and down the Church this past year, I have become very thankful that it was not my message that I was carrying. I have become increasingly aware that of myself there is nothing that I could tell the Latter-day Saints concerning their happiness or their eternal progress. I have also become aware that there is nothing that  have for those who are not members of the Church, except as the Lord has given it to us, and except as it finds expression through us. 

It has been one of my obligations to conduct the tourist service in this auditorium, following the nation-wide broadcast of the Tabernacle Choir each Sunday morning, and also the Sunday afternoon Tabernacle services on numerous occasions, and as the faces of the thousands of searching men and women have passed before us here I have been led to have a deep sympathy for those men who by reason of their profession or the expediency of making a livelihood, must stand before their fellow men to preach, teach, persuade, or convince in any field of learning or any department of life except they know within their souls that that which they speak is the truth. Except they have that connection they are blind leaders of the blind, and the blind don't lead the blind very well. 

For a moment or two this afternoon I would like to say something concerning the first of the first principles of the Gospel. Faith may be considered to be a trite subject to many who have an idea that everything that could be said about it has been said, but it is not so with the Latter-day Saints because we live so much of our lives by faith, and I doubt very much that the last word will ever be said upon it. 

FAITH A SURE FOUNDATION FOR KNOWLEDGE 

The things we do by faith gloriously transcend those things we do by mere knowledge. Moving mountains is a trivial thing to those who have it. By faith and its attendant works the world was created, and worlds may yet be created. 

I am not an unbeliever in the world's factual knowledge. I stand in respect before men of sincere and profound learning in any field. I am grateful that two university degrees have become attached to my name, and I had rather fondly hoped that they would not be the last. I thrill to the achievement of those men who push farther out the frontiers of human knowledge. But I have learned to know that all men of academic training are not alike, and I have learned to know that there are many men possessed of great funds of factual knowledge who lack wisdom. 

I have learned to know that when you find a man of learning who has faith, you may travel with him into new worlds of thought, and beyond horizons as yet not traversed by humankind, with joy and with safety. But when you find a man of learning without faith, you may not travel with him in safety to any destination. 

HAPPINESS THE GOAL OF REAL PROGRESS 

I am not unmindful of the material progress of the past fifty years, exceeding, as it has, all previous recorded history, and of those facilities and comforts with which it has surrounded us. I am aware that under the sea, in the air, and on the land, man is master — master of almost everything but himself. But the measure of progress, after 

88 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Day 

all, is human happiness both here and hereafter, and except these things can be translated into terms of human happiness, both for the present and for the future, our progress is not what it would seem to be on the face of it. I think we should look at it and analyze it carefully and ask ourselves honestly whether we and our generation and our world are happier than our grandmothers and our grandfathers and their generation and their world? When we can answer that question we have stated the true measure of our progress. 

I do not see a particularly happy world about me. As I read the newspaper or turn on the radio, mostly I hear of its pains and the hopeless cries of distressed men and women. The Victorian age, with all its ruffles and its horsedrawn carriages, left men with a sense of faith and security. The Napoleonic wars before it were as a Sunday School picnic compared to the present scene before us. All this chaos is not the product of faith, but of unbelief. 

I am fully aware that the man of cold and calculating intellect, largely devoid of faith, often makes a great factual discovery. But he is usually not impressed with its moral implications. He does not see his discovery in relation to the purpose of life and the ultimate destination of man. 

But in this day, when good and evil have both taken on refinements, it is not enough to discover a fact or perfect a machine. All things must be interpreted and evaluated and used in terms of human progress here and hereafter, and it is only the man of faith who can do this — who can convert the findings of scholarship and research into ways of mortality and give eternal meaning to all of the facts of the universe that are as yet or may be discovered. 

I am quite mindful of the fact that scholarship and research cannot be confined within the limits of a narrow, misguided, man-made dogmatism. The history of the middle ages and the renaissance proved that. But I am also mindful of the fact that scholarship and research must confine themselves within the scope of truthful representation, and that the uncontrolled speculations of men must not be spoken for truth except as they have been demonstrated to be so. Men have a right to think what they want, but they also have an obligation to label their thoughts properly, so the unseasoned searcher may not be deceived. 

A LESSON TAUGHT IN A STORY 

There was a book published a year or so ago containing a writing by one Eric Knight. It deals with the story of a Yorkshireman, and is called The Flying Yorkshireman — the. story of a man who believed that if he had enough faith he could fly. The author carries us through a good many pages of sincerely humorous situations, and we are not aware of the fact, as we read, that we are being preached to, and that before the story shall have finished there will have been borne in upon our hearts an unforgettable lesson that will long remain with us. I would like to quote that lesson as I received it from that story. 

An old scientist has gone to interview the flying Yorkshireman, and he says: 

"The * * * education of the * * * world abhors that which surpasses factual knowledge. So your newspaper men will write all about mass hynotism and wires * * * and auto-suggestion. They'll use a lot of phrases they don't understand, about matters they cannot comprehend. They'll find any excuse but the simple truth — that you are capable of levitation — in other words that you can fly." 

And in response to the flying Yorkshireman's question as to who he was, the scholar replied : 

" "I'm just a student at the Research Center. I'm trying to find out how to defeat the rebellion of man's body and brain against modern life, modern foods, modern thoughts. Why is cancer growing — mental ills ? Why do cells multiply malignantly ? * * * 

"You and your kind" (referring to the man who could fly) "have been tortured, drowned, and burned at the stake * * * all because the world is weak and ignorant and inhuman. * * * You see the world will do anything but believe. Although they see they won't believe. Even back when the world was much simpler they wouldn't. They tried to explain it within their knowledge. * * * And so, even today man will get an explanation to satisfy him within our present limited knowledge. Today that knowledge is even more fiercely narrowed between the bits of misinformation that we scientists have predigested for man. And you . . . arrive in a world in which the more we prove the less people believe. 

"For you have come to a world where * * * surgeons perform miracles; scientists prove matter lives forever, and mathematics show that the hereafter in time and space is indisputable. And all this in a world that no longer believes in miracles and the hereafter. The more we prove, the less the rational mind believes. There is no more faith, simple and blessed. For the world has had too much proof and too much logic * * * and in getting them we have lost the faculty of having faith in the incomprehensible." 

HARMONY OF FAITH AND KNOWLEDGE THE HOPE OF THE WORLD 

We may thank our Father in heaven that this generalized description does not apply to many among us. There are things of which we have not seen the substance, of which we are more surely aware than many things that we have seen. I have never seen God nor a resurrected being, nor the place where departed spirits dwell. But I have read the words of God. I have seen them operate in the lives of men. I have read the testimony of those who have seen him, and I have approached him in prayer and my prayers have been answered. I know that he is there as surely as I know there is an invisible something which carries my words far beyond this auditorium by that force or power or energy, or whatever it may be, which carries my words far beyond the limits of this auditorium, but which no one has ever seen, 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 7 Second Day 

There is very little hope in knowing that two atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen make water, unless these other things we know also, but it is glorious to know both. Some day I hope to know all things, but since there is an infinite process, I hope always to have the thrill of learning new things, but always hand in hand with faith, and to the end that human happiness and progress may be furthered. 

I hope that we shall always have freedom of thought, freedom of research, freedom of scholarship; that science and discovery will go on and on. But I hope also that the world's factual and material knowledge will never again so far outstrip our moral and spiritual use of them as they have done in the past decade. 

I hope that we and our children may always have faith in our homes, in our halls of learning, in our halls of government, in our churches, and in all the ways of life. 

By this faith that I have I know that no fragment of truth in whatever field will ever be found that does not fit harmoniously into the great mosaic of the Gospel of Jesus Christ for the welfare of men, the children of God. What more could mortal man ask? It makes life all that it could well be. 

By this same faith I know that God lives, that he has spoken and does speak through prophets; that Joseph Smith was his prophet, through whom the restoration of the Gospel was brought about, and that the same authority has been with all his successors whom I hope to follow all the days of my life. I am grateful for this faith which amounts, so far as I am concerned, to knowledge. 

I think the last word will never be spoken on the subject of faith, and I hope that all the factual knowledge of this world may be harmonized with all that lies beyond the realm of the limited knowledge and material boundaries for the glory of God and the exaltation of his children. 

This is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Branch Agricultural College Chorus sang the "Hallelujah" Chorus (Handel). 

Elder H. Melvin Rollins, President of the Lyman Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 10 o' clock a. m., Sunday, October. 8. 


