Morning
06 10 1939

The first session of the Conference convened Friday morning, October 6, at 10 o'clock. 

As the time approached for the opening of the Conference the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries were filled with people who had come from the various Stakes and Missions of the Church to attend the services. 

President Heber J. Grant, who presided, announced that the Relief Society Singing Mothers, Charlotte O. Sackett, Conductor, would furnish musical numbers for this session. 

The congregation and the Singing Mothers then sang the hymn, "High on the Mountain Top." 

Elder Clarence Gardner, President of the Star Valley Stake, offered the invocation. 

"The 23rd Psalm" (God is My Shepherd) — Schubert, was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES AND OFFICERS SUSTAINED 

At the request of President Grant, President David O. McKay presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church, also the General Auxiliary Officers, and they were unanimously sustained, as follows: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Reed Smoot John A. Widtsoe 

George Albert Smith Joseph F. Merrill 

George F. Richards Charles A. Callis 

Joseph Fielding Smith Albert E. Bowen 

Stephen L Richards Sylvester Q. Cannon ACTING PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH 

George F. Richards 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the Acting Patriarch to the Church as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE IN TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee in Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Antoine R. Ivins Rufus K. Hardy 

Richard L. Evans 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand Richards, Presiding Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, First Counselor Joseph L. Wirthlin, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Rudger Clawson Charles A. Callis 

Joseph Fielding Smith Franklin L. West 

Stephen L Richards Albert E. Bowen Richard R. Lyman 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West 

SEMINARY SUPERVISOR 

M. Lynn Bennion 

AUDITING AND FINANCE COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams George S. Spencer 

Albert E. Bowen Harold H. Bennett GENERAL CONFERENCE TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Lester F. Hewlett, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; Richard P. Condie, Assistant Conductor. 

QRGANISTS 

Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

CHURCH WELFARE COMMITTER 

ADVISERS 

John A. Widtsoe LeGrand Richards 

Albert E. Bowen Marvin O. Ashton 

Antoine R. Ivins Joseph L. Wirthlin 

John H. Taylor General Presidency of the Relief Society 

GENERAL COMMITTEE 

Henry D. Moyle, Chairman 

Robert L. Judd, Vice-Chairman 

Harold B. Lee, Managing Director Mark Austin Sterling H. Nelson 

Campbell M. Brown William E. Ryberg 

Clyde C. Edmunds Stringham A. Stevens 

J. Frank Ward 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Kate M. Barker, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Q. Morris, General Superintendent Joseph J. Cannon 1st. Asst. Superintendent Burton K. Farnsworth. 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Lucy Grant Cannon, President Helen Spencer Williams, First Counselor Verna W. Goddard, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, 1st. Asst. Superintendent Edith Hunter Lambert, 2nd. Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE, WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST APRIL CONFERENCE 

President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, read for the information of the Conference the following report : 

New Mission Presidents : 

Leo J. Muir appointed to preside over the Northern States Mission to succeed President Bryant S. Hinckley. 

John F. Bowman appointed to preside over the Central States Mission to succeed President Elias S. Woodruff. 

Levi Edgar Young appointed to preside over the New England Mission to succeed President Carl F. Eyring. 

Roscoe C. Cox appointed to preside over the Hawaiian Mission to succeed President W. Francis Bailey. 

John A. Israelsen appointed to preside over the Norwegian Mission to succeed President A. Richard Peterson. 

President Gustive O. Larson released from Swedish Mission. 

President M. Douglas Wood released from West German Mission. 

President Alfred C. Rees released from East German Mission. Thomas E. McKay, Swiss Mission President, also presiding over Fast and West German Missions. 

President Wallace F. Toronto released from Czecho-Slovak Mission. Mission. 

New Stake Organized: 

A new stake, to be known as Pasadena Stake, was organized October 1. It comprises nine wards: Belvedere, Eastmont, Montebello, and Whittier, taken from the Los Angeles Stake; Pasadena, Rosemead, and Alhambra, from the original Pasadena stake; and Baldwin Park ward and Monrovia branch, from the San Bernardino stake. 

Other changes affecting the stakes in Southern California are now under consideration, and will be reported later. 

New Stake Presidents appointed : 

George E. Burgi appointed president of the Oneida Stake to succeed President Taylor Nelson. 

6 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

Roy B. Burnham appointed president of Young Stake to succeed President Elmer F. Taylor. 

Alexander Fraser Dunn appointed president of the Tooele Stake to succeed President Alfred L. Hanks. 

Fred C. Horlacher appointed president of the Nevada Stake to succeed President Elmer E. Hinckley. 

John M. Iversen appoined president of the Los Angeles Stake to succeed President Leo J. Muir. 

David A. Butler appointed president of the Snowflake Stake to succeed President Samuel F. Smith. 

Bryan L. Bunker appointed president of the Moapa Stake to succeed President Willard L. Jones. 

Joseph E. Beard appointed president of the Summit Stake to succeed President Willard Heber Wilde. 

Bertram M. Jones appointed president of the newly organized Pasadena Stake. 

New Wards Organized : 

Van Nuys Wards, Pasadena Stake, created by a division of the North Hollywood Ward. 

Alamosa Ward, San Luis Stake, transferred from Western States Mission. 

Price Third Ward, Carbon Stake, created by a division of Price First and Second Wards. 

North Eighteenth Ward and South Eighteenth Ward, Ensign Stake, were created by a division of the Eighteenth Ward. 

Beverly Hills Ward, Hollywood Stake, was created by a division of Wilshire ward. 

McKay Ward, Wells Stake .created by a division of Waterloo Ward. 

Columbus Ward, Wells Stake, created from parts of Wells and Burton Wards. 

Ivins Ward, Wells Stake, created from parts of McKinley, Wells and Belvedere Wards. 

Tooele Second Ward and Tooele Third Ward, Tooele Stake, were created by a division of Tooele North Ward. 

Tooele First Ward and Tooele Fourth Ward, Tooele Stake, were created by a division of Tooele South Ward. 

Ward Transferred : 

Tempe Ward, Maricopa Stake, transferred from Phoenix Stake. 

Ward Name Changed: 

Fullerton Ward, Long Beach Stake, formerly known as Anaheim Ward. 

Kirtland Ward, Young Stake, formerly known as Burnham Ward. 

Independent Branches Made Wards : 

Mt. View Ward, Lyman Stake, formerly Independent Branch. Modesto Ward, Sacramento Stake, formerly Independent Branch. 

New Independent Branches : 

Romedell Branch, Blaine Stake. 

Bellflower Branch, Long Beach Stake, created by division of North Long Beach Ward. 

Monrovia Branch, San Bernardino Stake, formerly dependent branch of Baldwin Park Ward. 

Mercur Branch, Tooele Stake. 

Chico Branch, Gridley Stake, formerly dependent branch of Oroville Ward. 

Hailey Branch, Blaine Stake, formerly dependent Branch. Napa Branch, Oakland Stake, created by division of Vallejo Ward. 

Ward Made Independent Branch : 

Echo Branch, Summit Stake, formerly ward of same stake. 

Wards Disorganized: 

Millburne Ward, Lyman Stake disorganized and annexed to Mt. View Ward. 

Sublett Ward, Raft River Stake, disorganized and annexed to Malta Ward. 

Independent Branches Disorganised: 

Rockford Branch, Chicago Stake, transferred to Northern States Mission. 

Santa Rosa Branch, San Francisco Stake, transferred to California Mission. 

Those Who Have Passed Away : Apostle Melvin J. Ballard. 

Elder Leonard B. Cluff, Los Angeles Stake Clerk. 

Bishop Joseph E. George, Auburn Ward, Star Valley Stake. 

Janne Mattson Sjodahl, former editor of the Deseret News, and prominent author and translator of Church literature. 

Hyrum Conrad Pope, chairman of the board of temple architects for the Church, architect for Canadian and Hawaiian Temples and many other L. D. S. buildings, also the St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Salt Lake City. 

Asahel Hart Woodruff, former Northern States Mission President. Daniel J. Lang, former president of French Mission. James M. Peterson, former president of Texas Mission. Ephraim Magleby, former president of New Zealand Mission. Eleanor Jeremy Richards, former member of Primary General Board. 

Clarissa Hamilton Young Spencer, daughter of Brigham Young. Hulda Cordelia Thurston Smith, one of the last three surviving pioneers of 1847, died in Lewiston, Utah. 

8 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Read the following: 

MESSAGE FROM THE FIRST PRESIDENCY OF THE 

CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS. 

The long-threatened and dreaded war has broken out. Its end and fruition await now the measure of God's infinite wisdom, justice, and mercy. 

"THOU SHALT NOT KILL," STILL A LAW UNTO MAN 

The divine law on the taking of human life was proclaimed at Sinai and in the Garden. This law, we declare, is equally binding upon men and upon nations. It embraces war. 

We further declare that God is grieved by war and that he will hold subject to the eternal punishments of his will those who wage it unrighteously. 

THE WICKED TO FEEL GOD'S WRATH 

We affirm that all international controversies may be settled by pacific means if nations will but deal unselfishly and righteously one with another. We appeal to the leaders of all nations and to the people themselves thus to mend and adjust their differences, lest the vials of God's wrath be poured out upon the earth, for he has said he will visit his wrath upon the wicked without measure. 

A CALL TO REPENTANCE 

We call the unrighteous of the world to repentance — a forsaking of sin and a returning to righteousness, for the Lord has said : 

I, the Lord, am angry with the wicked. I am holding my Spirit from the inhabitants of the earth. 

I have sworn in my wrath and decreed wars upon the face of the earth, and the wicked shall slay the wicked, and fear shall come upon every man. (Doc. and Cov. 63:32-33.) 

We condemn all of war's foul brood — avarice, greed, misery, want, disease, cruelty, hate, inhumanity, savagery, death. 

A PLEA FOR LOVE TO TAKE THE PLACE OF HATE 

We earnestly implore all members of the Church to love their brethren and sisters, and all peoples whoever and wherever they are; to banish hate from their lives, to fill their hearts with charity, patience, long-suffering, and forgiveness. The Master said: 

Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you. (Matt. 5:44.) 

We ask the Lord so to overrule the plans and designs of man that  war shall not spread to countries not now involved, and especially that America shall escape the material and spiritual ravages of war. 

A PRAYER FOR THE BEREFT 

We humbly pray God to bring to all bereft and grieving mothers the sweet consolation of his Spirit, to the widow robbed of her helpmeet a faith that God will help her in her lonely struggle for a livelihood for her children, to those fatherless children a will to help their mother in her fight for their welfare and existence, and to peoples everywhere an increased desire and determination to "renounce war and proclaim peace, and seek diligently to turn the hearts of the children to their fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children; * * * lest," said the Lord, "I come and smite the whole earth with a curse, and all flesh be consumed before me." 

We pray that the spirit now raging in men's hearts, of hate, of exploitation, of a desire to dominate, may be supplanted by the spirit of reconciliation and forgiveness, that in obedience to principles of righteousness and of justice this war without further bloodshed and suffering may be brought to an early close. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — 

And when we obtain any blessing- from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. 

Long life, joy, peace, and happiness come to every soul who obeys the laws of God. It is pleasing to our Heavenly Father that we live long upon the earth, and he has given to us a Word of Wisdom, a revelation explaining his will whereby we can obtain this great blessing of long life. There is no greater blessing in all the world than to live upon the earth and to labor in that way and manner that will be pleasing and acceptable to God our Heavenly Father. 

That he may help every Latter-day Saint from this day to make up his mind to be an honest, conscientious tithe-payer; that he will attend his meetings and partake of the Spirit of God that is always present; that he will observe the Word of Wisdom, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brothers and sisters, I am happy to be with you again in a Semi- Annual Conference. I am happy to hear the Singing Mothers with Sister Sackett leading them. 

We miss this morning a man of great spirituality, of great influence among the people, Brother Melvin J. Ballard. May the Lord sanctify his labors to the upbuilding of his Cause. Friday, October 6 First Day 

Because what I shall say this morning will deal somewhat with technical matters, where the language is of importance, I have submitted what I shall say to writing, so that I may not speak incautiously. 

CONSTITUTION INSPIRED 

I speak today as an American citizen who believes as he believes in Deity, that God inspired the framing of our Constitution and the setting up of our form of government thereunder, — an American citizen who believes that the preservation of this government under our Constitution as it now stands is necessary that liberty and free political and religious institutions may not disappear from the earth. 

A NATION WITH CHRISTIAN STANDARDS 

This is a Christian nation. Before the Revolution it was so in accord with law; since the Revolution it has remained so in fact. We, the people of the United States, guarantee full religious freedom to all within our jurisdiction, whether they be non-Christian or Pagan. But the nation itself is a Christian nation. Our standards and principles are Christian. Other creeds we protect, that all may be free. These facts must never be lost sight of. 

For us of the Church this fact cannot be challenged, for the Lord has declared in modern revelation : 

Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have writterL (Ether 2:12) 

The penalty of disobedience to these principles has been declared to be that the people shall "be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them," and that "The fulness of his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity." (Ether 2 :8, 9.) 

These principles have been repeatedly declared. 

Thus we of America can stand for no cause which would dethrone Christianity here and put in its place any other creed, whether nonChristian or Pagan; nor can we as Christians support a cause designed to set up non-Christian or Pagan states elsewhere in the world. Our duty, divinely imposed, is clear on this. 

DECLARATION OF BELIEF 

Furthermore, for more than a hundred years this Church has declared this principle of government, which is based upon divine commands and the revelations of God's will, namely : 

We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society. 

We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property and the protection of life. (D. and C. 134:1-2). 

Thus we can stand for no cause and can support no state fostering a cause that would seek to compel the consciences of men, that would set up the state as deity, that would destroy private property, that bulwark of a peaceful, stable ordered society, indeed of civilization itself, that would make men slaves of the state to the destruction of all safety, due protection of life and limb, and all individual liberty, that would blot out the Christian home. 

DANGERS THREATEN 

All these things are fundamental to this people and to this nation. Again I warn that there are amongst us evil influences plotting and conspiring to destroy all that we hold sacred in our Church and in the nation. If we shall fall asleep to these dangers, we shall some day awaken to find ourselves their slavish victims. We people here in the valleys are a mere handful — a microscopic minority — and yet if we shall, with completely united hearts and hands, put on an armor of righteousness and do battle for righteousness, we shall be the means under God's care and guidance of helping finally to serve and save the world. 

Nothing is more unrighteous, more unholy, more un-Godly, than man-declared mass slaughter of his fellowman for an unrighteous cause. It has brought down the wrath of the Almighty in all times. God will visit His vengeance upon all who bring it. The law declared at Sinai was "Thou shalt not kill," and in the Garden of Gethsemane : "All they that take the sword shall perish with the sword." With these divine commands deep-embodied in our spiritual consciousness, we can look with no degree of allowance upon the sin of unholy war, and a war to make conquest or to keep conquest already made is such a war. 

At almost every opportunity since I was called to a place in the First Presidency I have expressed grave apprehensions as to the course which the whole world, including our own nation, was following. Two and a half years ago (April Conference, 1937), I drew particular attenttion to the prospect of war and gave the best view I had as to the eventualities which then seemed likely to follow that war. I dwelt particularly upon the aftermath of chaos which it seemed reasonably certain might come if the war dragged along over weary years. 

Last October I called attention to the intensive propaganda to which we were subjected— the most intense peace-time propaganda of all time — and warned that at best it colored truth and at worst it falsified it. 

I should like by reference to include in what is said now all that I have said in the past on the same matters. 

WARNING AGAINST FALSE IMPRESSIONS 

War has now broken out. Most of the sanctities that were used by 

12 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 . First Dag 

the one side or the other to hallow the World War are again coming forth to hallow this one. Many were false then; they are false now. We should not be disturbed, misled, or blinded by any of them. Look at each of them squarely; most of them will wilt under your gaze. There are always deceit, lying, subterfuge, treachery, and savagery in war, on both sides. There was in the World War. It is not always the other power that commits atrocities. 

WAR AND ITS CAUSES 

I shall speak plainly today, for where the issue is war with its horrors or peace with its blessings, it is best that blunt speech be used. What I shall say will be directed primarily to the international situation. 

Throwing aside all the arguments, excuses, protestations, pretensions, and propaganda under which the real causes of the present conflict have been deeply buried, and stripping off right down to the bare bones all the falsehoods that have hidden the actual situation, it seems clear that the issues of the present conflict, reduced to their lowest terms, are these: 

Germany said to Poland, Give me what you took from me at the end of the World War. Poland, backed by Britain and France, said No. Germany made war on Poland. Treaty-bound thereto, Britain and France declared war on Germany. 

However, under similar demands in the near past Germany has possessed herself not only of what she first demanded, but of large areas in addition. Apparently mistrusting the word of the German leaders. Britain and France seemed fearful further demands would be made. They may have had in mind the hundreds of thousands of square miles of territory and the millions of people they took by conquest from Germany at the end of the World War; they may also have recollected French conquests in northern Africa and British conquests from the Boers in South Africa. And perhaps we might remember that the ground on which we stand was taken from Mexico in 1848, by force of arms. 

Perhaps in the present world condition, a renewed partition of Poland seemed as likely a tragedy as could be found to arouse the sentiment of the world against those who should divide that historically unhappy country. 

Obviously, as a matter of logic, if conquest can give a good title to territory, then conquest is a legitimate means of getting good title to territory. This is the unholy rule of force, the unholy rule that "might makes right." 

This is the rule that has lain behind every great empire that has ever been built during the whole history of the world; it lies behind every great empire that exists today. There is nothing new in the doctrine, neither in the practice. 

Under such a rule, war is and must always be the instrument of the growth of empire. Under such a rule nations rise and fall, as might advances or wanes. 

Under such a rule, safety in empire comes only to the power which is dominant in arms and resources. 

But such a rule of force, of "might makes right," is Satan-born. It is not of God. 

Obviously no great empire of conquest can sleep quietly and comfortably of nights if the have-nots swagger forth in search of more territory and are willing to fight for it. 

Both in its declarations and in its joinders the present war in Europe has for its sole underlying purpose the secure establishment of the power or powers that, by sheer supremacy in arms, shall dominate Europe, and perhaps the world. This is not a righteous cause of war, and unrighteous war is unholy. 

This is the very issue that, twenty years ago, we alleged we sent our young America to Europe to settle. It was our fighting there which gave to the Principal Allied and Associated Powers their victory. We got nothing out of the conflict but the ill-will of everyone — of our foes because they were our foes, and of each of our allies because of our unbounded generosity, and our naive, unsophisticated, unselfishness at Versailles. But we did not then settle the issue. It has risen again. We would not settle it now by joining in this conflict. This is one of those questions which can be settled only by the parties themselves by themselves. 

A NATURAL CHOICE 

There are in the Church tens of thousands of faithful members, and in the nation millions of loyal citizens, whose choice would be, because of their German ancestry, that Germany should become the dominant power of Europe, and following that, perhaps of the world. For them German art, literature, science, music — perhaps the greatest the world has produced — is part of the warp and woof of their lives and of the lives of their ancestors. All the tender threads of memory and tradition lead them back to the homeland. The German people are and have been a great and good people. 

There are perhaps more tens of thousands of faithful members in the Church, and more millions of loyal citizens in the nation who, because of our British ancestry, would prefer that Great Britain should retain the dominance she has held for generations. As much mine as of any Britisher today, are Chaucer and Shakespeare, are Littleton, Coke, and Bacon, are Magna Charta and the great principles of liberty and of local self-government which we of America have made so much and peculiarly our own. These are the heritages which we have from the motherland, and in the joint enjoyment of which, as co-heirs with us, we make all races, creeds, and nationalities coming to our shores. Britain has been and is one of the greatest nations and people of all time. 

As the first love Germany, so we love Britain. But each group of us must see and understand the view and feelings of the other. 

14 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

America's position in European affairs 

Who shall dominate Europe is a question that has been in our international situation from the beginning of our national life. It is not our concern. 

The fathers of our Country warned us against the allurements and the dangers involved in such a question — a question which is relatively no nearer to us now than it was in their day. The question is of no more importance to us now than it has been for a hundred and fifty years. The dominant power could always make war on us if it wished. A hundred and fifty years ago we were one of the weakest of the weak, and the hazards to us of such a war were great; now we are one of the strongest of the strong, and the hazards of our losing a defensive conflict almost nil. Do not let fear of what might happen in such a defensive war cloud in any way your judgment. We are relatively better able to defend ourselves today against aggression by a foreign foe than we have ever been before in our whole history. 

Washington in his Farewell Address declared we should have "as little political connection as possible" with Europe; that Europe had a "set of primary interests" with which we had "none or a very remote relation," wherefore, "Europe must be engaged in frequent controversies, the causes of which are essentially foreign concern"; "Why, by interweaving our destiny with that of any part of Europe, entangle our peace and prosperity in the toils of European ambition, rivalship, interest, humor, or caprice?" 

Jefferson said: "Our first and fundamental maxim should be never to entangle ourselves in the broils of Europe; our second, never to suffer Europe to intermeddle with cis-Atlantic affairs." 

We should follow these admonitions. There is neither reason nor excuse for our entry into this European war. Its issues have for us no vital interest. Wise statesmanship will keep us from that war. 

neutrality violations 

We may expect that every means, both fair and foul, which can be devised by hating, desperate men, fighting for their lives, will be used to drag us into this war. We must not accept anything at its face value; we must question every statement, carefully examine every incident. Such is war. 

Rarely indeed are mere violations of neutrality legitimate cause for war. Always there is conflict between neutrals and belligerents, the neutrals trying to preserve their peace-time trade and commerce, and each belligerent trying to prevent all intercourse with the other belligerent. Seizure and search of vessels, confiscation of cargoes, are the normal incidents of war. After the war is over, the belligerent is called upon to pay for the infractions of neutral rights, but war is not resorted to even to compel these payments. 

One thing more, an armed vessel, whether it be a merchant-man or a regular battleship, is considered to be a vessel of war and subject  all the hazards of war. Neutrals using such vessels either for travel or for cargo purposes use them subject to all the dangers incident to the navigation of vessels of war on the high seas, and neither they nor their government can legitimately complain of the eventualities which may overtake them. 

AMERICA THE GREAT NEUTRAL 

America, multi-raced and multi-nationed, is by tradition, by geography, by citizenry, by natural sympathy, and by material interest, the great neutral nation of the earth. God has so designed it. Drawn from all races, creeds, and nations, our sympathies run to every oppressed people. Our feelings engaged on opposite sides of great differences, will in their natural course, if held in due and proper restraint, neutralize the one the other. Directed in right channels, this great body of feeling for the one side or the other will ripen into sympathy and love for all our misguided and misled fellowmen who suffer in any cause, and this sympathy and love will run out to all humanity in its woe, thus weakly shadowing the infinite compassion of the Master. 

One of the great tragedies of the war now starting is that every people now engaged in it have been led into it without their fully knowing just where they were bound. The people themselves are largely innocent of this slaughter. God will not forgive betrayal of his children by those who rule over them. 

A GREAT PART TO PLAY 

As the great neutral of the earth, America may play a far greater part in this war, it is our duty to play a far greater part, than merely impartially to carry out our neutral obligations under international law towards those who come to our shores for trade and commerce or otherwise. It is our solemn duty to play a better part than we can do by participating in the butchery. 

America has today the only great national moral force and influence for peace left in the world. We have lost much of what we once had —  we lost it when we permitted the looting at the Versailles peace table; we have since then lost much of what then remained by our diplomacy in the conflict between the rival war lords of the Far East and by our scolding protests to Europe — protests largely motivated by matters of their purely domestic policy which were not of our legal and proper concern, matters which we have never in our own American affairs permitted any other nation even to question. 

FREEDOM IN DOMESTIC POLICY 

We of this Church are qualified expert witnesses on this question. Twice driven from our homes, plundered, robbed, murdered, our leaders slain, no foreign power, and no race, creed, or group raised their voices even to whisper in protest against our treatment. Nor was this silense. 

16 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 6 First Dag 

broken, when, nearly a half century later, the Federal Government itself confiscated our property, which we only partially recovered. We never dreamed of asking foreign governments to intervene in our behalf. Our patriotic loyalty to the country of our birth, our native land, would not allow this. 

Furthermore, when the North was arrayed against the South in a struggle of life and death, when property on both sides was ruthlessly destroyed, and thousands upon thousands of lives were lost, we refused even to listen to representations by alien powers, designed to put an end to the conflict. Nor have we ever tolerated complaints from foreign governments about certain miscarriages of justice heretofore all too frequent in certain areas of this country. 

All of these matters were between us — the people concerned — and our own government. We lived or we died, we prospered or suffered, as determined between us and our government. The Family of Nations cannot exist on any other principle than their freedom in all matters of domestic policy, nor can individual States; and the existence of States for the due ordering of all society is of far more importance than the temporary suffering of any group, large or small, within a State. Every State, member of the Family of Nations, must be its own master as to its own nationals. We have always claimed this right unqualified for ourselves. 

Our plain duty to humanity and to the cause of peace, our duty to our Creator, require that we preserve the moral force and influence we now have, that we regain what we have lost, and that then we increase to the highest possible point this greatest of all instrumentalities for world peace. If we become parties to this world war, on whatever side, to determine the present issues of the war, we shall lose all this moral power and influence, and sink with the world to the level where just our brute might shall be the sole and only measure of our strength. This would be an appalling prostitution of our heritage. 

Remembering the fact that the warring peoples have been led almost blindly into this war by their governments, two things it would seem we might now do that would at once build up our moral power and influence for peace. 

THE PROTECTION OF THE WEAK 

First, we might well insist, as the President has already urged, that all the belligerents give up and abandon the plans of their general staffs, so to wage this war as actually to exterminate peoples. We should require under penalty of the closure of our ports to the offender, that the principle obtaining prior to the World War should be observed, namely that the civilian population, the women and children, the sick, the aged, and the infirm, of the warring nations shall, so far as possible, be protected; that indiscriminate bombing and the bombing of unfortified places shall not be engaged in; that actual hostilities shall be waged only against and between the armed forces of the belligerents. Should any belligerent not have access to our ports and be therefore not subject to  penalty, nevertheless the observance of the principle by his foe at our behest will give us the moral power to secure this foe's observance. 

Second, having in mind our position as the great world neutral, and remembering that the peoples of these warring nations have been led into this conflict largely unwittingly, and therefore are largely blameless, we should announce our unalterable opposition to any plan to starve these innocent peoples involved in this conflict — the women, the children, the sick, the aged, and the infirm — and declare that when actual and bonafide mass starvation shall come to any of them, no matter who they are, we shall do all that we properly may do to see that they are furnished with food. On the present outlook one cannot be sure which side will finally need this sort of relief. And if in such an effort we should come to the last extremity, one can think of few more righteous causes for war itself than such a high service to victimized, suffering humanity. 

We shall, if we act wisely on the full information we can obtain, be able to forestall any deceit or subterfuge on any account or on any ground by any belligerent because of a false or simulated or self-inflicted starvation. 

If we shall rebuild our lost moral power and influence by measures such as these which will demonstrate our love for humanity, our justice, our fair-mindedness, our determination to do works of righteousness as God shall make them known to us, we shall then be where at a fitting and promising time we can offer mediation between the two belligerents, and bringing our moral power and influence into action we shall have a fair chance to bring an end to the criminal slaughter of our fellowmen and to give birth to a peace that shall be lasting, because just and fair to every people. Surely this is infinitely more honorable, will have in it infinitely more of humanity, will be infinitely nearer to the Master's way, than sending our young sons overseas to be murdered. 

America, the great neutral, will thus become the Peacemaker of the world, which is her manifest destiny if she live the law of peace. Believing as we do that America is Zion, we shall then see the beginning of the fulfilment of the prophecy of Isaiah of old "for out of Zion shall go forth the law," a law of justice, mercy, and righteousness, adopted by the nations of their own free will. 

PLAGUES WHICH FOLLOW WAR 

One more thought and I have finished. Remembering that throughout all history, dread diseases have followed the devastation of war, when peoples are exhausted and mal-nurtured, remembering what happened at the end of the World War with the flu, reason tells us that if this war drags through years, we must be prepared for a visitation of plagues that will almost surely take a greater human toll than the war itself. These plagues will strike armies not only, but the people back home as well. They will reach America. How much science can do, we have yet to learn. It tardily coped at all with the flu. We have but one sure means toward safety from such plagues — a life lived in accordance 

18 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

with the revelations of the Lord. Careful eating, temperance, chastity, the non-use of things forbidden, sobriety, industry, proper rest and sleep, non-exposure, and in general right living in all things, give us the right to ask the Lord that the destroying angel shall pass us by. He who breaks down his body and his resistance to disease by riotous and wicked living may hardly hope to escape affliction and suffering. It may be that we shall see a time, if this war shall drag into the years, that "except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened." (Matt. 24:22.) 

May God bless and preserve this nation, set up in accordance with his plan and will; may he keep us from the horrors and ravages of war. May he help us all so to live that we may with clear consciences always seek his blessings, I ask, in the name of the Savior, Amen. 

The Singing Mothers sang "God Bless America," (Irving Berlin). Soprano solo by Sister Emma Lucy Gates Bowen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

With all my heart I endorse the principles laid down by President Clark in his splendid statesmanlike address. 

What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him? (Psalms 8:4.) 

DESIRE FOR IMMORTALITY NATURAL 

The divinity in man makes him desire and long for immortality. 

Benjamin Franklin was one of America's greatest men and one of the world's most versatile geniuses. He believed in the resurrection The epitaph which he composed to be placed on his grave was as follows : 

Like the cover of an old book, 

Its contents torn out 

And stripped of its lettering and gilding, 

Lies here food for worms. 

But the work shall not be lost, 

For it will — as he believes — appear once more 

In a new and more elegant edition, 

Revised and corrected by the Author. 

For verily I say unto you, blessed is he that keepeth my commandments, whether in life or in death. (Doc. & Cov. 58:2.) 

In the wonderful and heavenly philosophy of the Mormon religion, heaven and earth meet. This life merges into the life beyond. All is eternity with God. There is a land of life beyond the grave; we call it the intermediate state, the spirit world. It is a scene of life, a, community, 

HEAVENLY MESSENGERS BEAR WITNESS OF ANOTHER WORLD 

According to the holy scriptures there is an invisible world whose inhabitants may become visible, not to gratify the curiosity of men, but as messengers of the Lord to declare his word to his chdsen vessels. 

Moses, Peter, James and John, also John the Baptist, appeared unto the Prophet Joseph Smith, by the word of God's command, with messages essential to the salvation of the children of men. There is a permanent personality here and hereafter, a continued and active existence of the inhabitants in that "mysterious country." Joseph Smith spoke the truth when he said "there are no angels who minister to this earth but those who do belong or have belonged to it." 

We see but half the causes of our deeds, Seeking them wholly in the outer life, And heedless of the encircling spirit world, Which though unseen is felt and sows in us All germs of pure and world-wide purpose. 

A school-boy's faith 

A noted lawyer from Alabama visited Salt Lake City a few years ago. In the course of an address, made to a graduating class in his home state he eulogized the idealism of the Mormon people and particularly their remarkable idealism and views concerning the other world. "I heard the story," he said, "of a Mormon school boy who had lost his blind father, to whom he was deeply devoted. The boy was a pitcher on his High School baseball team, and the father had always gone with the boy to the games, although unable to share in the sport except by what he heard. Justifiable delight filled the blind father's heart as his son was pitching, when the umpire called 'three strikes and out.' 

"The father died. The day after the father's funeral had been set for a match game with another High School, and to the surprise of all the boy expressed a desire to pitch the game. 

"He pitched better than he had ever pitched before, and his team won. When his friends crowded about him to congratulate him he said, 'Yes, it was the first game father ever saw me pitch, and I did my best for him.' " 

THE BROTHER OF JARED's EXPERIENCE 

What is the form of the spirit ? The brother of Jared saw the preexistent spirit of the Lord Jesus; he saw the finger of the Lord and it was as the finger of a man like unto flesh and blood. The fear-stricken man said, "I knew not that the Lord had flesh and blood." The Lord showed himself unto him and said: 

Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh. (Ether 3:16.) 

What a wonderful contribution this is to the divine authenticity of 

20 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

the book of Genesis, wherein we are told : "So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them." The Book of Mormon is a witness to the truth of the Bible. 

We believe that there is consciousness of the spirit in the life hereafter, between death and the resurrection. Men live and move and have their being in the intermediate state. They pray, talk, hope, and work not only for themselves but also for those who are upon the earth. Death does not congeal the lips of those who go before us; they are not far from us and they help us more than we know. 

EXPERIENCES WITH THE DYING 

In the course of a somewhat lengthy ministry I have been with some who were crossing the threshold into eternity. For example, a young girl was called to the world beyond. Just before she passed away her face gleamed with glad recognition and she said, "Oh mother, dear mother!" The mother had gone on years before. Fresh in my memory are instances of business men, who, when their end was approaching, have heard voices which mortals could not hear. They have seen faces not of this earth for these men have said : "Mother, my son, they are with me." Then they have departed with a smile upon their faces. 

John saw under the altar the souls of those who were slain for the testimony of Jesus. "And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on those that dwell on the earth." (Rev. 6.) And they were told they should rest for a little season. These spirits had power to reflect, anticipate, speak and think. 

I have been with Elders who died in the discharge of their duty, and a moment or two before they departed this life their faces have been overspread with a gleam of recognition of beings not of this world; they have uttered the names of loved ones long since gone and then have gently gone to their rest. 

In the 16th chapter of St. Luke we-read of a certain rich man in hell and in torments. When he made a certain request, Abraham said : "Son, remember." Dr. Lyman Abbott said that those are two of the most awful words in scripture. The rich man's recollection extended back to mortality and covered the whole period of his mortal life. The wrongs that he did lived in his memory; that was his punishment. 

KNOWLEDGE GAINED TO CONTINUE AFTER DEATH 

The Prophet Joseph Smith said : "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." What knowledge? The pure knowledge that greatly enlarges the soul, that makes us more like God by giving more understanding of his glorious purposes. What a noble incentive and stimulus to educators and also to laymen to gain all the knowledge they  in this life, for we shall always exist as independent, permanent personalities learning forever. 

The works of Gods continue, And worlds and lives abound; Improvement and progression Hath pne eternal round. 

Dr. John A. Widtsoe quotes the following verse composed by a minister : 

We serve no God whose work is done, Who rests amidst his firmament. Our God, his labors but begun, Toils evermore with powers unspent. 

Jesus says, in the Book of Mormon: "For my work is not yet finished; neither shall it be until the end of man, neither from that time henceforth and forever." As we all know his work and his glory is "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

Cecil Rhodes, the great English statesman, lay dying at the early age of forty-nine. He had nobly worked in the spirit of achievement. To his friend Jameson, by his bedside, he said : "Jameson, the great trouble with life is that it is too short. You no sooner become acquainted with the game and learn how to play it, than you have to give it up." 

The British empire builder did not have the vision, the knowledge of the beautiful philosophy of the Gospel concerning the life hereafter, particularly of eternal progression, for in that life the great intellects, scholars, painters, engineers and others shall go on progressing and working for the benefit of their fellow creatures on the earth or wherever the sons and daughters of God are found. He who stops learning and working is neither wise nor happy. 

One thing that menaces this country is the growing disinclination to perform manual labor. Too many want to pick their jobs. It is a threat to our permanent stability and prosperity. Henry Ward Beecher once said that the darkest hour in a young man's life was when he tried to devise a way to make a livelihood without working. 

"There is more of heaven to be seen in the sweat-bedewed face of the faithful toiler" working for his family than in any canvas with its clouds of cherubs, painted by the masters, in the art galleries of the world. 

Elijah's mission 

We believe in the doctrine of salvation for the dead. Elijah came from that invisible world to the Prophet Joseph Smith in fulfillment of the glorious promise, to which, however, is attached a solemn warning jn Malachi 4 :5, 6 : 

Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: 

And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. 

22 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Das 

Elijah feared God but he knew no other fear. His dominating and persistent personality was a power in the period in which he lived; it is a powerful influence in the present dispensation. The wonderful truth he revealed is sufficient proof that there is consciousness beyond the grave. 

For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit: 

By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison; Which sometime were disobedient, when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah. (I Peter 3:18-20.) 

In the following chapter are these comforting words : 

For this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. 

In the spirit world, the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brethren are preaching those glorious principles, faith, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, the truth of the Bible, the truth of the Book of Mormon. And we here will preach the same Gospel until every knee shall bend and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Christ. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, my Redeemer, Amen. 

ELDER LeGRAND RICHARDS 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

This is not the first time I have had the privilege of succeeding President Charles A. Callis, but I am as proud of the opoprtunity to follow him today as I was to succeed him in the Southern States Mission. 

As a member of the Presiding Bishopric, when we were set apart to preside over the temporal affairs of the Church, I thought that must be a tremendous responsibility; but when we were appointed and set apart to preside over the Aaronic Priesthood of the Church, I realized that that indeed was a responsibility. 

During the last six months we have visited most of the Stakes of Zion, and have met with the stake and ward officers, discussing matters pertaining to the Youth Program, Budget System, and other things which we felt would lead to finer standards among our young people. 

AN INCREASE OF FAITH NEEDED 

While I have always been impressed with what a marvelous work the Church is doing, I believe that if there is one thing that we need in the Church today more than any other, it is increased faith in the hearts of our boys and our girls in the restoration of the Gospel, in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and in the fact that God lives, that every boy and girl will answer to him for their lives. It was Paul who said: "But without faith it is impossible to please him, for  that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him." 

I believe that unless this faith is planted in the hearts of our boys and girls they will not be able to meet the temptations of the day and come out gloriously victorious, true to the faith, and true to the standards of this Church. We have felt that education might achieve this end. We now have compulsory education of our youth, and yet today there seems to be more immorality, more use of liquor, more use of the things which God has forbidden, than in any other day. 

It seems to me that in our Church we must be able to plant in the hearts of our boys and girls a faith in the promises of God, that if they will shun these things, they will receive of his blessings. Think of the promise given to those who will observe and keep the Word of Wisdom! Surely every father and every mother and every teacher in Israel should want these promises to become real in the lives of their boy and girls: to run and not be weary; to walk and not faint; that the destroying angel might pass by and not slay them, as he did the children of Israel; and that they might receive knowledge, yea, even hidden treasures of knowledge. This is what I would like to have come into the lives of my children. 

I realize that in the achievement of this great end we have a great responsibility as parents, in the home and as officers in the Church, for the Lord has placed in the Church officers for this purpose. He has given us apostles and prophets and pastors and teachers, "for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ * * * * that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive." 

A LACK OF FAITH AMONG YOUTH OF THE CHURCH BRINGS REPROACH 

It would be a terrible thing, if, as our boys and girls come out of Latter-day Saint homes, they come with their faith destroyed, with lack of confidence in the leaders of this great Church, lack of faith in the divine and holy principles that God has established in the Church in these latter days; and it would be a great reproach upon us if our boys and girls come out of our auxiliary organizations, our Priesthood quorums, our Church schools or seminaries, with lack of faith in these great eternal truths. 

During my travels I learned of a few instances where our young people had been taken out of our institutions because the parents felt that their faith was being destroyed, rather than strengthened; and I think that this is a reproach. 

God has placed this great army of officers in the Church as watchmen upon the towers of Israel, and I believe the Lord expects the presidents of stakes and the bishops of wards to know that there is nothing being taught that will destroy the faith of their boys and their girls. I might be just a little specific. I met a young lady who told me of what she had been taught in one of our institutions. She was told that patriarchal 

24 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Day 

blessings were not really to tell us what the Lord had in store for us, but they were beautiful thoughts that might encourage us to try to live better lives. Now, if that were true, it would be all right; but as far as I am concerned, it just is not true. If it be true, then I think one of two things must be acknowledged: that God has withdrawn his spirit from this Church, or that we have no need of patriarchs in the Church. 

VALUE OF PATRIARCHAL BLESSINGS 

I call your attention to the patriarchal blessings given upon the heads of the sons of Israel of old, when their father Jacob, the Patriarch, said : "Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days." One of the great fundamental truths of Mormonism is based upon the promise made upon the head of Joseph, when he was promised a new land in the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills, for his blessings should exceed the blessings of his progenitors. 

I was privileged to be raised in the home of a patriarch. Today, my father is the acting Presiding Patriarch of the Church, and it might be more appropriate that he should speak on this subject than that I should; but I received my first blessing at his hands'when I was eight years old, and I want to say to you that all the philosophizing in this world could not make me believe that my father knew what he pronounced upon my head of his own knowledge and his own understanding. That blessing has been a guide to me all my life, and I thank God that I received it when I was a boy eight years of age. 

FAITH -PROMOTING INCIDENTS 

While working in the field with my father when I was a mere lad, I received one of the greatest testimonies that ever came to me, and that through the giving of a patriarchal blessing. My father related to us three boys, who were engaged with him in filling up an old cellar, a visit he had made the night before to administer a patriarchal blessing, and after he had taken his hands from the head of the brother blessed, some disappointment was expressed that Father had not promised him that he should get well and live, because he was very sick. Father related this experience to us, and if there had been no inspiration in this Church, and no inspiration in the calling of a patriarch, where would the faith of his boys be today ? He said when he placed his hands upon the head of this brother, something seemed to say to him that he should not give him too good a blessing for this life, for his days were numbered. So he promised hiin the blessing of eternal life for his faithfulness, and then disappointment was expressed, and the voice of inspiration came again, and he said : "If I am inspired by the Spirit of the Lord, Brother So-and-so will not live more than so many hours," and he told us the time. 

While we were still working together a good brother passed along the old hedge fence. Father called to him and asked if he knew how Brother So-and-so was. He said he had passed away. Father asked  hour and he told us. Then Father looked at us, because it was the exact time he had told us. 

When I was called on my first mission I walked into the office of Brother George Reynolds on crutches, with my leg in a plaster cast. He said: "What are you here for?" I said: "I am here to answer a call for a mission." He said : "It looks to me like you had better go home and take care of yourself." I said : "I will be ready to go at the appointed date." He said: "When do you want to go?" I said: "In April, with my other friends." That was February. 

I went out to Tooele, where my father lived, a patriarch of God. I told him I wanted a blessing so I could go on that mission, and my father promised me that I should go and that I should not be handicapped because of lameness — and I never lost a day's work. I threw my crutches away a few days before it was time to leave, and I went on that mission. 

Now, here a few years ago, seven years ago to be exact, my wife and I laid away in the grave our oldest son, who was nearly sixteen years of age — the greatest sorrow that has ever come into our lives. We had four daughters before he was born. Less than a year prior to that we took him and his younger brother, only sixteen months difference in their ages, into the office of the Patriarch of this Church, Brother Hyrum G. Smith, and he gave them each a blessing. 

Now, I ask you, suppose the Patriarch had known that one of these boys was to die within a year, could he not promise him anything ? What would it have meant to the eldest son, had he walked out of the Patriarch's office with no promise and no blessing, and the younger son had all the promises and the blessings, for the older boy truly loved God and kept his commandments. When that boy passed away, and I met with my counselors — for I was then President of the Hollywood Stake — I said to them : "There is just one thing, if God could only give us to understand that boy's blessing." I said: "I wish you brethren would help us, if you can, so that Sister Richards and I might be comforted." 

A few nights after that I took Sister Richards for a ride. We asked the younger boy if he would like to go with us. He said: "No. I think I will stay home." The next morning was Sunday morning. He came in and crawled up on his mother's bed, holding in his hand the two patriarchal blessings, and he said: "Mother, while you were out riding last night I read these blessings." He said : "You see, you haven't understood them." 

I think just for the matter of getting it clearly before you I shall read a few words from the two blessings, as they were given by the Patriarch. In the oldest boy's blessing, the one who passed away, the Patriarch said: 

For it will be thy privilege to bear the holy Priesthood and to go even among strangers and in strange lands, in defense of truth and righteousness. 

This we could not understand. And to the younger boy he said: 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 6 First Dag 

For thou shalt bear the holy Priesthood in defense of righteousness and truth, both at home and abroad. 

The boy said : "You see, Mother, I am going to labor at home and abroad, but," he said, "LeGrand was to go to strange lands and strange people;" and he said, "They are not on this earth. We know all the lands of this earth and we know all the people that are here." 

And to the oldest boy the Patriarch said: "And in due time thy home shall be a fit abode for the spirits of thy loved ones;" and to the younger boy he said : "Thou shalt enjoy the comforts of a happy home and the blessings of honored fatherhood, for thou shalt see thy posterity grow up around thee, to honor thee in the same kind of way in which thou hast honored thy parents." Now, reverse the blessings and give the younger boy's blessing to the older boy, and there would be no explanation. He said : "Mother, you see, LeGrand's home is to be the home of the spirits of his loved ones, and my home is to be here on this earth, where I will see my children grow up around me." 

You cannot tell me that God, the Eternal Father, did not give that fourteen year old boy the inspiration and revelation to understand these blessings, and our hearts have been comforted. 

PROMISES OF THE LORD SURE OF FULFILMENT 

My faith in God and his eternal purposes is such that I never doubt but that he has made adequate provision for the fulfilment of every promise, and to complete and perfect the work which he has here commenced. In a revelation to the Prophet Joseph, he said : "His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay his hand." And again : "I give unto you a new commandment, that I, the Lord your God, am bound when ye do what I say, and when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." And when we receive a promise from the Lord through his servants, it is my faith that that promise shall be realized if we keep his commandments, if not in this life, then after this life. 

Now I ask you if you understand all the things in the scriptures ? Did not the Savior say, when he taught in parables, and his disciples came to him and asked him why he spake in parables : "Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given." 

If there were time I would like to refer to some of the prophecies of ancient Israel. I was reading in the Book of Mormon, the other day, that when Christ our Lord appeared here in this land of America he quoted some of the prophecies of Isaiah, and he bore his solemn, sacred testimony, as the God of heaven, that every prophecy of Isaiah should be fulfilled; and there are prophecies there that no learned man in this world could interpret or explain, without the knowledge and the information that have come through the restoration of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Sometimes I wonder why we go to the world for explanation of the scriptures, when we have the revelations of God, the Eternal Father, to guide us, 

To you men who are privileged to preside over the stakes of Zion, I feel that it is your responsibility as watchmen upon the towers of Israel, to see to it that each Patriarch in your stake is living worthy to enjoy the inspiration of his calling, and that none shall continue in this sacred service should his mind in any way become impaired through advancing years. 

LIVING FAITH A SAVING POWER 

Now I say to you that I think the thing we need more than any other thing today is to plant in the hearts of our boys and girls this living faith in God, that like David of old, they may feel and know that there is no spot so dark and no place so far removed and remote that the allseeing eye of God is not upon them, and that they shall be held accountable for their deeds. 

In conclusion, may I leave with you these words taken from our boy's memo book as he copied them from the sayings of Alma : "And also trust no one to be your teacher nor your minister, except he be a man of God walking in his ways and keeping his commandments." 

I hope that in all Israel, in the homes, in the institutions, and in the Priesthood quorums, we shall never be accused of destroying faith in the lives and in the hearts of our boys and girls. 

God bless you, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

An anthem, "Lamb of God," (Bizet) was sung by the Singing Mothers. 

Elder John A. Elison, President of the Raft River Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


