Afternoon
08 10 1939

The sixth and concluding session of the Conference convened at 2 o'clock p. m. 

Once more the great Tabernacle was crowded to capacity. The large Assembly Hall, immediately south of the Tabernacle, was filled with listeners, and hundreds of others who could not find accommodations in either of these buildings congregated on the Tabernacle grounds, where, by means of amplifiers, they listened to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The music for this session of the Conference was furnished by the Tabernacle Choir. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We are grateful beyond expression for the very fine work that the Tabernacle Choir is doing in the broadcasts each Sabbath morning. 107 

Wherever I travel I hear complimentary comments regarding the Choir from the people whom I contact. It is remarkable the number of friends that this Choir has made for the Church since we commenced the broadcasts. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "Onward Ye Peoples" (Sibelius). 

Elder Henry W. Henderson, President of the Pocatello Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

An anthem, "Faith of our Fathers" (Thompson), was sung by the Choir. 

ELDER GEORGE. F. RICHARDS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. 

When a man speaks by the power and authority of the Priesthood of the Son of God and under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, what he speaks will be scripture; it will be the mind of the Lord, the will of the Lord, the word of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation. 

TESTIMONY OF THE TRUTH OF THE LATTER-DAY WORK 

I desire to speak to you this afternoon, my brethren and sisters and friends, as an oracle of God, and as a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ I bear my testimony to this vast congregation, to all my hearers, and to the world, so far as my word and testimony shall reach, that this work in which we as Latter-day Saints are engaged is the work of the Lord, the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and has in it the power of God unto salvation. 

I bear testimony that God the Eternal Father lives, a glorified and exalted personage, in whose image and likeness we his children are born and existing. 

I bear testimony to you that the story told by Joseph Smith, whom God raised up to be a mighty prophet in the last days, pertaining to the visitation of the Father and the Son to him when he was a boy but fourteen years of age in the beginning of this Gospel dispensation, is true, that God has revealed himself anew to the world through Joseph Smith, so that the world may know him as he is. 

I testify that the Son also is a personage having a body and parts, in whose image man is created and made, and that he is the Firstborn Son of God, the Eternal Father, in the spirit, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, our Brother, our Lord, our Savior and Redeemer. 

I bear my testimony to you that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God, and that through him the Lord has restored the Gospel as it was instituted in the Councils of Heaven before the world was, with all its gifts and blessings, power and authority and saving ordinances; authority to preach this Gospel of the kingdom in all the world and to administer its saving ordinances unto the children of men. 

108 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third £)ag 

I testify that those who have succeeded the Prophet Joseph in the presidency of this Church have been men of God, his mouthpiece unto the Church and to the world : Presidents Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, Joseph F. Smith, and our present president, Heber J. Grant. God has been with these men and with his people and his work has become a marvelous work and a wonder in the earth. There never has been a time in this Church when there was not a majority of the Presidency and the Twelve steadfast and true to the Church, though we have seen dark days and apostasy, even among leading men of the Church. 

SAFETY IN KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS OF GOD 

My advice and counsel to the Latter-day Saints is that we keep near to the Authorities of this Church, and if we will follow their example and observe their teachings we will be on safe ground and cannot be undermined by the wiles and machinations of him who is the enemy of God and of man and who would destroy our faith and lead us from paths of virtue, truth, and honor, to degradation and to condemnation. 

When we fail to keep the commandments of God we let down the bars and show our weakness unto the evil one, who is always on the alert to take advantage. 

Brethren and sisters, the only safe course for us to take who are candidates for the blessings of salvation and eternal life is to live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. 

When we attend to our religious duties, according to the light and knowledge which we have, we will receive from the Lord a manifestation of his good pleasure and approval, and without this approval we will not be able to take hold upon the blessings of eternal life and exaltation. 

We have started in the straight way that leads to life everlasting, and are able to point the way to those who are in spiritual darkness, and this is a responsibility resting upon us concerning our fellowmen. 

PURPOSE OF LIFE ON EARTH 

We are not here on the earth for selfish purposes, nor for our own personal aggrandizement, we are not here to acquire the wealth of this world. We are here for the purpose of working out our salvation according to the Gospel of Jesus Christ and to make every preparation necessary for the life to come, and to assist the Lord in his work and purposes to save the souls of his children, whose souls are precious in his sight. 

We are to follow the admonition of the Savior, and his example: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness" — and"Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust corrupt, and thieves break through and steal; but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven." 

The Lord expects us when he blesses us with the good things of this earth to remember those who are not so fortunate. We are to feed 109  hungry, clothe the naked, visit the sick, comfort those who mourn, and minister unto those who are poor and needy, and thus become of that class to whom the Lord, when he shall come, shall say: "Come, ye blessed of the Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world." 

THE SPIRIT OF GOD UNFOLDS MEANING OF THE SCRIPTURES 

The people of the earth are in need of teachers such as Philip who was sent by the Lord to the Ethiopian as he was on the way from Jerusalem. Our missionaries are of that type. 

The things contained in the Bible are the things of God and are understood only by the Spirit of God. No prophecy of the scriptures is of any private interpretation. "For the prophecy came not in old time of the will of man : but holy men of God spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost." That is how the scriptures, ancient and modern, have come to us. "What man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him ? Even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God." — -"The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God : for they are foolishness unto him : neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned." 

If people possess the Spirit of God in the same measure as did the prophets who wrote and spoke the things contained in the scriptures they would understand the scriptures the same as they were understood by the prophets who wrote and spoke the scriptures. 

The Ethiopian had not taken the course to obtain the Holy Ghost, by which the things contained in the scriptures were given, by which they could be understood, and he needed a teacher who had obtained the Holy Ghost as had Philip. 

It is to bear testimony of the Father and of the Son and of the truth of all things pertaining to the Gospel, and to administer its ordinances that we send missionaries into the world. People are not able to find their way into the kingdom of God by merely having these holy scriptures. By preaching the Gospel to the people of the world we hope to wash our hands clean of the blood and sins of this generation and make our calling and election sure, so that when we go beyond there will be no disappointment. 

THE WORK FOR THE DEAD IMPORTANT 

We have our dead also to seek after, those of our immediate ancestors, our blood kindred, many of whom were noble men and women who lived their lives here in mortality, according to the best light and knowledge they had, but were deprived of the privileges which we enjoy of the Gospel and its saving ordinances. We have the responsibility of finding these out by genealogical research, obtaining information which is necessary to identify them upon the records of the Church and of the Temple, and then after receiving these saving ordinances ourselves, to act vicariously for the dead in receiving those ordinances. 

110 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 8 Third Day 

I am afraid, my brethren and sisters, that when some of us go Beyond and meet our kindred dead we will not receive the generous and joyous welcome which we anticipate, and this because of our neglect. 

The Lord has said through the Prophet Joseph that there is no greater responsibility that he has laid upon us than that of looking after our kindred dead. 

This missionary work for the living and the dead is the highest service in which man can be employed, and, I think I might say, that can employ the attention of the Gods, for all that we know of their works that have been revealed unto us are looking to this worthy end — the saving of the souls of men. 

REDEMPTION THROUGH JESUS CHRIST 

We are admonished of the Lord to search the scriptures, "For in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me." He referred to the Bible. We did not have then the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, which also contain the word of God and the will of God and are scriptures from which we quote copiously in connection with the Bible quotations. The ancient and modern scriptures alike testify of the Lord Jesus Christ. By them we know that he was, under the Father, the Creator of the heavens and the earth and all things therein. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. He ministered as the Lord of heaven and earth from the time of the creation down to the meridian of time, when he was born in Bethlehem of Judea. The very day before his birth, we are told by a Nephite prophet, he said : "Tomorrow come I into the world." He was chosen in the councils of the heavens to be the Savior and Redeemer of mankind, to redeem them from the effects of the Fall, which had not yet taken place, for the earth had not yet been made and peopled by sons and daughters of God. But the Lord who knows the end from the beginning had made provision for every condition that should arise from the beginning unto the end. And so through his life of suffering and his death upon the cross he redeemed us from the Fall, from death to resurrection, in which the body and the spirit are inseparably connected, which condition is necessary to enter the kingdom of God, for which we all are candidates, and also that we might be redeemed from the effects of our own transgressions through obedience unto the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

We thank the Lord frequently, and I wonder if it is fervently, for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. What is there in the Gospel that we are so thankful for ? I want to tell you that one of the things I am grateful for is that through the atonement of Jesus Christ my sins will be forgiven if I yield obedience unto the laws and ordinances of the Gospel and maintain my integrity to the end. Yea, the promise is : "Though your sins be as scarlet they shall be washed white in the blood of the Lamb." Is not that a great privilege and blessing? There is no other way of 111  forgiveness of sin, and in our sins we can never enter the kingdom of God and receive salvation and exaltation. 

LOVE SHOWN BY SERVICE 

We value the lives of our children and the hope and the assurance that we have that we will have them for eternity. Such assurance is given us through the Gospel and the ordinances which we have received. We value the holy endowment administered in the temple of God to prepare us to enter the celestial kingdom. If we appreciate the Gospel as a gift of God, ought we not to do something that will in a measure pay the debt of gratitude we owe and prove our appreciation and our love? How is he to know how much we love him? There is a little poem, and I suppose all the school children have learned to recite it, that teaches the lesson beautifully. It runs like this : 

"I love you, mother," said little John, 

Then forgetting his work his cap went on, And off he ran to the garden swing 

And left her the wood and the water to bring. 

"I love you, mother," said little Nell, 

"I love you more than tongue can tell." Then she teased and pouted full half the day, 

Till her mother rejoiced when she went to play. 

"I love you, mother," said little Nan. 

"Today I'll help you all I can. How glad I am that school doesn't keep." 

Then she rocked the baby till he fell asleep. 

Then stepping lightly she fetched the broom 

And swept the floor and tidied the room. Busy and happy all day was she, 

Busy and happy as child could be. 

"I love you, mother," again they said, 

Three little children going to bed. But how do you think that mother guessed 

Which of them really loved her best? 

She knew of course by their actions. God has said : "If ye love me, keep my commandments." "If a man love me he will keep my words." For the love we have for God and our Savior and for our own sake, brethren and sisters, and for the good example it will be to the children of men with whom we associate, in the Church and without, may we be true and faithful and keep the commandments of the Lord, obey every law, seek to know his will, and do it under all circumstances and conditions, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

112 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October S Third Day 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

LOVE OF TRUTH SHOWN BY OBEDIENCE 

The main theme of this great Conference has been the love of God and our fellowmen on the one hand and the love of our country on the other hand. I love the Lord and I love his Gospel, the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The only way to manifest our love for him is through keeping his commandments. As you have already heard, our loyalty is demonstrated by our faithfulness in keeping the word of the Lord. "If ye love me, keep my commandments." Our love for our country is manifest in our obedience to her laws. We in this country should be loyal to this Government which is inspired by God and was instituted among his children for the blessing of mankind. 

GRATEFUL FOR CHURCH AND COUNTRY 

I am proud of my standing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; proud that I am a member of this Church. I prize that membership above all else. How grateful I am to my Heavenly Father that I have been born in the day and age when this glorious Gospel has been restored to the earth; that I have been born of goodly parents; and taught from my childhood up in the glorious principles of life and salvation. 

I am proud of my country and of its institutions. I am proud to be an American citizen. The remarks that have been made during this conference from the very beginning have set my soul aflame with patriotic fire for my God and my country, and I hope that I may be loyal to both all the days of my life, and manifest that loyalty and that love through obedience to the mind and will of God and to the laws of our beloved land. 

We as a people have a special interest in our loyalty to our country. It seems to me that we have an interest in this country that transcends that of any other people. What a wonderful country this is! This earth was created by, the Almighty, who holds the title to every acre of the land upon the surface of this earth. He made it; it is his, and the fulness thereof belongs to him, and certainly his right to parcel that country out to whomsoever he will may not or should not be contested. 

THE LORD'S COVENANTS WITH HIS CHOSEN PEOPLE 

Under the new and everlasting covenant the Lord has made land grants to his chosen people. 

Many thoughtless speakers and thoughtless writers have sometimes imagined that the covenant was merely a grant, a land grant, and overlooked the stupendous fact that all such land grants have been given to his chosen people that they might have place whereon to establish . his statutes and build up his Church and Kingdom. Unto Adam he 113  the whole earth and gave dominion to Adam over every living thing that creepeth upon it; to Abraham he gave the promised land, even the land of Palestine; to Moses he renewed the covenant made with Abraham, including the land grant accompanying it; and to Joseph he gave the land of America, long before its discovery by Columbus. 

AMERICA THE LAND OF JOSEPH 

This is the land of America on which we dwell. Joseph, the favored son of Israel, to him and to his posterity was given this great and glorious land. To him and all the house of Israel his companions. Therefore, I say, we have a special interest for we are the descendants of Joseph. Our patriarchs have declared our lineage as that of Joseph, the favored son of Israel. When his patriarchal father laid hands upon his head and pronounced the blessings "of heaven above and of the deep that lieth under," he promised unto him the land of America. This grant, this pledge, and this promise, were given long before Columbus discovered America and hence it was not known by that name or that title, but that land is so graphically described in the scriptures that it is sure to be none other land than the blessed land on which we dwell. One of our songs in pioneer days reads : 

We are the true born sons of Ephraim, 

Who with us that can compare? We are of the royal house of Joseph, 

That bright and glorious morning star. 

That is our lineage; our patriarchs have so told us. We have an abiding faith that this land belongs to us and at the same time that the holy land of Palestine belongs to the House of Israel, the seed of Abraham, given to them for an everlasting inheritance, to Judah and the House of Israel his companions. If any descendant of Joseph should desire to obtain a part or parcel of this blessed land, it would be wise that he secure it by purchase from someone that could show an abstract of title back to a United States patent. So we advise people that they should pursue that course if they want to obtain any part of it by legal possession at the present time. The same thing, no doubt, is being done by the descendants of Judah in the blessed land of Palestine. They, too, have a right, and yet I suppose they are securing it by purchase; however, their rights are being vigorously opposed, notwithstanding the Lord gave it unto Abraham through the son of promise, Isaac, not to Jshmael the progenitor of the Arabs, but the time will come when these land grants will be duly honored, for the wicked shall be destroyed and the saints, only those who have entered into the covenant, shall inherit these lands. "All the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly shall be stubble : and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that is shall leave them neither root nor branch." 

The thoughts that are in my mind in connection with this everlasting covenant and accompanying land grants, I wrote once in the form of a poem, Let me not call it a poem or dignify it by so high a title, but on 

114 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Day 

January 1, 1938, the inspiration came to me to write some verses to give expression to the thoughts which I have been here expressing. I will repeat them to you : 

BOOKS DIVINE 

Holy Bible, book divine, 

Precious treasure, thou art mine. Mine to tell me whence I came; 

Mine to teach me who I am. 

Book of Mormon, book divine, 

Precious treasure, thou art mine; Mine to guide me in my youth; 

Mine to lead me in all truth. 

Stick of Judah, Israel's guide, 

Stick of Joseph by its side; These are one in Ephraim's hand, 

Brought to light in Joseph's land. 

Judah ever wears the crown, 

Wields the scepter, wears the gown, Inheriting the Holy land 

According to Divine command. 

Joseph is a fruitful bough, 

Favored son of Israel thou; His branches running o'er the wall 

Gathering all who heed his call, 

In the choicest land above all lands Whereso'er the ocean strands Where amid its rocks and rills High above Judea's hills, 

In the Rocky Mountain height 

Stands the Temple, "God its light." Many people go and say 

He will teach us of His way. 

And among its ancient mounds 

To the very utmost bounds Of the everlasting hills, 

How my soul with rapture thrills! 

America is Joseph's land; 

Here shall Zion ever stand. And Judah's land again shall shine, 

Blessed land of Palestine. 

From Zion shall go forth the law, 

Even as the prophet saw; And from Jerusalem the word 

In every land it shall be heard. 

Of these sayings not one is mine; 

All I've done — I've made them rhyme. In these books inspired men 

Have "graven them with iron pen," "And lead them in the rock forever," 

That from the Truth we may not sever. Oh, ye holy books divine, 

Precious treasures ye are mine. 

These are my thoughts in connection with this blessed land of America and our right to it, and yet we are willing to harbor here those who come from afar, from all the nations — a place of refuge for those who are oppressed under the tyrannical governments of the old world. How grateful we ought to be for this land of liberty in which we dwell, and how loyal we ought to be to it, appreciating all its blessings and privileges. 

THE BLESSINGS OF LIBERTY 

On July 4th, 1917, a few months after the entry of the United States into the great World War, I composed the following verses expressing my feelings in regard to the inalienable rights of man as set forth in the Declaration of Independence which crystalized in the framing of our glorious Constitution: 

I do not want you to think that I imagine that I am a poet; I have just been able to write a few unique verses that emphasize the feelings that are overflowing in my heart, and I think I have just time to repeat that poem : 

LIFE AND LIBERTY 

To live and have a being, 

To dwell upon the earth, Is a boon and blessed right 

Inherited at birth. The Lord who gave, he taketh 

And blessed be his name; For he that taketh, maketh 

And giveth back again; 

But woe to man, or nation, 

That taketh life for fame; For conquest or ambition 

No matter in what name; For life, it is my dower, 

Oh, how my heart doth swell, For God gave me the power 

Upon his earth to dwell. 

But what is life if fettered? 

Mere lungs without a breath. "Give me liberty" was uttered, 

"Or" otherwise "give death." To stand upon the mountain, 

And breathe the heavenly air — To quaff at freedom's fountain, 

No "let or hindrance" there. 

To linger in the valley; 

To travel o'er the plain; Out on the sea to sally, 

Across the bounding main. The world is mine to live in; 

116 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 8 Third Dan 

The ocean lanes are free; For these our God hath given To all — to you and me. 

To live and to be free; 

To worship God alone, As conscience oriHet^ 

As my own heart is prone. These are rights God-given; 

He gave them all to me. They emanate from heaven, 

E'en Life and Liberty. 

It is for these we're struggling, 

The Teutons say for naught. To us these rights are precious, 

For them our fathers fought. So we the same defending 

'Neath the red and white and blue, And to all the world extending, 

Will our happiness pursue. 

May the Lord grant now that we may be loyal to our native land. 

Lives there a man with soul so dead, 

Who never to himself hath said, This is my own, my native land. 

Let there be no member of this Church who does not feel in his heart, "I'm going to be loyal and true to my Church for it is the Church and Kingdom of God." I endorse with all my heart the remarks that I have heard. 

The testimony that has just been borne by Elder George F. Richards regarding the leaders of this people from the Prophet Joseph Smith to our present leader and prophet — Heber J. Grant — is likewise my testimony, and I bear witness of it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang "And Then Shall Your Light Break Forth" (Mendelssohn). 

ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

To me the spot on which I stand in this historic building is hallowed, long since made so by the presence here of many great prophets and leaders who have gone to their reward. Among them were five presidents of the Church. So I never stand here to speak without feeling very humble and therefore dependent upon the Lord for whose inspiring Spirit I always most earnestly pray to help and guide me. 

THANKFUL FOR LEADERS 

I have been thrilled by things said at every session of this Conference. When I heard President Grant Friday morning read the masterly document by the First Presidency affecting the war situation and 11? 

President Clark give an able amplification of it, I thanked the Lord for our First Presidency. 

An outstanding theme of this Conference is the keeping of the two great commandments. I desire to make some remarks touching a few high points of a topic that has some relation to this theme. In these remarks I shall try to be plain and direct so as not to be misunderstood but entirely free from unfair or hurtful statements. I propose talking a few minutes about some purported causes of unemployment and to point out some conditions that must prevail if lasting remedies for unemployment are found. 

LATTER-DAY SAINT BELIEF PRACTICAL 

With true Latter-day Saints their religion is a very real thing. It is a part of their lives, entering as a guiding factor into every day life and setting up standards by which to measure the rightfulness of conduct. Hence they profess a religion that is very practical, one in which faith and works are inseparable. 

They accept the declaration of the Apostle James "that faith without works is dead." (Jas. 2:19.) It is therefore not uncommon for them to listen to speakers at religious services discuss affairs of every day life and indicate how religion has a bearing on them. Hence in the remarks I am about to make I trust I shall not depart too far from an occasional practice. 

WANT THE CAUSE OF UNREST IN THE WORLD 

Confusion, unrest, uncertainty, fear and warfare continue to characterize our times, both nationally and internationally. Within our own country the primary superficial cause may be ascribed to want in its many aspects — want of employment, want of money, want of security, want of power — to mention only a few of the many types of want. 

Labor wants employment and, in recent times, very often on its own terms. And if these are not forthcoming, strikes, struggles and fighting with all their attendant evils frequently take place. The want of money for one or more of the many things that money will buy is almost universal. And this want is often so intense that it employs any means deemed necessary to reach its objective, however criminal and wicked they may be. The want of power seems to be a desire growing apace with more and more people, and the want of security is a feeling common to everyone. 

Unemployment is an evil so old that its date is unknown. But in our fair land it has become a serious problem only in recent years. So new with us is the problem that we seem not to know how to solve it; at any rate, we cannot agree on methods of solution. The result is a lot of loose thinking and a fertile field for the propagation of demagoguery. 

It is frequently said that what we need to make us prosperous is more purchasing power in the hands of the people. But a statement of this obvious truth may not indicate how this power is to be secured. 

118 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 8 Third Day 

And here is where demagoguery enters with its fantastic solutions, some of which are well known and are urged to the entire satisfaction of many loose thinkers. 

FORCES WHICH CAUSE UNEMPLOYMENT 

But all will agree that need of employment is basic. The vast size of our unemployed rolls is sometimes ascribed to our super machine age which has resulted in releasing workers faster than it has absorbed them. 

Discussing this topic, an internationally known engineer and statesman in an address given a few weeks ago said the engineer through his development of huge tools has brought a social revolution into the world out of which have sprung a lot of problems. Nevertheless the use of these tools has vastly increased the freedom of man who is now able to produce fifty or even a thousand times more than before. The tools of industry are saving "rivers of sweat from the backs of men and infinite drudgery from the hands of women. * * * This engineers' revolution is the greatest emancipation of mankind from toil and worry in the history of the world," says this authority. 

But, he admits, this revolution has not been all satisfactions, for some free minds also invent new and ingenious forms of wickedness and they sometimes use the new tools to oppress and exploit their fellow men. 

Lately, he says, a clash of various forces has washed the nation up with 11,000,000 unemployed. Here enter the sociologists, the economists, and the politicians with their remedies. And some of them are not tied to facts, so they can be highly imaginative. "Being imaginative, they can be oratorical. Being oratorical, they can be impressionistic. And being impressionistic, the little questions of quantities and measurements do not dampen their spirits." 

So, our authority says, these loose thinkers accuse the engineers with loss of jobs due to new labor-saving devices. Yet we know that new inventions bring new articles, new industries and new services which make new demands for labor. As a matter of fact, he says, less than one-third of new inventions effect labor-saving; while two-thirds of them produce new articles and thus new jobs. 

REMEDIES SUGGESTED 

Now, while some people fear there are no new frontiers in sight — no important new discoveries and inventions to make that will open up new industries affording new employment — our authority believes the record does not justify these fears. He believes, however, that something has gone wrong in the functioning of industrial life. He points out that we have gone through nine years with seldom less than eleven million people out of employment. And to quote, "unless there be a better solution than the confused thinking now current, there are no productive jobs in sight for them." Hence, to continue quoting, "to 119  our people back to work is the vital humanitarian problem of our day." And "pending its solution," he says, "the Government must provide against destitution. But support by the Government can offer no security or hope of the future." 

He suggests that before a remedy can be found we go outside the field of mechanistic economics and demagogic politics and seek the help of the engineer, expecting him to find and study the facts and out of them evolve practical remedies. He believes that if this were done the engineer would find "the real cause and the solution for these 11,000,000 fellow Americans now in distress." 

I have thus given a very brief but perhaps inadequate abstract of some of the things Mr. Herbert Hoover said in an address printed in the August, 1939, number of Mining and Metallurgy, a technical journal. I refer to this address because it is a timely discussion of some phases of our greatest economic problem — unemployment. But I am sure there are some factors related to the problem that Mr. Hoover does not mention in his able address, possibly for lack of time. 

Mr. Hoover correctly points out that invention has opened up vast new industries and given jobs to millions of workers. But he admits there has been a lag of employment, and everyone knows it has been growing larger and more ominous. His proposed solution would undoubtedly be helpful but likely far from complete, unless, indeed, there were a revolution in men's attitude toward one another. 

Going back to June, 1928, we find the Reader's Digest presents a condensed article by Professor Irving Fisher under the title, "Full Employment — Prosperity's Problem." Among the statements he makes are the following : 

Secretary of Labor James J. Davis notes that during the recent marvelous progress in installing automatic machinery in industry, new industries have failed to develop fast enough to absorb the men dispensed with. The result is the anomaly of growing unemployment during an extended period of increased business activity. * * * Estimates of unemployment find that since 1923, the manufacturing industries have dispensed with a million workers, and the farms with another million, while during a period of record haulage railways have laid off 100,000 more. Another 100,000 have been laid off in the coal regions. To this total of 2,200,000 must be added the 1,000,000 already unemployed in 1923, and the increase of 3,000,000 more of employable age since 1923, due to growth in population. * * * The Labor Bureau conjectures that 4,000,000 workers remained unemployed at the close of 1927. * * * 

There is plenty of evidence that the increased output per worker accounts for a considerable displacement of men in industry. Federal Reserve Board figures indicate that between 1919 and 1929 t„he output per worker increased by 34% in factory production. The United States Labor Bureau puts the increase at 51%. Though industries have substantially . increased their production, the rapid mechanization of industry and better management methods have temporarily displaced men faster than new jobs could be created for them. 

Professor Fisher next outlines ways of absorbing labor, some of which have been in operation during the past ten years. But with what results? A reliable publication in the engineering field recently said 

120 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Day 

the "United States has five million more workers than 10 years ago (1929) but three million less on pay rolls," making 8 million more unemployed now than then. Thus our authorities point out that unemployment has been increasing during the past 20 years, notwithstanding new inventions and the resultant growth in new industries. Are we not cherishing a will-o'-the-wisp in our comforting hope that somehow new industries will solve the problem of unemployment? 

We now pass to another reference illuminating another phase to which unemployment is said to be due. 

In a recent article under the heading, "The Forgotten Public," William Starr Myers says in the July 6, 1939, number of Public Utilities that "recent legislation, designed to place in the hands of labor leaders every advantage possible and which at the same time deprives employers of reciprocal rights of any kind, makes it impossible for the employer to bargain on even terms with the representatives- of his employees. * * * In other words the employer is not now in a position to acquaint his employees with the real facts in any given situation." For under the law an employer cannot deal directly or indirectly with his employees, if they have chosen a union as their representative. The law as it now stands is charged with hampering employment. 

The facts are, it is said, unemployment in this country was never so great, amiable relations between capital and labor were never so poor, taxes were never so high, amounts paid for relief under one title or another were never so vast, the debts of the government never so enormous, struggles for place and power never so fierce, in short, the future outlook for a united, prosperous and happy country, governed along the lines indicated by our Constitution, was never so dark. 

But at best the situation is extremely complex. Certainly authors of panaceas that assume the situation is readily solvable must be classed as amiable cranks. But as I see it, in all the confusion, in all the struggles there stand out certain things when stripped of all their subterfuges and camouflages as clearly as a noon-day sun. What are they? My answer is greed and selfishness. Yes, I know there will be many denials of this harsh conclusion. But I believe the conclusion is correct just the same. 

METHODS OF LABOR UNIONS 

Labor unions are getting stronger and more numerous as time goes on. Labor is demanding more and more of the things it deems good to have — higher pay, shorter hours, closed shops, a larger voice in management and government. Many other organizations — those of professional, technical, skilled and vocational people — have likewise progressed in what practically amounts to the closed shop. These groups have used various methods to reach their ends — those deemed best suited to accomplish the purpose. They have gone to law-making bodies with pleas for license and regulatory laws, urging that the "public good" demands the enforcement of such laws. The public good is always held up 121  the motive, never any intimation given that the proponents want these laws — always containing a "grandfather's clause" — to keep their fields from becoming crowded by new entrants. For this purpose also standards of qualification of new entrants are raised from time to time. Then, when the supply of entrants is controlled, up go fees for service. Numerous illustrations will occur to all observers so specifications are unnecessary. In general the "ins" are always trying to stay in and the "outs" are always scheming to get in. 

STRUGGLES BETWEEN CAPITAL AND LABOR 

And so in all of these struggles what do we see? We see capital and management seemingly actively at work devising ways and means to produce, operate and get results with the fewest employees feasible. Local illustrations are the three million and seven million dollar projects, respectively, much heralded because temporarily they put people to work. It appears that ten million dollars will be profitably invested and yet no service to the public seems likely to be cheapened. But these investments will likely put many present employees out of work. Idle money goes to work, many needy employees go to idleness, public interests go to the discard, and the people seem to be lulled by the claim that progress requires these changes even though people suffer thereby. The thought that jobs come before modernity is ridiculed as archaic. 

But capital has its defense. The claim is that labor laws backed by oppressive and unreasonable demands of labor leaders drive management as far as possible from having anything to do with labor. 

In practice, then, the operations of both capital and labor multiply the difficulties affecting employment, thus increasing those for the public. Hence it seems both capital and labor are very unwise, childish and shortsighted — using mild terms — for out of their utter foolishness has largely grown the biggest and most difficult problem of our country — unemployment. And unless there is face-about by all concerned — and this includes the public — this problem will probably increase in magnitude and intensity with the passing years, and result in changing profoundly the order of society we inherited from the fathers. 

PEACE WILL COME THROUGH KEEPING GOD's LAWS 

In modern America the love of substance and power waxes hot while the love of man waxes cold, a condition that the Church Welfare Plan and the teachings of the Church are striving hard to correct among the Mormon people. What is the remedy for the conditions indicated? Fundamentally, I think, it is a deep and thorough-going repentance by all grades of society — the elimination of greed, selfishness and sin, the recognition of the truth that we have a Father in heaven, that all men are brothers, that righteousness only will bring peace and security to peoples and nations — this being the only basis upon which a peaceful, happy America can be built. Strong danger signals are flashing in every direction. Before it is too late let us in America promptly and sincerely 

122 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Dag 

turn to Christ our Redeemer and practice his teachings, that we might escape the calamities that otherwise will surely befall us. In other words, let us remember and keep the two great commandments, making these realities in our own lives and thus by example as well as precept teach them to others. I pray that we may so worthily approach our Heavenly Father that he will give us strength, wisdom and power to do these things, which I do in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

It is a source of great joy to me, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you this beautiful day in this great Conference in peace and security. We have occasion to rejoice in the conditions which surround us. Our communities are making steady progress in temporal and spiritual pursuits, in righteousness and peace. We are fortunate in being free from distress and trouble such as prevail in many other localities. I am grateful for these things. I desire in my heart to do that which will be for the greatest advancement of this work and for the welfare of this people, because I know that this work is true and that it is intended for the eventual salvation and exaltation of everyone who will accept and observe the eternal principles which lead into the presence of the Lord. 

APPRECIATION OF BLESSINGS 

I appreciate the kind consideration of my brethren of the First Presidency and that of the Council of the Twelve and all the other General Authorities of the Church. In like manner I am grateful for the confidence of all the people — the stake presidencies, the bishoprics, and all the other officers and the members throughout the Church. I desire in my heart and soul to give the very best that is in me to help to accomplish the work that is before us to do, because this work is a glorious work, and justifies every effort on our part to help to bring about those conditions which will promote the greatest unity, faith and love among this people and promote righteousness in the earth, and to encourage our fellowmen who are honest in heart to come to a knowledge and understanding of these divine principles which have been made known to us by the Lord. 

HONOR TO PARENTS 

The Lord has been very kind to me throughout my life. I have enjoyed many blessings, and I appreciate the opportunity of doing my part, in fulfilling my responsibility along with you in the accomplishment of the work that is before us. I have never sought for any place or position in this Church nor in life, but I have been greatly blessed. Many opportunities and privileges have been extended to me in the Church, and I have been placed in many positions of responsibility. 123 

I acknowledge the blessings of the Lord in great power upon me. Through the consideration of my brethren I have been given many opportunities for service. I was born of goodly parentage. I testify to you that my father and mother gave their lives for the welfare of the Church and the advancement thereof. They came to this western land as pioneers in 1847. They suffered many privations in their early lives, and gave their best efforts in endeavoring to advance this Cause. 

A LAND OF GREAT PROMISE 

This western hemisphere is a land of great promise. On this land the New Jerusalem will be founded. The predictions of prophets who lived upon this land of America some twenty-five hundred years ago, are clearly portrayed. When Lehi and his family came from Jerusalem toward the promised land of America, the Lord revealed to Nephi the following: "Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper and shall be led to a land of promise, yea, even a land which I have prepared for you, yea, a land choice above all other lands." Again he declared through the Prophet Lehi (II Nephi 1:6, 7), these words: 

"Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord. 

"Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity." 

Again the Lord spoke to Jacob in that same period as follows (II Nephi 10 :19) : "Wherefore, I will consecrate this land unto thy seed, and them who shall be numbered among thy seed, forever, for the land of their inheritance; for it is a choice land, saith God unto me, above all other lands, wherefore I will have all men that dwell thereon that they shall worship me, saith God." 

The Prophet Jacob speaks further (II Nephi 10:10-13): "But behold, this land, said God, shall be a land of thine inheritance, and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon the land. 

"And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles. 

"And I will fortify this land against all other nations. 

"And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God." 

AVOID ENTANGLING ALLIANCES 

These are a few of the significant promises that have been made with regard to this Western hemisphere and the people who shall dwell upon the same. Promises have been made that if they will do the will of the Lord, if they shall serve him, they shall receive many blessings; and if, on the other hand, they fail to observe these laws, principles, and commandments, they shall fail of the blessings. Inasmuch as we are 

124 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Dag 

told the Lord will fortify this land against all other nations, is it not true conversely, that the Lord will not have us, the peoples of these lands, make any entangling alliances with those who dwell upon the other hemisphere ? It is our responsibility to be true to these principles and the order of these lands upon which we dwell; and with all due respect to the other lands, that we shall not enter in any agreements or connections with them that will in any way interfere with our continuing to follow the laws and instructions of the Lord regarding this promised land. I believe that this concerns us. I think that the present conditions under which we live indicate plainly that we are justified in maintaining a loyal attitude toward these nations and a neutral attitude toward all other nations, in order that this land of America — this promised land — shall become a place for the growth and development of the people who shall dwell here, and who, if they desire to enjoy the blessings of God, shall receive promises and blessings which will come to them only through the observance of righteousness, good will, and kindliness. So, there is a charge placed upon every human soul who comes here; and I think we ought to sense the importance of encouraging this nation and every nation upon this hemisphere to follow up their opportunity and seek to live righteously, justly, and fairly. We sing that beautiful song, "God Bless America," and in connection therewith we desire the blessing for this great land. There is a responsibility upon the people of these countries to fulfil conditions which will enable us best to accomplish the purposes for which we are here. 

THE JAMESTOWN COLONY 

In that connection I am reminded of a promise made some twentytwo hundred years later, or about three hundred years ago. At that time what was known as the Jamestown Colony came to America; and the London Council of Virginia, through whom they were sent, gave them instructions. They came under very auspicious circumstances. They were the first permanent English settlement upon this land. They started out, apparently, with great promise of the future. These words of instruction were given to them at that time : 

"Lastly, and chiefly, the way to prosper and achieve good success is to make yourselves all of one mind for the good of your country and your own, and to serve and fear God, the Giver of all goodness; for every plantation which our Heavenly Father hath not planted shall be rooted out." 

I say they were the first permanent English settlement upon this land; but they did not last a very great length of time. Twelve years after they arrived here in 1619, the first legislative assembly upon this continent was established, and in the same year slavery was first adopted in these thirteen colonies. In 1676, some seventy years after they came here, they were practically destroyed through Bacon's Rebellion, apparently because they had failed to live up to the principles and qualities which promised them permanence of settlement. 125 

BLESSINGS COME ONLY THROUGH ACCEPTANCE OF PROMISES 

I would like to call your attention to the fact that in all these lands of this western hemisphere, as well as all over the world, the Lord desires the welfare and progress of mankind, but, in desiring that welfare and progress, there are several conditions which must be fulfilled; and the main condition is that they must live in harmony with the will of the Lord and seek to do that which he desires all mankind to do — to accept the principles of righteousness and truth and observe them. That challenge is to every man and woman in this nation and on this continent, and to the American people especially we desire to call attention to the fact that they shall receive blessings upon this land through the observance of the will of the Lord, and to them especially is charged the responsibility of living in harmony with these conditions. 

EXERCISE OF FREE AGENCY IN RIGHTEOUSNESS 

And then, finally, it is of the utmost importance to every one of us as Latter-day Saints to realize that only through serving God do we gain true success and liberty. We have received these covenants; we have received these blessings; we realize how important they are for our welfare and for the welfare of every human soul. We sense the fact that promises that the Lord has made are being fulfilled upon those who are endeavoring to do his will and keep his commandments. The right of choice is ours as to whether we will do his will or that of the adversary. The Lord will not exert any compulsion, and the Evil One cannot, except as we yield to his temptation. I pray that the Lord may help us to sense how important it is that we should live up to every expectation, fulfil every requirement, live in harmony with every principle of truth and righteousness that is intended for the welfare, progress and advancement of the work of the Lord in this land and in these latter days, in the fulfilment of his promises in this dispensation of the fullness of times. 

I desire to testify to you that this work is true; that it is the fullness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that the work done by the Prophet Joseph Smith is true; that he was endowed with the spirit and power of his calling; that he was the instrument in the hands of the Lord in instituting this work in the fullness of times for the blessings and salvation of mankind. I know that our Eternal Father lives and that his Son, Jesus Christ, our Redeemer and the Mediator between us and our Father, lives and will be the means of bringing to pass righteousness in these days to all those who live in harmony with his principles. I desire to live to be worthy of the blessings of the Lord and the confidence of you, my brethren and sisters, throughout my life. I do it and ask it all in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

At the request of President Grant, the audience arose and, with the Choir, sang the hymn, "God Moves in a Mysterious Way." 

126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Day 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I have rejoiced exceedingly in the rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord in our meetings of this Conference. I am .very grateful for the address of the First Presidency that I had the privilege of reading here at the beginning of the Conference. I am very grateful for the remarkable and wonderful talks of President Clark and President McKay, and I am grateful for all the other fine speeches that we have had. 

CONFERENCES BLESSED OF THE LORD 

Year after year it has seemed to me that each Conference we have had has been almost superior, at least fully the equal of any that have gone before, and each year I have wondered if we would reach the same heights of inspiration and blessings of the Lord in our Conferences, and I feel that we have not been lacking in this great Conference. In my judgment the Lord has seen fit to pour out his Spirit in great abundance upon us in these times. 

PLANS LAID BY JOSEPH SMITH CARRIED OUT 

I am truly grateful for the safe arrival of our missionaries from Europe. Nearly all of them are here now. I am very grateful indeed for every blessing that the Lord has seen fit to bestow upon his people. We have been a blessed people from the day that we arrived in this section of the country. The Lord led the people here under the inspiration of Brigham Young, and the Lord has blessed the individual management of the various presidents of this Church from the days of Brigham Young until now. The reason that the Lord has blessed us is that we as a people have tried to carry out the advice, counsel, and plans of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In no one thing did Brigham Young attempt to claim that in the organization set up and the plans that were made he was doing anything more than building upon the foundation laid by the Prophet Joseph Smith, under the inspiration of the Lord. 

When we stop to think of the marvelous work that the Prophet Joseph did, sometimes I wonder how any man of intelligence can look into the life of that man, can know of his imprisonment, of the drivings, of the persecutions, of the tarring and feathering, of the sentence of death having been passed upon him, and then read the wonderful things that we have in the Doctrine and Covenants — I cannot understand how any reasonable man can fail to acknowledge the inspiration of the Lord in his accomplishments. I cannot understand how any intelligent man could think that any man without the help of the Lord could have produced the Book of Mormon which has been before us now for more than a hundred years and has stood the test during all that period of time, notwithstanding the ridicule that has been brought against it, for one reason and then another. Today that book which was translated by Joseph Smith as the instrumentality of the Lord stands out supreme. 127 

It is today the greatest missionary that we have for proclaiming this Gospel, there is nothing else to compare with it. 

I rejoice in my acquaintance with Brigham Young as a child and later as a man. He loved little children dearly, as did my father, from what everyone tells me. Father made the remark that he did not believe anyone loved little children more than did he. 

I was about to say something, but I do not think it is worthy of it, relative to remarks made about my father. It takes dogs to bark, of course they are necessary, and it is just as well to let them bark, because barking does not hurt anybody, just so long as we keep the dogs far enough away that they do not bite. 

COMMENDATION FOR CHOIRS 

I rejoice in our wonderful Choir. I rejoice in the fine management of this Choir and our fine organists. I rejoice in our having such fine groups of singers in different parts of Utah that we can bring here to sing for us. I do not think there is another people in the world of the same number that can begin to compare with our people as congregational singers. I do not think we can find them anywhere else. 

CHOIR AT THE WORLD'S FAIR IN 1893 

I rejoice in the statement made that if we had had justice given to us way back in 1893 we would have won the first prize for the best chorus of 250 voices. The manager of one of the greatest booking agencies in New York — Major Pond — said after the contest: 

"My, I am glad I was not the judge, I would have had to give the prize to those awful Mormons." 

The Scranton Choir engaged fifty voices from Wales because they were afraid of our choir. The Choir was permitted to give concerts to help pay their expenses before the contest, and the Pennsylvania people were so frightened that they hired the fifty best voices from Wales to help them out, and the Major said : "Those fifty voices upset the perfect harmony of the four parts, and it was not so good a choir with those voices as it was without them." And that is the exact criticism that I received from one of my lifelong nearest and dearest and most closely associated friends, the late Horace G. Whitney, who managed the Choir upon that occasion. I was in New York, the panic was on, and I was there laboring to obtain money with which to keep myself and others alive financially. Horace wrote to me and said : 

"Heber, I would have been satisfied had they put the $1000.00 and the $5000.00 prizes together and divided the amount, but it was an outrage to give the first prize to the other choir; we were better than the other choir." 

I wrote and said : "My dear Bud : You know they say, love is blind, cannot smell nor hear. You came up as a child under Stephens' training. You learned to love him with all your heart, you love the choir, and I shall have to vote, seeing yoji would have been satisfied with half the 

128 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday, October 8 Third Dag 

amount if they had put the two prizes together — -I shall have to vote with the committee that gave it to Scranton." 

Two days later — being in New York at the time, and being the president of the Salt Lake Theatre and familiar with musical people, — I learned of Major Pond's criticism. So I wrote to Bud: "You can hear, and you can smell, and you made a fair decision." 

GRATEFUL FOR WORK OF CHURCH MUSICIANS 

I rejoice in the splendid work that has been done. I feel a debt of gratitude to our singers. I feel a debt of gratitude to Evan Stephens, George Careless, to Ebenezer Beesley, Joseph Daynes, and others who have given us the beautiful music that we have. I am grateful to them. These selections lift us up, and they build us up. The Lord says that the song of the righteous is a prayer unto him, and I love to hear these beautiful prayers. I never get tired of them. I want you to know that I am sure I sing or repeat this song to myself ("God Moves in a Mysterious Way") four or five times a week regularly, and I never hear it, I never sing it and I never read it that I do not thank God for the splendid words. There is nothing truer than the last verse : 

Blind unbelief is sure to err, And scan His work in vain; God is his own interpreter, And He will make it plain. 

A MIGHTY PEOPLE 

God predicted things through the Prophet Joseph Smith that have been fulfilled. He said that "the Saints should continue to suffer much affliction and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains. Many would apostatize, others would be put to death by our persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease, and some would go to assist in making settlements and building cities and see the Saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." 

Are we a mighty people ? We are. 6800 men holding the priesthood were in this building last night. No other people in the world like us; no other people with the power that we have here, because we are following a prophet of the living God, the man whom God chose to organize this Church, and whom he visited and to whom he introduced his beloved Son. I have met hundreds of men who have said, "If it were not for Joseph Smith I could accept your religion." Any man who does not believe in Joseph Smith as a prophet of the true and the living God has no right to be in this Church. That revelation to Joseph Smith is the foundation stone. If Joseph Smith did not have that interview with God and Jesus Christ the whole Mormon fabric is a failure and a fraud. It is not worth anything on earth. But God did come, God did introduce his Son, God did inspire that man to organize the Church of Jesus Christ, and all the opposition of the world is not able to withstand the truth. It is flourishing, it is growing, and it will grow more. I know 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 129 

Sunday. October 8 Third Day 

beyond a shadow of doubt of the divinity of this work in which we are engaged. It is one of the joys of my life at home and abroad, in private and in public to testify that I know as well as I know that I live, that God lives, that he hears and answers our prayers. He has heard and answered mine from childhood until the present day. He heard and answered the prayers of that beloved mother of mine. Under the inspiration of the living God she planted in my heart a love of truth, a love, of God, a love of the Prophet Joseph. Her description of that man was that he was one of the finest, one of the most wonderful men she had ever laid eyes upon. She knew as she knew that she lived that he was a prophet of God. And she knew that Brigham Young was his successor. Why? Because she was in Nauvoo when Brigham Young stood up and was transfigured in voice and form before the people, and the mantle of the Prophet Joseph fell upon him when Sidney Rigdon, in good plain English, tried to steal the Church. 

BLESSINGS PROMISED THOSE WHO LIVE THE GOSPEL 

May the Lord bless us and guide us by his Spirit. So far as I am entitled to do so I pray God for his Spirit to bless each and all of you. I pray God for you one and all to love this Gospel, to think of it as of more value than anything else in all the world, and that is what it is. To know that if we keep the commandments of God we shall go back into his presence; to know that we are joint heirs with Jesus Christ if we only live the Gospel; to know that this is truly the Gospel of Jesus Christ is worth more than anything else in all the wide world. 

I pray God to bless each and every one of us who have the knowledge of the divinity of this work. May we grow and increase in that knowledge, and above all, may we live it, that our lives may proclaim it, I ask it in the name of our Redeemer, Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang the anthem, "The Heavens are Telling the Glory of God" (Haydn). 

President Heber J. Grant pronounced the benediction. Conference adjourned for six months. 

The musical exercises at the Friday sessions were furnished by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, Charlotte O. Sackett, Conductor; at the Saturday sessions by the Branch Agricultural College Chorus, of Cedar City, Utah, William H. Manning, Conductor; and at the Sunday sessions by the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor. The congregational singing was directed by J. Spencer Cornwall and Richard P. Condie. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Alexander Schreiner and Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. 

INDEX 

Anderson, Elder Joseph 41 

Ashton, Elder Marvin 0 59 

A tribute to people in far-away stakes, 60 — Present problems to be faced, 60 — Self-examination urged, 61— Following a leader, 61 — Responsibility of leadership, 62 — The drink evil points to a downward course, 63. 

Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 2 

Bailey, Elder W. Francis 49 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O. 76 

Present need of the world, 76 — Observance of God's laws brings happiness, 77 — Personal visits of the Father and the Son, 78. 

Bowen, Elder Albert E 91 

Uncertainty affects mankind, 91 — Man finds way to conquer ills, 91 — Men's acts cause suffering, 92 — Remedy given in Christ's teachings, 92 — Jesus pointed the true way, 93 — Power of public opinion, 94 — Keeping God's commandments will bring peace, 95. 

Callis, Elder Charles A. 18 

Desire for immortality natural, 18 — A school-boy's faith, 19 — The Brother of Jared's experience, 19 — Experiences with the dying, 20 — Knowledge gained to continue after death, 20 — Elijah's mission, 21. 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 122 

Appreciation of blessings, 122 — A land of great promise, 123 — Avoid entangling alliances, 123 — The Jamestown Colony, 124 — Exercise of free agency in righteousness, 125. 

Changes in Officers 5 

Church of the Air Broadcast 96 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr. 9 

Constitution inspired, 10 — A nation with Christian standards, 10 — Declaration of belief, 10 — Dangers threaten, 11 — Warning against false impressions, 11 — War and its causes, 12 — A natural choice, 13 — America's position in European affairs, 14 — Neutrality violations, 14 — America, the great neutral, 15 — A great part to play, 15 — Freedom in domestic policy, 15 — Protection of the weak, 16 — Plagues which follow war, 17. 

Clawson, President Rudger 27 

Study of Doctrine and Covenants urged, 28 — Importance of revelations, 29 — Daniel's prophecy, 30 — A marvelous work, 30 — Riches of eternal life, 31. 

Evans, Elder Richard L 86 

Our message not of man, 86 — Faith a sure foundation for knowledge, 87 — Happiness the goal of real progress, 87 — A lesson taught in a story, 88 — Harmony of faith and knowledge the hope of the world, 89. 

Eyring, Elder Carl F 47 

Grant, President Heber J —. 9 

Blesses those who keep the laws of God, 9. 131 

Grant, President Heber J 43 

Gratitude for outpouring of spirit at conference meetings, 43- — Praise for authorities of Church past and present, 43 — Latter-daySaints becoming known, 43 — A minister's perfidy, 44. 

Grant, President Heber J 106 

Excuses absentees, 106. Grant, President Heber J 106 

Expressed gratitude for the Tabernacle Choir, 106. 

Grant, President Heber J. 126 

Conferences blessed of the Lord, 126 — Plans laid by Joseph Smith carried out, 126 — Commendation for choir, 127 — Choir at the World's Fair in 1893, 127— Grateful for work of Church musicians, 128 — A mighty people, 128 — Blessings promised those who live the Gospel, 129. 

Hardy, Elder Rufus K 37 

A Fourth of July incident, 37 — Responsibility of preaching the truth, 38 — Success of early missionaries, 37 — Successful Stake missionary work, 39 — Words of advice from the Lord, 39. 

Hinckley, Elder Bryant S 34 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 31 

Gratitude for membership in the Church, 3 — Purpose in Joseph Smith's first vision, 32 — Principles and ordinances of the Gospel bring joy, 32 — The purposes of baptism, 33 — Grateful for the Priesthood, 34. 

Larson, Elder Gustive O. 51 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 55 

A tribute to the memory of Melvin J. Ballard, SS — Studying and understanding the scriptures, 55 — Opportunities for religious training, 55 — The Bible as a teacher, 56 — Statements of scholars, 57 — Methods of studying the scriptures, 57 — A study of the scriptures urged, 58 — Benefit of memorizing the scriptures, 58 — Love necessary to world peace, 59. 

McKay, President David O. 101 

Jesus' prayer for unity, 101 — Unityin the home, 102 — Unity in Church organizations, 102 — Unpatriotic activities a menace to free government, 102 — Washington's greatest trial, 103 — AntiAmericanism sowing discord, 103 — A statement as to communism, 104 — Warning to Latter-day Saints, 104 — Importance of upholding the Constitution, 105. 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F. 116 

Thankful for leaders, 116 — Latter-day Saint belief practical, 117  — Want, the cause of unrest in the world, 117 — Forces which cause unemployment, 118 — Remedies suggested, 118 — Methods of Labor Unions, 120 — Struggles between capital and labor, 121 — Peace will come through keeping God's laws, 121. 

National Broadcast 95 

Recs, Elder Alfred C. - 71 

Richards, Elder George F 107 

Testimony of the truth of the Latter-day work, 107 — Safety in keeping commandments of God, 108 — Purpose of life on earth, 108 — The Spirit of God unfolds meaning of scriptures, 109 — The work for the dead important, 109 — Redemption through Jesus Christ, 110 — Love shown by service, 111. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Richards, Elder LeGrand 22 

An increase of faith needed, 22 — A lack of faith among youth of the Church brings reproach, 23 — Value of patriarchal blessings, 24 — Faith-promoting incidents, 24 — Promises of the Lord sure of fulfillment, 26 — Living faith a saving power, 27. 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 64 

One method of increasing prosperity, 64 — Happiness in honest labor, 65 — Skilled labor defined, 66 — Capitalism in its true sense, 67 — The need for cooperation, 67 — The Gospel of Work, 68 — Education in economics urged, 68 — Results of unfair methods, 69 — Elements of success, 70 — Peace rests upon economic foundation, 70 — The duty of Church members, 71. 

Smoot, Elder Reed 45 

The World War and its debt, 43 — Brigham Young's statement about religion, 44— A writer's opinion on present conditions, 46 — Conditions following War, 46 — -Blessings of God have been with the Latter-day Saints, 47. 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 112 

Love of truth shown b3' obedience, 112 — Grateful for Church and country, 112 — The Lord's covenants with His chosen people, 112, — America the land of Joseph, 113 — Books divine, 114 — blessings of liberty, 115. 

Wirthlin, Elder Joseph L 80 

Grateful for blessings, 80 — Seeds of good and evil, 80 — The home university, 80 — Fundamentals in training of children, 81 — Testimony comes through revelation, 81 — Advantages of a Latter-day Saint home, 82 — Greatness of the Constitution to be taught, 82— Warning against unpatriotic doctrines, 84 — True intelligence, 84 — -Home training important, 84 — The Lord's law of health, 85 — Preparation for leadership,' 85. 

Woodruff, Elder Elias S. 40 

(Book, 

diswudqujcUd&hjiL, 

The Deseret Book Company is headquarters for all L. D. S. publications, as well as for general books of every kind. We especially call your attention to the following books, on sale here: 

Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by John A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

Priesthood and Church Welfare 

(Specially priced while they last 90c — 6 for $5.00 

A Rational Theology 

by J. A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid) 

A Century of Mormonism in Great Britain, 

by Richard L. Evans $1.25 (postpaid) 

Romance of the Book of Mormon, 

by Josiah E. Hickman $2.50 (postpaid) 

Progress of Man, 

by Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 (postpaid) 

Whatever your book needs, consult us first. We have the most comprehensive stock of books in the intermountcdn region, and we specialize in books about the Mormons and the West. We invite your inquiries. 

Prompt Service by Mail. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Taken from his sermons and writings as they are found in the Documentary History and other publications of the Church and written or published in the days of the Prophet's ministry 

Selected and arranged by the Historian, Joseph Fielding Smith, and his Assistants in the Historian's Office of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Many of these discourses and writings appear in the Documentary History of the Church, but others have not been included in these volumes, but are scattered through the early publications of the Church. It has been difficult even for the student to obtain these because the old publications are not accessible for general use. 

SPECIALLY PRICED AT $2.00 

Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns 

(Their Authors and Composers) 

GEORGE D. PYPER 

"The Latter-day Saints have always been a singing people. Some of their greatest sermons and messages have come through the avenue of song." 

So writes the author, George D. Pyper, in this fascinating story of an essential feature in the lives of a culture loving people. 

Well illustrated throughout, this work will take a high place in literary circes, and will win a permanent spot in the hearts of all lovers of great and good music. 

PRICE— $2.00 

LIFE OF JOSEPH F. SMITH 

Sixth President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints By JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

From the day of his birth until the day of his passing — four score years — there was scarcely a day that was not filled with intense and interesting activity. He commenced life in the midst of tribulation and dark persecution, and through the greater part of his life he was called upon to face the spirit of hate and wickedness, to a degree almost beyond human endurance. 

This volume dedicated to a man among men with the faith of the prophets of old. Its worth in your library is incomprehensible and its presence, when read, will give words of wisdom and words of courage. 

PRICE— $2.50 

DESERET BOOK COMPMY Salt Lake City, Utah 







