13
Afternoon
06 10 1917
President Joseph F. Smith. 
36
61-62

None

None

A FEARLESS DEFENDER OF THE FAITH  
  
Brother Watts was an older man than I was when we were on our mission together. I always found him to be a very staunch and fearless defender of the faith, and I was only too pleased to grant his desire to say a few words at this conference. He is a good, true man.  
 
A MESSAGE FROM SENATOR SMOOT  
  
I have received the following telegram:  
  
"Washington, D. C, Oct. 6, 1917. President Joseph F. Smith, etc.:  
  
"Nothing but national duty would prevent me from attending the conference. Am over-worked but otherwise feeling well. Extend my best wishes and love to the people. May God's choicest blessings attend them and may his Holy Spirit direct his people in the future as in the past. — Reed Smoot."  
  
A CAUTION TO VISITORS  
  
I have in my hand a notice, a little paper, which reads as follows:  
  
"Would it not be a proper thing to caution our country folks not to allow their daughters to visit indiscriminately about the city and at the Fort, without proper escort? The officers say many of them are doing so."  
  
I hope that our country visitors will pay attention to that caution, it is a very proper caution, in my opinion.  
  
I thank the Lord for the most excellent spirit and the very fitting subjects that have been dwelt upon by our brethren today in this conference. I am gratified with the careful attention and interest that has been manifested by the Latter-day Saints to those who have addressed them, and I do sincerely hope that the sentiments that have been expressed, instructions that have been given and the admonition, the counsel and the advice of the brethren and the doctrines which have been promulgated by them will sink deeply into the hearts of the Latter-day Saints; and if such a thing be possible, that the same may touch the hearts, the calloused hearts, the thoughtless hearts and minds of those who are indifferent to the duties of men toward their fellow men, and especially those who are indifferent as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the duties that devolve upon them, or should devolve upon them as members of the Church.  
  
God bless you; peace and prosperity abide with you in your outgoing and in your in-coming, in your business and in the performance of your religious duty and in every vocation and avocation of life in which you are engaged, that you may prosper therein, and in all things give thanks to God and glorify the name of the Giver of every good and perfect gift. Amen. 
