23
Outdoor
07 10 1917
Elder Joseph R. Shepherd. 
76
97-98

None

None

(President of the Bear Lake Stake.) 

This is certainly a very inspiring audience assembled in the open air at this meeting, and I pray, for the few moments that I stand before you, that I may enjoy the inspiration of our heavenly Father.  
  
At every conference of the Church there seems to me to be some special message to the Saints, and at this conference, the thought that has come to me is this, that in our day we have prophets of God, who speak the mind and will of God to the people, and that we should hearken unto them. We read in the ancient scriptures that one, a very wise man, said that a prophet is not without honor save in his own country. How true this is! It is as true today as it was when it was first spoken. When I heard the testimonies of our leading brethren, concerning the prophets of this dispensation and their ministry, this thought came to me, that now, when some of the modern prophets are dead, we are beginning to look to their words and take heed, while probably in the day in which they were spoken, they were not heeded to such an extent.  
  
It is a very strange thing that in order that we shall pay respect and reverence for the prophets of God, that they must be ancient or must have lived hundreds of years ago. We will go to the scriptures and read what the prophets have said thousands of years ago, and ponder over their words and try to undertand what was meant by what they said; and yet today, when the prophets speak to us, we do not take that same care, and we do not pay that same reverence to their words. This is a human failing, and I take it that the word of the Lord to the people today is this, "Hearken unto the words of the prophets of God who are among you. Listen to their warning voice, for they speak the word of God just as truly as did the prophets of old."  
  
The Latter-day Saints today are reading the Book of Doctrine and Covenants probably to a greater extent than it has ever been read. Why? Because they are just beginning to find out that God revealed to his servant, the Prophet Joseph Smith, many things pertaining to this world and to the condition of the world, and the things that were about to come upon the rations of the earth. We read it before, but we paid little attention to it. We did not attach the importance to it some years ago that we do today, and when I heard in the tabernacle yesterday extracts from the Book of Doctrine and Coveants, I was impressed how literally the words of the Lord, through his servant the Prophet Joseph Smith, are being fulfilled right in our day. We know it, we testify to it, awl the half has not yet been told.  
  
Search the scriptures, modern scriptures as well as ancient, and there you will find food that will be profitable for you to digest, and to profit thereby. Hear the words of the Lord as they are given to you through his servants, and then you will be prepared for the things that are about to come to you and to the nations of the earth. My testimony to you today, my brethren and sisters and those who may not be members of the Church, is that there are today men who are prophets of God, just as much as any who have lived formerly upon the face of this earth, and they speak the word of God to you. Their words are full of meaning, full of light, and if you take the same care and patience, and have the same faith in what they say, as we exercise in what has been said thousands of years ago, we will be profited thereby. Hear the words of the Lord through his servants, and you will be blessed. I bear my testimony of these things to you, and I pray God to make us faithful, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
