24
Outdoor
07 10 1917
Elder Heber C. Austin. 
87
99-100

None

None

(President of the Bingham Stake) 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that it is a very trying ordeal for me to follow such men as President Hart and President Shepherd, who have had so much experience in public life. I trust I shall be able to say a few words, by the aid and assistance of the Spirit of the Lord. I bear testimony to the truths that have been spoken by these men.  
  
I learn that the keynote of this conference, to the Latter-day Saints is that they shall keep the commandments of the Lord; that they shall be obedient unto those things that we have been called to and have accepted.  
  
In the Mutual Improvement meeting this morning, we were discussing, in addition to this, some of our duties as citizens of this great nation of which we form a part; and I was impressed with the desire of the leaders of the Church to stimulate loyalty in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, to our Nation in this day of our tribulations. Our special attention was called, my friends, to the purchasing of Liberty Bonds, this second issue of Liberty Bonds now being placed before the American people for purchase. A resolution was passed there this morning that we would all do our uttermost in the purchase of these bonds. We would not only advise our friends and neighbors, but we would purchase ourselves, and would show our loyalty by our actions. We have always believed, and it has always been the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints, that "Mormonism" should be reflected in the lives of its people.  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, I am delighted with the growth and development of this Church, with the testimony of our brethren concerning increased desires for righteousness and good works.  
  
I, too, come from the north, and I am a neighbor of President Hart and President Shepherd, and I want to testify to the truthfulness of President Hart's words concerning the growth and development of the Latter-day work in that country. We have today in the sixteen stakes of Zion in Idaho, 80,000 Latter-day Saints. Nearly all of them have gone there and have grown up there in the last twenty or twenty-five years. We are endeavoring to do our part to wield an influence among those people, that shall be calculated to place the Latter-day Saints in their proper light; and ,ye are successful, we are laboring and living in peace and quietude with our neighbors. There is no contention, the old anti-"Mormon" feeling that used to exist a few years ago is all passed away and we hear nothing of it any more. We are pleased at this condition, we recognize the hand of the Lord in it, and we recognize that the Lord has brought our opposers to a better understanding of the motives of the Latter-day Saints; and when our motives are understood by those not of us, they will judge us righteously and give us the credit due us.  
  
You know, my brethren and sisters, what "Mormonism" stands for — for the ideal type of citizenship, for the ideal type of good living, better living, the proper rearing of our children, that we may make not only consistent Latter-day Saints of our boys and girls, but the most ideal citizens, loyal to our land, our flag, and able and willing to defend the country. We of all other people believe in the divinity of the Constitution of the United States. There is no other people who believe that the Lord inspired men to write the Constitution of the United States as do the Latter-day Saints; and we believe that this great instrument shall be perpetuated, and that the liberties of the people of this country shall always be maintained. We believe that this is a land preserved by the Lord until this day and generation when he should re-establish his work. With these ideals, we could not do anything else than right. I shall give way because you are all waiting to hear Major Roberts talk to you. God bless you. Amen. 