26
Outdoor
07 10 1917
Elder Rulon S. Wells. 
44
105-107

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I have been very greatly impressed by the remarks of Elder Roberts, with the grandeur, the greatness, and the majesty of God. He was quoting from this good book which I hold in my hand, The Pearl of Great Price. The closing part of his quotation reads as follows: "For behold this is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." What is the work of God? is so well answered in these few words that I hardly need make further comment; and yet we were also impressed with this thought, in regard to the work of God, when Elder Roberts pointed out to us the splendors of the universe, these heavenly bodies which we behold every night of our lives when we look out into the universe, each one performing its regular functions in its respective orbit, and when we behold the sun at noonday, and admire its splendor and grandeur, and all these creations above us, as well as beneath us: the earth upon which we stand: "All these are also a part of the work of God." Yet great and glorious as are these splendid creations around and about us, above us and beneath us, the greatness of the work of God is this, "to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man."  
  
What? you mean to say that that is a greater work than the creation of the heavens and the earth? By far, my brethren and sisters; greater than the making of a world, greater than the creation of the universe, is the bringing to pass of the immortality and eternal life of our Father's children; for it was to this end that these heavenly planets were created, a preliminary to the accomplishment of God's great work. It was essential that they should he made to become the dwelling places of our Father's children; and their habitations, their dwellings, their abode is not greater than the children themselves; and to bring to pass their immortality and their eternal life, is greater than all the rest. The one is but a preliminary arrangement for the accomplishment of that greater purpose. When we dwelt in the presence of the Father, in that primeval day when the morning stars sang for joy and all the sons of God shouted together — it was then that the proclamation was made that the Lord would save his children through obedience to the gospel, and give unto them their freedom, their free-agency, indicating God's purpose that his children should be free, free to chose the right or wrong as they might elect for themselves. In the exercise of that freedom, granted unto all, the Lord proposed to bring to pass their immortality and their eternal life.  
  
What is the difference between immortality and eternal life? To bring to pass the immortality of man what is needful? All men are subject to death. You cannot accomplish the immortality of your own soul, but that has been brought to pass through the atonement of Christ, for he said, "Here am I, send me." And the Lord sent his Only Begotten Son into the world, who gave his life that we might live again. He overcame death and the grave; and through that atonement was brought to pass that great part of God's work which we call the immortality of man.  
  
There is still something other than immortality — it is to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man. Well, what is immortality, says one? Is not that to live on eternally? Indeed it is. And eternal life? Does that not mean immortality? Yes, eternal life means all that is included in immortality, but immortality does not include all that is meant in eternal life, and when we speak of eternal life and immortality, they are two separate things. To bring to pass the immortality of man has been accomplished by the atonement of Christ without any effort upon our part; but if we are to obtain eternal life, then we must co-operate with God and he will bring to pass that eternal life in his presence. To live not only as immortal beings, living continually, but to live with him in his celestial kingdom, that is eternal life, and can only be accomplished through obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Thereby will God accomplish this, his great work, through bringing to pass the immortality of his children and their eternal life, for which the worlds were created, and for which we have come down in these mortal tabernacles and are commanded to yield obedience to the will of God, obedience to his glorious gospel, the perfect law of liberty which is indeed the power of God unto salvation.  
  
God help us to appreciate that glorious gospel and that great work of our Father which he has instituted in his great universe for the salvation, the exaltation, the eternal life of his children. Amen. 
