28
Second Overflow
07 10 1917
Elder Charles H. Hart.
11
112-116

None

None

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

Brother Ballard has eloquently presented to us some of the spiritual ideals of the Church. I rejoice in the fact that the gospel is very broad in its scope, that it reaches the highest spiritual ideals and at the same time deals with the practical affairs of life. Some young people have a notion that religion is for the old — those who are approaching their graves, and that it js not for the young and vigorous. The truth is that the gospel is the philosophy of true living, for the young as well as the old.  
  
Our religion is of a practical nature. It has within it the power to grapple with the every day problems of life, no matter how they may be thrown upon us, and to correctly solve these problems. We have had within the last six months an illustration of this. On the historical 6th of April, the official declaration was made that a state of war existed between the Imperial Government of Germany and the United States, and on that very day the prophet of the Lord, his counselors, and the Twelve, assembled in general conference, struck the key-note of the situation so accurately that up to the present time it can not be improved upon. Some ten days before the President of the United States issued his food production and conservation message, a great state paper, President Smith and the brethren had given substantially the same advice to their people. Before President Wilson set apart a certain Sabbath day for the Sunday school children of this nation to make contributions to the Red Cross, President Smith and his associates had already set apart that identical Sunday for subscriptions by the children of this Church. While President Heber J. Grant announced in advance by way of promise, that $5,000 would be given by our Sunday school children; more than twice that amount was contributed by them.  
  
The Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Lane, in his talk in the Tabernacle the other night gave words of encouragement to the people of Utah. He said the people on the sidewalks and all the throng who came to see the parade of our soldier boys were happy, eager and enthusiastic to look at. He saw no tears, no sad faces. They were all in sympathy with the spirit of the soldiers who were parading. Everywhere were smiling faces, showing a determination to win and to stand behind the boys. He said further "With your great development of these fruitful valleys in the establishment of this great state, you have built up a community of rarely satisfied people." He did not mean by that word "rarely," seldom, but he meant unusually. "Just why that is so I don't know, but it is a fact, and one for which we are to be profoundly glad, and it makes for untold wealth of the people; and more than any other one thing is this spirit on the part of your people precious. From Utah we have had less complaint in Washington about the use of the money that Uncle Sam is handling than from any other western state. That is an expression on the part of the people, and a thing that stands out plainest and shows patriotism and a fine spirit is that they are willing to give." Mr. Lane did not quite understand how it was that this people were so rarely satisfied and were demeaning themselves as they are in this great crisis in our country. Those of you who understand "Mormonism" and the teachings of the Church can comprehend it. You who have been taught that this land, North and South America, is the land of Zion, the land of Joseph, concerning which we read in the 49th chapter of Genesis and the 33rd chapter of Deuteronomy, and made yet plainer by certain chanters of the Book of Mormon; and those who have read the 10th chanter of II Nephi in reference to the destiny of this country can understand what we are contending for in this great world engagement, when the Lord said that there should be no kingcraft upon this favored land of Zion, and that he would defend it against all other nations. And then, as the Patriarch of the Church read to us yesterday, the ideals for which we are contending are God-given ideals. He read from the 101st section of the Doctrine and Covenants, commencing about the 79th verse, in reference to the free agency of man, and that wise men were raised up to form the constitution of the United Statest in order to establish these principles, the principles of freedom, and that it was not good for one man to be in bondage to another. The history of the making of the constitution of the United States and its development is supported by the word of the Lord, that it was divinely inspired.  
  
When the constitution of the United States was being made, those delegates whom the Prophet tells us were raised up for that purpose, realized that they needed help of the Lord in that emergency. There can be no question of that. Benjamin Franklin, a man not noted for his piety, a wise statesman but not an over-zealous religionist, the man who while in France had taken his own sons to Voltaire, the atheist, to be blessed of him, realized when a deadlock existed for a considerable time in the great constitutional convention, that it was necessary for them to have Divine aid. You will remember the difficulty between the small states and the large states as to what representation each should have, and when it appeared no compromise could be effected, Beniamin Franklin arose and said: "I have lived a long time (he was then over 80 years of age), and the longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs the affairs of men; and if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, it is impossible an empire can rise without his aid." And so he proposed that they have prayers; and while they did not have formal prayers, I am persuaded that there were many earnest prayers from the heart that did not remain unanswered, and, from the nature of the work that they did, that it was more than man's wisdom that prevailed. You remember what Gladstone, the great English premier, said (and he was competent to pass upon a question of that sort, and certainly not biased in our favor) that it was the greatest instrument ever given off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man. One jurist has said, not just in the language of the revelation, that wise men were raised up for the purpose of framing that constitution, but the equivalent of it, that "the makers of the constitution of the United States were the goodliest fellowship of lawgivers whereof this world has record." They were entering upon a great work, because they were declaring some new principles in government, they were establishing that very principle, that great principle that is now at issue in the world, that "governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed." That is the same thing that is mentioned in different language in the 101st section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that governments are organized by men for men, deriving their powers from men, to be exercised for their benefit and good. And that is one of the great issues involved today in the great world war. Mr. Bryce, also an Englishman, who knows more of our constitution than almost any other man not an American (and only a very few stand higher as an authority than Lord Bryce) said, speaking in regard to the workings of the American commonwealth, after explaining the new things and the old things in the constitution, that "after all deductions, it ranks above every other constitution for the intrinsic excellence of its scheme, its adaptation to the circumstances of the people, the simplicity, brevity and precision of its language, its judicious mixture and definiteness of principle, with elasticity in detail." That is the commendation of a very learned and impartial judge upon this same constitution that the boy prophet was giving information concerning.  
  
Just the other day, a distinguished American citizen, an ex-president of the United States, made a declaration in forecasting what would be demanded by the different governments when peace is established. He named one thing that the United States would demand and secure, and that is the perpetuation of the Monroe Doctrine. And what is that but a counterpart of the doctrine expressed in the 10th chapter of II Nephi, to the effect that kingcraft shall not prevail upon this land. That is what the Monroe Doctrine has stood for, that we could regulate our own affairs here without interference from monarchies or empires on the other side of the waters. And so those who understand these ideas that have been taught to the Latter-day Saints, from the Bible and the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, can understand why it is that this people should not be easily moved in times of stress when religions are being tested and criticized, as referred to by Elder Ballard in the particular work of Mr. H. G. Wells. By the way, in the same class is a book by the same author, entitled, Italy, France and England at War, in which he passes strictures upon representatives of the great churches of those lands, because they do not rise to the occasion. I believe we can the better appreciate the attitude of the leaders of our people, of President Smith and his associates in this emergency, by comparing it with the conduct of some representatives of other churches. I have in mind now a young man, highly educated, brilliant in his natural attainments, having the ripest scholastic training that could start him in his ministry, who came to Utah as a reformer, and sought to win away our young men. He sought to undermine the Church by reaching our young men and alluring them into the smoking room and the billiard room attached to his church. But all his learning and training were not sufficient to keep him right in this emergency, and he is now being justly rebuked by his countrymen including the members of his own church. So I say I rejoice in the fact that the gospel is of a practical nature, because it enables the Church to grapple with all the practical problems as they arise, and give a correct solution of them.  
  
There has been advice during this conference, to turn to the scriptures, and it is very timely — timely for our boys who are going into the ranks and soon into the trenches. Let them turn to Joshua. One great writer has said that of all chapters in the Bible, the one that influenced him most was the first chapter of Joshua, on account of the lesson in courage that it taught: "Be strong and of good courage, for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land, which I swear unto their fathers to give them." This is the word of the Lord to the children of Israel, and particularly to Joshua their leader, just before they are to cross Jordan and take those strongly fortified cities such as Jericho. It continues: "Only be thou strong and very courageous that thou mayst observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee: turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. * * * * Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou commandest us we will do, and whithersoever thou sendest us we will go. According as we hearkened unto Moses in all things, so will we hearken unto thee; only the Lord thy God be with thee, as he was with Moses." And then for the closing words of this chapter we have the echo again, the sublime refrain : "Only be strong and of a good courage." To understand the significance of this admonition, you have to go back into the history of Israel and call to mind the twelve men who were sent down to spy out the land of promise. Caleb and Joshua were among them. When they returned there were only these two out of the twelve who were willing to comply with the wishes of Moses and Aaron in taking possession of the land. What a disappointment it must have been to those great leaders to realize that they were leading men lacking in courage who would not face the enemy, and who reported that they had met "men of great stature, which come of the giants," the sons of Anak. They said, "We were in our own sight as grasshoppers and so were we in their sight." They were not willing to go up. But Caleb and Joshua were willing to go up at once. And Moses and Aaron were so disappointed that they fell upon their faces, and they pleaded with the Lord not to utterly destroy the people. But the fate of those who were not courageous enough to go in and take possession of the land when they had the privilege of entering, was that their carcasses should fall in the desert, that only the brave or the younger generation, those under 20 years of age, and Caleb and Joshua of those above that age should enter. Caleb, "because he had another spirit with him," and because he had followed after the Lord, after the lapse of forty years, was permitted to enter the promised land. He was then four score and five years of age, but still he was willing to have his possessions assigned to him among the fortified cities. He still had good courage, and was willing, with the help of the Lord, to make battle for the possession that should be assigned unto him. So likewise many valuable lessons in courage can be learned by the young from the splendid life of David, and of Gideon. Gideon was willing with 300 followers to face untold thousands of the enemy and was able to put them to rout.  
  
I rejoice in the teachings of this conference, in the practical advice that has been given, and in the ability of the gospel to help solve all of the practical problems of life, no matter how multitudinous they may be, nor how suddenly they may be thrown upon us, if we have but a knowledge of the word and the Spirit of the Lord.  
  
May the Lord help us to profit by his word, I ask in the name Jesus. Amen. 