33
Second Outdoor
07 10 1917
Elder G. E. Ellsworth. 
55
127-131

None

None

(President of the Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, when President Smith, in his opening address, said that in his recent visit through the South, he had come to understand one thing, and that was that he would like to become better acquainted with the people, and have the people better acquainted with him, I thought of the time when Jesus tried to make the disciples understand who he was and what his mission was in the earth. In all his instructions, he almost failed to make them understand him, and he said, "Ye believe in God, believe also in me," and went so far as to intimate that if they could not believe in him, they should believe in the works that he had done. The Lord in all ages has revealed himself to his prophets and leaders, that they in turn may teach the people concerning the true character of our Father, for to know God and Jesus Christ is life eternal.  
  
Why, my brethren and sisters, we were placed here upon the earth, and it is the mission of our Father, to bring to pass the immortality of his children here; and he revealed himself to his prophets down to the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and he came as a revelation of his Father to the children of men, and dwelt among them as other men, and was known of them, and tried his best to teach them concerning his Father and the character of our Father in heaven. President Smith seemed to have the same feeling in his heart, to be known and understood by the people.  
  
I am reminded of a personal experience that came to me. In going to my home town after being away most of the time for ten or fifteen years, I met a little boy, who evidently knew me and had kept in touch with me. I said to him, "What is your name, my boy?" He said, "Why, you know my name." I said, "No, I don't." He said, "Ah. you do, too, know my name." I replied that I did not and asked, "Who is your father?" And he said "Surely you know my father," and in answer to one or two protestations, he said to me, "Why, I know my father just as easy."  
  
The ease with which the boy knew his father appealed to me while listening to President Smith. You would think he knew and understood his Father and the purposes of God just as easily as the little boy knew his father. Why? Because he has kept in touch with our Father, and the great work that our Father has established in the earth. He seems akin to the Master who, when he was only a child, said in answer to his mother, "Wist ye not that I should be about my Father's business?" For President Smith has been about his Father's business from boyhood.  
  
In all the walks and conversations of Jesus the Master it was as if he was well acquainted with his Father, that he knew his will, and understood his own mission in the earth. He tried from the beginning to impress upon the disciples that God was truly his Father and that he was in very deed his Son as well as they his brethren. In teaching them to pray, as missionaries he did it in this sweet and familiar way:  
  
"Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven."  
  
And again, to Philip's question as to the character of the Father, he made the following answer, as recorded in the 14th chapter of John: "Philip saith unto him, Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us. Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Show us the Father?" It seemed to grieve the Savior that with all his teachings, one of his disciples would ask to see the Father, for he had taught them that he was in the express image of his Father's person, that he had come to do his Father's will and the things he had seen his Father do. When he had finished teaching his disciples and blessing them. he turned to his Father, in the most intimate manner and talked to him as an earthIy son would talk to his father, for he had tried to impress upon his disciples his real character and the character of our Father in heaven as recorded in 17th chapter of John.  
  
"These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee: As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. I have glorified thee on the earth: I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them me; and they have kept thy word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me; and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine. And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them."  
  
To me that is one of the most beautiful passages I have ever read in my life. After his close association with his diciples, to turn to his Father and talk to him as one man talketh to another! He knew his Father "easy."  
  
I believe that Latter-day Saints who live their religion have a right to know God our Father "easy," since it is only a continuation of their childhood idea of God. When one lives in the world and meets men and women of other faiths who are taught from childhood to get such a material notion out of their head and learn to conceive of God as the best in themselves, their "highest ideal," or some "great moving power beyond the conception of man," it appeals to me that it is good to be still children, believing in the God that "created man in his own image," the God that hears and answers prayers, our Father who claims us as his children. Some of the learned men in the world have said that we were almost vulgarly materialistic. It seems to me that no man was more of a materialist than the Master himself. He knew his Father from the beginning, and talked with him and conversed with him, and talked about him as if he actually existed. To the Latter-day Saints he is a material God, he is our Father, and we believe in him. We also believe in Jesus Christ the Redeemer of the world, the veritable Son of God, who was sent to earth to point the way, to do the things that he desired all his children to do, that we, too, may be glorified when our earthly missions are ended.  
  
On the occasion spoken of above he said:  
  
"If ye love me, keep my commandments, and I will pray the Father and he shall give you another comforter that he may abide with you forever."  
  
"The works that I do ye shall do, and greater works, because I go to the Father."  
  
So, my brethren and sisters, I feel that the Latter-day Saints have a mission in the world, and that is to teach the world to return to their childhood faith, to come back and believe in God as they did when they were little children, for he said, "Except ye be as a little child, ye can in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven" — not children in years, but children in our honest belief in God our Father and his Son, the Savior of the world. I can bear testimony that it has given me a great deal of joy to see the faith manifested in the life of the young men and young women who have come to the Northern States Mission. I believe that true faith is growing in the hearts of the people of the world. It is my firm belief that had the Christian world a belief in God as they had when they were children, they would not now be engaged in killing their fellow men, in using all the ability that is known to man for the destruction of each other. The mission of the Latter-day Saints, my brethren and sisters, is to bring the world back to believe in God as true and faithful children ought to do, and hasten the day of peace and true brotherhood.  
  
We have a little advantage over the rest of the world, because our Father has supplemented the teachings in the scriptures by a visitation to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Together with the Savior he appeared manifesting his true character and clearing away all doubt as to their actual existence. This modern day visitation has placed us in a position to know our Father and to know his Son Jesus Christ, and as Latter-day Saints, we ought to praise God for this glorious revelation of the latter days, for it has brought us happiness on earth, it has brought us even a taste of heaven while we dwell here in mortal flesh.  
  
The mission and responsibility of the Latter-day Saints has been and is to teach these great truths to the world. In doing so they do real service to their fellow man which is described by one man as stepping across the line in to heaven. Selfish work is earthly, while work for others is akin to heavenly things, so "if you want to go to heaven, step across the line and do things for your fellow man." Latter-day Saints, especially all those who have been upon a mission and all those who are serving as missionaries here at home, administering to the sick, teaching the principles of the gospel, and serving their fellow men, have stepped across the line and are even enjoying heaven upon earth. When the missionaries come home to you, they say it is the best two years of their life. They have enjoyed the spirit and presence of the Lord and a real taste of heaven. Why? Because they have been using all their time and talents in the service of their fellow men. When you are in the service of your fellow man, you are in the service of God our Father. So says the Book of Mormon. And surely, when a man is in the service of God our Father, he can easily be in heaven.  
  
The truth revealed from heaven has made us free, and, as has been said by some of the speakers, we are a free people, living in a free land, the most glorious land in all the world. We sing and talk about the inspired constitution of the United States. Why was it established? That the Church of Jesus Christ might be established in the earth. Not only that, but this same freedom that we enjoy, the whole world must also enjoy, because the day must come when every man will have a chance to hear the gospel and to decide for himself which way he will go. Else when they come before the judgment seat, they can say to the Father, "I could not be anything else but a Catholic, or a Presbyterian, or a Lutheran, and be true to my country, so, the freedom of America must be the freedom of the world, that the gospel may be carried to the honest in heart of all the earth, that they may have a chance to know the true way.  
  
We did not win this freedom without a struggle. Eight years of war and four years of civil strife is part of the price we paid. In the revolution we were greatly aided by France, and at the surrender at Yorktown, when Cornwallis marched between the lines, there were 5,500 American soldiers on one side and 7,000 Frenchmen on the other. France not only sent her sons but she sent her gold as well and that too in the very hour of need. We are now called upon to send our sons to battle in the old world that they too may enjoy the liberty that has been ours for so many, many years and likewise the glorious privilege of hearing the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Lord bless the Latter-day Saints, and help them as well as all our brothers in this nation, to acquit themselves like men and as one man has said, return with victory upon their banner and a wreath of laurel woven out of the evergreen of Russia, the roses of England, and the lillies of France. I pray God that our boys will not only come back with a wreath of that kind, but clean and pure from the sins of the world, come home testifying that God opened the way for them to be great missionaries, not only of liberty, but of the gospel of Jesus Christ, having had their faith increased, having had their knowledge extended, and with a testimony that will make all our hearts ring with praise to God, as we are sending them away.  
  
God help us, to serve our fellow men. God help us to know not only the leaders of this Church "easy," as the boy said, but our Father in heaven. If we will keep close to our leaders, and know them as they are, we will likewise know God as he is. I pray that the peace and blessings of heaven may be with you, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
