34
Second Outdoor
07 10 1917
Elder John L. Herrick.
53
131-133

None

None

(President of the Western States Mission.) 

"The character of a community or a nation is the sum of the individual qualities of its component members." The words I have just quoted are from the opening sentence of a paper supplied by President Joseph F. Smith to a great newspaper syndicate asking him for his opinion about one of the most important themes of the day. The subject was captioned, "Unchastity, the Dominating Evil of the Age." His masterful treatment of that theme showed that a deplorable condition exists in this country, as I presume in all other countries, a condition, too, that none of us, I believe, would attempt to deny.  
  
It is eminently proper that we look this situation squarely in the face, and that as Latter-day Saints we act accordingly, not only because of the condition as it might appear to us, in ordinary times, but moreso when we face, as we do now, one of the greatest perils and one of the most crucial situations that has ever been known in the earth. Our young men have enlisted or have been called by the thousands to fight for human liberty. We have joined some of the great powers of the world to that end, and this country must stand at some time or other as the great adjudicator between the nations of the world. It will be up to this nation to decide what is best to be done, and how best to do it to settle the well nigh insurmountable difficulties that have arisen, and to do so justly we must be just and ethical ourselves. Shall it be said that our young men went away from their homes chaste and pure, and that they returned contaminated with immorality, and with disease in their systems? This will be true unless they themselves have been taught in their youth to be moral and chaste, and unless they remember the words of their parents and teachers when they face the critical temptations as they come to them from time to time.  
  
Do you know that more men of one of the great nations were put out of commission because of sexual disease than by bullets or swords or dynamite or any other thing, in the first year of this world war? Since that time, they have begun to correct these evils. We want to correct them before they go too far. We want all our young men to know, and those associated with them to know, that they should set the example and tell other men what it means to respect womanhood. No man should presume to take a liberty with any woman that he would not be willing for some one else to take with his own mother, his wife, or his sister. We should remember that "real happiness must be earned, like every other good thing. It can only be deserved when its price has somehow been paid." If we are going to be supremely happy, if we are going to be content, we must sacrifice, we must live a moral life. We should in all reason live above reproach. I mean that not only for soldiers, but for every son and daughter in Zion.  
  
One of the great poets had this to say on this matter, and entitled, "The Price He Paid":  
  
"I said I would have my fling, And do as a young man may,  
 
And I didn't believe a thing The parsons had to say  
 
And I didn't believe in a God Who gives us blood like fire,  
 
And flings us into hell When we answer the call of desire.  
  
And I said, Religion is rot, And the laws of the world are nil,  
 
And the bad man is one who is caught And cannot pay his bill.  
 
And there is no place called hell; And heaven is only a truth  
 
When a man has his way with a maid In the fresh, keen hours of youth.  
  
But money will buy us grace When it falls on the plate of the Church,  
  
And money will neatly erase Each sign of a sinful smirch.  
  
For I saw men everywhere Hotfooting the road to vice,  
  
And women and preachers smiled on them So long as they had the price.  
  
So I had my joy of life, And went the pace of the town,  
 
And then I took me a wife And began to settle down.  
 
I had gold enough and to spare For all the simple joys  
 
That go with a house and a home And a brood of girls and boys.  
  
I married a girl with health And virtue and spotless fame:  
  
I gave in return my wealth And a proud old family name.  
  
I gave her the love of a heart Grown sated and sick with sin;  
  
My deal with the devil was all cleaned up, The last bill was handed in.  
  
She was going to bring me a child, And when in labor she cried,  
 
With joy and fear I was wild, And now, I wish I had died.  
 
The son she bore me was blind, And crippled, and weak, and sore;  
 
The mother was left a wreck; It was so she settled my score.  
  
I said I would have my way, Arid they all knew the path I would go,  
  
Yet no one told me a thing Of what I ought to know.  
  
Folks talk too much of the lives From heavenly joys debarred,  
  
And not enough of the babes unborn, By the sins of their fathers scarred.  
  
Do not forget, my brethren and sisters, that if we sow in iniquity, in corruption, in lust, and in wickedness, we will reap the whirlwind, and the price will somehow and inevitably be paid, and every one of us will suffer — not only for our actual deeds, we are told, but perhaps for our thinking as well.  
  
Wise men say that the source of everything wicked can be traced back to the philosophic thinking of the doer, just as bitter water is traced back to the poison spring; and that as individuals or nations think in the heart, so will they do in the life. I believe that firmly, and I believe that there is every necessity for the mothers and the fathers in Israel to see that their sons and their daughters are protected, and that when they are old enough to know the things they ought to know, that they should not hesitate to tell them frankly and plainly what they have to meet, and let young men understand that they should try and maintain the same kind of morals that are demanded of their sisters. That is the kind of ethics we have been teaching and preaching; it is a part of the fundamental teaching of "Mormonism."  
  
I wonder how far the criticism aimed by President Smith in his article is true pertaining to this intermountain country. Should it be said that even one portion of it could be laid at our door, then let us remember our duties to our children in that regard. The illustrious Goethe said, "What we wish for in our youth comes in heaps upon us in old age." You know as well as I know, that that is true. If we are not careful in early manhood and womanhood, we will reap the consequences in later life, and life will become a living hell on earth instead of a heaven as it ought to be.  
  
God grant his blessing to be with Israel, to be with our boys who are going away to fight our battles, to be with those sons who are in the mission field and those who are left at home, that we may continue to raise the standard of morals in this community, and thus benefit by our action aud our words, the moral uplift of the world, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 
