Morning
09 10 1920


Conference convened in the tabernacle, Saturday morning, October 9, 1920, at 10 o'clock. 

The congregation was called to order by President Heber J. Grant, who presided. 

The choir and congregation sang, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." 

Opening prayer was offered by Elder Orville H. Budge, President of the Logan Stake of Zion. 

The choir and congregation sang, "O ye mountains high." 

ELDER GEO. F. RICHARDS 

I am very happy to be able to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that my feelings are in perfect accord with those of my brethren as expressed in their remarks in the sessions of the conference yesterday. I hope that I may be guided in my remarks by the Spirit of the Lord so as to speak forth the word of the Lord in truth, that it may find a ready response in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, and that perchance we may be pricked in our hearts and be resolved that we will, with the help of the Lord, come nearer doing his will in the future than we have done in the past, for our own good, happiness, and salvation and also for the blessing and happiness of others and the glorifying of the name of our Lord. 

god's purpose in creation 

I call your attention, my brethren and sisters, to the words of the Lord to his servant Moses, spoken to him in the mount where the Lord talked with him face to face. The Lord said: "Behold, this is, my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." This then, I conclude, is the aim; all the other works of God are but a means to this end, to save and exalt his children with him in his kingdom. For this purpose the earth was created, the gospel plan was instituted, and as a part of that plan the Savior was chosen to be the Redeemer of the world. We read this in the holy scriptures : "For God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." Whenever I have occasion to use this passage of scripture, in discourse, I feel that an explanation is necessary, or at any rate, is in good place, because of the fact that this scripture is used so largely by religionists in the world to justify themselves in the belief, that faith only, is necessary to salvation; that our Savior has done all, and that all that is necessary for us to do is to acknowledge him and his work, and we will be saved. This is a misunderstanding of the word of the Lord. An explanation is found in the following scripture : "He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also." So that it is doing the works such as Christ did that is going to save us, rather than the mere intellectual assent or profession of faith in him and his ministry. 

LOVE, SACRIFICE, AND SERVICE 

There is another impressive passage of Scripture, also corroborative of this fact which reads : "Though he were a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered, and being made perfect he became^ the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him." There is much other corroborative scripture. 

Now returning to that expression that "God so loved the world that he gave his only Begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." We see in this three great principles exemplified, viz. : love, sacrifice, and service. The love of God our Father for his children led him to give his firstborn Son, in the spirit, his Only-Begotten in the flesh, to a life of sorrow and an ignominious death, that they might be redeemed and saved in his kingdom on conditions of obedience unto the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Then we find the Son also, because of the love that he bore for us, his brothers and sisters, giving himself voluntarily. He said: "I lay down my life for the sheep. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself," and he said again: "Greater love hath no man than this: that a man lay down his life for his friends." Here we find the love again, an example to the human family. Here we find again sacrifice, all that could be made, a willingness to do the will of his Father at whatever cost of sorrow and of suffering. Here we find a service rendered to the children of men necessary for their salvation; and the salvation of men should be the prize, the pearl of great price, to be desired by them above any and all other blessings. 

LET US BE BOTH HEARERS AND DOERS OF THE WORD 

We were told by President Grant yesterday, in concluding his remarks, that what he desired is, that the Latter-day Saints will keep the commandments of the Lord. I thought, when he made that remark, of our weaknesses as a people. We are prone in this day and dispensation, as others have been in previous dispensations — as evidenced by the nature of the counsel and instructions given by the prophets of old — to hear the word of the Lord and be not doers of it, or doers of it only in part. We go forth into the world bearing the message of the gospel, and we tell the people it is not sufficient to say : "Lord, Lord;" that that will not save them in the kingdom of heaven, but they must do the will of our Father which is heaven, and his will has been expressed in the life and teachings of our Savior and of the apostles and prophets which have gone before and which are recorded here in the Holy Bible and in the Book of Mormon. We tell them that an assent merely to these things is not all that is necessary. Some of us have entered the Church by baptism and confirmation to membership, and we have halted by the way. Many of us have stopped progress, we are hearers only, of the word of the Lord in regard to bearing false witness, in regard to honesty, in regard to our tithes, our offerings, and many other requirements which are made upon us. What we most need, it seems to me, my brethren and sisters, is to be impressed with the necessity of doing the things that we know we ought to do. We are well enough educated as a people. We know what we should do in order to obtain salvation; and because we know these things, if we do not do them, we will be under condemnation. 

HOW WE MAY ASSIST THE LORD IN HIS PURPOSE 

I would like, if I could, to impress my hearers on this occasion, with the necessity of assisting the Lord in the great work that he has undertaken, to save and exalt the souls of men and women. He need ? our assistance. He has called upon us to so live before the world that they, seeing our good works, will be led to glorify" our Father in heaven. That is one way, in which we can assist the Lord in the accomplishment of this particular purpose, by being obedient unto him, by making his mind and his will our mind and our will, even as Christ our Savior who was the great exemplar and prototype of mankind did, for he set the example and told us to follow him. We are required to walk in the light as he was in the light, with the promise that if we will do so, we shall have fellowship one with another, in him, and his blood will cleanse us from all sin; but there are other things that we are called upon to do. We are called to love one another and to sacrifice and to serve one another. The Savior on one occasion was asked by a certain lawyer, who thought to entrap him in his sayings : "Master, which is the great commandment ?" The answer of the Savior was : "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first great commandment and the second is like unto it: thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." Even as our Father and as our Savior loved the children of men, we are required to love them also, even as we love ourselves. There would be no bick-biting, there would be no evil-speaking, there would be no taking advantage of others, if we loved them as we love ourselves. There would be nothing left undone that we could do for the comfort of others, if we loved them as we love ourselves. If we loved the Lord with all our heart, we would give to him our lives and everything that we possess, if necessary, to assist him in this great work. 

WHAT CONSTITUTES THE STRAIGHT AND NARROW WAY? 

This gospel we have received is one of sacrifice, service and selfabnegation from beginning to end. That is what' constitutes the straight and narrow way that leads to life eternal. Some of us are more faithful, some are less faithful than others in our sacrifices. My brethren and sisters, there will come a time of accounting, and we will be judged and rewarded according to the sacrifices which we make, and the services we render to God and to our fellowmen. Let me tell you here that when we undertake to glorify our Father in heaven by living a good life, we help others along the way. Religion, true religion of the Master, is so different from politics. When we aspire to an office as politicians, and become candidates, our only hope of success is in the defeat and disappointment of somebody else. In this great work, if I, through the help of the Lord, shall be successful in saving my own soul, it will be through works of righteousness, through a good example which will be helpful, and no person will be deprived of the blessings he is laboring for because of my success, but just the reverse, he will be helped along the way. Now in this work of sacrifice and of service, we need encouragement, and stimulation. 

GET SOMEBODY ELSE 

There is a little poem that I desire to recite to you because I feel that it will have this effect. And let me say here, that I believe in the poets. I believe there is much inspiration from the Lord outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in various ways, not the lest of which is found among the poets. This little poem is entitled "Get Somebody Else." The Lord is always to his servants calling, something more for us to do. Are we willing, or are we too mluch engrossed with the affairs of life ? The little poem reads : 

The Lord had a job for me 

But I had so much to do; I said, "you get somebody else, 

Or wait till I get through." I don't know how the Lord came out; 

No doubt he got along, But I felt kind o' sneakin' like, 

I knew I'd done God wrong. 

One day I needed the Lord 

Needed him right away, But he never answered me at all, 

And I could hear him say, Down in my accusing heart: 

"Child, I've got too much to do. You get somebody else, 

Or wait till I get through." 

Now, when the Lord has a job for me, 

I never try to shirk, I drop what I have in hand 

And do the Lord's good work. And my affairs can run along. 

Or wait till I get through. Nobody else can do the work 

God has marked out for you. 

I feel that I have occupied all the time that I should, and will close my remarks here, with my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I know that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, that it has in it the power of God unto happiness and salvation, in this life, and in the life to come; and I exhort you, with all the earnestness of my soul, to live up to the light which you have received in the gospel, and promise you, as a reward, eternal life in the kingdom of our God. This I do in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A solo, "Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace", was sung by Royal W. Daynes. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

It is an inspiration always to meet with the Latter-day Saints in conference. I rejoice with you in having this opportunity of listening to the words of love and inspiration with which this conference has been favored. I am overwhelmed, as I stand here and face this large interested audience, but I am free to say to you that if I had my choice I would not choose to speak to you, men of the Priesthood, and faithful women in the Church. I should prefer to give whatever message I have in my heart to another audience, this morning, which is scattered all up and down these counties and towns and valleys of the western states. I should like to speak to your boys and to your girls, to their playmates wherever they may be. However, since we have but very few of them here, I shall have to speak to them through you, because after all this conference, inspiring as it may be, is not an end in itself. The purpose of it shall not have been attained until the messages through you reach your sons and your daughters, and your neighbors' sons and daughters. Your happiness, your peace, depends upon your ability to get the message into their hearts. 

TO BE CARNALLY-MINDED IS DEATH TO BE SPIRITUALLY-MINDED IS LIFE 

AND PEACE 

If they were here this morning I would read the following text : "To be carnally-minded is death, but to be spiritually-minded is life and peace." Glorious words these — life, peace. The whole purpose and end of existence is life, and to obtain in that life, peace. Eternal life- — we have heard from Elder Richards, that the work and glory of God are to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man — and our purpose wherever we may be, is to live. 

THE HAPPY LIFE COMES FROM OBEDIENCE TO LAW 

I believe that we can meet our boys on that plane and appeal to them, and show them that the best life, the happiest life is the life that is prompted by the ideals of true religion. Many of them will turn aside when you say you are going to preach to them. I do not always blame them. I believe that too many of us stand on the side, as it were, and call to them to come back without ever entering into their lives. 

I was reminded this morning of an old story that appeared in one of our early school books. Many of you present will remember it, so I need not repeat it to you. You remember the author pictures some people sailing down the river towards the Niagara Falls, and the man on the shore cries : 

"Young men, ahoy, the rapids are below you!" 

But they went on laughing and carousing. Later he cried : 

"Young men, ahoy, the rapids are below you!" But they heeded not his warning call until they suddenly realized that they were in the midst of the rapids, and with all the power at their command they failed to turn their boat upstream, so, he says, shrieking and cursing over they go! 

Well, it is a very impressive picture. The lesson left an indelible impression upon me, but today it seems incomplete. It is one thing to stand on the shore and cry: Young men, ahoy, there is danger ahead; and it is another thing to row into the stream, and, if possible, get into the boat with the young men and by companionship, and by persuasion, by legitimate force, when necessary, turn the boat from the rapids. Too many of us stand on the shore and cry: Young men, ahoy! Let us get into their lives, let us touch their personality by our personality, and let them feel that there is something real in this religion; that it is the greatest thing in life, that nothing else can make them live as the true religious life. When they feel this they love it, and until they do feel it, until they do sense an immediate blessing, following activity, we are going to find difficulty in calling them into that realm where there is peace. Young people say : "We want to live. That is just what we are going to do. Let us have life, and have a good time." But their view is often distorted. They are seeking to live in the physical pleasures. They are seeking to live in the realm that brings only immediate sensation, and afterwards no peace. They fail to distinguish between the carnal pleasures and those which are intellectual and spiritual. I am not going to ask them not to have a good time. I think they should have a good time. Young men and young women are entitled to it; all men and all women are entitled to it. We are all here to enjoy life in its fullest and most complete sense; but the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ is this : that to live one must live in obedience to law, physical lam, intellectual law, spiritual law. Transgression of law always brings unhappiness, it always brings death when carried to the ultimate end. 

HE WHO PLAYS THE CROOKED GAME LOSES 

I was deeply impressed, and I hope the young men of the United States were impressed, with the remark made by one who was nationally disgraced recently when he said, it seems to me, in a rather repentant spirit: "I have played a crooked game, and I have lost." Boys, that is the story of every one who plays the crooked game. The one who plays the game straight, who deep down in his soul does the right thing, because it is right, is the man who has that peace and contentment that we all so much long for. 

HE LIVES MOST WHO LISTENS TO THE URGENCE FOR A HIGHER, BETTER 

LIFE 

Let us seek to live intellectually. I welcome with all my heart the hundreds, and the thousands of boys and girls who are participating in the realm of education in the auxiliary associations, and in the 

Church schools. What are they learning to do but to live! — to live completely and abundantly; and in the living to serve — serve their fellow men. He lives most who sees or hears "Tongues in trees, books in the runnig brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything." He lives most who sees beyond these trees, these stones, these running brooks and sees God and goodness in it all, who sees an overruling providence in all this world and recognizes God's children as brothers and sisters, in every one of whom there is something good, ever striving, to lift the man up out of the sensual world into the realm of true religion. I believe that there is in every human soul a something good calling for something better, very much as that something of life mentioned by Lowell when he said, referring to spring, "Every clod feels a stir of might, an instinct within it that reaches and towers and groping blindly about, it for light, climbs to a soul in leaf and flower." So there is in the human soul that divine element which is calling, striving, urging the person up to a higher, to a better life. Boys and girls should do right because it is right. The day is past when you can threaten them with punishment hereafter. The world has passed by the fears of a fire and eternal torment. They can be appealed to, however, upon the sound pirnciples of true religious living. It is the best because it works best. It is the best because it makes us happy and better here and now. We are better citizens, we are better friends, we are better football players, we are better students, we are better sons, we are better daughters, we are better everything, and the world should know' it. When we take the opposite view, as many of our boys unfortunately are doing, and seek life in immediate pleasures, transitory pleasures, indeed, we find only disappointment and eventually death, for to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. "Live while you live, the Epicure would say, and seize the pleasure of the present day." That is one view. "Live while you live, the sacred preacher cries, and give to God each moment as it flies;" the other : "Lord, in my view, let both united be. I live in pleasure when I live to thee." 

PHYSICAL PLEASURES TO BE AVOIDED 

There is no peace in yielding to the temptation to transgress the laws of virtue and chastity. If there is one thing in all this world for which we should be thankful as Latter-day Saints, it is that there is a sentiment, founded upon the solid basis of revelation from God, that chastity among the young is as sacred as life itself. One of the most disintegrating influences today is that feeling that is creeping in amongst some of our young boys and young girls that they can violate the law of chastity with impunity. The law of the land may not reach them — they may avoid that. Their bishops may not detect their transgression. But God can. And deep down in their own souls they know that they have lost part of their life. They have lived as the Epicure would live, for the moment, and they have no peace. Their souls are turbulent. Why? Because they have stained the character of another, they have stained their own souls eternally. No one can transgress the laws of chastity and find peace. That is the message to our boys, to our girls. No matter what the opportunity, no matter what the temptation, let the young man of Israel know that to find happiness he must hold sacred his true manhood, let him know that he is going to live and live completely by refusing to yield' to that temptation. Then he is happy; he is happy. There is peace instead of turbulency in his soul. 

Next to that disintegrating evil, is the evil mentioned by President Clawson, tobacco — young men who are just learning to indulge in this physical pleasure, this sensual appetite, have been told by you parents, not to smoke. Some of the young men are not doing it in your presence. Some of your boys you think have not become addicted to that habit. In trying to correct this evil, have you stood aside and cried, Young man, ahoy, there is danger down there? Or have you tried to touch his soul? Have you tried to convert him to the fact that to indulge in the pernicious habit is to take part of his life, to weaken his physical being? Have you studied how to convince him of it? If you haven't you are standing on the shore simply crying to him instead of plunging in and trying to guide him around. 

The gospel of Jessu Christ when lived in its fulness, as we were admonished yesterday by the President in the keynote of this conference, gives peace, life, physical life, intellectual life, spiritual life. 

The Word of Wisdom is a law that applies directly to the physical world, the physical salvation and peace of man. Too many of our boys are unconverted to it. We haven't touched them by our appeals. We haven't given them facts, perhaps. They think we are preaching, simply crying to them to come back. I would that every young man knew this : that every person who indulges in the use of tobacco simply hampers his physical well-being to the extent that he uses that narcotic. Let us appeal to them. Let us unite as a body in the campaign that is now abroad in our land to eliminate the use of that weed, from our communities. The time has come when the Latter-day Saints should stand by their principles, not on the bank crying, but in the midst of the young, out with them, in their quarters, out with them to the picture shows, go out with them, mingle with them. It is all right to talk about the sacredness and the influence of our homes, and there is no one that will stand more solidly behind the importance of having the right influence in the home than I, but the fact remains that our boys are going out at night, night after night; and you and I are out of our homes, during the day, so we are not associating with them very often in their homes, and it behooves us to get out into the pleasures more than we have, to go to their shows with them, aye and go to their parties and become acquainted and touch their lives. Then we may know, whether or not they are taking a cigarette once in a while. We can detect their breath, perhaps. We can see the com with whom they are associated, and we can judge our boys and our girls greatly by the companions they keep, as well as by their actions in the home. To boys I would say, that if they want to live physically, if they want to be men strong in body, vigorous in mind, if they want to be good sports, enter the basket ball game, enter the football game, enter the contest in running and jumping, if they want to be good scouts, if they want to be good citizens, in business, anywhere, avoid tobacco and live strictly the religious life. I am not afraid to call it the religious life to them. It is not a thing that will make them gloomy and sad. Live the gospel of Jesus Christ, for it is the science of life revealed from on high. Make them feel it as you feel it and I am sure we are going to save them, and by that I mean we are going to make them live happier and better. If we need any test, anything to help us on that, to appeal to them, we can find plenty of material to help us. I would like the boys to understand that the revelation given by the prophet Joseph is borne testimony to, today, by thousands and thousands of men and women. Here is one testimony, which I would like to read. It comes from a man who spent many years in the study of opium, in curing drunkenness, and who is now striving to cure the habit of tobacco. He has spent many years in the Orient and he has seen the effect of opium upon the eastern people. 

A COMPARISON 

He compares the effect of the cigarette with that of opium. Mr. Charles B. Towne in Habits that Handicap says: 

I have spent a good deal of time in the Orient in the interest of those who are trying to subdue the opium evil, and I may add that there is in China today a flourishing concern which has grown rich out of the sale of cigarettes. With the extremely cheap Chinese labor the concern was able to sell twenty cigarettes for a cent of our money. Up to the beginning of this enterprise, about 1800', the Chinese had never used tobacco, except in pipes and in very minute quantities and in rolling their own crude cigarettes. The concern was sending salesmen and demonstrators through the country to show the people how to smoke cigarettes. Now it is estimated that one-half of the cigarette consumption of the world is in China. In trying to lessen the opium evil, in which they have to a very considerable extent succeeded, the Chinese are merely substituting the cigarette evil. It is well known to the confirmed opium smoker that he needs less opium if he smokes cigarettes. The Chinese are spending today twice as much money for tobacco as for opium. If any one thinks that China is the gainer by substituting one drug habit for the other I beg leave to differ. The opium smoker smokes in private with other smokers, and is thus not offensive to other people. He is not injuring non-smokers, or arousing the curiosity of boys, or polluting the atmosphere, or creating a craving in others. In the West the opium habit is generally condemned, because the west is able to look with a new and unbiased mind on a drug habit that is not its own. I consider that cigarette smoking is the greatest vice devastating humanity today, because it is doing more than any other vice to deteriorate the race. HOW LIFE AND PEACE COME 

To be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace — peace that comes by obedience to principle, peace that comes by overcoming habits, evil habits, peace that comes by selfmastery over appetite and over passion, the peace of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

A man must earn his hour of peace, 

Must pay for it, with hours of strife and care, 

Must win by toil the evening's sweet release, 

The rest that may be portioned for his share. 

The idler never knows it, never can. 

Peace is the glory of the happy man, 

And man must win contentment for his soul, 

Must battle for it bravely day by day. 

The peace he seeks is not a nearby goal. 

To claim it he must tread a rugged way. 

The 'shirker never knows a tranquil peace, 

Peace but rewards the man who does his best. 

God help us as men of the Priesthood, as fathers and as mothers, to reach our boys and our girls, and impress upon them this great lesson, this divine truth that to be carnally minded is to be miserable, unhappy, perhaps not for the time being, but to lose part of our very life. To be spiritually minded, which means to obey the principles of the gospel in all that it means, is to have life, life eternal and peace. 1 humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS 

Now, it came to pass that the people of Nephi, under the reign of the second king, began to grow hard in their hearts, and indulge themselves somewhat in wicked practices; 

Yea, a«d they also began to search much gold and silver, and began to be lifted up somewhat in pride; 

Wherefore I, Jacob, gave unto them these words as I taught them in the temple, having firstly obtained mine errand from the Lord. 

For I, Jacob, and my brother Joseph, had been consecrated priests, and teachers of this people, by the hand of Nephi. 

And we did magnify our office unto the Lord, taking upon us the responsibility, answering the sins of the people upon our own heads, if we did not teach them the word of God with all diligence; wherefore, by laboring with our mights, their blood might not come upon our garments, otherwise, their blood would come upon our garments, and we would not be found spotless at the last day. 

THE TEACHER MUST EXEMPLIFY IN DAILY LIFE THE DOCTRINES TAUGHT 

When I came into the conference yesterday, my brethren and sisters, I had no thought regarding what I might say, if called upon to address you, as I expected, because of past precedent, that I would be; but since the beginning of the exercises these words of Jacob, the brother of Nephi, called and ordained under his hand to be a priest and  to the Nephite people, were brought to my mind, because of the character of the services. I read these words many years ago, when I was only a boy, and was profoundly impressed by them, for I reasoned that as the responsibility of teaching the word of the Lord rests upon him who has been appointed to that particular calling in the Church, it devolves upon every member of the Church to give heed to the words so taught, because they come as from the Lord himself. They did to me, and I thought, this responsibility rests not alone upon the presiding authorities of the Church, but every member of it; for there has never been a time, I suppose, in the history of the world, when the Priesthood has been so universally bestowed upon the members of the Church as it has been in this dispensation. So I reasoned that while the responsibility is not, perhaps, upon me, to the same extent, to stand as a teacher of the word of the Lord, having taken upon me the name of Christ, and having identified myself with his Church, and entered into covenant with him that I would, with his assistance, keep his commandments, I must in my daily life exemplify the doctrines which he taught. 

So, my brethren and sisters, in addressing you this morning I deeply feel this responsibility, and I have always felt it when I have stood up to expound the scripture or exhort my brethren and sisters in the Church. 

FOUNDATION PRINCIPLES OF THE CHURCH 

The foundation upon which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints rests is faith in God the eternal Father, recognition of his power, recognition of his relationship to us as the Father of the spirits of all men, recognition of the control which he has over the universe and all of the creations of his hands. We must have faith in the Redeemer of the World, believe that he was verily the Son of God, our elder brother; that he came to earth in order that God might be manifest in the flesh, that men and women might see the Lord as he was, might hear him as he would have spoken had he been in person upon the earth, might see his life, and know by his life what the life of the Father would have been had he been upon earth; might hear his voice and listen to his admonition, which was the voice of God, the Eternal Father, to the inhabitants of the earth. That is the foundation upon which the Church rests. We must believe in the Father and in the Son, and recognize the fact that the Holy Ghost, which is given to all who accept the Father and the Son, is the power and Spirit of God by which men are led in the way of everlasting life, by which they are given power over evil, by which they may learn to do well. 

THE SAINTS MUST ASSUME RESPONSIBILITY OF CARRYING THESE INTO 

EFFECT 

Once having assumed these responsibilities, then conues the more difficult task — clothed upon as we are with mortality — of carrying them into effect in our daily lives. It is a very great responsibility, my brethren and sisters. Never before, in the history of the world, has there been a greater necessity for the exemplification of the doctrines of the Redeemer in the lives of the members of the Church than at the present time, because the world needs those influences. Without them I see very little hope for the world. And what are they? What are those simple things which the Lord has commanded us to observe, having once become members of the Church? 

THE REDEEMER'S CODE OF LAWS 

Seeing the multitude, Jesus went up into a mountain, and when he was seated his disciples came unto him; — and he preached the greatest sermon that was ever preached, the greatest sermon that ever will be preached; for human tongue cannot express the same godlike sentiments with the same spirit, and carry the same influence with it, that characterize the words of the Redeemer of the world. So I read from them : 

And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness; for they shall be filled. 

Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. 

Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. 

Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 

A very simple code of law, given to his disciples by the Redeemer. So, reasoning as my mind prompts me to reason, I take it for granted that except we do in humility the things which the Lord gives us to do from day to day, we are not in harmony with these words. I take it for granted that except we are merciful, we do not receive mercy, and are not in harmony with the words of Christ which I have read. I take it for granted that except we are pure in heart, we are not pleasing our Father in heaven; that if we are not peacemakers, living at peace with each other and with the world, we are not in harmony with this command which he gave us. 

Further he continues: 

Ye have heard that it hath been said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth; 

But I say unto you, that ye resist not evil, but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. 

And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. 

And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away, 

Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shaltiove thy neighbor and hate thine enemy; 

But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. 

DISTINCTION BETWEEN FORGIVENESS OF SIN AND JUSTIFICATION OF 

WRONG DOING 

Not so easy, this latter admonition, my brethren and sisters, which carries with it this doctrine of humility, this doctrine of forgiveness, this doctrine of long-suffering' and kindness toward those who may appear to be your enemies, which has been dwelt on during this conference, and yet it is an admonition of the Lord. 

Now what does it really mean — this distinction I would like to draw? if the Lord will make it possible "for me to do so, as I understand this latter doctrine. If a man sues you at the law and you forgive him, if when he smites you upon the right cheek you turn the other, if when he compels you to go one mile with him you go with him twain, you are justified; but the fact that you extend forgiveness and mercy to him, does not in any degree justify the man who took you without cause to the law, or who smote you upon the cheek, or who took your coat and to whom you gave your cloak also. There is a most pronounced and direct distinction between forgiveness of sin and justification in wrong doing. The Lord has told us that he cannot look upon sin with any degree of allowance. He has made clear to us, beyond the question of a doubt, that men will be held accountable before him for the deeds done in the body. While he has taught us the doctrine of humility, the doctrine of forgiveness, he has always made it clear that mercy cannot rob justice one whit, but that the ends of justice must be satisfied as well as the ends of mercy. 

THE EXAMPLE OF CORIANTON 

When his father admonished him of his wrong doing, Corianton could not understand this doctrine. To him the Lord appeared to be not a God of mercy and love; but just the contrary, because he condemned his wickedness, the wrong which he had done; and then his father, inspired by the Spirit oi the Lord, explained to him that the mercy of God is extended to the penitent transgressor, and to him who turns away from sin, to him who repents from it By this act he pays the penalty, if he is sincere and has made amends for the wrong which he has done; and is held guiltless before the Lord. But justification of sin must never be confused with mercy and forgiveness which comies to the penitent sinner. It was not because the prodigal son had left his father's home, not because he had dissipated his heritage, not because he had lived a life of riotous living and immorality until he had been reduced to a condition of poverty, that the arms of his father were held out to him in forgiveness, but because he returned, humble in his spirit; he came back and said, "Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Just let me be thy servant, let me go out in the field and work with those who labor for you, that is all that I am worthy of." It was that spirit of repentance which brought the gladness which was shown to his father's heart when he came back, because the lost had been found, the dead lived again. And this, my brethren and sisters, is the very foundation of the doctrine of the gospel taught by Jesus Christ. I have seen this doctrine so perverted, so erroneously interpreted, that it has become the most obnoxious of all the doctrines which anti-Christ teaches in the world today, the doctrine that the mercy of Christ, the mercy of God as it was manifest through Christ, redeems men from sin, regardless of their acts; that just to ask forgiveness and it is granted, and you may go on again in your transgression. It grew to such a degree that, sin was anticipated and men obtained indulgences — the world knows it perfectly well — for the commission of sin, on the theory that the Lord would forgive it. It is wrong; it is a pernicious doctrine. 

AN ILLUSTRATION FROM THE SPEAKER'S LIFE 

I had an example of this come into my personal life, one which I never can forget, because the crisis was right there with me as to whether I should do my duty as a man, as an officer of the law, or whether I should yield to the impulse of my nature to ignore the obligation which I had assumed, in behalf of a friend, and he was a very dear friend too, but he was addicted to the use of liquor and when under its influence he was a lawless Mian. I had been appointed a peace officer. I had taken oath that I would administer the law as it existed. Upon one occasion this friend of mine, in the night time, in his crazy drunkenness, committed offenses which made it necessary for me to take him, and with some severity, too, and drag him, assisted by another man, to prison, throw him into an iron cell and lock the door. After I had done it my heart went out in sympathy to him. I knew it was not the man; I knew it was his inflamed brain, and that liquor was responsible for it. I thought of his mother, who was a widow. I could not endure the thought that he should remain there during the night as an ordinary criminal should have done, and as he should have done had he had his deserts, so I plead for him and obtained permission to release him. I went back to the jail, unlocked the door, and took him, to his home. He never forgave me for that act. I don't suppose he ever has until today. He argued that if I had been his friend I never would have taken him there. He argued that if I had been his friend I would have condoned his lawlessness. I could not do it. Had I done so I would have violated the oath of office that I had taken, and, worse than that, would have violated my conscience; for I felt in my conscience that the law must be magnified. He was a transgressor of it. He is an influential man today. I suppose he is, because he is pos of wealth, and is a banker in this state. I do not think, to this day, that he ever forgave me; but I forgave him — I forgave him the wrong he had done; I forgave him the violation of the law of which he had been guilty. There was nothing but sympathy in my heart for him, but I knew that in justice and in righteousness he must pay the penalty, and he did it, the following day in the court. 

FORGIVENESS COMES THROUGH REPENTANCE 

So, my brethren and sisters, this is the thought that I desire to leave with you : Do not, as the greatest church in the world has done, ever confuse this doctrine of God's mercy and forgiveness which comes to the penitent sinner, with the thought of unconditional forgiveness. It must come through repentance. We must abstain from sin. We must live humble, simple lives, the lives of Latter-day Saints. 

THE WORD OF GOD ON THE SUBJECT FROM THE BOOK OF MORMON 

I shall conclude my remarks with these words, because they are said better than I can say them. Thank the Lord for the scriptures. Thank the Lord for inspired men, for prophets in olden times, and for prophets in the day in which we live. I believe in God's word. I have endeavored to live by it. I cannot bring my conscience to believe that I am justified in deviating from it, whatever may be the opinions of men : 

And now I, Mormon, speak unto you, my beloved brethren; and it is by the grace of God, the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, and his hobwill, because of the gift of his calling unto me, that I am permitted to speak unto you at this time. 

Wherefore I would speak unto you that are of the Church, that are the peaceable followers of Christ, and that have obtained a sufficient hope, by which ye can enter into the rest of the Lord, from this time henceforth, until ye shall rest with him in heaven. 

And now, my brethren, I judge these things of you because, of your peaceable walk with the children of men; 

For I remember the word of God, which saith by their works ye shall know them; for if their works be good, then they are good also. 

$ s)e $ $ * % 

Wherefore, all things which are good, cometh of God; and that which is evil, cometh of the devil; for the devil is an enemy unto God, and fighteth against him continually, and invitetlr and enticeth to sin, and to do that which is evil continually. 

But behold, that which is of God inviteth and enticeth to do good continually; wherefore everything which inviteth and enticeth to do good, and to love God, and to serve him, is inspired of God. 

Wherefore take heed, my beloved brethren, that ye do not judge that which is evil to be of God, or that which is good and of God, to be of the devil. 

For behold, my brethren, it is given unto you to judge; that ye may know good from evil. 

If there is a man or woman in the Church of Christ who has not this gift, it is because they are not magnifying their calling, for every person who is confirmed into the Church has sealed upon him the gift of the Holy Ghost, for the express purpose that he may be able to determine for himself that which is right and that which is wrong, which is good and which is bad. 

For behold, my brethren, it is given unto you to judge, that ye may know good from evil; and the way to judge is as plain, that ye may know with a perfect knowledge, as the daylight is from the dark night. 

For behold, the Spirit of God is given to every man, that they may know good from evil; wherefore I shew unto you the way to judge; for everything which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. 

But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil, for after this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth no man to do good, no not one; neither doth his angels; neither do they who subject themselves unto him. 

And now, my beloved brethren, if this be the case, that these things are true which I have spoken unto you, and God will shew unto you with power and great glory at the last day that they are true; and if they are true, has the day of miracles ceased? 

Or have angels ceased to appear unto the children of men? — or has he withheld the power of the Holy Ghost from them? or will he, so long as time shall last, or the earth shall stand, or there shall be one man upon the face thereof to be saved? 

Behold I say unto you, Nay; for it is by faith that miracles are wrought; and it is by faith that angels appear and minister unto men; wherefore if these things have ceased, woe be unto the children of men, for it is because of unblief, and all is vain. 

* * * * * 

Woe be unto him that shall pervert the ways of the Lord after this manner, for they shall perish, except they repent. Behold, I speak with boldness, having authority from, God; and I fear not what man can do, for perfect love casteth out all fear; 

And I am filled with charity, which is everlasting love. 

Wherefore, if a man have faith, he must needs have hope; for without faith there cannot be any hope. 

And again I say unto you, that he cannot have faith and hope, save he shall be meek and lowly of heart; 

If so, his faith and hope is vain, for none is acceptable before God, save the meek and lowly in heart, and if a man be meek and lowly in heart, and confesses by the power of the Holy Ghost, that Jesus is the Christ, he must needs have charity; for if he have not charity he is nothing; wherefore he must needs have charity. 

And charity suffereth long, and is kind, and envieth not, and is not puffed up, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, and rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things hopeth all things, endureth all things. 

An exemplification of this doctrine of charity, corresponds with that which was given to us by the President of the Church, going beyond the giving of alms, into every walk of life and every act of ours. 

Wherefore, my beloved brethren, if ye have not charity, ye are nothing, for charity never faileth. Wherefore, cleave unto charity, which is the greatest of all, for all things must fail; 

But charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with them. 

Wherefore, my beloved brethren, — and my beloved sisters, I will add — 

Pray unto the Father with all the energy of heart, that ye may be filled with this love, which he hath bestowed upon all who are true followers of his Son Jesus Christ, that ye may become the sons of God, that when he shall appear, we shall be like him.; for we shall see him as he is, that we may have this hope, that we may be purified, even as. he is pure. Amen. 

A number of notices pertaining to special meetings were given and the choir and congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder William H. Smart, President of the Roosevelt Stake of Zion. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


