Forth Overflow
10 10 1920


ELDER JONATHAN C. CUTLER 

(President of the Curlew Stake of Zion) 

It is certainly gratifying to see the interest manifested by the Latter-day Saints in attending our conferences. I presume that on the 139 

Temple block, at the present time, in the three buildings, and on the grounds, there are not less than twelve to fifteen thousand Latter-day Saints, eager to get inspiration from the servants of the Lord. To me this is very gratifying and pleasing indeed. I feel truly thankful for the title Latter-day Saint which I bear. 1 am also pleased, and appreciate the honor to be counted worthy, to be a representative of this great Church. While I feel that I am out of place to be called upon to address the Latter-day Saints who come so far to these conferences, and while I feel that the brethren and sisters who attend would rather hear the general authorities than some of the local brethren, yet, obedient to the call, I comply and desire that the Lord will bless me with his Spirit, and if he has anything to say, through me, I would only be too pleased to give utterance, for I desire to do all the good I can, and as little harm as possible. 

The Apostle Peter gives us to understand that God is no respecter of persons, but in all nations he that feareth him and worketh righteousness is accepted of him. We are all God's children. We have a perfect right to be equal. We were created equal, and we have a perfect right to remain equal, according to our works and our diligence here in the earth. But it is true we have our agency. We had it in the beginning, when the spirits were organized in the spirit world. God did not see fit to take our agency from us, but in the spirit world we exercised our free agency, and we still have the privilege here of exercising it. Men and women can do as they please. God is not going to compel us to do anything. As the poet says, "He'll call, persuade, direct aright — in countless ways be good and kind — but never force the human mind." We are all acting on our own resources and responsibilities, — upon our own honor and judgment. God does not interfere, but gives all a chance; and he is no respecter of persons, and the call is to all, regardless of creed. 

There seems to be at present in the whole world a disregard for law and order. I look back to my younger days — I am still a boy, but I look back to when I was younger than I am today — and I see a marked change in conditions as they now exist. Remember that law and order were observed in heaven. It is true we had the right to exercise our agency, but, at the same time, law and order were prevailing, even in the spirit world, in heaven. The laws of our government are patterned after the laws of God. Law and order at least should prevail here in this great nation of ours; in fact, they should in the whole world. But there is a strong tendency today to disregard both law and order. 

Before I arose from my bed this morning I received a thought that I pondered over. At the place that I was stopping, I heard in the hallway a mother say to her child, "Child, don't go down stairs." And the child said, "Why?" — seemed to rebel at once. That seems to be the condition at the presnt time; we haven't learned the lesson that Adam learned. You remember the Lord told Adam in the beGENERAL CONFERENCE.  to offer sacrifice. There were no whys nor wherefores with Adam; it was the Lord's right to speak and Adam understood it. You remember a little later, when the angel visited him, he put this question to him, "Adam, why do you offer sacrifice?" Adam said, "I know not, only that God has commanded it." 

Above all, I believe that Latter-day Saints should learn this lesson. We are beginning to fall into the ways of the world, and we question the authority of God here on the earth, and when we are asked, as the little child was asked this morning, not to go down the stairs, we want to know why. We do not follow the example of Adam. This seems to be the tendency in the Church today. We find that a great many of our people have lost track of the law of order and rule, and want to be a law unto themselves. 

It is very true that in cases, when the time is ripe and proper, we have a right to counsel. For instance, we take the body of lawmakers that we have. When they go into council, they have a right there to express their opinions, they have a perfect right to discuss matters, give their ideas, and finally come to a conclusion, and it becomes a law. But then it becomes our duty, as subject to that law, to obey, and not to ask the whys and wherefores. They have taken it into council, and have decided upon the law, and I feel that it is the duty of every one to obey such law and order after it has been established. 

With Latter-day Saints, I feel that it is more important even than with other citizens of this great nation of ours. It is true that in the beginning, while in the spirit world, there was a council held; and you remember that God called the gods together. They met in council. No doubt they discussed matters pro and con, but finally they decided upon a plan of redemption. That plan was accepted by all who were there. No doubt we were there, according to the words of Job, because he gives us to understand' — or the Lord does, in speaking to him, when he puts this question to him, "Job, declare, if thou hast understanding, where wast thou when this earth was created, when the morning stars sang together, and all of the sons of God shouted for joy?" We were present in the spirit world. We gave a voice of utterance to the plan of redemption, and sanctioned it while in the spirit world. But that did not deprive the spirits of their agency. After that council had decided upon a plan, we find that one man arose and rebelled against that great body. Lucifer, the son of the morning, rebelled against that council. He did not see fit to be governed by law and order, and became a law unto himself; and he had such great influence and power, even after that council had decided upon a plan, that he drew away a third of the hosts of heaven, and they followed himi, using their agency. We who were valiant had greater blessings pronounced upon us. The blessing was given to all who were valiant, and kept their first estate, that the time would come when they would have the privilege of coming 141  upon the earth and taking a body, whereby the spirit might be clothed. We had a clear understanding, no doubt, of our second estate, and we are here now as the Lord promised that we should be, all who were valiant in the spirit world. 

Now, I believe above all that the Latter-day Saints should be subject to law and order. I believe I am thoroughly converted to the fact that all Latter-day Saints, when the law goes forth, have not the privilege to ask the whys and wherefores, because when we do this, I am sure that we grieve the Spirit of the Lord, and it leaves us. We read in the Doctrine and Covenants, where the Lord says, That it mattereth not whether he speaks by his own voice, or the voire of his servants, it is binding upon the hearer. Amos gives us to understand that "Surely the Lord God will do nothing but that lie reveals his secrets unto his servants the prophets." God has never had a people that he acknowledged upon the earth, for whom he did not provide a mouthpiece to lead them. After God had visited the boy prophet, and after the organization of the Church, Joseph was ap-. oarently left to himself, and he led the people as a prophet of God. And we are still led by that same authority here today. So it matters not whether the Lord speaks direct, or whether he speaks as he always has spoken, through his mouthpieces here on the earth; and it pains me to see the disrespect for the authority of God here in the earth that we find is being manifest among the Latter-day Saints. 

1 feel that we are living in the time that the Apostle Paul saw, and many of the other apostles and prophets. We are living in the times that Daniel saw. We are living in the day that John the Revelator saw when he said, "I saw an angel flying through the midst of heaven," etc. We are living in that very day. The angel Moroni has come. He has delivered his message unto mankind, he has delivered the record of the forefathers, the Nephites and the Lamanites, and the work is established again here upon the earth with the promise that no other people have ever enjoyed, and that is this, that it shall never be taken from the earth nor given to another people. This is the knowledge that Latter-day Saints possess today, that this gospel which is here never will be given to another people — though we have no particular promise that you and I will remain faithful; that depends upon our own works, our own acts, whether we remain firm and true or not. 

I am reminded of a prediction made by Heber C. Kimball. And 1 remember quoting this at one time in Summit county when I was there on a Mutual mission, and at the close of the meeting an elderly man came to me, and he corroborated what I said, except that while I put it "half," he said, "You have made a mistake; I heard him make the utterance, that the day would come that two-thirds of the Latter-day Saints would apostatize and leave the Church." I got this from this witness, who heard him say so. 

I ponder over this at times, and I wonder what is going to be GENERAL CONFERENCE.  outcome. It is true, we are naturally looking after self,' but when we take a broad view of the situation of life and the hereafter, we are only one royal family. While, of course, we desire to be saved, with our immediate kin and relatives — and that seems to be the nearest and dearest wish to us — I believe our ambition is stronger, and we are working harder to save our immediate family, which I feel is perfectly right and well. I believe we are just a little bit too selfish along this line. I have often thought this that I would not be fortunate if my family were saved or exalted and all of my neighbors and associates were not enjoying the same blessing that I enjoy. I accept life as a reality. I accept life after we leave here as a reality. I believe the way I am living here I will want to live after I leave here. I believe the company that I enjoy here I will want to enjoy after I leave here; and for that reason the communities that I live in and the good people that I get acquainted with and want to associate with here, I believe I will want to associate with when I get -on the other side. And so I take a broad view of the situation, and the reality of life here and hereafter; I have the same interest for my neighbor, for my fellow man that I have for myself. 

I feel, then, that we should mete out charity to one another. I feel that we should live here as we desire to live when we go on the other side. I have heard a great many people express themselves that when we get on the other side there will be an awful change, that the separation that we call death is going to bring about a wonderful change — habits that we have formed here, things that we have been accustomed to here will leave us, that we will not be bothered with these bodies when we leave here. This is not the doctrine taught by Alma, by any means. It is just the reverse. And I believe that as Ecclesiastes says, "As we lay the body down, so shall we take it up again." I believe that if we have formed an evil habit, that habit will stay with us until we overcome it. If it would not, there would be no justice; mercy would take the place of justice, which God says is not going to be — for mercy will claim its own, justice will demand its own — and if the change which we call death is going to make us perfect, I see no use of the extra exertion to be what we should be here in the flesh. But I am converted to the fact that when we leave here we will find ourselves in the condition just where we left this life. 

For an illustration, I am going to tell of an instance that occurred while I was laboring in Summit county, to show to you that the appetites which we have here go with us, and we only get rid of them by sacrifice. And I am converted that it is easier to get rid of these things here than it is after we leave here. I called at the home of a good brother and his wife and family. In our discussion, I found he had been a strong, heavy tobacco user. He told me of his experience in quitting this habit. He told me that his brother had died some two years before, and that he also was a heavy tobacco user. 143 

After he had been dead two or three months, he appeared to his brother and his brother's wife, at their bedside, and said, "John, get up and roll me a smoke." His brother obeyed and got up and rolled him a smoke and offered it to him, and he appeared to sit down on a chair, and his brother sat clown by the side of him; and he said, "You inhale it;" and he obeyed. His brother held the third draw and he said, "That will do; now I can leave the earth." 

This coincides with what Parley P. Pratt gives us in the Kev to Theology. Here was a man who had been dead two or three long months, and according to his own testimony, he had not been able to leave the earth and go to the spirit world, but had been hovering around the earth. Parley P. Pratt tells us in the Key to Theology that at the place where the evil deeds are committed, the spirits linger in wretched loneliness for months. Now, according to the statement of this good brother, which I could not deny after questioning him, his brother came to him. 1 tried to make him think that it was imaginary, but he turned to his good wife and said, "Mother, did we imagine that my brother came, or was it real ?" She said, "We were as wide awake as we are at the present time; we walked to him and conversed with him, and on leaving us, he went into the other room and awoke our elder son and he talked with him." 

1 bring this up as an illustration, because I have heard some of our good old brethren and sisters, and some of our younger ones say, I will take the extra stripe, I will satisfy the appetite while I am here, and take my chances on the other side. Now, this good brother, who had formed that habit, after the visitation of his brother to him, said, "If this is the condition of my brother, who left with that appetite, I am going to make the sacrifice and quit." He bore his testimony to me that it had been two long years since he had touched tobacco. 

Now I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, in all candor, that life is a reality here, and I believe as we live here we will live after we leave here. I believe if I do not want to associate with a man here, he would be very repulsive to me on the other side. If I could not make him a congenial companion here, I do not believe I would want to on the other side, until some differences had been adjusted. 

Do we find conditions of this kind in our neighborhood today? I believe we do. We find neighbors who will not speak to neighbors. We find enmity exists, even in the settlements, and in some cases, in the immediate homes of the Latter-day Saints. It is entirely wrong, and this should be eradicated from the heart of every Latter-day Saint. 

I want to leave my witness that this body of Latter-day Saint may know the gospel is true. T know that God lives. 1 know that Joseph Smith was a prophet, raised up in these the last days to bring about God's purposes before the second coming of Christ here to reign in the earth. The living oracles are here, handed down from Presidents Young, Taylor, Woodruff, Snow, down to PresGENERAL CONFERENCE.  Smith — and today Heber J. Grant stands as a mouthpiece to us, and I say, God bless him, bless his associates, his counselors and the apostles, and all of the presiding authorities; and I would exhort you, my brothers and sisters, to pray for them, sustain them, and uphold them, and if we will do it, God will sustain and uphold us, but if we do not, I am afraid we will be left to ourselves, and we will apostatize and leave the Church, as was predicted by Brother Kimball. 

May the Lord bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The Swanee Singers sang, "The boys of the old brigade.'' 

ELDER JOSEPH F. McGREGOR 

(President of the Beaver Stake of Zion) 

I have been very much impressed, my brethren and sisters, at this conference with the necessity of doing something, impressed with the fact that this gospel is a gospel of service, and that in order to get the blessings of eternal life, we have something to do upon our part other than merely assent to the divinity of the mission of Jesus Christ. 

I recall when in the east at one time — I think Brother Lyman was there at Ann Arbor — the Reverend E. Fay Mills held a protracted meeting there, and he showed us the necessity, in his way, of accepting Jesus Christ, and the results if we failed to do this while we were sojourning here in mortality; and he told a little story about a young lady who had been in the choir and who had not confessed the Savior. After his meeting, she had taken suddenly ill with pneumonia, and died within a few days. In the hymn book she had used she had written, "Almost persuaded." He showed the terrible condition of that young lady — if she had just been a little more zealous, she would have been persuaded, and therefore would have received the blessings of eternal life — as it was, she would go to hell, and remain there in torment throughout the countless ages of eternity! 

Now we do not believe any such rubbish. We believe that whatever we get, we get through obedience to the laws and commandments of the gospel. John the Revelator, saw the books opened, and another book, which was the book of life, and the dead were judged out of the things that were- written in the book, according to their works; and we believe that we will get just what we merit, and not go to just the one place or the other. 

You know the old darkey in the south was preaching, and he was telling the people that they would either go to hell fire or else damnation, when they died — either one place or the other; and one of the congregation said, "What is that you say?" 145 

And he said, "Yes, that is right, you will go either one place or the other." 

Then the darkey in the congregation said, "Then this darkey will take to the woods." 

And many of us would have' to take to the woods, were it not for the provision that our heavenly Father has made for us that we will get what we earn and work for here, during this probation. 

I think one of the most beautiful sections in the Doctrine and Covenants is what is commonly termed the "Vision." You know the Lord showed Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery that there was more than one place, and made it clear to them that there were many mansions in the Father's kingdom, and that we would not all go to the same place. Prior to this time, of course, it was believed that there was no half-way house — we went either to heaven or to hell. 

I will not take your time to read this section — you are all more or less conversant with it — but you remember the great blessings that the Lord has in store for those who go to the celestial kingdom. Those are the ones who are faithful, who are valiant here in this life for the gospel and for the principles of truth that have been laid down for our guidance by the Savior of the world. 

Then we have another class, who were not so valiant, who got into the terrestrial kingdom. And I wish you to notice there that among them are those to whom the Savior went and preached in the spirit world, those to whom he went and unlocked the prison door, that they might accept the gospel. Why should not they get into the celestial kingdom ? Why should they be shut out, if they then would accept it, and do the works? They have had the privilege, v. brethren and sisters, of accepting the gospel here on earth. It had been preached to them, and they had refused to accept it in mortality; and therefore they were not in a position to get all the blessings that the Lord has in store for his faithful children. 

You will recall that Alma, in preaching to the Zoramites, told them to repent and turn unto the Lord ere it be too late. And many have said, "Why has Alma spoken in this way?" Because we believe that there is a chance hereafter; and talk about the night coming when no work can be done — we think we will do a great deal of work hereafter, and that those who have not accepted the gospel here in mortality will do so on the other side. But, mind you, Alma was speaking to those people, the Zoramites, who were apostates. They had once accepted the gospel and then rejected it, and therefore they could not then have the opportunity that they might have had if they had not heard the gospel. It would have been better for them if they never had heard it than to have heard it and rejected it here. 

And so we find that among those in the terrestrial kingdom are those to whom the Savior went, those people who had had the opportunity here while they were in mortality of accepting the gospel, and rejected it; and therefore they did not get a celestial glory, they were not valiant. There were some honest hearted people among GENERAL CONFERENCE. , but they had been blinded by the worldly things, and while they might accept the Savior as a divine being and as the Redeemer of the world, yet they had not with full purpose of heart accepted the gospel and done the works that the Savior required at their hands. Therefore they could not get the blessings. 

So it rests upon this point, my brethren and sisters, to be valiant, valiant in the cause of our heavenly Father. What are we to do in order to be valiant? Why, keep the commandments, not one or two or three, or any stated number, but all the commandments that our heavenly Father has given us. You know the erroneous idea that the young man was working under who came to the Savior and wanted to know what good thing he might do in order to obtain eternal life. He seemed to think that by doing one good, great thing, he would get all the blessings that our heavenly Father has in store for his faithful children; but the Savior disillusioned his mind; he explained to him that he should keep the commandments, and that it was not one. In fact he told the Jews, on one occasion, that they took tithes of mint and anise, and so on, but neglected the weightier matters of the law — the first they ought to do, but not to leave the other undone. 

We must keep all the commandments; and so, today, I believe it is a splendid thing for us to take stock of ourselves and find out where we stand. If we are in business, we often take stock — we take stock each year — and find out our assets and liabilities, and just where we stand financially. Isn't it a good thing to take stock of ourselves religiously, and find out just where we stand? Are we keeping the commandments of our heavenly Father, so far as we know them? Do we pay our tithes and offerings honestly before the Lord, from month to month? If not, then let us wake up and do those things. Are we attending our sacrament meetings? Are we responding to the calls of those who are over us in authority and performing every labor and duty required at our hands? Are we keeping up our communications with the heavens ? Are we thanking the Lord, and not being guilty of the sin of ingratitude in not thanking him for his goodness to us from day to day— and asking for the things that we need? I do not think we all ask for just what we ought to have. In many instances, perhaps, we are praying for those things that would not be good for us, if we got them. Let us be careful not to ask the Lord for anything we ought not to have, and then when we do ask for his blessings and ask for things that will be beneficial for us to have, we can do it in sincerity, in faith, believing that he will hear and answer us. I believe that oftentimes we think the Lord ought to respond the moment we ask him; and if he does not, we think that our prayers have not been answered and he has turned a deaf ear to us, and that there is no efficacy in prayer. 

It is a little, as I remember, like an incident that occurred some time ago. I had an uncle who was an apostate, and he was talking about this revelation on war. He said that Joseph Smith was a far147  man, and of course, he could see what was coming, and that there was a clash coming between the north and the south. And I said, "Why was it that he could see that other nations would step in, even the nation of Great Britain, and that they would be asked for help by the south, and they would grant it?" 

He said, "That shows that he was wrong, because it says they would call upon other nations, and other nations upon others, until all nations of the earth should be involved — that was not fulfilled, and therefore it is like the old adage of the law 'false in one thing, false in all,' and therefore we can throw it all away." 

I did not know how to answer him then, but now we can answet him. We can see how Great Britain and other nations have been involved in war; and we have taken these things in too small a compass, and have not been broad enough to realize that the Lord often requires time to perform his work. 

It reminds me of a little story I have heard of a little boy who wanted a baby in the home, and finally he asked his father if he might pray for one. His father told him yes, he might, if he wished; and so for some months, whenever he said his prayers at night, he would ask the Lord to send a baby to their home. But no baby came, and he got tired and he quit asking for one. Finally one morning when he came downstairs, the nurse took him into the bedroom, and there were twins! He said, "Pa, it is a good thing I stopped praying when I did." So, I think it is a splendid thing for us to exercise a little patience and he will hear our pleadings. I am sure that he will. But do not let us neglect any of the duties that are incumbent upon us. 

I am thankful to the Lord that he has made provision for his children, and that very, very few of them will be lost, that even in the telestial, the lowest degree of glory, where all the wicked people and those who fail to get the terrestrial or the celestial glory will go (except the sons of perdition), the joy is beyond our ability to understand, it is so great and glorious. Is not this a grand idea, to think the Lord has made such provision for his children? Is it not worth the effort, my brethren and sisters, to ask to obtain the blessings that he has prepared for his children here upon the earth. And yet we ought not to be satisfied with anything but the highest, because the terrestrial is so grand that the prophet says that he could not explain it to the people, it was so grand. We do not wish to be satisfied with that — we do not want to be left without our companions, our wives, or our children — we want to work for a higher degree of glory. We may not be able to become great jurists or great scientists — our mental capacity may prevent us from being such — but we can be true Latter-day Saints. We have the ability, each and all of us, to do that, and the Lord does not require anything- at our hands, save he provides ways and means for us to perform the commandment that he has given us, as Nephi has told us. So that, if we try, he just judges us by the intents of our hearts, and not always by what we do. I am very thankful for that. 

When it comes to the sons of perdition — they are those who sinned, wilfully, knowingly, after having tasted the good word of God and had been partakers of the gifts and powers of the world to come, and then threw it all away, rejected the Savior, crucified him, put him to an open shame — they are, as the prophet has said, like men standing and seeing the sunshine and yet declaring it does not shine. They are those who wilfully and deliberately cast themselves overboard on the sea of life. They alone will be lost, and thank the Lord they are very few. 

I pray the Lord to bless us, my brethren and sisters, and help us that we may work and see the necessity of work. You know when you go out into the world, very often people will open their Bibles to the passage in which Paul says, "For by grace are ye saved, through faith; and that not of yourselves : it is the gift of God : not of works, lest any man should boast." 

And I was glad the other day to hear Brother Richards explain, that "God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son, that whosoever should believe in him, should not perish," etc., and then go on and explain that works as well are necessary, that we have something to do on our part. 

When we hear the teachings of this conference, let us not be like the man who built his house on the sand, but like the man who built his house upon the rock. Let us be doers of the word, and not hearers only. In order that we may get the blessings, we must do the works, and if we do, we are as sure of our pay as anyone can be. 

I think it was Cardinal Wolsey who, at his death, had been deprived by the king of all his emoluments, and who said: 

Had I but served my God with half the zeal I served my king, he would not, in mine age, have left me naked to mine enemies. 

If we will keep the commandments of the Lord, we can be sure that we will get our reward. God help us all to do it, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER NELSON D. HOGAN 

(President of the Idaho Stake of Zion) 

My brethren and sisters: I can say that I have been delighted with the splendid counsel that we have received at this and all the sessions of this conference; and if we can take some of the things home that we learn here, and put them into practice in our every day life, we will get something out of coming to conference; but, on the other hand, if we go home and pay no more attention to what we have heard here, and do not put it into our lives, I do not think we will get very much good out of it. So, I trust, my brethren and sisters, that what we have heard in the different sessions of this confer149 , we will try to take home and practice so that we will be benefited by meeting together. 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that we will get everything we earn. If we are faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord and that which he asks us to do, we will get the blessings for these things; and, on the other hand, if we are neglectful and careless and indifferent, and do not the things that the Lord has required of us, we cannot expect to get something for nothing. I often think of it this way, that if we start to work for a man, we generally know what we are to get out of it. We know just about what the wages will be, and if. we are faithful in performing our duty, we will get a full pay. On the other hand, if we are careless, indifferent, lie around part of the time, when we come to get our pay, we will only get a part pay, and that is all we will ask for. I believe it is the same with the gospel. We know what we will get out of it, if we are faithful. 

So, it is up to us to be faithful and try to do everything we can for the cause and for ourselves. This is an individual work. I can not work out your salvation, nor can you work out mine; we have each to work out our own, and work together and in harmony one with another. And if we can do this, our reward will be great. 

I was very much surprised when I was called to take a part in this meeting, thinking perhaps they had made a mistake in calling upon me to come here to talk to the people; but if I should relate some of the circumstances in my life, you would say I should have no reason to stand back. I was reared in the Church, but I am sorry to say that quite a lot of my life I did not improve the opportunities as I should have done. Still, I have acted as a bishop for fourteen years, and obtained some experiences out of this work. I have acted in the capacity of a stake president for three or four years. I am thankful, my brethren and sisters, that I have been counted worthy of these responsible positions, and I trust that I may live worthy, so that I can claim the blessings in store for the faithful. 

I ask the Lord to bless us, and cause that the things that we have heard at this splendid conference, will be taken home and incorporated into the practices of our lives; they will then be of benefit to us. I ask the Lord to help us, that we may continue faithful to the end; and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The Swanee Singers sang, "Let the lower lights be burning." 

ELDER THOMAS D. REESE 

(President of the Juab Stake of Zion) 

I have been delighted with the spirit of the conference. It has thrilled me with the idea that our people are up-to-date in meeting GENERAL CONFERENCE.  issues that stand before us. I have been impressed with the spirit that we, as a people, should be careful in our utterances, that we should use discretion and judgment in these days of feverish political excitement, and not stand at our back fence and quarrel with our neighbor over some things that probably little concern us. I have seen neighbors sometimes disputing and quarreling over men whom' they will never see on this earth, save it be in the magazines, whose hand they will never clasp, and yet their brother across the fence, by some untimely misjudged statement, they offend, and there will be then in their hearts anger and sadness, and the Spirit of the Lord will not find free place in which to thrive. 

In our stake, when I see men that become excited over politics, I have said that they are like some patients that I have had — when the fever gets to 105, I look for them, to be delirious, and I pull out my thermometer and test their temperature. When it is 105 they ofttimes say things that they do not know that they are saying. So when I meet a brother who is radical and talking upon the street too loud, I reach for my thermometer, and if his political temperature is 105, I say, "Brother, you are delirious, you ought to go home for fear that somebody else will catch the contagion." 

I was very much impressed with the remarks of Brother Lyman this morning, when he spoke of the tobacco question. He said that as a people we should hold out our hands and stay the evil, or any ether evils that may be in our midst. I have thought of this very much in collection with a lesson that I learned in life when I was i young man attending college in the east. 

In one of the big cities I had the privilege of studying in the anatomy room of the university with a great number of other students of the subject, and I was working along, doing some of the extra work to earn a little money to remain at colleg'e, and I had the duty of going down to the morgue and there looking over the bodies that were unclaimed, that no one knew, and from those unclaimed bodies the state in that section gave the college the permission to take for scientific investigation or into the anatomy room. 

On one occasion, I stood there as the police force brought into the morgue a beautiful girl, seemingly, to look at her, and one of the men said, "This lady is a graduate from the slum, and we found her lifeless in the gutter." 

That so impressed me that I became immediately interested in that lady, and- letters were sent out all over the country, asking peoplue to come and identify her, and it was not long before the advertisements from papers were being answered and letters were being answered from different police headquarters, asking about that younglady, and many a mother and many a father, and many a brother walked through that morgue to see if it were their daughter or sister, and O the expressions of sadness! 

On one occasion there came an old lady, tottering upon her cane, and she was repeating as she came in the door, "Little Mary, I have found you; little Mary, I have found you." Some of. the men escorted her up to the casket, but as she looked upon it she said, "No, no, not my little Mary— but somebody else's little Mary." 

The words so impressed me that I thought, would it not have been right if some hand could have reached out and prevented this girl from destroying that beautiful body — because there was every mark upon it of dissipation, her arms had been pitted where she had used some of the vile and serious drugs that some people get in the habit of using. And I thought to myself, what right did that girl have to cause probably the sorrow that she must have caused somewhere to some home? And I thought of the words of the old lady, "Somebody's little Mary." There must have been hundreds of little Marys who had wandered away from their homes and forgotten to write back to father and mother, and caused them, sorrow 'and anguish; had destroyed the body that they had received and that should have given to this earth again bodies. 

And why are we so anxious to say to the boy, we are going to stop you from using tobacco, stop you from destroying your body? That is one of our missions, because, boy, your soul is greater, far greater, probably, than you understand. As Latter-day Saints, we understand that our boys and girls, who stand by our sides are our greatest wealth in this world and in the eternities. They will stand in the presence of God with us, as the riches above all riches that can be thought of in this earth, because we expect from that boy and girl that they will join in the perfection of godliness, and we expect, if they reach the perfection that the Savior spoke about, that they can in time stand out in the universe and create worlds like the one that we stand upon, with all the mountains and the valleys and the seas and the wealth that are in them. We hold that our boys' and our girls' souls are greater than the combined wealth of the world, if we can save them in godliness to our Father in heaven; and therefore we have a right to stay anything that will destroy their bodies, or lead them away from this, the work of the Lor-d. 

And may God bless us, that we will understand this duty toward our boys and our girls and our neighbors, and that vile thoughts and anger and bitterness will not be a part of our lives, I aslc in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. . 

The Swanee Singers sang, "The Americans come." 

ELDER ALFRED L. BOOTH 

(Of the Fourth Ward of Provo) 

( Bishop Booth was standing up in the congregation, when Elder Lyman called him directly from the audience to speak.) GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

I think that you can perhaps sympathize with me, because I had no more idea of this than you have that you will be next. 

I have enjoyed the remarks of the brethren, in the meeting, and I have been thinking how Zion is growing. We attempted to go to the tabernacle, at half-past one, and were told that the seats were all taken, so that presidents of stakes were being turned away thai, early. And if that is the case, at half-past one, it appears that we may have to arrange after a while so that only the presidents of stakes shall come to the conference, because, as 1 understand it, they ought to be there in order to get the instructions, to give to their congregations in the various stakes of Zion. I remember when my father, who was a cripple, came to conference, that he always remained in the tabernacle, in a good seat, during the noon hour, going without his dinner, for fear that he could not get back to listen to the instructions of the brethren; but in those days I am certain they did not have overflow meetings in the Assembly Hall and Bureau of Information building. 

Another thing I have been impressed with, too, as a difference between those days and these. As I remember it, in the days of President Young, he said that they had only one honest doctor in the Church, and that was Dr. Riggs, of Provo, and he did not know enough to kill a man. You have listened to two of the doctors this afternoon. It seems that they have learned how not to kill people, but how to save them. President McGregor and President Reese, to whom you have listened in this meeting this afternoon, are both practicing physicians, both reputable men of the community, and both presidents of stakes — so you can see that Zion is growing. In those days I do not know what would have been said if they had made a doctor a president of a stake. 

Not only that, but it is not long since that we had one of our most prominent presidents of stakes die, who was a member of that other despised class, the lawyers, President Richard W. Young; and in the early days they looked upon the lawyers as even worse than the doctors. [Elder Lyman said : "He happens to be a lawyer himself."] . It seems that either the doctors and the lawyers must be getting better, or else the people are getting more liberal in their attitude toward some of these things. . 

But I have been taught all my life, however, that the gospel which we believe in embraces the whole truth of the universe; and if there is anything virtuous, or lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, our Articles of Faith say, we seek after these things; so that it is the cry of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that we shall go onward and upward until we become perfected, even as our Father in heaven is perfect. Amen. 

The Swanee Singers sang, "Sextette from Lucia." 153 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

As some others have already said, it is gratifying to see what progress we are making. Latter-day Saints are not satisfied with preaching and hearing sermons, or with praying and hearing prayers. These do not bring salvation. 

PEOPLE ARE TO BE JUDGED BY THEIR WORKS 

Those who are merciful, charitable, industrious, studious, those who are struggling to overcome shortcomings, weaknesses and imperfections, are those who are really Saints. These are they who are truly Christians. In these important respects, we are getting better all the time. 

I was gratified with the keynote speech sounded by President Heber J. Grant in the first part of our conference session, in which he instructed us to keep the commandments. He repeated a portion of a poem: 

And in self-judgment, if you find 

Your deeds to others are superior; To you has Providence been kind, 

As you should be to those inferior; Example sheds a genial ray 

Of light, which men are apt to borrow; So first improve yourself today, 

And then improve your friends tomorrow. 

Such sentiments are a part of the genuine gospel of Jesus Christ. Those who live such teachings are really Saints. 

This quotation, as President Grant explained, was from a poem that was sung to him by Francis M. Lyman about forty years ago. 

As his son, let me say to you that I have known no other human being who lived more strictly in accord with what he himself thought to be right than did Francis M. Lyman. He has been called by many the great teacher of the Church. No one ever saw him or heard him teach a lesson in accordance with which he himself did not live. He never asked another to do more than he himself was doing. FAVORITE HYMN OF THE LATE PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN 

President Penrose, in his opening remarks, quoted from one of his own hymns — the favorite hymn of the late President Francis M. Lyman. I am going to read all of it : 

School thy feelings, O my brother, 

Train thy warm, impulsive soul; Do not its emotions smother, 

But let wisdom's voice control. 

School thy feelings, there is power In the cool, collected mind; GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Passion shatters reason's tower, Makes the clearest vision blind. 

School thy feelings; condemnation Never pass on friend or foe, 

Though the tide of accusation Like a flood of truth may flow. 

Hear defense before deciding, And a ray of light may gleam, 

Showing thee what filth is hiding Underneath the shallow stream. 

Should affliction's acrid vial 

Burst o'er thy unsheltered head, 

Shool thy feelings to the trial, Half its bitterness hath fled. 

Art thou falsely, basely slandered? 

Does the world begin to frown? Gauge thy wrath by wisdom's standard, 

Keep thy rising anger down. 

Rest thyself on this assurance: Time's a friend to innocence, 

And the patient, calm endurance Wins respect and aids defense. 

Noblest minds have finest feelings Quiv'ring strings a breath can move, 

And the gospel's sweet revealings, Tune them with the key of love. 

Hearts so sensitively moulded, Strongly fortified should be, 

Trained to firmness and enfolded In a calm tranquility. 

Wound not wilfully another; 

Conquer haste with reason's might; School thy feelings, sister, brother, 

Train them in the path of right. 

The intense feelings of some who are engaged in the present political campaign, I think, prompted the words of President Heber J. Grant on the subject of charity. Every word in this hymn applies to that same subject, and' to the more or less serious general condition now existing. 

Ours is the gospel of Jesus Christ. It has been revealed — the heavens were opened more than a hundred years ago — and we ought to put forth our best efforts to live as the Savior himself lived, thus overcoming our shortcomings. 

THE HOME THE BEST MEASURE OF RELIGION 

We are measured best with respect to our religion in our own 155 . Are we kind? Are we generous? Are we thoughtful? Are we loving ? Or are we unfair, are we unkind, are we dishonest ? 

It is so easy to retaliate, it is so easy to exhibit temper, it is so easy to speak harshly, it is so satisfying, momentarily, to get revenge. On these points we have one glorious, one divine example. The great Master himself was persecuted, he himself was hated, this Divine One was crucified. During the agony of his crucifixion came that matchless, that divine example. In that moment of greatest distress, in the anguish of his broken heart, and just before his spirit fled, he crowned his perfect life with a perfect crowh, when he exclaimed, "O, Father, forgive them," I beg of thee, "for they know not what they do." 

That is the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That is the lesson we are trying to teach in this great conference. May this spirit go into every quarter of the Church, that we may be made happier and better, I humbly pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The singers and congregation sang, "High on the mountain top." Benediction was pronounced by Elder David R. Lyon of the Ensign Ward and Stake of Zion. 


