Afternoon
09 10 1920


ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

"If ye love me, keep my commandments." 

These words were addressed by the Master to his disciples but a few hours before his death, as he had assembled with them to eat the passover, and give them the final instruction before he should suffer for the sins of the world. On that same occasion, and shortly before these remarks were made, he referred to the same subject, when he said : 

Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me; and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go ye can not come; so now I say to you. A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. 

I believe that I can do no better than to read other instructions that were given by our Lord and by his disciples, in regard to the same subject, because they have said it so much better than I could say it, and I firmly and faithfully believe all that is written. In this same discourse the Lord continued saying: He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. 

Judas said unto him, (not Iscariot) Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world? 

Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep -my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him. 

He that loveth me not, keepeth not my sayings: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me. 

WE ARE HERE FOR THE TRUTH WHICH MAKES US FREE . 

I look over this congregation and I see before me men and women who have been gathered from all parts of the earth, or whose parents before them have been gathered out, by the preaching of the gospel. We have come to these valeys of the mountains, and our fathers before us, that we might be established in the truth which makes men free. Because here an ensign has been raised to the nations and the declaration has gone forth that in Zion may be found the word of the Lord, and so we came with the hope and desire of keep ing his commandments, making covenants, 'taking up"on ourselves obligations that would bring us eternal life. It would be a shame, after we have been gathered out in this manner, according to the predictions of the prophets of old, if now, because of prosperity, or for any other cause, we should let the adversary find a place in our hearts to destroy the truth and the love we should have, one for another; for we are indeed the disciples of the Lord. If we love him we will keep his commandments. No question about that. And should there be in Zion any who offend or who fail to keep the commandments of the Lord, then it is evidence sufficient that they do not love him. I cannot have hatred in my heart for my fellow men, whether they be in the Church or out of it, if I abide in the commandment of the Lord. I must obey them, and I show by my works that I love the Lord my God with all my heart, with all my might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ I serve him and love my neighbor as myself. This is the word of the Lord as it has been revealed in these modern times for the guidance of Israel. Therefore, I should have in my heart a feeling of love for my fellowmen, and especially for those who have made covenant with the Lord to observe his laws and walk before him in righteousness. What right have I to complain, or find fault, or endeavor to destroy the usefulness of my brother? It matters not what the occasion may be, why should I engender feelings in my heart of enmity for one that I am called upon and commanded by the Lord to treat as a brother? We are not merely friends; we are brothers and sisters, the children of God, who have come out, as I have said, from the world to enter into covenants, to observe his laws and to abide by all things which are given us by inspiration. We are commanded to love one another. "A new commandment," the Lord has said, and yet like many other commandments it is as old as eternity. There never was a time when that commandment did not exist and was not essential to salvation, and yet it is always new. It never grows old, because it is true. 

THE NEW AND EVERLASTING COVENANT 

I am reminded of an expression that occurs in one of the early revelations (section 22) shortly after the organization of the Church, when the Lord said that he had given unto the Church "a new and everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning." Those words are very significant. It was a new and everlasting covenant, and yet it had always existed, for it was from the beginning, and so this new commandment that we should love one another has always been. The truth does not grow old. Some people, you know, are extremely progressive. They want a change in this and a change in that, and a change in the other thing, but the principles of the gospel never change. The principle of love is the same today that it was yesterday and will endure the same tomorrow, If I am not in harmony with that principle, which is a principle of eternal truth, then I am under condemnation before the Lord and have no fellowship with him. 

FURTHER QUOTATIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS ON THE POWER OF LOVE 

There are some other expressions of this nature that I desire to read, as I say, because they are stated so much better than I would be able to express them. John, known as the revelator, and the beloved disciple of the Lord, has borne witness likewise to this commandment. There is no wonder that the Lord loved him. He is spoken of, you know, in the scriptures, as the disciple whom the Lord loved. Why did the Master love him ? Because he loved the Master; because he loved his fellowmen. Now I do not mean to say that the other disciples did not love the Lord, and that they had anything in their hearts but love for one another, but John stands out among them in this regard as one who had this gift in larger measure, perhaps, than did some of his fellows. Let me read to you one or two things that he has written. In his First Epistle, 3rd chapter and 14th verse, I read this: 

We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. 

I can not afford, therefore, to have enmity in my heart, to speak disparagingly of one of my brethren or of one of my sisters, because that is death to me. Now the next verse says : 

Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer; and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. 

I do not know that I would dare say a thing like that of myself, and yet it is true. That is to say, a man who has hatred in his heart for one of his brethren, not only for his own flesh and blood, but also for a brother in the covenant of the gospel, has the same spirit which exists in the heart of one who has murder in his heart. It is a murderous spirit and there is no eternal life for such a man. 

"Beloved, if God so loved us," John has said, "We ought also to love one another." 

Again : 

Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world. 

There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear; because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not miade perfect in love. 

We love him, because he first loved us. 

If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? 

And this coirumflndment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also. 

IN HARMONY WITH THE} KEYNOTE OF THE CONFERENCE 

These words which I have read are in harmony with the kev note of this conference. I endorse the remarks that have been made here by all the brethren. I rejoice that there is harmony and love in the hearts of the presidency, one for another, and the members of the council of the Twelve. We are not divided. We do not see differently, but we accept the same thing, and in the love of God have but one desire in our hearts and that is to serve him and keep his commandments . 

Now, I want to say a few words in regard to this phase of the subject, and I will repeat one of these verses: "He that loveth me not, keepeth not my sayings; and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me," and the preceding verse : 

ON KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS 

"Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him and make our abode with him." Now, do we fully understand just what that means? The great promise that is made to the members of this Church who are willing to abide by the law and keep the commandments of the Lord is that they shall not only receive a place in the kingdom of God, but that they shall have the presence of the Father and the Son; and that is not all, for the Lord has promised that all that he hath shall be given unto them. In section 84 of the Doctrine and Covenants this truth is very clearly set forth, and notwithstanding the fact that I may weary you, I shall read one or more verses : 

For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies; 

They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God. 

Now, I am not going to take time to explain all "of that which I have read, but I want to read a little more and give some explanation: 

And also all they who receive this priesthood receiveth rne, saith the Lord; 

For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; And he that receiveth me leceiveth my Father; 

And he that receiveth my Father, receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him; 

And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the priesthood. 

That is in harmony with this expression which I have read here from John's gospel, that if we keep the commandments of the Lord — and I apply this to us, although he declared it unto his disciples then, it is just as true today — if we keep the commandments of the Lord, then we shall have both the Father and the Son and we shall dwell in their presence, we shall receive his kingdom as the elect and shall be heirs of God, joint heirs with our elder Brother in receiving the fulness of the kingdom, for all things are ours. O how wonderful, how great the blessings of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints and to all who are willing to go through the waters of baptism and abide by the law and keep the^commandments of the Lord! 

THE WHOLE DUTY OF MAN IS TO KEEP THE COMMANDMENTS 

A more timely thing could not be said than that which was uttered here as the keynote of this conference that we as Latter-day Saints should keep the commandments of the Lord. That is the whole duty of man. I have no right to do anything else. You have no right to do anything else. We have the privilege, but because we are servants, who have gone through the waters of baptism and taken upon ourselves obligations, there is nothing else that we should do. Woe unto the man who has made covenant with the Lord in the waters of baptism and in the temple of the Lord to keep his laws and his commandments and then violates them! 

There is another passage of scripture here in explanation of one of the parables. You know the Savior spoke of the parable of the, wheat and the tares. It is not necessary for me to read it because you are familiar with it. But I want to read one verse of the interpretation. The Lord said: 

The field is the world; The good seed are the children of the kingdom, but the tares are the children of the wicked one. 

The enemy that sowed them is the devil; The harvest is the end of the world; and the reapers are the angels. 

As therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire; so shall it be in the end of this world. 

The Son of man shall send forth his angels and they shall gather out of the kingdom all things that offend and them which do iniquity. Now, he is not speaking of the world in that passage of scripture. He is speaking of Israel. If I have enmity in my heart, or hatred, then I offend. If I do not have a love for the principles of the gospel then I am an offense before the Lord. If I am not willing to live up to every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God, but make exception in my case, because, perhaps, I think I may hav weaknesses and may be different from other men, then I offend and am in danger. If we are not in harmony with the Church and Kingdom of God in all things, and faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord, the time may come when we shall be removed, for the angels of heaven will take a hand and all that give offense, all things that are impure, unholy, and stand in the way of progress and advancement and the establishment of truth in the hearts of the people shall be removed. 

I never did learn to deliver a discourse without referring to the scriptures so you will have to pardon me. I will read one more passage and this I expect will be the last that I will read. In the preface to the Lord's revelations he said this: 

And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord; neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people.  

How are they to be cut off? By being gathered out as the Lord declared in his explantion of the parable of the wheat and tares, when the angels shall go forth and cleanse and remove from Israel and the kingdom of God all things that offend. We have been commanded to stand in holy places. We can not stand in a holy place, even though it be in the temple of the Lord, if our thoughts, our desires, and our feelings, are impure, because we would desecrate the house of the Lord, and to stand in holy places we must be in harmony with the truth and observe and keep all of the commandments that have been given unto us. 

GREATER COM PREHENSION OF THE GOSPEL MUCH NEEDED AMONG THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

I was in one of our northern stakes not long ago. I made the remark there that I thought the thing that was needed as much as anything else among the Latter-day Saints was a better understanding or comprehension of the gospel. And after I sat down we called upon one of the bishops and he got up and endorsed what I had said and put it to a vote of the people and it was adopted in that stake of Zion as a slogan, that we stand for a better comprehension of the gospel through study and by faith. I say to you, my brethren and sisters, you cannot keep the commandments of the Lord and walk in righteousness unless you know what they are. The Lord has commanded us to search the scriptures, for the things which they contain are true 

and shall be fulfilled, and so I say to you, and this is my closing message : Search the scriptures; make yourselves familiar with that which the Lord has revealed for your salvation, the salvation of your house, and of the world. Do not procrastinate the day of repentance. Let us walk humbly, righteously, diligently before the Lord and let, above -all things, this spirit of love dwell in our hearts for all men and more especially for our brethren. If we see them going wrong, if we see them doing that which they ought not do, there is a proper way to correct them. The Lord has pointed out the way and we can make the matter right nearly every time and if we can not make it right with the offending brother there is a procedure which we may take to make it right, and I have no right to backbite, to faukfind, to condemn before others one of my brethren unheard, whether he be high or lowly. The Lord has pointed out the procedure in all of there matters for our guidance. 

Let us love the Lord for this is the foundation of all things. It is the first commandment, and the second commandment, to love our neighbors as ourselves, is like unto it, and when we have done that we have fulfilled the law, because there is nothing that will be left undone. The Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, let us stand together united in the service of the Lord, I pray in his name. Amen. 

A solo entitled, "The way of life," was rendered by Ellen Opening. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

I am very thankful to find that I am in harmony with what has been said in this conference in the addresses of the brethren, from that of the president of the Church and the prophet of the Lord at the opening session, to the last Amen by the speaker who has just closed. A variety of topics have been touched upon, and I have felt to regret in a way that the time limitations did_not permit several of the speakers to go on as I could see from the trend of their remarks they would have done, had they had time — to a fuller elucidation of the very splendid principles they have presented. 

LOOKING AT THINGS FROM DIFFERENT ANGLES 

We have been able to look at things from different angles by following the remarks of the several brethren, and all harmonize. I believe that the remarks are peculiarly timely. Not that I feel that there is any great danger of the Latter-day Saints going astray as a body — for I have faith in them, and I know that they are the Lord's people — but because there are at this time conditions before the people upon which divergent views are held; and, consequently, not all see things from the same angle, and therefore do not have precisely the same image formed upon the retina of their spiritual and physical eyes. 

Very much depends, you know, upon our point of view. There are men who would not recognize a photograph of their own home if it were taken from the rear, for they have been in the habit of looking at it only from the front; and such a one would probably say : "That is not mine; that is not the way I would build a house; it is all wrong." 

THE LORD CAN NOT LOOK UPON SIN WITH ALLOWANCE 

I was impressed by the brief and passing remark made by Brother Ivins, this morning, in which he incorporated one of the most profound epigrams in scripture, in which the Lord repeated words that he had before given through the mouth of his ancient prophet Alma. They appear in the 45th chapter, 16th verse, as Alma's words spoken under inspiration. In the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants, 31st paragraph, they appear as the direct words of the Lord : 

"For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance." 

I read further: 

"Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven; 

"And he that repents not, from him shall be taken even the light which he has received, for my Spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of Hosts. 

"And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth, I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh, 

"For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion; 

"And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. 

"Search these commandments for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. 

"What I the Lord have spoken, T have spoken, and I excuse not myself: and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same; 

"For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever. Amen." 

This is no ancient scripture only. The principles involved were proclaimed early in the history of the race; and they have been given anew to you, to me personally, to the people who are living in this dispensation, in this year of our Lord. 

"I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance." I say that epigram is startling. It has attracted the attention of theologians; it has led them to profound reflection; it has enlightened their minds. In the scripture that I have read to you the Lord draws a yery clear distinction between sin and the sinner. The dis is real and vital. Some may say: Can there be sin without a sinner ? Can there be theft without a thief? Can there be falsehood without a falsifier? Can there be murder without a slayer? I take the liberty of reading to you a few lines of my own, with scripture incorporated, as already published: 

Admittedly, sins may be planned but not executed, thought out, though not carried to the extent of actual commission, as is connoted by the Lord's words respecting adultery: "Ye have heard that it w said by them of old, Thou shalt not commit adultery : But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart." (Matt. 5 :27-28). 

Men may be potential liars, robbers or murderers, but, lacking opportunity to become criminals in fact, or restraining their evil impulses through considerations of policy or personal advantage, they may maintain outward signs of probity. The wearing of a sheep's fleece by a ravening wolf is no modern camouflage. 

But in all such dissemblings, the fact of wicked purpose exists; and the evil purpose, thought, or desire, is of itself essentially sin; and such a case, therefore, presents no phenomenon of abstract guilt, but actual and individual offense; for the thinker of evil is a sinner. 

Who of us can regard tuberculosis, smallpox, or the insidious and deadly influenza that has swept the earth, with other feelings than repugnance and fear? Yet we treat the afflicted person with effort to bring about his recovery; and if we loved him while well, we do not hate him because he has become ill; but, to the contrary, we become the more solicitous in his behalf. Health officers and the medical fraternity look not upon disease with compromise, toleration or allowance. They are the marshalled assailants of physical malady, whatever its disguise; and their best means of waging war on disease is that of ministering to each afflicted one, while taking all measures possible to protect the well against infection. 

The germs of disease exist, whether they find lodgment in human bodies or not; and, by analogy, we may say that the spirit of or incentive to thievery, adultery, or murder, is alive, as the definite contagion of evil, though men may or may not be actually overcome thereby. Now, in the case of physical affliction, definite treatment is invoked; and compliance with prescribed conditions is enforced so far as the patient will submit. 

In fine and purposeful irony, the Divine Healer met the casuistry of certain self-righteous scribes and Pharisees with the declaration : "They that are whole have no need of the physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance." (Mark 2:17.) 

THE LORD, HOWEVER, IS MERCIFUL TO THE SINNER 

But as the scriptures abundantly affirm, and as experience demonstrates, there are none of us entirely free from sin; to the contrary, every one is in need of the Great Physician's healing ministrations. "Sin is the transgression of the law" (I John 3:4); furthermore: "There is none righteous, no, not one" (Rom. 3 :10); and again "If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us." (I John 1:8). 

I learn from the scriptures that the Lord hates sin in every one of its multifarious manifestations, but he is kind and merciful and long-suffering toward the sinner. It is true that disease may come upon us through our own neglect, or our own actual commission of overt acts. It may come upon us even against the best we can do. The diseases I have named, most of them, and diphtheria, and others, are classed by physicians as filth disease, because the germs that produce them breed in uncleanness; but even the cleanest of men, even the man who has lived according to the laws of health, may come down under the stroke of one of those dread maladies; and though I hate diphtheria, I may love with a yearning that leads me to fasting and prayer, the one who is stricken. Let us segregate the ideas even as the Lord hath done. 

A MEANS OF TREATMENT FOR THOSE WHO SIN 

Now the Lord has provided a means of treatment for those who are spiritually afflicted, even as means are provided for those who are physically ill, and by compliance with his laws of spiritual health we may, perchance, be healed, however ill we may have become. But we should not lose sight of the fact that the Lord has no compromise with sin. He has provided that if any man in this Church shall offend, he shall be dealt with as a man who is afflicted with smallpox must be dealt with, with the hope of saving him. The purpose of the Church is to heal, not to spread disease; to build up, not to tear down; to save, not to destroy, but that does not mean that we are to look upon sin in our midst in any namby-pamby way and pass it by. 

The Lord hath declared that there must not be iniquity in his Church, and he has provided officers whose specific and specified duty it is to hunt out iniquity, to run it down, so that every case may be dealt with, and the afflicted Ones perchance, be saved. He has not told us to cover up sin in the Church. That is not the Lord's will, nor purpose nor plan. He has told us that we should avoid gossip and slander and all kinds of misrepresentation, and speaking ill against our brethren, whether we regard them in their official capacity as officers of the Church, general or local, or otherwise. I have no right to speak in condemnation of my brother, unless I do it in an official capacity, in the exercise of the authority of the Holy Priesthood, and then I should do it in love and with yearning for him. 

SIN SHOULD BE EXPOSED 

You have raised your hands in this great building many times, sustaining me in the position to which I have been called. I make myself the subject of the illustration. Perchance you will have an op to do that again, or to vote against me. But does that mean that because you vote and sustain me in my position that I am exempt from judgment if I do wrong? By no means. But there is a way in which your complaints, if you are in any way justified in making such, may be given consideration. If any one of you feel that you can not sustain me in my position, because of anything you know of me as being wrong, I pray you, come to me, come to me. I will give you a hearing; I will listen to you patiently, and if you do point out any error in my life, anything in which I have been doing that which I ought noi to do, the Lord being my helper I will thank you and bless you for it, and bless him who inspired you to come. Or, go to those who preside over you and me, and let diem judge between us. But do not go around gossiping about me, and trying to undermine my influence, which I desire before the Lord to be for good. Do not condemn me unheard. Do not pick out a rumor from the air. and think it over and magnify it until it becomes an established fact in your disordered mind. Bui on the other hand, if I am guilty of sin that makes me unfit to be one of the goodly company to which I have been called, that should be known; it should be pointed out, in the proper way and in the proper spirit. 

DISCIPLINE REQUIRED IN THE CHURCH 

Now, the Lord has provided that those in his Church shall live according to the law, and he makes a distinction between the law pertaining to the Church and what we call the secular law, or the law of the land, but he requires obedience to each. My love for my brother in this Church does not mean that I am to shield him when he has violated the law of the land, nor that I am to stand between him and righteous judgment. This Church is no organization like that of the secret combinations of old, which the Lord hath said he hates, the members of which were pledged, and bound by oath and covenant, that they would stand by each other whether right or wrong, that they would cover up one another's crimes, that they would justify one another in theft and murder and in all things that were unclean. It is no such organization at all. It would not be of God if it were. 

The resurrected Christ, after his ascension, in giving the revelation through John, instructing the revelator to have messages sent to the different churches, included in the message to the church at Ephesus the word that he did have something good to say to them, because, as I read, "Thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitanes, which I also hate." (Rev. 1 :6.) He did not say he hated the members of that unholy band, but he did hate their doctrines and practises, which were the doctrines of a secret combination, the members of which were pledged to stand by each other no matter what any one of them might do. That the Lord requires discipline in his Church is made plain in the revealed word, as you may read in the 42nd section of the Doctrine and Covenants : "And again, I say, thou shall .,ot kill; but he that killeth shall die. "Thou shalt not steal; and he that stealeth and will not repent, shall be cast out 

"Thou shalt not lie; he that lieth and will not repent, shall be cast 

out. 

"Thou shalt lpve thy wife with all thy heart, and shalt cleave unto her and none else; 

"And he that looketh upon a woman to lust after her, shall deny the faith, and shall not have the Spirit, and if he repents not he shall be cast out. 

"Thou shalt not commit adultery; and he that committeth adultery, and repenteth not, shall be cast out." 

And then, to cut the matter short, he says : 

"Thou knowest my laws concerning these things are given in my scriptures; he that sinneth and repenteth not, shall be cast out." 

In the latter part of the same revelation, we find these instructions : 

"And if a man or woman shall rob, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land. 

"And if he or she shall steal, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land. 

"And if he or she shall lie, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land. 

"And if he or she do any manner o£ iniquity, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law, even that of God. 

"And if thy brother or sister offend thee, thou shalt take him or her between him or her and thee alone; and if he or she confess, thou shalt be reconciled." 

Such is the law to the Church, and respecting the law of the land, the Lord has made it perfectly plain that we are subservient to it and are required to sustain it. Though we have our tribunals in the Church, established according to the order of the Lord, there is no conflict between their administration and that of the courts of the land. 

TENDER TREATMENT FOR THE SPIRITUALLY SICK 

"Let no man break the laws of the land," saith the Lord in the 58th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, "for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land: Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet." And then referring to the laws previously given he said : "Behold, the laws which ye have received from my hand are the laws of the Church, and in this light ye shall hold them forth. Behold here is wisdom." 

I remind you of the strictness with which the Lord regards his people. He has provided tender treatment for those who are spiritually sick, and it is our duty to assist those who are thus stricken. If I go to my brother in the spirit of kindness, and that spirit must be with me if I go to him in the power of my office and calling, giving unto him words of counsel, and he receive them not in the spirit in which I go, he becomes an offender before the Lord. If I do so when my brother comes to me, I become an offender. But you know there are  among us and elsewhere — the world is full of them — who do not want to be criticized, except in the broad sense of the term, and then the criticism must be favorable. They want to be patted on the back; they want to be told that everything they have said and done* is right; and if you point out, perchance, that they should be on their guard against this or that, or they should right this wrong or that, too frequently they become offended against the one who has come to them even as a physician would come to one afflicted with disease. 

KEEP THE COMMANDMENTS OF THE LORD 

To the people I say, keep the commandents of the Lord as you have been admonished again and again. Do not lie, do not steal, do not take advantage of your neighbor, do not have lustful thoughts, do nothing that is unclean. Keep these commandments of the Lord. Bishops, presidents of stakes, keep ye the commandments of the Lord. When you have under your care those who are offending, you shall deal with them as the Lord hath provided, in all kindness and with a desire to save them; but nevertheless, you are not to cover up iniquity in the Church. The spirit in which this jurisdiction is to be exercised is set forth by the Lord in plainness, as I read to you from the 121st section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

"Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

"That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

"That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control, or dominion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood, or the authority of that man." 

TOLERATION ENJOINED 

You see the safeguards that the Lord has set. Now, the Lord hath enjoined love for our fellowmen upon us, such love as will cause us to do even disagreeable things for their welfare, to do that which we do not like to do, to speak a word of caution when, perchance, we would rather not, lest we be misunderstood; but the Lord requires it at our hands; and he has enjoined upon us tolerance toward one another. There are some who have never reasoned carefully along the line of the possibility of two men, for example, looking at things from different points of view, and seeing different images, and yet both seeing the truth. "How is it possible," some have asked, "that two divergent ways may be right ?" Why, they may tum, and they may come to be right after all. I can not believe that two men, both desiring the same ultimate attainment, and that good, and both working toward that end 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

with full and sincere purposes of heart, can not both be right, although they seem for the time being to be going differently. 

Let me be specific. Do you mean to tell me that all good is in one or the other of the great political parties? Why, if so, if it be right to be a Democrat, then it is wrong to be a Republican. No, my friends. It may be perfectly right for you to be a Democrat and equally so for me to be a Republican, or vice versa. We have our different ways of looking at things, but if I believe that the principles of the Democratic party are right, I am not justified in condemning my brother who believes that the principles of the Republican party are right. I believe that both of these great parties, that is to say all honest members thereof, have at heart the country's good, the nation's welfare. They differ as to the best means of attaining this; and to our great sorrow they have dragged into the field of partisanship questions that never should have been brought in, because they are fundamentally not partisan at all. 

THE CHURCH IN ALL THE AFFAIRS OF LIFE 

Only the other day I was asked, in the course of conversation with an intelligent gentleman, not a member of our Church : "Is the 'Mormon' Church in politics?" 

I answered him : "Most assuredly it is in politics, and also in business, in statesmanship, in all the affairs of life, teaching the people to do what is right so far as it possibly can." 

"Well, has the Church any candidates in the pending election?" 

"Yes, indeed," said I, "the Church has a full ticket, and is counseling its members just how to vote." 

Now, let me tell you just how you should vote, just as I told him. The Church is telling its members to look upon the franchise as a sacred gift, to exercise it according to their very best judgment before the Lord, and the Church's ticket is the ticket of the best men, according to the best judgment of the people, to whichever party they belong. Vote the party ticket if you honestly feel that to be best, or vote for the men you think will most effectively subserve the needs of country, state, and people. 

OUR RELIGION MAKES FOR HONESTY AND TOLERANCE 

You have your agency and you know that you are free; therefore do not offend the Lord, by going contrary to what you believe, honestly and after thought and prayer, to be right. But above all, do not say that because your brother does not see things just as you do in the political field, he necessarily is wrong. I was very much touched by the president's words — that he was pained at the evidence that had come to view, that some brethren condemn their fellows because these do not look on things as those of the first class do in matters political. Our religion should purify our politics, and make us honest, tolerant, and bold, to do that which is required of citizens, and to exercise our  at the polls. Our religion should make us honest in business, truthful in all our doings. To be so is to be in line with the keeping of the commandments of the Lord. I pray that this may continue to be a characteristic of the Latter-day Saints, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

I always find it very difficult to reach a conclusion as. to how 1 should best occupy my allotment of time on these occasions. I think I have been more perplexed than usual at this time to know what I ought to say, in an attempt to make some contribution to the great conference that we are now holding. I desire to say nothing that is inconsonant with the splendid remarks that have already been made, and with the excellent spirit that has here prevailed. I feel, as Brother Whitney expressed himself, to give over my thought to some matters that have been more or less weighing upon my mind; and while I may not be able to give solutions to some of the problems that I see confronting us, I sincerely hope, with the aid of our Father's Spirit, to be able to present to you some questions which I believe deserve our serious consideration. 

THE "WORLD" HAS BROUGHT A TRANSFORMATION AMONG US 

May I, by way of premise, go back a few years in the history of the Church? Not many years ago the various communities of the Church, that is, the communities in which the Latter-day Saints dwelt, were made up almost exclusively of members of the Church. I think that not more, perhaps, than twenty-five or thirty years ago would have found our villages and our small towns, outside of the few large centers in this intermountain region, to be peopled almost entirely with members of our Church. These villages, these country towns, while all under the jurisdiction of the civil government and all functioning as municipalities, were nevertheless so exclusively made up of people all professing one religious faith, that necessarily there was a unity of expression in matters of social intercourse, particularly, that was very marked. Nearly all of the activities in the societies that then prevailed were carried on under the jurisdiction of Church government. Our wards, being small centers of population, so formed as to make feasible and practical the administration of social affairs and functions, were under the jurisdiction of their bishops, and our people responded almost with unanimous accord to the direction and the influence exercised by the Church in these various communities. We were homogeneous. 

With the passing of years a very different condition has come to prevail. In the larger centers of the Church people whom we sometimes designate as "outsiders" have come to be, in numbers, in the 

68 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

majority, and in these smaller centers of the Church there has been such an influx of people, not members, that they form no inconsiderable part of the population of these rural communities, that were once almost entirely made up of our people. With the influx of these people into our various comimunities have come very many practices that are wholly different from the practices and the standards that were once employed and upheld. The "world," as we commonly designate all that is outside of our Church, has literally come in upon us, and it has brought with it the practices of the world. 

OUR RELATIONSHIP TO THE "WORLD" 

As I have given my thought to this transformation I have ever asked myself the question : What is our real relationship to the world? How ought we to properly articulate in carrying forward the functions of our Church with these portions of our communities that are not of our Church? I have been very much perplexed in my thinking to answer for myself these questions, and yet I have regarded them as vital and essential to the proper going forward of our work. I have recognized the fact that in an attempt to answer those questions some possible offense might be given to those whom we designate as being of the world and not of us. But I have regarded it as desirable that they, as well as we, should know how we regard our mutual relationship. I have been particularly concerned with the question, because I have thought that it has very definitely affected many conditions in the Church that I regard as being serious today. May I illustrate ? 

ILLUSTRATION 

There has come in upon us the practices, the fashions, and the rules of conduct, and a standard to which the world adhere. People of the world, living for things somewhat different than we profess to live for, have sought by different means to attain their goals in life. There are among these people many first class men and women, many whom I am proud to call friends, and many with whom we all associate, and to whom we look up as being desirable in every sense of the word. But among these many good people there are also numbers who are wholly devoid of any of the conceptions that we ourselves have with reference to our duties to God and to one another. There are great numbers who in no sense, either in principle or action, stand by the ideals for which we stand and to which we devote our lives. 

We find also that in the establishment of the various institutions that we have among us there has come, in many cases, to dominate, the spirit of the world. I have reference particularly to our homes. I know that any thoughtful man, who has had any opportunity for observation, will be convinced that throughout the whole country there is a growing tendency and disposition on the part of men and women  to regard the home in the same light which we have always regarded it. I know that men and women, united under the bonds of matrimony, in many cases, altogether too numerous, have failed to make of the great institution of marriage that which God intended it should be; and I know, as you know, that the time which is devoted to social affairs, so-called social affairs, precludes both men and women in the world from making home such as it ought to be, in order to insure a citizenship that will carry forward the great ideals of this land. 

Now, has it not come to be the case, in very many of the communities where Latter-day Saints dwell with non-"Mormon" neighbors, that the Latter-day Saints themselves have entered into some of the same practices and partaken of some of the same influences that have brought to pass the condition which I have named? I ask you, is it reasonable to expect that young men and young women may associate with their neighbors and friends not of the Church, partake in all of their social pastimes, devote themselves to these socalled teas and card parties and club arrangements, and at the same time not partake of those influences that deter men and women from functioning, as God intended they should do, in the building up of the race and in the maintenance of homes which constitute the very foundation of our society and national structure? Is it reasonable to think that that influence which always comes from close contact between personalities, when it induces a course of action in one direction, is not very apt to induce a course of action along all directions in which the society of the world moves ? 

EVERY LEGITIMATE OPPORTUNITY FOR SOCIAL INTERCOURSE SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITHIN THE CHURCH 

In my own thinking I have come to the conclusion that, while it may be possible for our people to hold close communion and intercourse with those who do not profess our standards and ideals, and maintain their integrity, their virtue, and maintain in purity their own ideals and standards, it is unlikely that they will do so; and I am convinced that it is right that the institutions of the Church should provide for our people, particularly for our young people, for whom we are all deeply solicitous, the facilities, the advantages, the necessary opportunity for expression of all that is good within them, and the necessary opportunity for all kinds of social intercourse, in order that we may preserve in its original purity the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

A MISTAKE TO MARRY THOSE NOT OF OUR FAITH 

I welcome the stranger within our gates; I welcome a fair and proper intercourse between men and women not of our Church and those of the Church; but I would deplore any lack of opportunity within our Church which should lead our young people, in particular. to think that they have to go beyond the confines of the Church to find the necessary opportunity for gratification of all their legitimate social desires. This question, in my judgment, has very important and divers bearings in all phases of our life. I observe, and you know, that no inconsiderable number of the young men and young women of this Church are marrying outside of the Church. I grant that some might say that a liberal, broad-minded, tolerant policy would welcome such a situation. I believe it to be the mind of the presiding authorities of this Church, as well as the mind of all thoughtful Latter-day Saints, that it is the profoundest mistake for young men and young women of this Church to marry those who are not adherents of its faith. Experience has' demonstrated in so many cases that it would not be possible to enumerate them, that such a union, in our conception of that great relationship, is a failure, and that only in the most exceptional of cases does it prove to be for the happiness and the welfare of the parties concerned. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that it is necessary that we shall maintain our standards and our ideals, in order that they may appeal to the world, and in order that the world, seeing our good works, may be led to adopt these principles for the guidance of their lives. 

THE GOSPEL, A LIGHT TO THE WORLD 

I read in our Doctrine and Covenants the following : 

And even so, I have sent mine everlasting gospel into the world to be a light to the world, and to be a Standard for my people and for the gentiles to seek to it, and to be a messenger before my face to prepare the way for me. 

I regard that message, coming from our Father, to indicate to us that first we must maintain the great, high, magnificent standard of living that he has given to us, and then by maintaining that standard we will attract the people of the world to it, and let them know of the vitality of the great principles that we espouse, by incorporating them into our lives. I believe that the world does not want our doctrines under the label of "Mormonism." I am convinced that many of the principles for which we stand are acceptable to many men and women in the world. I am convinced that many are now in course of adoption, and that they are gaining great headway among all the peoples of the country. But I am convinced that they do not want these principles under the label of "Mormonism." They want to work into them in their own way. They want to incorporate them into life and society under different names. They do not want them under the name of "M,ormonism." But I want them under that label. I want them to be known as the great life-saving principles that have been revealed in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want the world to know that the only security that there is for perfect life, for advancement, for progress, for peace, lies in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want the 

Lord to be recognized as the giver of all these great, good, and virtuous things. I believe that the only way in which we can sustain them as the principles of the gospel in unity, in their integrity, is by cultivating a close adherence to the Church, and maintaining the standards for which it stands. 

OUR FORCES SHOULD BE UNITED AGAINST SIN 

I endorse heartily the words that have been spoken concerning sin, and I regret, beyond expression, the fact that sin is creeping in among us. I believe it is our duty, as it scarcely ever was our duty before, to unite our forces against this incursion of sin, and in order that we may the better do it I am convinced that we must provide within the Church, as are now provided, means and facilities to satisfy all the legitimate desires of our people. 

WE MUST PROVIDE RECREATIONAL INSTRUCTION AND EDUCATION 

In order to make some practical application of the principles that I here advocate, I would like to suggest, particularly to the officers of the Church, those who have jurisdiction over its various organizations, that in my humble judgment we are equipped with every necessary organization to provide adequate facilities for all of our people to fully and richly live. I think we have the necessary club facilities. I think we ought to provide the necessary facilities for recreation, and I feel that it is the proper time to provide such opportunities that our young people, in particular, will not think themselves obliged to receive their recreational instruction and education — because education and instruction come as much from recreation as in any other way — from sources in no wise under our control, and which bring baneful influences in among us. 

When you come to consider the fact that the moving picture business has today come to be one of the very largest businesses of the country — I heard it rated only a short time ago as fourth — when you come to consider that that business and its projections appeal to all our people, in every hamlet, in every village, in every community where we dwell, is it not time that some effort should be made to direct and supervise and, if possible, control its large influence upon the lives and the characters of out people? Has the time not come when we should be willing and able to provide recreational facilities, so that it could not be said that the commercialized dance hall or the commercialized theatre, or circuits of vaudeville, have a monopoly on all of the dramatic presentations, carrying with them their influence and the force of their instruction? 

INDISCRIMINATE MIXTURE DEPRECATED 

My judgment is that we must meet the situation soon, and that 

72 GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

we must give to our people, within the organizations of the Church, all the opportunity necessary for the development of culture, for the development of their better selves; and that in order to do it, it will probably be necessary to stand somewhat aloof from the world, whether they like it or not. I cannot but think that when the Lord said that we were the salt of the earth, he intended that we should so preserve the great principles of truth committed to our custody that they would not be tainted or polluted by any outside worldly influence; and I regard it as well nigh impossible to keep them in their undefiled purity if we permit an indiscriminate mixture with all the influences and practices and fashions and fads that come into our midst, brought by those who are not of us. 

Now, I do not wish to be considered as intolerant of others. I recognize a very great obligation to the stranger who has come among us. I recognize the obligation that has been referred to a number of times during this conference to give him that which we have. I tolerate his views with full willingness; without reservation I accord to him the privilege of worshiping how or whom he may. I want him to know that there are no people in all this broad land who more thoroughly believe in the true principles of liberty and freedom than do our people. But I would like him to know, at the same time, that we are trying to carry forward the work of God, that we regard ourselves as the custodians of the principles of truth, committed to us in this last dispensation by the Lord himself, through his divinely chosen prophet; and I would like him to know that we do not want those great principles of truth in the slightest degree corrupted by any notions, by any practice, by any fashions that he may introduce among us. 

CLOSE ADHERENCE TO THE ORGANIZATIONS OF THE CHURCH COUNSELED 

Therefore my thought is, and I propound it in the form of a question, my brethren and sisters : Is it not incumbent upon us in these perilous times to adhere close to the organizations of the Church, to make them function fully in the lives of the people and provide, as God himself in his infinite wisdom and mercy and kindness has provided for us, all necessary opportunity for the complete development of manhood and womanhood, under the auspices of the holy Priesthood of God ? I pray that we may think and study and act, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

After a number of notices had been given out in relation to the overflow meetings on Sunday, the choir and congregation sang the "Doxology." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder John W. Hart, President of the Rigby Stake of Zion. 


