Morning
06 04 1928



PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

It is certainly an inspiring sight to see this magnificent audience in attendance here this morning at the ninety-eighth anniversary of the birth of the Church. When I contemplate the fact that just a handful of people were in the Church ninety-eight years ago (the organization was effected with six members) and that now there are over a half million members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I am reminded of the very wonderful revelation given to the father of the prophet over a year before the organization of the Church : 

"Now behold, a, marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. 

"Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, .might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. 

"Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work; 

"For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his anight, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not. but bringeth salvation to his soul; 

"And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God. qualify him for the work. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. 

"Ask and ye shall receive; knock and it shall be opened unto you." 

This audience testifies to the fact that a marvelous work and a wonder has been established. It testifies to the diligence of those who have gone forth by the thousands and tens of thousands during the last ninety-eight years, proclaiming the gospel in all parts of the world. 

I had not the slightest idea of reading this revelation when I first stood up. 

It has always been customary at our annual conferences to give a little account of the activities of the Church during the past year. 

CHANGES IN STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS SINCE LAST OCTOBER 

CONFERENCE 

(Those who have been released have been released with the love, blessings and good will of the authorities of the Church and of the people where they reside. ) 

Stake Presidents Appointed : Uriah G. Miller has been honorably released as president of the Cottonwood stake, and Henry D. Moyle appointed to succeed him. 

Samuel W. Parkinson has been honorably released as president of the Franklin stake, and Walter K. Barton appointed to succeed him. 

Joseph R. Murdock has been honorably released as president of the Wasatch stake, and David A. Broadbent appointed to succeed him. 

John E. Magleby has been honorably released as president of the South Sevier stake, and appointed president of the New Zealand mission. A new stake president has not yet been sustained. 

Mission Presidents Appointed: Apostle James E. Talmage has been released as president of the European mission, and Apostle John A. Widtsoe appointed to succeed him. 

Andrew Johnson has been released as president of the Swedish mission, and Gideon N. Hulterstrom appointed to succeed him. 

J. Howard Jenkins has been released as president of the New Zealand mission, and John E. Magleby appointed to succeed him. 

John M. Knight has been released as president of the Western States mission, and Elias S. Woodruff appointed to succeed him. 

John H. Taylor has been released as president of the Northern States mission, and Noah S. Pond appointed to succeed him. 

Hugh J. Cannon has been released as president of the Swiss and German mission, and Fred Tadje appointed to succeed him. 

New Wards Organized: Manchester ward, Los Angeles stake; Temple ward, Maricopa stake; Idaho Falls First and Second wards, Idaho Falls stake, divided into four wards to be known as Idaho Falls First, Second, Third and Fourth wards; Phoenix ward, Maricopa stake, divided into two wards to be known as the Phoenix First and Second wards; Solomonville ward, St. Joseph stake, formerly an independent branch; Ocean Park ward, Hollywood stake, divided into two wards. The name of Ocean Park ward changed to Santa Monica, and the new ward known as Mar Vista ward. 

Bishops Who Have Died : Hyrum M. Lau of Soda Springs ward, Idaho stake; Henry J. Bodily, of the Iona ward, Idaho Falls stake; Alfred R. Wilson of Payson first ward, Nebo stake. 

FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

The following is a list of expenditures from the tithes of the Church for the year 1927 : 

4 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Stake and Ward Purposes 

There has been returned from the tithes to the stakes and wards for building construction, maintenance and operation, $2,041 ,920.46 

( Of this amount there has been expended for meeting houses alone $1,062,163.84.) 

Education 

Expended for the construction and operation of Church 

Schools 805,117.84 

Temples 

Expended for the construction, maintenance and operation 

of temples 230,110.77 

Charities 

For care of the worthy poor and other charitable purposes, 

including hospital treatment 196,119.48 

Missions 

For maintenance and operation of all the missions, and for the erection of places of worship and other buildings 

in the missions 767,647.80 

Total $4,040,916.35 

This amount has been taken from the tithes and returned by the Trustee-in-Trust to the Saints for the maintenance and operation of the stakes, and wards, for the maintenance and operation of Church schools and temples, for charities, and for mission activities. 

Other Charities — In addition to charities paid from the tithes, as before named, there has also been disbursed the fast offerings, other charities and assistance rendered by the Relief Society, in the sum of $441,575.89, which amount, added to the $196,119.48, paid from the tithes, makes the total charity assistance rendered by the Church, $637,695.37. 

There has been collected by the various wards of the Church and paid to missionaries to assist in their maintenance, $98,143.56. 

STATISTICAL AND OTHER REPORTS COMPILED FROM CHURCH RECORDS FOR THE YEAR 1927 

We have at the present time : Stakes of Zion, 99; Wards, 938 : independent branches, 72. Total wards and branches in the stakes of Zion, from Canada to Mexico, 1010; Missions, 27; Mission branches 757. 

Church Growth — Children blessed and entered on the records of the Church in the stakes and missions, 19,209. 

Children baptized in the stakes and missions, 14,604. Converts baptized and entered on the records of the stakes and missions, 6367. 

Number of long-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 

1927 1,943 

Number of short-term missionaries from Zion, December 31, 

1927 122 

Number of local missionaries 108 

Total number of missionaries on foreign missions 2,173 

Number engaged in missionary work in stakes 1,032 

Total missionaries 3,205 

Number of missionaries who received training at the Missionary Home 985 

Persons recommended to the temples, 61,567. Social Statistics — Birth rate, 30 per thousand: Marriage rate, 14.5 per thousand. Death rate, 7.5 per thousand. Families owning their own homes, 70 per cent. 

Church Edifices — The. number of sites purchased for Church buildings, and the number of edifices purchased, or under construction during 1927: Stakes and wards, 119; Missions, 32. Total 151. 

Church Education — Number of persons enrolled in Church schools, 3,851; Number of persons enrolled in seminaries, 10,835; Number of persons enrolled in religion classes, 61,131. Total number receiving week-day religious education, 75,817. 

During the year the very efficient man who stood at the head of our educational system for a number of years, Dr. Adam S. Bennion, has been honorably released, with appreciation for his most splendid work, and Dr. Joseph F. Merrill has been made the commissioner of education for the Church. Dr. Merrill has been associated with the University of Utah for many years as one of the deans of that great institution. 

Teacher training (average attendance, 1927) 10,670. 

During the last six months the clerk of our general conferences, and the editor of the Improvement Era, Elder Edward H. Anderson, has passed away, than whom no more capable, faithful, diligent, God-fearing man has ever been engaged in the service of the Lord in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Brother Hugh J. Cannon, now presiding "over the Swiss and German mission, has been selected to succeed Brother Anderson as the editor of the Improvement Era — a most splendid successor to a most splendid man. 

I feel that we have great cause to be grateful for the blessings of the Lord to us as a people. 

IMPRESSED WITH HYMN 

I was profoundly impressed this morning in listening to the congregation sing, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." T am sure that whenever we as Latter-day Saints sing this hymn our minds go back to the time when it was written, and we think of the marvelous and wonderful work accomplished by the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am going to take the time, although you all know it by heart, perhaps, to read this hymn. I do not think I have ever done so before in public in my life: 

We thank thee, O God, for a prophet 

To guide us in these latter days; We thank thee for sending the gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays : We thank thee for every blessing 

Bestowed by thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve thee, 

-\nd love to obey thy command. 

When dark clouds of trouble hang o'er us 

And threaten our peace to destroy, There is hope smiling brightly before us. 

And we know that deliverance is nigh; W e doubt not the Lord nor his goodness, 

We've proved him in days that are past : The wicked who fight against Zion 

Will surely be smitten at last. 

We'll sing of his goodness and mercy, 

We'll praise him by day and by night. Rejoice in his glorious gospel, 

And bask in its life-giving light; Thus on to eternal perfection 

The honest and faithful will go, While they who reject this glad message 

Shall never such happiness know. 

THE PROPHET JOSEPH 

Speaking of the Prophet Joseph, an eminent writer refers to him in the following language: 

"Yet he being dead yet speaketh. The work he began has never ceased. * * "Who can explain Joseph Smith? What are 'revelations from God'? What is their test? Is it not beyond all reason that a lad, born of poor parents, devoid of any save the commonest education, too poor to buy; books, should have accomplished what he did in less than forty years, unless there were some great reason for it? 

"Let anyone, even a literary genius, after forty years of life, try to write a companion volume to the Book of Mormon, and then almost daily for a number of years give out 'revelations' by the score that internally! harmonize one with another, at the same time formulate a system of doctrine for a new church, introduce many new principles, resuscitate extinct priesthoods, and formulate a system of church government which has no superior on earth. 

"Would he succeed in making the system coherent? Could he influence scores of intelligent, wise, thoughtful, educated, religiously trained men, like John Taylor, Dr. Richards, and scores of others, besides attracting thousands to the fold of his church, as did Joseph Smith ? Even if one were assured that the prophet was an imposter, that does not lessen the marvel. The mvstery, the riddle, the problem, is even greater, than before. * * * 

"I offer no explanation. * * * 

"To deny such a man a wonderful power over the human heart and intellect is absurd. Only fanatical prejudice can ignore it. However he may be accounted for by the reasoning mind, Joseph Smith, the 'Mormon' prophet, was one of the wonders of his time. That he is not an enigma to his followers (as he certainly is to his critics) is only another proof of his wonderfulness." 

I will read a part of section 135, Doctrine and Covenants : 

"To seal the testimony of this book and the Book of Mormon, we announce the martyrdom of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and Hyrum Smith, the patriarch. They were shot in Carthage jail, on the 27th of June, 1844. * * * 

CITES ACHIEVEMENTS 

"Joseph Smith, the prophet and seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. In the short space of twenty years, he has brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God and has been the means of publishing it on two continents; has sent the fulness of the everlasting gospel, which it contained, to the four quarters of the earth; has brught forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit of the children of men; gathered .many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, founded a great city, and left a fame and a name that cannot be slain. He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his works with his own blood; and so has his brother Hyrum. In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated! 

"When Joseph went to Carthage to deliver himself up to the pretended requirements of the law, two or three days previous to his assassination, he said : 'I am going like a lamb to the slaughter; but I am calm as a summer's morning; I have a conscience void of offense towards God, and towards all men. I shall die innocent, and it shall yet be said of me — he was murdered in cold blood'." 

THE ARIZONA TEMPLE 

I rejoice in the testimony of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. During the last year it has fallen to my lot to have the privilege of visiting from here to New York, and in the northern section of the country, and to have the blessed privilege of going into Arizona and there dedicating one more temple to the Most High God. I rejoice in the rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord that was enjoyed by those of us who had the opportunity of attending the dedicatory services of that temple. I rejoice exceedingly in the remarkable publicity that was given to us by the newspapers of Arizona. Never in the history of the Church has there ever been manifest a more friendly feeling toward the Latter-day Saints by those not of us than was exhibited by the good people of Arizona. They devoted page after page of their papers to an account of the erection of the temple, in publishing a sermon upon the vicarious labor for the dead, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, in giving illustrations and having interviews of a favorable character. In addition the president of the Church and some of those who were at the dedication services were invited to meet with the legislature that was then in session, and the president of the senate made some very complimentary remarks regarding the splendid edifice — one of the finest buildings in Arizona. He also complimented the people themselves on their integrity and their remarkable accomplishments in that section of the country. I could not help but contemplate the difference in conditions as compared with the time when there was a feeling of animosity, almost of hatred, existing in the" minds of the people of the state of Arizona, regarding the Latterday Saints. I rejoiced in being able to pay tribute, in answer to the speech by the president of the senate, to the senators of the United States from Arizona and their defense of the "Mormon" people, and their uniform testimony of the integrity and devotion of our people. 

PURCHASE OF HILL CUMORAH 

Within a short time the Church has purchased the Hill Cumorah. The purchase embraces the farm where the hill stands, and the adjoining farm, which together with one that we had already purchased, including a part of the hill, gives us now the entire possession of the Hill Cumorah. I know that the hearts of the Latter-day Saints thrilled with pride when the announcement was made that we had secured this property. We now have the home where the prophet was born, and have erected a monument there. We now have the house and farm of Peter Whitmer, where the Church was born. We now have the Palmyra home. We have nearly all of the spots that are sacred in the history of the Church; and we rejoice in the financial condition of the Church whereby we have been able to accomplish these things. 

TEMPLE WORK 

I rejoice in the temple work that is being done, and I wish to ask the Saints to try to shape their affairs so that they can occasionally go to the temple. For years I felt that I was too busy to find a day or an evening in which to go to the temple. A little over a year ago I made up my mind that by planning my affairs, by staying away from lectures or concerts or theatres or operas, that I could go to the temple at least once every week and have ordinances performed in behalf of some of my loved ones who had passed away. By making up my mind that I could do this I had no difficulty whatever in going through the temple once a week during the entire year. Starting this year I felt that by a little extra effort I could go twice a week, and I have had no difficulty in doing this. True, I have had to miss, perhaps, an opera or theatre or some other function at which I should have liked to be present, but I have had no difficulty whatever during the past three months, in going to the temple twice a week, and when I can do so I go more than twice a week, so as to make up for the time when I am absent from the city. Up to the first day of April I had endowments to my credit of more than two a week for this year. We 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 9 

can generally do that which we wish to do. A young man can find an immense amount of time to spend with his sweetheart; he can arrange his affairs to do that. We can arrange our affairs to get exercise in the shape of golf and otherwise; we can arrange our affairs to have amusements; and if we make up our minds to do so we can arrange our affairs to do temple work, judging from my own experience of the last fifteen months. 

I pray that the Lord will inspire each and all of us to greater diligence in performing to the full extent of our ability the duties and the. labors that devolve upon us in doing vicarious work for our dead. 

A WONDERFUL DECLARATION 

A very wonderful declaration was made by Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith one hundred and five years ago this coming September : 

"Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord." 

And the priesthood with all its powers, rights and privileges, has been restored to us. Elijah has come. I will not take your time to read from the 110th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which declares that the Savior appeared to Joseph Smith and to Oliver Cowdery, and that Moses, and Elias and Elijah also appeared and conferred upon them all the keys of all the dispensations of the gospel that have ever existed upon the earth. 

"And he shall" plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. 

"Tf it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." 

No more wonderful thing has ever been accomplished in the history of the world than the turning of the hearts of the children to their fathers. From the day this message was declared by Moroni to the Prophet Joseph, men and women all over the world have been organizing societies, hunting up their ancestors, and compiling genealogical records of their families. Millions of dollars have been expended for these purposes. I have spoken to and heard many times of men who have spent large sums of money to compile a record of their forefathers, and after it was compiled, when asked why they did it, they said : "I do not know; I was seized with an irresistable desire to compile that record and to spend money freely to do it. Now that it is compiled I have no special use for it." The Latter-day Saints value books of that kind beyond price or money, and when we seek earnestly, year after year, to gain knowledge regarding those of our family who have passed away without a knowledge of the gospel, I am sure the Lord blesses us in obtaining it. There is a little account of a remarkable and wonderful blessing bestowed in connection with the ancestors of my wife which is contained in the last issue of the Genealogical Magazine. 

That the Lord may bless you and me and every soul that has an abiding testimony of the divinity of the gospel in which we are engaged, 

10 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

to whom he has given a knowledge that he lives and that Jesus is the Son of the Living God, the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was his prophet, to so order our lives that our light shining forth through the example of our lives may bring those who know not the truth to a knowledge of the gospel, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS 

I feel very grateful to the Lord, my brethren and sisters, that through his mercy all of us who are assembled here this morning enjoy the opportunity of meeting together in general conference, upon the ninety-eighth anniversary of the organization of the Church. 

Reference has been made by the president to the acquisition by the Church of the spot of ground in the state of New York known as the Hill Cumorah. It appears to me to be an event of such importance that I desire to devote the short time which is at my disposal this morning to a discussion of that subject. There have been some differences of opinion in regard to it, and in order that I might be correct in the statements which I make I have this morning finished a short manuscript which I would like to read — the first time, I believe, in my experience, that I have ever addressed a congregation in this manner, and I do it for the purpose stated. 

OF MORE THAN ORDINARY IMPORTANCE 

The purchase of this hill which President Grant has announced, is an event of more than ordinary importance to the membership of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The memories of the remote past which cluster round this sacred spot, its close association with the opening of the present gospel dispensation, which has resulted in bringing together this congregation of people, for without it this tabernacle would not have been erected, nor would we have been gathered here in worship today, and the thought which we entertain of the possibilities which its bosom may unfold, make the acquisition of this hill almost an epochal accomplishment in the history of the Church. 

If our Bible chronology is correct, and it is at least the best we have, it was in the year 599 before the birth of Christ, our Lord, that Zedekiah was chosen to be king of Judea. His reign was of short duration, extending over a period of only eleven years. He was in rebellion against the Babylonian kingdom, and Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, with his armies overran Judea, made Zedekiah prisoner, put out his eyes, killed his sons, and carried the king away captive to Babylon. 

It was during the reign of this king that Lehi and his family, Ishmael and members of his household and Zoram, who had been a servant to Laban, left Jerusalem and began the journey which in time brought them to the American continent. 

As a guide to their spiritual life these people brought with them that part of the Holy Scripture known to us as the Old Testament, which contained the first five books of Moses, the prophecies of Isaiah, Jeremiah and others of the ancient prophets. These records were engraven upon plates of brass. 

TWO SETS OF PLATES 

Soon after the arrival of these people and their establishment upon this continent, Nephi, the son of Lehi, was commanded to make other plates, on which a record of the history of his people was to be written Two sets of plates were made from metal which was smelted from ores that abounded in the new world to which the Nephites had come; upon them Nephi commenced to record the history of his people. Both of these sets of plates which were made were called the plates of Nephi. Upon one set, which was called the larger plates of Nephi, the secular history of the people was kept, the reign of their various kings, their system of democratic government under the judges who were chosen by the voice of the people, and their wars and contentions. 

A smaller set was made on which the religious history of the people was kept a record of their faith in God and the service rendered to him, their idolatry, the hand-dealings of the Lord among them, the predictions of their prophets and the persecutions which they suffered because of their faith in, and adherence to the doctrines taught by their fathers. 

CAREFULLY PRESERVED 

It was principally from these latter plates that Mormon made the abridgment which constitutes the volume known as the Book of Mormon. These records were carefully preserved, and passed through the hands of many different custodians before the history closed, which was more than four hundred years after the birth of the Redeemer of the world. 

Besides these two sets of the plates of Nephi, and the brass plates which were brought from Jerusalem, there were twenty- four plates of gold, upon which was recorded a brief abridgment of the history of a people who came from Babylon to this continent long before the arrival of the Nephite colony. They left the old world at the time of the building of the Tower of Babel, about 2,200 years before the birth of Christ. It was from these latter plates that Moroni, the son ot Mormon, transcribed that portion of the Book of Mormon known as the Book of Ether. 

It was three hundred twenty-one years after the birth of Christ that all of these records came into the hands of Ammaron, who received them from his brother Amos, who was the son of Nephi, who wrote the Fourth Book of Nephi, which appears in the Book of Mormon, as the following shows — I am quoting here, as I shall continue to quote, from the Book of Mormon itself: 

"And it came to pass that when 320 years had passed away, Ammaron, being constrained by the Holy Ghost, did hide up the records which were sacred — yea. even all the sacred records which had been handed down from generation to generation, which were sacred — even until the three hundred twentieth year from the coming of Christ. 

"And he did hide them up unto the Lord, that they might come again unto the remnant of the House of Jacob, according to the prophecies and the promises of the Lord. And thus is the end of the record of Ammaron." 

AMMARON TO MORMON 

One year later Ammaron called Mormon to him and gave him the following instruction : 

"And now I, Mormon, make a record of the things which I have both seen and heard, and call it the Book of Mormon. 

"And about the time that Ammaron hid up the records unto the Lord, he came unto me, (1 being about ten years of age, and I began to be learned some what after the manner of my people) and Ammaron said unto me : I perceive that thou art a sober child, and art quick to observe; 

"Therefore when ye are about twenty and four years old I would that ye should remember the things that ye have observed concerning this people; and when ye are of that age go to the land Antum, unto a hill which shall be called Shim; and there have I deposited unto the Lord all the sacred engravings concerning this people. 

"And behold ye shall take the plates of Nephi unto yourself, and the remainder shall ye leave in the place where they are; and ye shall engrave on tht plates of Nephi all the things that ye have observed concerning this people. 

"And I, Mormon, being a descendant of Nephi, (and my father's name was Mormon) I remember the things which Ammaron commanded me." 

Fourteen years after this charge had been given to Mormon he writes as follows: 

"And now, the city of Jashon was near the land where Ammaron had deposited the records unto the Lord, that they might not be destroyed. And behold i had gone according to the word of Ammaron, and taken the plates of Nephi, and did make a record according to the words of Ammaron." 

It will be observed that at this time only the plates of Nephi were removed from the hill Shim, by Mormon. 

YEARS OF CONSTANT WAR 

It was forty years later, as near as we are able to fix the date that Mormon again visited this hill, under different circumstances, as the following shows. Forty years had passed, forty years of constant war and bloodshed between the Nephite people and their enemies the Lamanites. The Nephites were fleeing before their enemies, taking all of the inhabitants with them when Mormon says: 

"And now I, Mormon, seeing that the Lamanites were about to overthrow the land, therefore I did go to the Hill Shim, and did take up all the records which Ammaron had hid up unto the Lord." 

Mormon, after taking possession of the records, returned to the command of the Nephite armies. The sacred records, which had lain in the hill Shim for more than fifty years, were now in the custody of Mormon, and the Nephite people were fleeing before their enemies. Ten years later, ten years of hopeless struggle, Mormon again writes as follows : 

"And I, Mormon, wrote an epistle to the king of the Lamanites, and desired of him that he would grant us that we might gather together our people unto the land of Cumorah, by a hill which was called Cumorah, and there we could give them battle. 

"And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites did grant unto me the thing which I desired. 

"And it came to pass that we did march forth to the land of Cumorah, and we did pitch our tents round about the hill Cutmorah; and it was a land of many waters, rivers and fountains; and here we had hoped to gain advantage over the Lamanites. 

"And when three hundred and eighty and four years had passed away, we had gathered in all the remainder of our people unto the land of Cumorah. 

IN THE HILL CUMORAH 

"And it came to pass that when we had gathered in all our people in one to the land of Cumorah, behold, I, Mormon, began to be old" — this man, at this time was, past 70 years of age and was still the commander-in-chief of the Nephite army; "and knowing it to be the last struggle of my people, and having been commanded of the Lord that T should not suffer the records which had been handed down by our fathers, which were sacred, to fall into the hands of the Lamanites, (for the Lamanites would destroy them) therefore I made this record out of the plates of Nephi, and hid up in the Hill Cumorah all the records which had been entrusted to me by the hand of the Lord, save it were these few plates which I gave unto my son Moroni. 

"And it came to pass that my people, with their wives and their children, did now behold the armies of the Lamanites marching toward them; and with that awful fear of death which fills the breasts of all the wicked, did they await to receive them." 

THE FINAL DISPOSITION 

So far as we have information this was the final disposition which was made of the records given into the custody of Mormon, from the plates of. Nephi. This latter, with the addition of the Book of Ether, and the few chapters written by Moroni, constitute the record contained in the Book of Mormon. 

All of the remaining records, Mormon tells us, were deposited in the Hill Cumorah. 

That the Hill Cumorah and the Hill Ramah are identical is shown by the following: Moroni, in the Rook of Ether, says: 

"And it came to pass that the armies of Coriantumr did press upon the armies of Shiz" — he is telling the story now of this first people who came to the American continent from the Tower of Babel — "that they beat them, that they caused them to flee before them; and they did flee southward and did pitch their tents in a place which was called Ogath. 

"And it came to pass that the army of Coriantumr did pitch their tents by the hill Ramah; and it was in that same hill where my father Mormon did hide up the records unto the Lord, which were sacred." 

The passages which I have quoted from the Book of Mormon and the more extended discussion of this subject by Elder B. H. Roberts which was published in The Deseret Nezvs of March 3, 1928, definitely establish the following facts: That the Hill Cumorah, and the Hill Ramah are identical; that it was around this hill that the armies of both the Jaredites and Nephites, fought their great last battles; that it was in this hill that Mormon deposited all of the sacred records which had been entrusted to his care by Ammaron, except the abridgment which he had made from the plates of Nephi, which were delivered into the hands of his son, Moroni. We know positively that it was in this hill that Moroni deposited the abridgment made by his father, and his own abridgment of the record of the Jaredites, and that it was from this hill that Joseph Smith obtained possession of them. 

PART OF THE RECORD SEALED 

Only a portion of the record which came into possession of Josepb Smith was translated, and is contained in the present edition of the Book of Mormon. Part of the record was sealed, which he was forbidden to translate. The first Nephi, foreseeing that which would occur among the descendants of his father, has this to say : 

"And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall bring forth, to you the words of a book, and they shall be the words of them which have slumbered. 

"And behold the book shall be sealed; and in the book shall be a revelation from God, from the beginning of the world to the ending thereof. 

"Wherefore, because of the things which are sealed up, the things which are sealed shall not be delivered in the day of the wickedness and abominations of the people. Wherefore the book shall be kept from them. * * * 

"And the day cometh that the words of the book which were sealed shall be read upon the housetops; and they shall be read by the power of Christ; and all things shall be revealed unto the children of men which ever have been among the children of men, and which ever will be, even unto the end of the earth." 

FROM THE BOOK OF ETHER 

The footnotes concerning that which I have read refer us to the book of Ether from which I desire to read a few paragraphs. 

"And the Lord commanded the brother of Jared to go down out of the mount from the presence of the Lord, and write the things which he had seen : and they were forbidden to come unto the children of men, until after he should be lifted up upon the cross; and for this cause did king Mosiah keep them, that they should not come unto the world until after Christ should show himself unto his people. 

"And after Christ truly had showed himself unto his people he commanded that they should be made manifest. 

"And now, after that, they have all dwindled in unbelief; and there is none, save it be the Lamanites, and they have rejected the gospel of Christ; therefore 1 am commanded that T should hide them up again in the earth. 

"Behold I have written upon these plates the very' things which the brother of Jared saw; and there never were greater things made manifest than those which were made manifest unto the brother of Jared. 

"Wherefore the Lord hath commanded me to write them; and I have written them. And he commanded me that I should seal them up; and he also hath commanded that I should seal up the interpretation thereof; wherefore I have sealed up the interpreters, according to the commandment of the Lord. 

"For the Lord said unto me : They shall not go forth unto the Gentiles until the day that they shall repent of their iniquity, and become clean before the Lord. * * * 

"And now I, Moroni, have written the words which were commanded me, according to my memory; and I have told you the things which I have sealed up; therefore touch them not in order that ye may translate : for that thing is forbidden you, except by and by it shall be wisdom in God." 

AWAITING THE TIME 

This sealed portion of the record which came into the hands of Joseph Smith but was not translated by him so far as we are aware, the abridgment made by Mormon, the record of Ether, and the other sacred records which were deposited in the Hill Cumorah, still lie in their repository, awaiting the time when the Lord shall see fit to bring them forth, that they may be published to the world. 

Whether they have been removed from the spot where Mormon deposited them we cannot tell, but this we know, that they are safe under the guardianship of the Lord, and that they will be brought forth at the proper time as the Lord has declared they should be, for the benefit and blessing of the people of the world, for his word never fails. 

According to the Book of Mormon many hundreds of thousands of people fell in battle around this hill, and the immediate vicinity. It was here that two once powerful nations were exterminated so far as their natural existence was concerned. It was here that these nations gathered together for their last great struggles. 

UNTIL THE LAST 

These people were human, as we are; they carried with them their most precious possessions until the last, and when the end of the mighty struggle came, and the result was in doubt, they hid them away in order that they might not fall into the hands of their enemies. 

Without doubt these treasures lie concealed today, some of them, at least, to be brought forth in the not distant future. How soon this will be we do not know, but this is certain, we are more than a century nearer that time than we were at the time when Joseph Smith took from their resting place in the Hill Cumorah, the plates from which he translated the contents of the Book of Mormon. 

All of these incidents to which I have referred, my brethren and sisters, are very closely associated with this particular spot in the State of New York. Therefore I feel, as I said in the beginning of my remarks, that the acquisition of that spot of ground is more than an incident in the history of the Church; it is an epoch — an epoch which in my opinion is fraught with that which may become of greater interest to the Latter-day Saints than that which has already occurred. We know that all of these records, all the sacred records of the Nephite people, were deposited by Mormon in that hill. That incident alone is sufficient to make it the sacred and hallowed spot that it is to us. I thank God that in a way which seems to have been providential it has come into the possession of the Church. 

I bear witness to you that the words which I have read here, quoted from the Book of Mormon, which refer to the future, will be fulfilled. Those additional records will come forth, they will be published to the world, that the children of our Father may be converted to faith in Christ, our Lord and Redeemer, through obedience to the doctrines which he taught. May God our Father hasten that day, is my humble prayer, and I ask it through Jesus Christ. Amen. A duet, "An angel from on high," was sung by Claude Cornwall and Ellen Copening Ferrin. 

SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

Tt is a surprise to me, my brethren and sisters, to be called upon this morning to address this great congregation. I rejoice with you, however, in the privilege of being present and of listening to the testimonies, the instructions and the inspiring remarks made by those who have spoken. I appreciate the fact that this work is the work of the Lord and that it is growing. I was reminded while President Grant was speaking, that in examining the statistics for some years past, I notice that the membership of the Church today is over four times as great as it was fifty years ago, and in other respects the work of the Lord is growing and prospering. 

Yet I realize, also, that there is great room for progress and improvement in every line of activity. If it were not so we would not be the people of the Lord, because he expects of his people that thev shall improve and increase in good works and in activity continually. We are told that the Savior said to his disciples upon one occasion : "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect." I appreciate the fact that this life is a life of progression, of improvement, of learning, and of the application of that learning to the problems of life and to the bettering of conditions among humanity. 

We have heard this morning the statement from President Grant of the work that has been done in a financial way in the benefiting and the blessing of the people of the Church and of mankind. As to the money expended from the tithes during the past year, considering the membership of the Church and the conditions of the people, T venture to say that there is no other organization in the world that disburses such an amount of money as does this Church. I venture to say, also, that there is no other organization that is expending it a^ efficiently as the Church is doing. This is because of the fact that practically all of the money employed for charitable purposes, for missionary work, and for the construction, operation and maintenance of the meetinghouses and chapels throughout the Church, is expended in a very economical way. largely through the voluntary, cooperative effort given by the people. 

I am reminded of a statement made in a government census report iust received at our office a few days ago, of one of the organizations in this country — a national organization of a charitable nature — wherein it is shown, as I remember it, that less than 25% of the money expended by that organization was used for benevolences. The remainder of it was used for salaries and for other purposes Some was used for building construction and maintenance, but a large proportion of it was used for other than benevolent purposes, for which it was primarily raised. 

We have had in this state recently a Community Chest drive. The Community Chest is an organization that is recognized as being" necessary, and more efficient and helpful than is the case where individual drives are undertaken by various agencies. The result of the drive has been to accumulate funds amounting to about $150,000, for something like nineteen agencies, and for the administration of that organization. The members of the Church appreciate the fact that this is a desirable thing for the community needs. 

I would like to call your attention, however, to the fact that, in addition to what has been done by the Community Chest this year and last year and the previous year, the members of the Church living in these city stakes, and the Church itself, have given directly for charitable purposes in this city each year an amount equal to that raised for the Community Chest. In addition thereto there has been spent something like $30,000 for other purposes for which various agencies of the Chest are instituted. In other words, over $180,000 was given and expended in this city by the Church last year for such purposes as the agencies which the Community Chest is undertaking to support. And, of the money donated for charitable purposes every cent of that which was given, went directly for the purpose for which it was intended. A great volunteer effort was given by the people of the Church. 

I think there is no other organization in the world that is willing to give the service or to make the sacrifices manifest by the people of this Church. This is not to be ascribed to the people of themselves, but to the influence of the Gospel upon them. I would like to read a word or two from the scriptures. Jesus in teaching his disciples on one occasion said : 

"Tf any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. 

"For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. 

"For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" 

In another place the Savior gave a parable in which he describes a man who has acquired means : 

"The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully : 

"And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits? 

"And he said, This will T do : I will pull down my barns and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. 

"And I will say to my soul. Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink and be merry. 

"But God said unto him, Thou fool! this night thy soul shall be required of thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided? 

"So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God." 

I think that one of the most objectionable conditions which prevails in the world today is that of selfishness and greed. It has caused more hatred, strife, bitterness and warfare among men than almost any other thing, so far as my understanding goes. Even today in this nation we are experiencing evidences of such conditions and actions on the part of men in endeavoring to build up their own fortunes at the expense of the welfare of the community. The people of the nation are aroused, I think, to a certain extent at least, to an appreciation of the seriousness of this condition. Prosperity tends' very often to lead men away from a spirit of unselfishness. As they acquire means they tend to become, very often, greedy and selfish, and concerned only with their own welfare. I believe it was the Apostle Paul who said that the love of money is the root of all evil. Surely, when men set their hearts and their minds solely to the acquirement of wealth, there is great danger of their losing the perspective of things that are more important in life. 

In contrast to the excessive desire for self-aggrandizement which is all too common in the world, is the spirit of charity and sacrifice, of love and consideration, which is the spirit of the Gospel of Christ. The Latter-day Saints are a people who have been trained to sacrifice. Thev have been trained to understand the principles of the gospel which the Lord has established, which requires sacrifice. There is no principle that is invoked today in the Church, or that is to be found anywhere, that is more equitable, more efficient, or that helps more to promote the spirit of humility, faith and stewardship on the part of men, than does the principle of tithing and of offerings. 

The Lord has given these principles to us that we may learn to sacrifice, that we may learn to overcome selfishness, and that we may learn to appreciate the fact that the things which this earth possesses and the things which we have in our possession are the Lord's. We can use them only during this life, and we ought to be willing to cultivate the spirit of giving one-tenth, at least, of our increase, for the welfare of his work. I can think of no other organization, or no other possibility of cooperation in so efficient a manner as that which is possible in this Church, through the paying of tithes and offerings whereby the means obtained through cooperative effort can be employed most effectively for the welfare of the people. 

I do not know of any other organization that is engaged to the same extent as this Church, comparatively, in the building of temples, chapels, and recreation places, where the people can enjoy the spiritual, social and recreational features that are afforded bv the Church. T visited one ward recently — a little ward comprising four hundred people — which, with the help of the Church, had erected a meeting, house that cost, I think, $70,000. The four hundred members in that ward, almost all of them, had lost their homes largely because of adverse conditions in the farming industry and the lack of a markel for their farm produce. Yet they had themselves donated in money and in labor nearly one-half of the amount I have stated. Can you appreciate what a sacrifice is made by those people? Sometimes I think we are inclined because of our desire to build fine meetinghouses, to  overreach ourselves and put a greater strain upon the people than is desirable or necessary. But the people seem willing to do these things. 

There is no premium on poverty. The faithful observance of the law of tithing does not impoverish those who practise it. On the contrary, it is a principle of blessing and increase. The Lord desires that his children shall prosper temporally as well as spiritually. But prosperity, whether temporal or spiritual, need not prevail at the expense of the other. Tithing is the most important principle now to be obeyed for the building up of the work of God in a financial way. It is the first donation expected of us in the advancement of his work. If all men and women throughout the Church who are earning would faithfully pay their tithes, the Church would have the means to do the things which are required without some other donations. In other words, the people would not have to donate additional means for meetinghouses if the members generally would observe the principle of tithing. 

. Now, as I stated, this principle is one that develops in men faith in God. It develops spirituality. Strange as it may seem to some, it is one of the most potent means by which we evidence our real faith in the Lord and in his work; for we give evidence of our faith by our works. We realize the fact that we are his children, that we are here but for a time, and that we can take none of the goods that we possess away from this earth. It is important that we should employ the means we may possess in a most effective manner for the welfare of our fellowmen as well as our own good. 

Finally, observance of the law of tithing develops in us a spirit of economy and thrift, and of care in the handling of our own affairs. It helps us to overcome selfishness, and to be considerate of our fellowmen. It promotes the spirit of cooperation. It develops greater faith in the Lord and his work. And it will make this a land of Zion to us. 

I have noticed repeatedly, and I think it is generally true, that those who are conscientious tithepayers are the ones who are able to meet their obligations fairly, and to make steady progress.. They are blessed sufficiently at least to fulfil their obligations and to get ahead. The Lord blesses them and thev enjov spiritual as well as temporal blessings. I pray that the Lord may help us as Latter-day Saints to so live that we may be worthy to receive his blessings, through the development of the spirit of sacrifice, and the observance of this and every other principle of the Gospel. With all the prosperity that we may enjoy, and the general improvement in our financial conditions, may we still continue to maintain faithfully that principle, and may we go forward and cultivate in our hearts the feeling that we are stewards of all we possess, and that we hold it in trust for the Lord and his work. Mav we develop the spirit of dedicating that which we possess for the building up of his work! I pray the Lord to bless us to this end, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. REY L. PRATT 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Mexican Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be in attendance at this conference, and to have the opportunity of adding my testimony to those that have been borne and that will be borne to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. 

While listening to the opening remarks of President Grant, my mind reverted back over the history and the accomplishments of the Church in the years that have passed, since it was organized in this dispensation in which we live. Truly, it is marvelous to contemplate the work, the development and the faith of our people. It is marvelous to note how the Church has extended, and how rapidly the stone that is destined to fill the whole earth, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, is rolling forth. It is marvelous to contemplate the wonderful foundation that was laid through the Prophet Joseph Smith for the Church to build upon. Accurately was it all laid out and designed. It would seem that there might have been some things instituted in the beginning that would have needed correction as the work proceeded. That certainly would have been the case, had not this work been established through and by the inspiration of our Heavenly Father to his chosen prophet. There has been laid for the Church and this people a foundation upon which they have builded without wavering, a foundation of faith that has withstood all of the trials and the tribulations and the persecutions and the drivings to which the Church has been subjected. The hymn that propounds the question, "How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord, is laid for your faith in his excellent word," is answered by the growth and the development and the continuity of the Church that was established through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith. I rejoice in this foundation of faith that has held our people together, and that has kept us going through all these years that have passed. I read with marvel in my heart the deeds of valor and of heroism enacted by our pioneer parents who came to this land. I stood again, the other day, on the site where Brigham Young made that memorable remark : "This is the place!" I had just grossed a desert country, overland from El Paso, passing through parched and barren lands, and through sections that were inland seas in years long passed, the ground parched and cracked, and as I stood there I thought that I could visualize what this country must have looked like at that time. Yet, by the vision that was given, through the inspiration of the Lord, his prophet was able to say: "This is the place." And the foundation of faith laid in the hearts of the people of the Church was sufficient to make them believe it and to build upon it, so as to withstand the privations, the trials and the hardships incident to the conquering of this land. What a miracle has been wrought! This is a veritable garden spot; a beautiful city has arisen on that wasteland. 

I recalled, this morning, hearing my father tell me of his boy days, when grandfather was away on a mission, and grandmother's meager earnings as a dressmaker were not sufficient to supply what was necessary to eat. They roamed these barren hills to gather segos, thistle tops and red root, and from those things, many and many times, made out their meager meal. It is marveolus to contrast those conditions with what we see today. But I maintain, my brethren and sisters, that men would not have done that without vision; men would not have done that without a foundation of faith that made them know, beyond all doubt, that this is the work of the Lord, and that they were in his service. They knew that out of their labors would grow the very things that we, their children, witness here today. 

The question to me, my brethren and sisters, is, How firm a foundation is there laid in the work of the Lord for my faith? Will I be able to endure to the end? Will I be able to meet the changing conditions that I find in my life? I am not called upon now to do those things that I had to do as a boy, for I went into a new land and had to make fences, build ditches, kill snakes, ride the cattle - range, and do many things that neither I nor my children are called upon to do now; but I meet conditions, my brethren and sisters, that test and try my faith. Will I be able to live and maintain my integrity and continue to build upon the faith of my fathers? Will I continue to build upon the broad foundation that is laid for our faith in the work of the Lord? We are living in an age of skepticism. We are living in an age of doubt. We are living in a day when men in all parts of the country doubt even the existence of our Father in heaven. Statistics reveal the fact that in these United States half of the population, practically, are without organizations in a religious way. They are unchurched; they have no particular affiliation with any religious denomination. I do not say, nor do I believe from my contact with them, that they have no faith in God, but they are not anchored, they are wandering, stumbling, as it were, at noonday,' feeling for the wall, as does the blind man. This, my brethren and sisters, is because of the skepticism that has grown up, because of the false teaching in regard to Christ and his mission, and in regard to the gospel that was established as the means of salvation to our Father's children in the world. Will we be led away by the teachings of these men who are teaching false doctrine, or can we maintain our faith and our integrity in this glorious gospel? We have a marvelous mission, my brethren and sister.s, to carry this work into the world. There are thousands and thousands of people, millions of them, who are not conversant with the principles of the gospel. As I have said, they do not believe that there is a religion upon the earth which is divine, and still there is something in their hearts, something within them that reaches out, and they are longing for something tangible, for something real, that they might know where the word of God is. Within our keeping is the responsibility of carrying this great message of the restored gospel to them. I bear you witness, my brethren and sisters, that we have the truth. I am satisfied, beyond a doubt, that the Book of Mormon was found in the Hill Cumorah, which hill has been acquired by the Church. I rejoice in this. I knew long before last summer that the Book of Mormon was true. I have studied it, I have pondered upon it, I have read it again and again in two languages. I have taught the people among whom I have been called to labor that it is true; but last July, for the first time in my life, I had the opportunity of standing upon that hill, and I endeavored to visualize what transpired there one hundred years ago. In my heart, I prayed to the Lord that I might have a witness there that the book is true, that the record had been taken from that sacred ground. I bear you my testimony that I know, as well as I know that I am looking into your faces, that the angel Moroni stood there with the boy prophet and handed to him those records. I bear you my testimony that I know that that boy, by the inspiration of the Lord, translated that record, and we have it as a witness for God in the earth today. The gospel; in its fulness, is contained in that sacred record. I would that the people of the Church would study it more than they do. I had occasion to make frequent inquiry, during the last year and a half, among our missionaries who came into the mission field as to their having read and studied that book before they came out. I find, my brethren and sisters, that there are far too many of them who have not given it serious consideration, and have not studied it. I rejoice in the fact that there is in the Church a disposition now, among the auxiliary organizations, to get the youth of Zion to read the Book of Mormon. You cannot read it without believing it is the word of God, and that it has been given to us for a purpose. I rejoice in the Opportunity that has come to me to labor with the people whose ancestors wrote it. I bear you my witness that the Lamanite people are of Israel. I bear you my witness that they are descendants of those men who wrote that book, and I wish to do my part in their behalf. I wish to be instrumental, in the hands of the Lord, in bringing back to them the glorious knowledge that gives such joy to me, — that the Book of Mormon is true, that it contains a record of their forefathers, that it will teach to them the principles of the everlasting gospel, and that, by following those teachings, they may be saved in our Father's kingdom. 

We have the Bible, a wonderful record which we all appreciate, as well as the Book of Mormon. But J wonder, as is propounded in the 29th chapter of Second Nephi, whether we have reflected whence we obtained the Bible ? We obtained it through the Jewish nation. It was the Jews who wrote it, and the Book of Mormon asks the question : What credit do the Gentiles give to the Jews for the Bible that they appreciate so highly ? Do we esteem them as we should ? Do we reach out to them, as we should, in an endeavor to make true and to bring to pass the glorious promises of restoration for the Jews, as contained in the Bible? Likewise, do we, as a people, realize, to the  extent, our obligation to the children of those who wrote the Book of Mormon? Do we always feel inclined to reach out to them and endeavor to make possible and to bring to a reality and to fulfilment the promises of the Lord made to those people, as recorded in that book? 

I rejoice in the testimony that I have, that the gospel is true. My desire is to serve, in my humble and weak way, so long as the Lord requires my service. I desire that my family shall be found employed and engaged in service to our Father in heaven and to his Church. There is nothing else in all the world that I love so much as I do my family, my children. To me they are very dear, and I desire them to grow up in an environment where they shall have this same faith, and where they shall have this same testimony. I desire them to have fin opportunity to serve in our Father's kingdom also. I love the young men and the young women whom the Lord has sent out to labor with me, during the past twenty-one years, in the missionary field. I feel a kinship to them, almost equal to that which I feel toward my own boys and girls. I rejoice when I see them go home in faith, and engage actively in the ministry there; and I rejoice, beyond measure, to have an experience such as I had just the other day, when a young man walked into my office, for I had not received word that he was coming or why he had come. When I asked him, "How long are you going to stay?" he said, "I have come to serve again as a missionary, for six months, in this mission." Twenty-one years ago he served as secretary in the Mexican mission. He has grown and has developed during those twenty-one years. He is more efficient today than he was then. I rejoice to see them come back, not only with their spirits as bright as when they left, but with renewed energy, with renewed intelligence, and better qualified to deliver the great gospel message. 

Let us assume the responsibilities that are ours, my brethren and sisters, in the spread of the gospel. Let us be mindful of the fact that we must teach by example as well as by precept. The Lord help us to do so, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

The following telegram has been received from S. N. Kunz of Montpelier, Idaho: 

"We are hearing the opening services by radio more distinctly than we usually do in most sections of the Tabernacle." 

The congregation sang, "Redeemer of Israel." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Heber J. Burgon, president of the East Jordan stake of Zion. 


