Afternoon
07 04 1928


ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I pray that 1 may have the Spirit of the Lord to direct me in what I shall say this afternoon. It is my desire to address my remarks particularly to the officers and teachers of the Church — those who have been called to responsible positions in the Church and who have a voice in the choosing of instructors in the priesthood quorums and the various auxiliary and other organizations of the Church. 

TEACH AS DIRECTED BY THE SPIRIT 

I shall read a few verses from section forty-two of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"And again, the elders, priests and teachers of ths church shall teach the principles of my gospel, which are in the Bihle and the Book of Mormon, in the which is the fulness of the gospel. 

"And they shall observe the covenants and church articles to do them, and these shall be their teachings, as they shall be directed by the Spirit. 

"And the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith; and if you receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach." 

We are inaugurating in the Church this year, a little different system in regard to the teaching of members of the Church, and I think it is an improvement through which all the members may have the opportunity to receive instruction in the principles of the Gospel as these things are presented unto them by these elders, priests and teachers of the Church, according to the word of the Lord in this revelation. 

FAITH A NECESSARY QUALIFICATION 

The matter of teaching is one of the greatest importance. We cannot estimate its value when it is properly done; neither do we know the extent of the evil that may result if it is improperly done. Whether in the Church schools, the seminaries, auxiliary organizations; or in the Priesthood quorums, the greatest qualification required of a teacher is that he have faith in the principles of the gospel; that he believe in the principles of revealed truth as they have come through inspired prophets in our own day as well as in times of old; and that he shall exercise his privilege as a teacher in the spirit of prayer and faith. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 65 

I am in full accord with the commandment as it is written in this revelation. Unless a man does have a knowledge of the truth, has faith in the word of the Lord and his power, and is guided by the Spirit of the Lord, he should not teach. We are commanded "to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life." For we "shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ." 

In this day of wonderful educational privileges and opportunities for the gaining of knowledge, as the world understands it, we may feel that the greatest thing required of a teacher is that he possess a liberal education. It is very essential that men with the responsibility that teaching brings, be educated; that they have knowledge in a general way; but it matters not what a man's training or what his schooling may be — how many degrees he holds — if he has not faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ and has no testimony received from the Spirit of the Lord of the divine truth which has been revealed, he is not qualified to teach in any organization within the Church. Sometimes those who are serving as Bishops and Presidents of Stakes, and in other leading positions, I fear, may overlook this fact and in the choosing of teachers in classes, as teacher trainers, or wherever it may be, think of the man's educational qualifications as they would be looked upon in the world and forget the spiritual and doctrinal qualifications which are more essential. A teacher should not be called primarily because of his schooling, or educational attainments, without taking into consideration his humility, his faith and his integrity to the cause of truth which he is supposed to represent. This training does not come through the study of science, art or literature, but through prayer and faith and the promptings of the Spirit of the Lord. It cannot be stated too forcefully that the man or the woman without faith in the gospel as it has been revealed in the day in which we live, should not teach. The Lord has made it very emphatic. 

MEMBERS OF THE CHURCH SHOULD BE PROPERLY TRAINED 

This is a very important age in which we live, and our message and our authority in the world are the most important things in the world. The souls of members of the Church are just as precious in the sight of the Lord as are the souls of the people in the world unto whom our missionaries go with the plan of salvation. In fact, if a choice is to be made, a soul already in the Church — one who is in the Covenant — is just a little dearer to the Father, if possible, than is one who is on the outside. Of course, the Lord is no respecter of persons, and all souls are precious in his sight, but he no doubt loves those who obey his voice and who are willing to walk in his truth, more than he does those who fail to do so. We should spend our time and give diligent attention to the training of members of the Church. Teachers who are filled with the spirit of the Lord and who are tried and true, should be called to act in this capacity, and those who are not so tried and proved, should not be called to instruct the members. What do we accomplish if we spend our time and means preaching in the world to make converts to the gospel, if we place instructors before the youth in the stakes and wards who destroy the faith in the hearts of the young people in the divine message intrusted to our care ? 

SAVING PRINCIPLES 

A .man may have a wonderful education and not be on the road to salvation. It matters not if a man is acquainted with the principles of science, history, literature, and all the branches of education as they are taught in the schools of our land, these truths, of themselves, will not save him in the kingdom of God. He must have in his heart the spirit of faith in the mission of Jesus Christ; he must understand the principle of repentance; he must understand the principle by which the remission of sins may be obtained, which is baptism by immersion by one having authority. In fact, he must understand all of the first principles of the gospel and obey them. These truths are fundamental to salvation. If a man has not complied with these principles and received the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, and obtained entrance into the kingdom of God, he is not on the road to salvation, no matter what else his knowledge may be. The great learning he obtains in the world will not save him. 

FULNESS OF TRUTH PROMISED TO FAITHFUL 

All knowledge is helpful, all truth is a part of the gospel, but the Lord has given us some fundamental laws, truths by which his kingdom is governed, and we must be in accord with these principles of truth and these laws, and understand them if we would be saved in the celestial kingdom. Having possession of these truths pertaining to our salvation, we may add to our knowledge. Eventually a man will be under the necessity, if he becomes perfect as the Lord prayed and taught in his sermon on the mount, to understand all truth. Things are taught in a fragmentary way now, but we will know them in full sometime when we receive the greater light and understanding after the resurrection. Our knowledge does not end with this life. We will continue to progress in eternity, and all things will be revealed unto those who are faithful in this life in keeping the commandments of the Lord. The Redeemer has said : 

"The Spirit of truth is of God. I am ithe Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying : He received a fulness of truth, yea, even of all truth. 

"And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. 

"He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things." 

SEEK MEN OF FAITH AND TESTIMONY 

We learn in the scriptures, then, that there are fundamental things which we must understand, and laws which we must obey, if we would find our way into the celestial kingdom. Now I speak this way to impress upon my brethren, the Bishops and Presidents of Stakes, and , the necessity of hunting for men as teachers in organizations within the Church who have a firm testimony and who live in full accord with the word of the Lord. Men who are filled with the spirit of faith, who understand the principles of the gospel, and who make them a part of their lives and who spend some of their time in prayer and fasting. 

THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH 

Let me read from another revelation : 

"Wherefore, I the Lord ask you this question — unto what were ye ordained? 

"To preach my gospel by the Spirit, even the Comforter which was sent forth to teach the truth. 

"And then received ye spirits which ye could not understand, and received them to be of God; and in this are ye justified? 

"Behold ye shall answer this question yourselves; nevertheless, I will be merciful unto you; he that is weak among you hereafter shall be made strong. 

"Verily I say unto you, he that is ordained of me and sent forth to preach the word of truth by the Comforter, in the Spirit of truth, doth he preach it by the Spirit of truth, or some other way ? 

"And if it be by some other way it is not of God. 

"And again, he that receiveth the word of truth, doth he receive it by the Spirit of truth or some other way? 

"If it be some other way it is not of God. 

"Therefore, why is it that ye cannot understand and know, that he that receiveth the word by the Spirit of truth receiveth it as it is preached by the Spirit of truth? 

"Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are edified and rejoice together." 

HOW TO AVOID DECEPTION 

Again the Lord has said, speaking on this question: 

"And again, I will give unto you a pattern in all things, that ye may not be deceived; for Satan is abroad in the land, and he goeth forth deceiving the nations — 

"Wherefore he that prayeth, whose spirit is contrite, the same is accepted of me if he obey mine ordinances. 

"He that speaketh, whose spirit is contrite, whose language is meek and edifieth, the same is of God if he obey mine ordinances. 

"And again, he that trembleth under my power shall be made strong, and shall bring forth fruits of praise and wisdom, according to the revelations and truths which I have given you." 

Satan is abroad in the land, deceiving the nations, and he will deceive us unless we are firmly grounded in the faith, unless we base our salvation on truth, unless we search for gospel knowledge and understanding. The Lord has required of us, as he sets it forth in many of the revelations given to the Church, that we should search the scriptures, and make ourselves familiar with the teachings they contain. If we will do this then, we will not be led astray by every wind of doctrine and foolish teaching of men in the world, but will, have power to understand and discern between truth and error and choose the right, avoiding that which is wrong. Every member of this Church has it within his power to know the truth, so that he may not be deceived. This knowledge will come to us through our study, through faith, through perseverance, and through living in full accord with the ordinances of the gospel. 

May the Lord bless and guide us, I pray, in all things, that we may be steadfast in the truth in these days of peril, these days when there are so many false doctrines prevailing in the world and men are striving to destroy the fundamental teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ. May we stand firm and faithful in the spirit of prayer, the spirit of faith and with a perfect testimony of the truth, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I have been greatly impressed by the spirit of this conference, and with the fact that the Lord has set his hand to do a marvelous work and a wonder among the inhabitants of the earth in the day and age in which we live. It is, indeed, a marvelous and wonderful work that was portrayed to us so beautifully, in the meeting this morning, by Elder Orson F. Whitney. It has been accompanied by the most miraculous occurrences, and it is not a great wonder that many people have questioned its truth. 

We are living in a day of agnosticism, a day when there is but little faith among the children of men. The great thing in connection with these miraculous occurrences is the introduction, among our Father's children, of those principles and doctrines that have within them the power of God unto salvation. 

What is the work of God? We read in the opening paragraph of the Bible: 

"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. "And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. "And God said, Let there be light : and there was light." 

Thus began, according to Holy Writ, the great work of creation; and there followed the creation of man in the image of God. 

What is God's work, of which we speak as this marvelous work and a wonder? It is the great plan of life and salvation. God created the heavens and the earth, and we look up into the starry heavens, with wonder and amazement at the grandeur and the glory of this universe in the midst of which we live. We see the blazing sun at noonday and our hearts are thrilled with the wonder of it; and we learn of the motions of those heavenly bodies and our hearts are filled with amazement and wonder at the glory of this wonderful creation; and we ask the question, Whose work is this? We may read the answer in the opening verse of the Holy Scriptures : It is the work of God. 

But is that all that is contemplated in this great work of God? Is that the great thing that God has in mind? The Lord spake unto  servant Moses, and his words unto that mighty prophet read like this: "This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." The saving of human souls, redeeming them from the fall, exalting them, and bringing them back into the presence of God, is to bring to pass their immortality and eternal life. It is not sufficient that we live here upon the earth. This is but one phase in the progress of the children of God. This mighty work of God began before the foundations of this earth were laid. What do we know about the things that happened before the foundations of this earth were laid? I grant you that very little has been revealed, but that little is full of meaning. The Lord spake unto his servant Job and said: 

"Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? declare, if thou hast understanding. * * * 

"When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?" 

True enough; where was Job then ? My brethren and sisters, where were we? We stood in the presence of our Maker; we stood in the presence of our Eternal Father — his begotten children in the spirit. What was the occasion that filled our hearts with joy? It was the promulgation of this glorious plan, whereby the children of God might become exalted and be saved in the kingdom of God, that we might have our part in that great work which the Lord instituted among his children even in that primeval day, that involved the creation of this world, the placing of our Father's children upon it in tabernacles of flesh and bones. It involved the fall, because we were free agents, and without the experience of an earth life there would be no possibility of an exaltation. 

The principle of progress is involved in the experiences that we have upon this earth. The plan was announced. It was one of free agency, the right to choose between good and evil. Are you willing to take the chances of an earth-life, with the recollection of your previous existence taken from you, and live in a world of sin, tempted by the adversary of the children of men? Are you willing to be proved, whether or not you will do all things whatsoever the Lord will require of you? The announcement was made and a covenant made with the children of God, even in that primeval day, when he revealed the gospel of the Lord Jesus to the children of God. Even then, it was the power of God unto salvation, the new and the everlasting covenant that the Lord made with his children. If you will do these things and prove yourselves, you will receive an exaltation in the celestial kingdom of God. And our hearts were filled with joy inexplicable, even to overflowing, and we shouted for joy over the glad tidings that had been made known unto us even in that primeval day. 

The plan involved the sending of one mighty and strong. The question arose, Whom shall I send? And there arose in that mighty multitude the first-born of all the children of God, who said, "Here am I, send me." "Thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." But there was another in that assembly who objected to the great plan that was evolved, that of free agency, and he arose in that mighty multitude and said, "Here am I send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind that one soul shall not be lost." Compulsion, that. "Surely I will do it;" said he, "wherefore give me thine honor." And God said, "I will send the first." And Satan grew angry, for Satan it was who had spoken thus, and he rebelled against God. He had been busy beforehand, laboring among the children of God, deceiving them with his sophistries. And there was war in heaven, and Satan prevailed not, for the Lord sent the first, and Satan was cast out of heaven. 

The all-important thing for the inhabitants of this world, then, is this, to believe on Him whom God did send, and reject the message of him whom God did not send but cast out of heaven. For the war. begun in heaven, was continued here on earth among the children of men. and Satan is abroad in the land endeavoring to lead the children of God away here as there, continuing his work of destroying the souls of men. To believe on Jesus Christ, then, is the all-important thing. Believe on him and thou shalt be saved. And when I say believe on him, T mean a living faith in him, and in his glorious gospel, for, as then, it is now the power of God unto salvation. A man may not say that he believes on him and reject his gospel. A man who has a living faith in him lives not by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God, and. accepts of the plan of him whom God sent into the world, rejecting the plan of the adversary. To accept the plan of our Savior is to have faith. To reject the plan of the adversary, with all his sophistry, his false religion, his deception, his evil and all combined, to resent and resist that, and to turn away from it, is to overcome sin. 

There is only one way, and that is to accept of him whom God sent, and his glorious gospel, which has been restored in the day and age in which we live. That which was first given to father Adam and in various dispensations of God's providence has been revealed anew to the children of men. Let us then have faith in him. There is no other name given under heaven whereby men and women can be saved, no other plan, no other gospel. There is but one faith, one Lord and one baptism; and that baptism, and that faith, and that Lord have been revealed to the children of men in this dispensation of his gospel, and now, in the day in which we live, the gospel restored in all of its primitive purity, having in it the power of God; — a marvelous work and wonder for the salvation and exaltation of the children of God. 

May we accept that message, live in accordance with it, and thereby be entitled to an exaltation wherein our Father will fulfil the covenant that he made with us in that primeval day. Let us take advantage of it, and lift up our voices to all the world, that they may hear the glad tidings which God has sent into this world, through his Only Begotten Son, I pray, in the name of Jesus Chrsit. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Yesterday Elder George F. Richards, quoting the words of the Master, said : 

"Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistle*?" 

May I for a few moments draw your attention to some of the fruits, the accomplishments, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? 

I sat yesterday in our conference by the side of Dr. Roy O. Wyland, director of education for the Boy Scouts of America. As he looked out over the great multitude in this building and listened to the remarks of the various speakers, he was getting, perhaps for the first time, an intimate and accurate view of this Church and its fruits. 

At the close of the second session of the conference Dr. Wyland 

said: 

"This is one of the glorious days of my life. I have nevter known such inspiration before. The feeling that has come into my soul today is entirely new." 

A TRIBUTE BY SENATOR OWEN 

These remarks of Dr. Wyland remind me of Senator Robert L. Owen and of the experience he had under very similar circumstances, a few years ago in this same building. Senator Owen and the Honorable William J. Bryan occupied front seats at one of our conference sessions during a week-day afternoon. The great audience made up largely of men was to them a thrilling sight. 

At the close of the session these two distinguished visitors came to the stand and watched the great multitude move out of the building. A few people, probably a hundred, gathered in front to hear what these visitors might say. Mr. Bryan asked the Senator to speak : 

"My friends," said Mr. Owen, "I cannot tell you how much I have been surprised and how much I have been pleased at what I have seen and heard here this day. You need have no fear for the future, for your faith is founded on a rock. 

"I can perhaps explain my feelings best by telling you a little story. Two men were sitting side by side; one said to the other, 'You see that man over there? I hate him.' 

"'You hate him? How can you hate him? He is a stranger; you do not even know him.' 

" 'Of course I do not know him. I could not hate him if I knew him'." 

Mr. Bryan, Senator Owen, and Dr. Wyland, were all surprised, they were all pleased, with the fruits of Mormonism as these were presented by the audiences and the words of the speakers. 

OUR WORK IN SCOUTING 

"Ye shall know them by their fruits. * * * A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit." 

If we are to be judged by the work we have done throughout the Church in Scouting, we have certainly been putting forth good fruit. Dr. Wyland told us in our conference yesterday that no church or other organization has done better. 

We are aiming to do efficient Scout work in every one of our one thousand wards in the Church. The Scout program is an essential element of the work offered in our Mutual Improvement Association. Practically every ward has in it a Scout troop. 

Elder Richards spoke yesterday of his own son — one of five remarkable Scouts in my own ward, the Twenty-seventh. Few troops in the city or, for that matter, in the entire country, have the record of our Troop Thirty-nine. Scout James Bean was one of the four boys from Region Twelve, which includes Utah, Nevada, Arizona and California, to win the Harmon Foundation Scholarship. Five boys in the Ram Patrol of this Troop to which the son of Elder Richards belongs, another being a grandson of Francis M. Lyman, have each from sixty to seventy-five merit badges. Our Scout Executive, Mr. D. E. Hammond, says that "they are the ranking Scouts of the United States." 

If the tree is to be judged by its fruit, what must we say of this outstanding work? 

THE CHURCH'S MISSIONARY SYSTEM 

Recently I was asked by a great scholar to name outstanding characteristics of our people. I named first our missionary system. I am looking to see someone wise enough, philosopher enough, scientist enough, to explain how, with little opportunity for scholastic education, Joseph Smith could devise an educational institution of such merit as this missionary system. 

How precious are the lives of young people eighteen, nineteen, twenty and twenty-one years old! — the critical ages in their careers. What do thoughtful folks think of an institution that teaches boys and young men at this the most critical period of their lives, to devote one, two, perhaps three years to spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ, and to a study of his life and labors? 

The Christian world is agreed that there is no other life, that there is no other example, like that of Jesus, the son of God. The historian, IT. G. Wells, said: 

"Being myself not a Christian, I must, without hesitancy, when T have been asked to name the seven greatest characters of all time, name as the first greatest, the character that has helped humanity most and best — Jesus of Nazareth." 

Had Joseph Smith done nothing more than establish this missionary system, which sends young people out in the world unselfishly to teach others the Christian religion, would that work not bear the stamp of divinity? Remember, too, that these young people pay their own expenses. They are not teaching for hire, nor are they divining for money. This is another of the fruits. 

FRUITS OF MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT WORK 

There came recently into my hands "The Vigilante" — the official organ of the M [Men's and Gleaner Girls' organizations of the Hollywood and Los Angeles stakes. These young people are fruits of the Church. What must be the verdict of history as to the Church which produces young people who in an editorial publish the following : 

"The man who succeeds must pay the price of success. He must save when he would like to spend. He must work when he would like to be asleep. He must take the kick when he is tempted to kick back. He must be patient when his nature wants him to be impatient. He must call all his faculties to reason when they want to be unreasonable." 

These are the sentiments of the young people of the Church who have gone on through Scout work to "M" Men's work — their own ideas, expressed in their own way, in their own publication. Is the tree which produces such fruit a good tree? "By their fruits," says Jesus Christ, the Son of God, "ye shall know them." 

SENTIMENTS OF GREAT LEADERS 

I would like to have you look for a moment at the man, President Heber J. Grant, who stands at the head of the Church. When the Prophet Samuel was looking for a king of Israel, he said: "Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart." It is on the character, the heart, of President Heber J. Grant that 1 desire you to look. 

As I walked into his office the other day he handed me a paper. I found on it such words as these, which express his views of life: 

"A man is a man when he knows how to sympathize with men in their sorrows. Yea, a man is a man when he knows how to sympathize with men even in their sins. A man is a man when he knows that each man fights a hard fight against many odds, when he has learned how to make friends and how to keep them. A man is a man when no voice of distress reaches his ear in vain, when no hand seeks his aid without response, when he finds good in every faith that helps any man to lay hold of divine things, whatever the name of that faith may be." 

These are the feelings, these the sentiments, of the man who has been produced by this Church and who at present stands at the head. 

Having known him since I was ten years old, I say with certainty that these views mirror his daily life as he has lived and as he still lives it. 

I quote from another product of the Church — words spoken by that scholarly man, John Taylor, on the 12th day of June, 1852 — a man who afterwards became President of the Church. Search where you will, and find, if you can, principles any higher or more liberal than these, declared by President John Taylor : 

"If any man under heaven can show me one principle of error that I have entertained, I will lay it aside forthwith, and I will be thankful to him for giving me the information. On the other hand, if any man has any principle of truth, whether moral, religious, or of any other kind, if he will present it, I stand ready to embrace it. On the other hand, if I have principles which are out of the power of man to prove false, I stand upon these as a sure, safe foundation." 

That is the teaching of the Church; is it good fruit ? 

A CLEARNESS OF VISION 

Why is it, as Elder Whitney asked this morning, that those who are, and those who are not, members of the Church can not see alike ? One with a certain mental power and another of equal capacity — why does one believe, the other reject? 

Do Church members see more clearly because they belong to the House of Israel? This may be one reason. 

It has, however, for a long time been my thought, that a clearness of vision has come to us because those having authority have laid their hands upon our heads, and with authority have said, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost" — a blessing which seems to enable us, by the power of faith, to see, to feel, to know, and to say, with Job, "I know that my Redeemer liveth." 

This is the Church and Kingdom of God. Repent, as has been said to all the world, be baptized, receive the Holy Ghost, and you shall know. 

A duet, "O God, our help in ages past," was sung by Margaret Stewart Hewlett and Pearl K. Davis. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I was not able to be at conference yesterday, but, as I lay on the lounge and listened to the radio, I am glad to say to the people, I heard every word that was said, even at that long distance. I listened with great interest and partook of the spirit of the conference. As far as I am concerned, my brethren and sisters, I feel that it is victory or death. I haven't a vision of any kind whatsoever. I have no ambition to achieve honors, and I have only one viewpoint, and that is salvation. I desire most fervently to walk in the footsteps of my father and to emulate, as far as I am capable, his example, and to be one among the number who are loyal and true and faithful to the Church. 

I listened with much pleasure and a great degree of happiness to the reports of the presidents of Missions as to what is accomplished in the world through the preaching of the gospel. I do not know that I ever felt quite so intently as I do now, notwithstanding my own missionary work and the hundreds of elders I have assisted in setting apart, the importance of this labor, because of its influence upon our youngest son, who is now in France. 

You know I am rather peculiar in my thoughts and imaginations. I get to thinking along certain lines. I pick up ideas here and there. It is not original. I haven't been able to get hold of anything original for a long time. 

All the passion I have had for the past forty years I have put into  work, with all the mistakes and blunders, and my spirit has worn out my body. As I grow older, I become more silent, with a desire to be alone. To me, one glimpse of immortality would mean that death would lose all cause of fear and would hasten my desire to go home. As someone has said: "Why fear death? It is the most beautiful adventure of life." 

What is the good of all this education and science if it cannot tell us that there is a survival after death? What is the good of it all if it cannot answer a simple question like that? Science seems not to know what lies beyond the "No man's land," so we must turn our faces and our desires to God for an answer. It has been remarked very often that when we meet a really big man, we almost invariably find a simple man, devoid of pride and arrogance. One reason lies in the fact that every man holding a big position knows in his own soul, if he be honest, that there are forces entirely outside of himself that have led him onward to do big things. The man of the world calls it luck, just a series of accidents, but Latter-day Saints feel that great men and good women succeed because the front door of their intelligence is always open to inspiration and because of their dogged determination and effort to carry out what God has inspired them to do. What a man is worth in this world depends on the kind of life he leaves behind him as he passes. His riches consist, not of what he brought with him, but of what he left behind him as he bestowed his goods and influent to uplift and help the poor. 

Heber C. Kimball had the superb gift of living in the hearts of the people. He taught me by his good behavior that while equality is often impossible, brotherhood and friendship is the great possible thing. I cannot but feel that all that is beautiful and virtuous, all that is great and noble, will be for my father. God and Christ, and the Prophet Joseph and his brethren, in time, will assemble, and he will be among that number. His personality was as simple as a child's and he had the priceless gift of a forgiving and loving heart for the people, for his wives and for his children. 

The fact that Heber C. Kimball was my father need not, I think, with fair-minded people who are considerate, convict me of immodesty in telling his story. It is .not as if I were claiming anything for myself. I had nothing to do with his creation, but I speak of a real man, the personification of a great prophet, a great pioneer in American life. I ask why should I not, at the closing of my life, give in my way an authentic picture of him, with the hope that it may be faith-promoting and convincing to others as it has been to me? When I read of those 143 pioneers who landed in this valley on July 24, 1847, and in one short month they accomplished more for the beginning of a great work than other men have accomplished in a lifetime, I marvel at it. I can remember reading a discourse preached by President Brigham Young at the funeral of Jedediah M. Grant, wherein he said : "This man who lies before you accomplished more in ten years than some men accomplish in one hundred." 

I now desire to call to the attention of the Kimball race what was accomplished by President Heber C. Kimball and others in preaching: the gospel in England. 

Heber Chase Kimball was born in Sheldon, Vermont, June 14, 1801. When he was eleven years old, his parents removed to West Bloomfield, New York, where his father, who was a blacksmith, established a large shop in which Heber was taught blacksmithing. At the age of nineteen, he was thrown upon his own resources, his father having failed in business. Heber was relieved by his elder brother, Charles, who taught him the potter's trade. Heber C. suffered severe poverty to the extent of actual hunger at this time, but it was largely brought about by his shyness and timidity. 

"With all his trials, hardships and persecution he was a singular coljnpound in his nature, of courage and timidity; weakness and strength, with a penchant for mirth and a proneness for melancholy, and blending the lion-like qualities of a leader of men with the bashfulness and lamb-like simplicity of a child. 

"Men like Heber C. Kimball are not accidents. They are, emphatically and in the truest sense, children of destiny. What is true in this respect of ancient prophets, like Abraham and Jeremiah, is true also of modern prophets. 

"This wondrous triad of spirits, known to the world as Joseph Smith, Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball, of "Green mountain boys" of Vermont, went forth in the name of the great Jehovah to plant the banner of gospel truth." 

In the spring of 1837, Brother Kimball was informed by Brother Hyrum Smith, one of the Presidency of the Church, that he was designated by the Holy Spirit, at a conference of the authorities of the Church, to go on a mission to Great Britain. 

Brother Kimball felt his weakness and unworthiness and could not help exclaiming, "O Lord, I am a man of stammering tongue, and not fit for the work." 

In June, 1837, he bade adieu to his family, friends, the town of Kirtland, in company with Brother Orson Hyde and others, and arrived in England July 15, 1837. 

They were moved upon to go to Preston. It was a day on which representatives were chosen. On one of the flags that were unfurled was this motto : "Truth will prevail." The brethren exclaimed. "Amen —so let it be." 

They arrived in Kirtland in May, 1838, having been absent about ten months. 

There were great numbers initiated into the Church. Those who were sick flocked daily to be healed. The brethren slept but little, and some nights and days were taken up in baptizing, confirming, administering to the sick and teaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. They baptized ten, twenty and as many as twenty-five in one day. In Preston, fifty were baptized in one week and one hundred in four weeks. 

Referring to the vision of the legion of evil spirit in England, on the opening of the mission, Joseph Smith said, "Brother Heber, at that time you were nigh unto the Lord; there was only a veil between you and him. The nearer a person approaches to the Lord the greater power does the devil manifest." 

On September 18, 1839, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and others started on a mission to England. Their wives and children were sick. 

Charles Hubbard sent a boy with a span of horses and wagon to start them out on their journey. Brigham and Heber were both sick and, with difficulty, got into the wagon. Reaching Kirtland, they had $13.50 on hand and had paid out $87. They had traveled 400 miles by stage and paid eight to ten cents a mile, had eaten three meals a flay at fifty cents a meal and had paid fifty cents for lodgings. Brother Brigham suspected that Heber had put the money in the trunk, but Heber said a heavenly messenger provided the money. 

Elders Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, John Taylor, Orson Pratt and R. Hedlock took ship for England, March 7, 1840, arriving April 6, 1840. On April 20, 1841, they returned to New York. They established the work of the Church in almost every noted town and city in Great Britain; baptized between seven thousand or eight thousand; printed 5,000 Books of Mormon, 3,000 Hymn books, 2,500 volumes of the Millenhl Star and 50,000 tracts; emigrated 1,000 souls to Zion; established a permanent shipping place, and sowed in the hearts of thousands the seeds of eternal truth. 

The fall and winter of 1838 was one of the darkest periods in Church history — mobocracy on one hand and apostasy on the other. It was first a city, then a county, and a whole state rose in arms against God's people. 

Agreeable to the terms of the anti-"Mormons," whom the commissioners represented, the Saints, trusting in God, were now preparing for the exodus of the Church and its pilgrimage to the Rocky mountains, an event foreseen by the Prophet Joseph Smith and predicted by him in August, 1842. 

Heber C. Kimball accompanied President Brigham Young to Illinois, and was with President Young and the 143 pioneers that found their way to the Salt Lake Valley in 1847. 

On returning to Winter Quarters, Brigham Young was chosen and sustained as the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, with Heber C. Kimball as his first counselor, in the fall of 1847, a position my father occupied until his death in June, 1868. 

I honor my father for his faith, courage and integrity to God the Father and to his Son Jesus Christ. He was one of the first chosen apostles that never desired the Prophet's place — his hands never shook, his knees never trembled and he was true and steadfast to the Church and to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

He built homes for his wives and children, two flour mills, carding machine mill, molasses mills, a linseed oil mill, school buildings, barns, cobble stone walls. He beautified gardens and farms and laid out his inheritance, and laid out city blocks and named the streets. He located hundreds of people who built homes, and he never speculated. 

At a council meeting held at the Prophet Joseph's house, Sidney Rigdon remarked that he had some feelings against Elder Kimball who prophesied of Nauvoo : "It is a very pretty place, but not a long abiding place for the saints." Sidney said : "I should suppose that Elder Kimball had passed through suffering and privations and mobbings and drivings enough to learn to prophesy good concerning Israel." With a mixture of meekness and humor, Heber replied: "President Rigdon, I'll prophesy good concerning you all the time if you can get it." 

Brother Brigham, Heber and others were enroute to Kirtland. Heber had chills and fever and was very ill. A doctor said he could give him something to relieve him. The doctor was drunk, and gave Heber a tablespoonful of morphine. He reeled and fell to the floor. Some of the brethren wept and said, "We will never see Heber again." Brother Brigham cared for him. Heber said : "Don't be scared. You brethren go ahead, for Brother Brigham and I will reach Kirtland before you will"; and they did. 

During the famine of 1856, which was likened unto the famine of Egypt, Heber C. Kimball played a part like unto that of Joseph of old. He had prophesied of the famine. He, by his providence and foresight and anticipation of the famine, had saved his grain, filled his bins and storehouse, and he fed a hungry multitude, kindred, strangers and all. who looked to him for succor. His own family were put upon short rations, though he had thousands of bushels of wheat, with bran, shorts, corn and barley in abundance. Several hundred bushels of wheat were loaned to President Young, to help feed the hungry and the poor of Salt Lake City. 

Bishop John B. Maiben gives an interesting link in the historic chain at the time of the famine. "Some individuals who had flour sold it at $25 to $30 a 100 pounds. Not so with Heber, for at no time did he charge more than $6 a 100 pounds, then the standard tithing-offiee price. He distributed in various amounts, from five to fifty pounds to the poor, amounting to about 30,000 pounds. His acts of generosity, mercy and charity, during this time of sore distress, are worthy of the man. He kept an open house and fed from twenty-five to one hundred poor people at the tables daily, with bread, flour and other necessities that were worth their weight in gold." 

It is related that during the famine, a brother, sorely in need of bread, came to President Kimball for counsel as to how to procure it. "Go and marry a wife," was Heber's terse reply, after feeding the brother. The man thought Brother Kimball must be out of his mind, but when he thought of his prophetic character, he resolved to obey counsel. He wondered where such a woman was and, thinking of a widow with several children, he got busy and proposed. As widows generally do, she accepted him. In that widow's house was laid un a six months' store of provisions. She surely grub-staked him. Meeting Brother Kimball soon after, the prosperous man of a family said: "Well, Brother Heber, I followed your advice." "Yes," said the man of God, "and you found bread." 

About this time, they had to meet the wants of the immigration, which had commenced pouring in from Europe. The crickets had played havoc with the crops, in spite of the interposition of the gulls. Great wisdom and the broadest charity had to be exercised to relieve suffering and hunger. The people were put upon rations, all sharing the same, like members of one family. As filling, they dug roots and ate them, like the Indians, or cooked and ate the hides of animals. 

It was during this time of famine, when the half-starved, halfclad settlers scarcely knew where to look for the next crust of bread, or for rags to hide their nakedness, that Heber C. Kimball, filled with the spirit of prophecy, in a public meeting, declared to the astonished congregation, that, within a short time, states' goods would be sold in the streets of Great Salt Lake City cheaper than in New York, and that the people should be abundantly supplied with food and clothing. 

As soon as the spirit force had abated, on resuming his seat, he remarked to the brethren that he feared he had missed it that time. President Young said: "Never mind, let it go." Charles C. Rich, an apostle, said : "I don't believe a word of it." Heber said : "Neither do I, but God hath spoken." The words of a prophet, when spoken by the. spirit of God, are the words of God, as he is the dictator. 

The advent of the gold hunters, on their way to California, set on fire, as it were, the civilized world, and hundreds of richly laden trains made Salt Lake City their resting place. Thus, the Prophet Heber's words came true, for states' goods were actually sold in the streets here cheaper than they could be bought in New York. 

Heber, a few years later, said, "That is the way I prophesy, but I have predicted things I did not foresee and did not believe anybody else did, but I have said it, and it came to pass. The Lord led me right, but I did not know it." 

"Thou shalt go to Upper Canada, even to the city of Toronto, the capital," said Heber C. Kimball, to Parley P. Pratt, in April, 1836, "And there," continued Heber prophetically, "thou shalt find a people prepared for the gospel, and they shall receive thee, and thou shalt organize the Church among them, and it) shall spread thence into the regions round about, and many shall be brought to a knowledge of the truth, and shall be filled with joy; and from the things growing out of this mission shall the fulness of the gospel spread into England and cause a great work to be done in that land." 

This pointed prophecy was strikingly fulfilled. The Fieldings, who were among the people that Parley found in Canada, ready to receive his message, had a brother in England, a minister, to whom they wrote concerning the rise of "Mormonism," and thus prepared the way for Apostles Heber C. Kimball and Orson Hyde, who, with their associates, including Willard Richards and Joseph Fielding,, carried the gospel across the Atlantic. The Rev. James Fielding, the minister referred to, received them kindly (though he afterwards turned against them) and it was from his pulpit in Vauxhall chapel, Preston, Lancashire, July 23, 1837, that these elders preached the first "Mormon" sermons ever heard in Britain. 

Tn August, 1853, Heber addressed the Saints in the Salt Lake Tabernacle : "I know you will prosper and live in peace in the mountains of Great Salt Lake and be perfectly independent. You will live in peace and God will be your defence. The Lord can turn the nations, as I can an obedient horse. They are governed and controlled by the Almighty. There are a few other things I wanted to say: Take care of your grain; for it is of more worth to you than gold and silver." This theme he stressed for the next three years, but they heeded him not and they suffered the consequence. He further said later: "1 would like to see the people manufacture their own clothing, machinery, knives, forks and everything else, for the day will come when we will be under the necessity of doing it, for trouble and perplexity, war and famine, bloodshed and fire, thundering and lightning will roll upon the nations of the earth, insomuch that we cannot get to them nor they to us." 

Brother Brigham said : "This is the place." Brother Heber said : "Here it is on high. It is the best country I ever saw." 

At family prayers, just a little while before his death, he remarked that the Angel Moroni had visited him the night before and had informed him that his work on this earth was finished and he would soon be taken. 

He died the morning of June 22, 1868. 

No wonder we are thrilled and rejoice and glorify the name of God, that his servants, messengers of life and salvation, have a message to deliver unto his children. 

God bless you one and all. I sustain and uphold the hands of the priesthood, and I desire, as you do, to be saved and exalted in the presence of God. which, if I know anything, I know it must be the greatest gift of God to his children. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

President of the Northern States Mission 

I desire, my brethren and sisters, to express my gratitude to my Heavenly Father for the many blessings and opportunities that have come to me during my life. Two of these opportunities I desire to mention. I was grateful for the appointment that came to me a number of years ago to inaugurate in the Church and to develop in a way, two programs: an organized program of athletics and the Boy Scout program. I was grateful for the kind and wise counsel that was given to me from time to time by the General Superintendency of the Mutuals. I say that I was grateful for this opportunity, not for the position, but because of the opportunity it gave me to labor among the young people of the Church. Among the young people is that vitality, enthusiasm and desire for progress that make them do things. To have an oppor to help guide that enthusiasm and love of life into channels of righteousness, so that our young people might take their place in the work of the Church a little better than they could otherwise do, was a privilege and blessing. 

The other opportunity that came to me was the privilege of laboring as president of one of the Missions of the Church. And again I say, not because of the position, not because of the honor — for it is an honor to preside in a mission, to preside in anything that has to do with God's work — but I was grateful for the privilege of again laboring with the young men and women who have faith sufficient to bring them out into the world to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have seen them grow and increase in faith, in testimony and in power, and I have realized that God has been with them. I have been grateful when a boy or girl could go home at the end of his or her mission firmly established in the testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In leaving the mission field I do so with a degree of regret, because I love the work and I have enjoyed laboring with the boys and girls who have been sent out to do missionary work under my direction. 

In our message to the people of the world we are not questioning the sincerity of the thousands and thousands of honest men and women, we are not questioning their devption or their love of God or their purity of life; but we are questioning the correctness of their interpretation of the principles of life. We are questioning the correctness of their interpretation of the scriptures which have been given unto us by the servants of the Lord who wrote and spoke by the inspiration and power of God. When men and women can look upon the laws of nature, express their admiration and reverence for God because of the orderly way in which he works in this great creation of ours — orderliness in astronomy, in mathematics, in chemistry — it seems strange that they cannot also see that it is quite as necessary that there be an order in the spiritual phases of life. Is it possible that God shall be orderly in all other things except his way of saving men and women and bringing them back into his presence? 

I am convinced that the unbelief and division that we have in the world at the present time are the result of an incorrect interpretation of the word of God, and because, of such interpretation men and women and young people especially are beginning to wonder just how far they can go in religion, and whether it is possible to find out God at all. In our interpretation of the scriptures we have faith, but we are not interpreting faith as some interpret it, namely, that by faith we are saved without works. We are not interpreting baptism as something which can be accepted or rejected as we may please to do. But the gospel of Jesus Christ is one of completeness. It has in it all things necessary for our salvation. We do not believe in faith to the exclusion of all other things, or as many of the people of the world believe, "By grace are ye saved." 

So I am grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the gospel of Jesus Christ that has come to us through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is so broad and so complete that it has an appeal to young people; it has an appeal to older people; it has an appeal to scientific people and to educators. It matters not who the person may be who comes in contact with the gospel, as he studies it he discovers that splendid appeal. 

May the Lord bless us and help us to do the work that he desires us to do here upon the earth, may our boys and girls continue to grow up to be splendid men and women, that they shall have a desire in their hearts to go out and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ in plainness and simplicity, and above all in humility, T humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM G. SMITH 

Presiding Patriarch of the Church 

I am very grateful for the privilege of being present at this conference, to partake of the good spirit here manifested, and for the wonderful experience which comes through the personal association at a conference of this character. A number of important subjects came to my mind while sitting here, listening to my brethren, but, it seems, they have now all disappeared. I trust, however, that I shall be enabled to recall something of interest during the few moments that I may stand before you. 

DESIRE FOR GREATER STRENGTH 

I am very grateful for the blessings that have come to me in my ministry in the Church. I have often desired to have greater strength, realizing that the responsibility which has come to me is of such a character that it needs strength, both mental and physical, to discharge it acceptably to the Lord. Like Elder Kimball's, my body has not been strong enough to carry out the work that my spirit has been willing to do. I have often wished that I might have the strength that was enjoyed by some of the former officers in the Church, those especially who have held the office that I now hold. 

From reading the history of the Church, I have learned that the first patriarch of the Church weighed three hundred pounds, more than any of the present general authorities. I have also observed that only a small percentage of the men who have been very faithful in the Church for a number of years as bishops or as presidents of stakes, and have been called to the office of patriarch, are able to conduct the affairs required of them for any great length of time. 

THE PASSING OF A PATRIARCH 

The desire expressed by Elder Kimball was realized by one of these good men only the night before last. I do not know the exact age of the brother, because I did not refer to the records, but Patriarch Joseph S. Larkin, a very faithful man in the Church, had prepared himself only last Thursday to attend this general conference, and retired that night with a smile on his face and a sweet good-night to his family. When  family looked upon him in the morning his spirit had gone. He passed on without disturbing anyone. This might be a peaceful way to go; but death seems sad in any way that it comes. 

HONOR AND RECOGNITION DUE STAKE PATRIARCHS 

I want to express my appreciation, my sympathy and my testimony relative to these good men who have been called to this important work in the Church. From experience, I have learned that there are many individuals in the Church who do not know their local officers sufficiently to honor them as we would like to have them honored. Many of our missionaries, desiring to get their blessings before going away from home, fail to call for them at the hands of their own fathers, and their own kin, and their own neighbors — men who have been tried and found faithful — men of faith, devotion and integrity for the work. I should like to urge these young people to take advantage of their opportunities, realizing that these good men hold the Priesthood of God and that they are authorized, with the keys of power, to function just the same as the Presiding Patriarch; the only difference being the extent of jurisdiction. 

I desire to instill in the minds of the Latter-day Saints, both old and young, a respect and honor for the men who hold the office of patriarch in the stakes of Zion. I testify that these men hold the keys of power to bless the people, and that their calling is just as important in their field of labor as mine is in the field in which I have been called to labor. 

BLESSINGS OF ETERNAL CHARACTER 

As far as the strength and power of the Priesthood is concerned, a priest, a young man who may be honored with the Priesthood of Aaron, can lead a convert into the waters of baptism and baptize him in the name of the Lord, and that baptism is of an eternal character; nothing will take the place of it. Yet, many of us, both old and young, forget that a man who is advanced in years and experience and bears the Melchizedek Priesthood has the power to confer upon us a blessing and a promise; to advise and counsel, all of which also is of an eternal character. All our blessings are of an eternal character when they are administered by proper authority, and I testify that these good men do bear that authority and that they are willing, as far as their strength will permit, to function in their calling, and they are very much encouraged when members of the Church apply for their blessings in their home stakes. 

I pray that the spirit and the blessings of these good men may increase; that many more may be caused to seek out these men and honor them, as they should be honored, throughout the stakes and wards of the Church. These good men hold offices of a stake capacity, and are limited to the stake in which they reside. I should like to encourage the members of the Church to honor them in their position. TESTIMONY OF POWER IN THE CHURCH 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that I have discovered, through experience, that the Priesthood is in the Church and chat it is held by those to whom it has been given. I realize that there are certain gifts and powers that come to us about which we do not know very much, because we do not cultivate them, we do not use them as perhaps we might do; but I have discovered that I possess the Priesthood of God. I have seen its fruits. I know that, by my faithful labors, the Lord has given me some very comforting experiences. The experiences of the elders of the Church, if published, would be a large volume. Through my experiences, I have been convinced that I do possess that power which has been given to me and has been given to other men, and I desire that I might have strength to honor and use it further for the blessing of the people. 

My heart is filled with a love of the work, and I pray that the Lord will continue to bless me, in body as well as in spirit, that I may continue faithful so long as the Lord requires my labors. 

BLESSING PRONOUNCED UPON THE PEOPLE 

I pray that the spirit of this conference will go with us to our homes, and help us to keep the commandments of the Lord; help us to be faithful in the discharge of our duties; help us also to avoid falling into error — the breaking of the Word of Wisdom, the breaking of the law of tithing, and the breaking of other commandments that will shorten our blessings or cause them to be withheld from us. I desire to leave with you the blessings of the Lord; and to inspire greater diligence and greater faithfulness on the part of the members of the Church, not only to secure their blessings, but to live for them, observing that all our blessings are predicated upon obedience to law, and that the laws are plain and for our benefit. I bless the people; I bless the officers of the Church who have gathered here to receive instructions of the leaders; and I pronounce upon them all, leaders and followers alike, the blessings of God, according to their needs, and pray our Heavenly Father to bless you one and all in health and in strength and in wisdom and in gifts, according to your needs, both temporal and spiritual, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "Zion stands with hills surrounded." The closing prayer was pronounced by Elder Clyde Lindsay of the San Francisco Stake Presidency. 


