Morning
07 04 1928


ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Among the wonderful inventions of our day is that of the amplifier and the radio. This morning I am grateful that I have the assistance of this device in speaking to you in this great building. 

Yesterday we had as visitors men from afar, one of whom addressed us, calling attention to our particular position in the world of Scouting. His remarks reminded me of an experience I had recently, at least it is not many months ago, while in San Francisco attending a regional meeting of the Scout organization. We had spent the day in session. At the close of the meeting, when it was ready to adjourn, I asked the chairman for permission to say a few words on the Latter-day Saint plan of taking care of boys. My request was cheerfully granted. I asked those who were present, first, if they would pay attention to what I had to say, with the thought that they might add to our program, and give us the benefit of their thinking, because they were all experts in taking care of boys. 

THE MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN 

I said first of all, we have a fathers' and sons' outing manual. 1 had it in my hand. This is an invitation to the fathers and sons of our country. We have in our Church ninety r nine ecclesiastical divisions known as stakes, and this program is suggested for fathers and sons, with the thought that if they can go out together into the open spaces and camp in the mountains or plains of God's great out-of-doors, and become better acquainted, both fathers and sons will be greatly benefited thereby. I went through the program, of course, in a little more detail than I shall do here today. I said: We have a Junior Manual. This is intended to inspire in the boys faith in God. There is a lesson for each week during the Mutual Improvement season, and we feel it is a fine program. I called attention to some of the features of the plan, some of the experiences of our missionaries and early Scouts, and the feeling that it would engender in the heart of the boy in appreciation of the heroism of these individuals. 

I said: We have an advanced Junior group in the Mutual. For this group we have a manual prepared to call attention to the fact that courage is an important thing, not only courage in the face of ordinary danger, but courage to do right when evil is present. We feel that at this age our boys should be stimulated with the courage to do right. Scouting is an important part of the program of these Junior groups. 

Our next age is our senior group, and we have a manual prepared for them. While men are quarreling about the differences between science and religion, we prepare a manual and put it into the hands of our advanced adolescent youth, calling attention to the fact that there is no conflict between true science and true religion; that the truth, no matter from what source we derive it, all originates with our Heavenly Father. We place a manual in their hands that calls attention to the fact that instead of trying to find a conflict between science and religion we do well to understand them both, to the end that we will be able to harmonize them. 

While I was talking I noticed several individuals in the house nodding to one another, calling attention to the fact that that was a good thought. 

Now, I said, we have an advanced Senior group. For this group we have taken for this year's study short biographies of men who have been prominent champions of liberty throughout the world, such as Moses, Confucius, Gotama the great Buddha, Justinian and other philosophers and religious leaders. Then we call attention to the fact that in this group were Oliver Cromwell, George Washington, Joseph Smith, Abraham Lincoln, Brigham Young, Benito Juarez, etc. In the life of each of these men we have found that which we feel ought to inspire men and women with a desire to do better things. In addition, we have our Mutual Improvement Era, that is published monthly, containing articles that are intended to inspire in the growing young men a feeling of reverence for God, and a desire to know of his purposes. 

At the conclusion of my talk to them I said : Now, gentlemen, I have told you what we are trying to do for our boys in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I shall appreciate it if you will now give me your reaction and any suggestions for improving our plan. 

One of the leaders of the group, without hesitation, said: "Mr. Smith, we are at your feet." Another man spoke up and said : "There is no other program like that, for boys, in the world." The Superintendent of Schools of San Jose. California, said to me: "There is no church in all the world doing for its young people what you are doing," and he said, "It is remarkable to me that we, in San Jose, work our heads off to put over the Boy Scout program with the thought that we are doing the most wonderful thing in the world for boys, and you come here and tell us that that is only a little part of your program, that Scouting is a part of your Junior work." And he said: "I want to compliment you." There were quite a number of those present who gave me their cards and asked if we would supply them with our manuals for this year. 

I mention this because only yesterday you heard from one of the chief Scout men of the United States, the statement that we lead in Scouting, that Utah and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are in the forefront in the world of Scouting. In the case of the people I have mentioned, their lives are set on that one department. 

OTHER DEPARTMENTS OF THE CHURCH 

When this man from San Jose said: "We find that this is only a little part of what you are doing for boys," I did not enlarge upon the program by saying, this is only one of the departments of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We start with our Primary children, and they are surrounded by the love and tenderness of the best women in the world. Our children are taught to pray; in the organizations with which they are identified they are taught faith; they are led along the pathway of constructive thought. They are carried on in that department until they are twelve or fourteen years of age. I did not tell of our Sunday Schools — no other Sunday Schools in all the world compare with ours. We take our boys and our girls in their tender years and lay a foundation for an understanding of the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and the history of the Church; so that when they are old enough to come in contact with individuals in the world they have a fund of information by which they are not only able to defend their faith, but are qualified to advocate their faith in such a way that others may be inspired and interested in it. Then we have the Mutual Improvement organizations, that have developed both boys and girls to become orators, musicians, writers and thinkers. We have our Relief Society, the great national organization, than which there is nothing in all the world better, an organization that contributes, not only to the intellectual and spiritual welfare of its members, but also to the desires in their hearts to reach out and benefit and bless those who are in need, as the name implies. I did not tell these men that when our boys are young they are taught the gospel of Jesus Christ, and ordained to the Priesthood; that as Deacons, as Teachers and as Priests, they are taught, while in youth; that as Elders they become members of the Melchizedek Priesthood, and may be ordained Seventies, and High Priests, going upward through the various ages of their lives. I did not call attention to the fact that we have our ward meetings where, once a week, we are brought together and where we may partake of the Sacrament. I did not call their attention to the fact that we have our quarterly conferences which afford the opportunity for the people to come together in the various larger districts, under the influence of our Heavenly Father. I did not tell them of the great annual and semi-annual conferences that are held in the Church, attracting people from all parts of the world, affording opportunity for the reuniting of families, the bringing together of friends and renewing acquaintanceships — all these things, a regular part of the program of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

OPPORTUNITY FOR DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH 

I haven't touched all the things that are in my mind, but I have mentioned enough to call your attention to what I would like to have  remember, that when our Heavenly Father established his Church upon the earth, he established it on such a broad plane that there is afforded in this organization, by means of its priesthood and its auxiliary organizations, an opportunity for the development of every living soul, under the influence of his Holy Spirit. He organized his Church on so broad a scale that all are invited to search the scriptures and understand them for themselves. On such a scale we are invited to go into the great schools and universities of learning of the world, seeking for the things that the world has been able to uncover and explain; and these all, as far as they are true, to become a part of our thinking, to be made a part of our lives. When we analyze these things and realize what God has done for us, we would be an ungrateful people if in the depths of our souls we did not worship him day by day, with thanksgiving in our hearts for the mercies that are extended unto us. No other people in all the world are so. cared for and cultured, no other people in all the world are so tenderly taught and so carefully advised and counseled as are the Latter-day Saints. And if we will only take advantage of our opportunities and avail ourselves of our privileges, this Church will continue to grow and spread, there will be less opportunity for evil to come into our communities; we will continue to be a tower of strength for righteousness, as I believe we now are among the people of the world, not only in keeping the ethical ideals of this world before the people, but also in instilling in mankind a living faith in our Heavenly Father, which is at the foundation of all real progress and all that is really worth while. 

A NEW PLAN 

I am grateful for my standing in this Church. I am thankful to be associated with my brethren and sisters in a department of service. And now today, inasmuch as there is a new plan in operation, affecting the Priesthood and the Mutual Improvement Associations, following upon that of the Church Sunday School, let us all desire to carry forward this mighty work of our Heavenly Father, put our shoulders to the wheel and cause this department to function for the benefit and blessing of the youth of Zion, and for the uplift of every man, woman and child, to the end that each may in due time be found worthy of a place in our Father's celestial kingdom. That we who have part in this glorious work may rejoice in it, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

We have had a very excellent conference thus far. To me the meetings have been extremely profitable, and I have rejoiced greatly in the spirit of the conference. 

I am reading now the Twelfth Article of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: 

ALL ARE SUBJECT TO LAW 

"We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." My brethren and sisters, this is not a mere platitude; it is not a formality, but it is an article of faith of the Church, of Christ. Let me call your attention to the fact that all people in all nations are under a reign of law. We cannot escape this conclusion, we cannot evade the fact, being upon the earth as we are, mingling one with another, we are subject to law. The Lord has said in one of the revelations to his Church, through the Prophet Joseph Smith (See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 58) : 

"Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no heed to break the laws of the land." 

That is direct and emphatic, and leads one to the obvious conclusion that the laws of God are higher and superior to the laws of the land. 

We read in the scriptures that when the wicked rule the people mourn, and conversely it might be said that when the righteous rule the people rejoice. They rejoice because the righteous make righteous laws, and they mourn because the wicked make wicked laws. We are living, my brethren and sisters, under one of the best and most substantial governments in the world today, if not the best. It simply results from having the best and most liberal laws of government. 

T call your attention to this important truth, that people who live in far distant hamlets are under law; that people who live in the cities of the land are subject to law, and it follows if a citizen desires to enjoy the privileges that belong to the city in which he resides, he must yield obedience to the laws of that city, and give heed to its ordinances. If a man wishes to enjoy the advantages and privileges of citizenship in this great nation of ours, he must subject himself to the laws of the nation. You know quite as well as I do what is said of a man who disregards law, who goes beyond and away from it, who appears to think that that is his privilege. Well, the Lord has something to say about that, for he spoke by revelation to Joseph Smith the Prophet and said: 

"And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfected and sanctified by the same. 

"That which breaketh a law, and abideth not by law, but seeketh to become a law unto itself, and willeth to abide in sin, and altogether abideth in sin, canwit be sanctified by law, neither by mercy, justice, nor judgment. Therefore, they must remain filthy still." 

So a man who ignores the law. who sets his face as flint against it, is called an outlaw, and if he sets himself against the Government in which he resides and of which he is a part, and violates the law and uses his influence against the Government, that is designated treason. He is treasonable, he is subject to the action of this very law which he violates. 

LAWS OF GOD AND LAWS OF MAN 

Now there are two great law-givers, the one is the Lord in heaven. He is the supreme law-giver of the universe. The other is man upon  earth. The laws of God are great spiritual and eternal laws, and are given to govern us in our conduct and to protect us in our future prospects. The laws of the land are of temporary character and appertain to mortal life. However, if the laws of the land are good laws, they have the approval of the Almighty. The greatest and most spectacular revealment of law, if I may use that expression, ever made, was given at Mount Sinai when the Lord descended upon the mountain, and in the midst of thundering and lightning and a great smoke going up, he gave the Ten Commandments. It might truly he said that all the righteous laws of man have their origin in the Ten Commandments. 

THE PURPOSE OF THE CONSTITUTION 

The Lord had a great purpose in view in establishing the Constitution of this land, and doubtless entertained very great respect for our pilgrim fathers, and the early fathers of this great nation, because he has referred to them in a revelation given to his servant Joseph Smith. (See Sec. 101, Doc. and Cov.) Speaking of the Constitution the Lord said: 

"According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffererl to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; 

"That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity. , according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. 

"Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. 

"And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." 

OUR ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE CONSTITUTION 

Is it to be wondered at, brethren and sisters, that the Latter-day Saints as a people have profound respect for the Constitution of the United States? We believe that the Constitution was inspired of the Lord. If other people draw away or lose their interest, or their faith in the Constitution and the flag of our country, the Latter-day Saints will be expected to rally around it. We propose to maintain the Constitution and all that it stands for. Our children are taught to respect the flag and to honor the law-givers of the nation. In Scout law, our boys are taught to be obedient and to honor the law, to be honest, to be truthful, to be upright. They do not always have a good example set before them by men of influence and men of power in the nation, men who have rightly earned the designation of "bootleggers." We hope that the Scouts who are growing up will be safeguarded against the pernicious example of these men. 

PROHIBITION LAW SHOULD BE OBSERVED 

The law pertaining to prohibition is an expression of the wishes of the majority of the people of the United States of America. It has become a sacred law of the land, and should be so regarded, at least until it is repealed. So I might add that the voices of the Latterday Saints are raised against those who violate this law. 

ALL KINGDOMS GOVERNED BY LAW 

I call your attention to the fact, and to me it is very interesting, that the Lord is the author of many great and glorious laws. We are told in one revelation from on high that all kingdoms have a law given unto them. 

"There are many kingdoms; for there is no space in the which there is no kingdom; and there is no kingdom in which there is no space, either a greater or a lesser kingdom. 

"And unto every kingdom is given a law; and unto every law there are certain bounds also and conditions. 

"All beings who abide not in those conditions are not justified. * * * 

"And again, verily I say unto you, he hath given a law unto all things, by which they move in their times and their seasons; 

"And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets. 

"And they give light to each other in their times and in their seasons, in their minutes, in their hours, in their days, in their weeks, in their months, in their years — all these are one year with God, but not with man." 

The foregoing quotation will be found in Section 88, Doc. and Cov. 

BLESSINGS PREDICATED UPON OBEDIENCE TO LAW 

Upon another occasion the Lord said to his prophet : 

"For behold, I reveal unto you a new and an everlasting covenant; and if ye abide not that covenant, then are ye damned; for no one can reject this covenant and be permitted to enter into my glory. 

"For all who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the la*v which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world. 

"And as pertaining to the new and everlasting covenant, it was instituted for the fulness of my glory; and he that receiveth a fulness thereof must and shall abide the law, or he shall be damned, saith the Lord God. (Doc. and Cov. 132, verses 4, 5, 6.) 

"There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — 

"And when we obtain any blessing from God. it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated.'' (Doc. and Cov., Sec. 130, verses 20, 21.) 

Now we learn from this that every blessing bestowed upon men is predicated upon law. I take it there is no exception to this rule. Blessings do not come in a haphazard way, they do not come by chance, but they come by obedience to law. And if you want a blessing you must obey the law upon which that particular blessing is predicated. The blessing of salvation is predicated upon obedience to the New and Everlasting Covenant, and condemnation is predicated upon its rejection. 

THE NEW AND EVERLASTING COVENANT 

Now, what is this New and Everlasting Covenant spoken of? We understand it to be the gospel of Jesus Christ, or the law of the gospel. If you desire salvation, then you must obey the law of the . It cannot be had in any other way. Wle can't run and jump into heaven, or drop down into it from above, or climb up into it from below. If you get into heaven, if you would secure the blessings, joys and privileges of heaven, you must obey the law that governs in heaven. That is good logic and good reasoning, and is according to revelation. 

BLESSINGS DERIVED FROM PAYMENT OF TITHES 

Let us make an application or two : For instance, there is the law of tithing. It is a law of God. If you would receive the blessing that goes with paying tithing, then you must obey the law of tithing. Somebody might ask : "Well, what is the blessing that goes with the paying of tithing?" The answer is this: A great and important blessing. We are told in the revelation on tithing — Doc. and Cov., Sec. 119 — that to them who observe to keep this law the land will be sanctified and will become a land of Zion; it will not be a land of Zion to them who reject the law of tithing. 

BLESSINGS OBTAINED THROUGH OBEYING THE WORD OF WISDOM 

What blessing, if any, comes through obedience to the Word of Wisdom? Is it worth while to render obedience to this special Word from the Lord? Certainly it is worth while. The Word of Wisdom is often referred to in our Church as the law of health. I am sure if the Latter-day Saints would follow it strictly and carefully, they would enjoy the blessing of health to a very great extent. Of course we naturally inherit the weaknesses and imperfections of the flesh, that is true, but generally speaking, good health and the preservation of our bodies would result in the main from an observance of the Word of Wisdom. 

Still another great blessing comes from observance of the Word of Wisdom, for the Lord said to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, that "all Saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." 

DISTINCTION BETWEEN DESTROYING ANGEL AND ANGEL OF DEATH 

Some people might say, well, so far as that is concerned, the destroying angel slays everybody sooner or later. The answer is : Not so. 

There is a distinction between the angel, or messenger, of death and the destroying angel. When a righteous man dies the angel who comes to take charge of his spirit is not a destroying angel, but rather an angel of mercy, of peace and love, a messenger from the Father. 

The death of a wicked and disobedient man is bitter, and he has no promise that the destroying angel will pass by him and not slay him. I rejoice in the fact that all men are subject to law, both civil and heavenly law — the law of the Gospel and the law of the land. We admonish Latter-day Saints to cultivate respect for law. 

I know that the Gospel is true, that Christ is and was the Savior of the world, that Joseph Smith the prophet, was a glorious character and a mighty minister of truth. I testify of these things in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I wish to take as the subject for my sermon the first and last articles of our faith, written by Joseph Smith. 

"We believe in God the Eternal Father, and in his Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. 

"We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to ALL MEN; indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul — We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." 

The first and last articles of faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints embody principles, large in their concept of life. These two statements of religion deal with the most important problems of the soul, and they solve in a general way how man may enter into a divine world. Perhaps the majority of mankind is not yet ready for such a presentation of religion; but it is through some such conception as the thought of these two statements that mankind will grasp the meaning of life and its ultimate end. The same trend of thought that we have today — the religious and the scientific — was developed in ancient times when Hebraism and Hellenism flourished. This brought forth much of the thought expressed by the Prophet Zechariah, when he wrote "Thy Sons, O Zion, against thy Sons, O Greece." The one thought was the selfless life, and its eternal belief in God; the other was the life of nature; the pursuit of knowledge, the establishment of great truths by philosophers and men of science. 

Such men who believe in the one true and living God, the eternal father of us all, like Jeremiah, Isaiah, and Zechariah, established through their writings the fundamental truths of religion and life. They gave to the world religion, which took the culture of Greece and afterwards the power of Rome, and elevated and inspired them. The Hellenistic movement was that of Aristotle and Plato, and through these men there came into the world a struggle fiercer than the struggle of arms; for it was a struggle of ideas, but the words of the prophets had a keener significance for all time to come than had any other thought. "The Sons of Zion were against the Sons of Greece." Israel and Greece stood for the two great forces that have moulded our Western history, and still dominate modern life. Paul, the Apostle before the age  historical criticism, made the distinction so emphasized in our day, between the Hebrew spirit and the Gentile, particularly the Greek, when he said that the Gentiles followed not after righteousness; but that Israel did follow after the law of righteousness. Beautiful are his words found in the ninth chapter of Romans. History fully bears out Paul's contrast between the Jew and the Greek; the religious mind and the scientific mind. The Jews understood that God required righteousness as indispensable for life. The law flashed out solemn warning to the world. The sense of sin, the need of redemption, the lawlessness of human nature, when it is not under subjection to the law of God; and these principles were all postulates of the Bible. Hebraism stood out for the moral and religious principle, Hellenism for the culture of the human; the sensitive love for the beautiful, and the joy of living. 

Down through the ages, faith in one God was needed before consistency in the moral life of man was possible. The world is indebted to the Jews for the moral law, not merely the Ten Commandments, but the idea of law in general. The result of this moral advance was an infinite intellectual advance, and it brought reason and order into the world. 

The idea of the uniformity of nature, which is the first principle of science, was impossible until the Jewish mind swept away Polytheism, and through the concept of law, saw the world consistent, with unbroken continuity. In this way, the Herbraism of the Jew and the Hellenism of the Greek came together." 

So today we have the struggle of ideas. There appear two opposing methods of thought and development, which we meet in our schools and universities. They reflect at times a conflict in human nature. With the thought of the first and the last articles of our faith, certainly we make a contribution to religious thought in our day. We see the simple acceptance of both sides, looking with clear eyes on the whole situation. We accept the Hellenistic or scientific truths as given by the master men of science and philosophy. It is the gospel of the love for the beautiful and the joy of living; that man may search out truth by study and thoughtful work in the world. Then on the other hand, these two articles implicitly say that all discord in life is changed into harmony by reconciling man to God. The deepest thought of Christ's teaching and life is simple confidence in God, as seen in the world and in human life. This consciousness of the divine takes precedence over all else, and becomes the great inspiring motive, driving the life to noble ends, and assuring the spirit of man of the highest realities of life. This is one of the contributions of the gospel of Jesus Christ our Lord, as we Latter-day Saints understand it. The problems of life are solved not by denying one side or the other, but by carrying both sides to a high point. As of old, so today, Christianity reconciles religion and science by a form of knowledge and ethics, that is made accessible to all classes, kindreds, tongues, and peoples. The gospel of Jesus Christ is not a scheme of culture or a system of philosophy; but a Religion, fulfilling the law and the prophets, enforcing the obligations of duty, and pointing to the glory of the Cross. It brings man into a newrelationship to God. Its end is not the curtailment of thought and life, but its enlargement, so there is room for the development of every gift of heart, mind, and soul. As was indicated by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the last article of faith, the narrow lot of man is broadened whenever he comes into filial relation to God. This enlargement of life through faith is a fact of experience. Faith in God enlarges the horizon of life, and leads to the acceptance of all truth. All the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are opened to the believing mind; "for they are all broken lights of God, in whose light alone, we see light." How forcibly wrote Paul of old : 

"The invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made." 

So we, Latter-day Saints, say to the world: "Believe in God the eternal Father, and in his Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost," for it is Christ who gives us power to become, and opens up new possibilities of thought, feeling, and action. He asks for obedience, and when we obey, we discover the law of our own life; He asks for service, and when we serve, we discover perfect freedom. The love of God in Christ unifies life for us; we gain love, and as our love increases, our faith deepens. 

The message of Jesus then, as it is now, was : "Repent." "Prepare ye the way of the Lord." His coming in that first day was a revolution in religious thought. He taught that the soul of man deals directly with his God. Man must be perfect even as our Father in heaven is perfect. His life changed the history of mankind more deeply, more widely, and more permanently than any other from the beginning of the world to the present. It was he, Christ Jesus our Lord, who bestowed upon us the increasing consciousness of the immortality of spiritual values. 

So has the message of our Lord been revealed today. 

Jesus Christ and him crucified for the sins of the world; the larger faith that assures us immortality, are what the world needs this Easter day. He is risen. He is our Savior and our King. He lives and we are in the image of the true and living God, who made the world and all things therein. And when the sons of Greece are for and not against the sons of Zion; when all ideals of culture shall find their inspiration and nourishment in the divine ideals of Jesus, the Redeemer, then will the world march on to perfection. 

When thought, and art, and literature, and science, and knowledge and life are brought into subjection to the obedience of Christ, then shall we have the true victory of life, and we will be able to say : "Thou hast conquered, O Galilean." 

Both trends of thought are coming together in the gospel of Jesus Christ. George Santayana, America's greatest philosopher writes today : 

"O world, thou choosest not the better part. It is not wisdom to be only wise, And on the inward vision, close the eyes, But it is wisdom to believe the heart. Columbus found a world, and had no chart Save one that faith deciphered in the skies To trust the soul's invincible surmise Was all his science and his only art. Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine That lights the pathway but one step ahead Across a void of mystery and dread. Bid then, the tender light of faith to shine By which alone the mortal heart is led Unto the thinking of the thought divine." 

And so by thy divine faith, says Santayana, shall you find out the true knowledge. 

In our belief as Latter-day Saints, Zion and Greece are brought together today in the Doctrine and Covenants one of our sacred books. 

The Doctrine and Covenants contains the revelations of God the Father to Joseph Smith and other prophets of God in this dispensation. It tells about the restoration of the plan of God in the salvation of the human race. It is largely ethical in its message, and, like the Book of Mormon, makes public and private righteousness matters of practice. The book opens by telling of a mighty work that is about to be ushered into the world. This is the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ, with the giving to man of the holy priesthood of God, the Aaronic and Melchizedek, as it existed in the days of the prophets of Israel and at the time of Christ. The outstanding truth of the book is that God is identified as the Father of the race, and the gospel of Jesus Christ is restored in this day with all its gifts and blessings. It puts the principle of righteousness through obedience to the plan of salvation into the foreground; and all its teachings grow out of the principle that for man to attain the highest development he must place his faith in God the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost, and receive by divine authority the priesthood of God. It also emphasizes the importance of man's spiritual life, and his great mission on earth; as well as the glory of immortality and the power of eternal progression in the hereafter. Men are coming to know beauty and truth. Zion and Greece are brought together. These two articles of faith, the first and the last, written by the Prophet Joseph Smith, embody this great thought, and that is a distinct contribution to the truth and to the religion of the world. 

That the Lord may help us to see these things and appreciate the beauty of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the majesty and the grandeur of the principles of eternal truth that have been revealed in this day, I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "High on the mountain top." ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

No servant of the Lord should ever arise before a congregation and say, I have nothing upon my mind. A people who have been commanded of God to "seek for wisdom out of the best of books" — to "seek learning by study and also by faith," ought to have something upon their minds. I have something upon my mind, but I need the Spirit of the Lord to enable me to bring it forth, in such a way as to feed your souls with the bread of life and build you up in the faith of the everlasting gospel. That Spirit I now invoke. 

THE CONFERENCE KEYNOTE 

The keynote of this conference, if I heard it aright, was struck by the president of the Church in his opening address yesterday morning, when he referred to the great and marvelous work in which the Latter-day Saints are taking part. I wish to elaborate that theme. 

A PROPHECY AND ITS FULFILMENT 

It was about seven hundred years before the birth of the Savior, when a prophet of God upon the Eastern hemisphere predicted the coming forth of "a marvelous work and a wonder." The reason assigned for its coming was given in the language of the Lord, as follows : 

"Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, * * * 

"Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a 'marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder; for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." — Isa. 29:13, 14. 

If you wish to know when and where this prophecy began to be fulfilled, follow me down the ages to the spring of the year 1820, and into the rural districts of New York State, where then dwelt a humble family by the name of Smith. One member of that family was a boy between fourteen and fifteen years of age. Anxious for his soul's salvation, young Joseph Smith went into the woods near his father's home, and inquired of the Lord which of all the churches then extant was the true Church of Christ, in order that he might join it. While praying he was seized upon by an evil power, which strove to destroy him; but he was delivered by a vision of light, in the midst of which stood two glorious personages, one of whom, pointing to the other, said : "This is my beloved Son — hear him." 

In answer to his inquiry as to the churches, the boy was told, to his astonishment, that none of them was the true Church of Christ, and that he must not connect himself with any of them; but await the coming of the true Church, in the founding of which he was destined to play an important part. Said the Son of God, in relation to the churches then existing : "They draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me;" — thus linking together the ancient prophecy pertaining to the "marvelous work and wonder" and the work inaugurated by Joseph Smith in this the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. 

MARVELS AND WONDERS 

And what a wonderful work it is! What could be more so? At a time when all over the Christian world — to say nothing of the heathen world — it was popularly supposed that the heavens were sealed, and the canon of Scripture full; that visions and revelations had ceased, and that angels no longer communicated with men — at that very time the heavens burst, and not only angels, but God himself comes down, and proclaims to a little fourteen-year-old boy the opening of a new gospel dispensation! Could anything be more marvelous? 

Three years pass, and an angel appears to Joseph, giving his name as Moroni, and stating that in mortal life he was a prophet to an ancient people called Nephites, the civilized ancestors of the present-day American Indians. Among other things the youth was told that a record engraved upon gold plates, compiled by Moroni's father, another prophet named Mormon, would be found in a neighboring hill, where Moroni had concealed it centuries before. This record contained the fulness of the everlasting gospel, as delivered to the Nephites by the Savior, who claimed them as his "other sheep" — a branch of the House of Israel. (John 10:16; 3 Nephi 15:21.) That book, translated by Joseph Smith, reveals the wonderful past and the yet more wonderful future of America, the Land of Zion, otherwise known as the Land of Joseph, referred to by the Patriarch Jacob when blessing his twelve sons (Gen. 49:22-26), and by the Prophet Moses, in giving his farewell benediction to the tribes of Israel (Deut. 33:13-17.) America is shown to be the place of the New Jerusalem, a holy city to be built by a gathering of scattered Israel, prior to the glorious coming of the Lord. 

Next came John the Baptist, another angel',' who conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the Aaronic Priesthood, authorizing them to preach the gospel in its restored purity, and to baptize by immersion for the remission of sins. And this was followed by a visitation from three other heavenly messengers — namely, Peter, James and John, who ordained them to the Melchizedek Priesthood, thus empowering them to bestow upon their baptized converts the gift of the Holy Ghost. By virtue of these ordinations, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, April 6, 1830, at Fayette, Seneca county, New York. And thus was fulfilled Isaiah's prophecy of the lifting up of the Ensign for the gathering of scattered Israel ( Tsa. 11 :1 1-16.) This movement was authorized by Moses, who as an angel delivered to Joseph and Oliver the keys of the Gathering; that the dispersed of Judah and the outcasts of Israel — including the Lost Tribes in "the land of the North" — might assemble in fulfilment of prophecy — the Jews to Palestine, to rebuild the old Jerusalem; the other tribes to America, where the new Jerusalem is to rise. 

Elias also appeared and committed to Joseph and Oliver "the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham." These men were descendants of the great Hebrew patriarch, and were to begin a work having as its object the eternal welfare of Abraham's posterity. Then Elijah came, "to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers," that the dead as well as the living might share in the blessings of the Final Dispensation, wherein, pursuantly to divine purpose, all things that are Christ's, both in heaven and on earth, will be brought together in one. 

In preaching the gospel to the world and gathering Israel from the nations, the Latter-day Saints — children of Ephraim — are helping to fulfil the covenant made by Jehovah with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob : "In thee and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed." So runs the ancient promise — fulfilled by Jehovah himself in coming through the lineage of those patriarchs as the Savior of the world; and further fulfilled by the dispersion of Israel among the nations, blessed by this racial admixture and by the gathering that has begun. 

These are some of the marvels connected with the mighty work in which we are taking part — the wonderful work of Almighty God, in this the last and greatest of the gospel dispensations. What can compare with it? Is there anything half so wonderful? 

ALMOST AS WONDERFUL 

Yes, there is something almost as wonderful — and that is, that the wise men of this world do not see in it anything worthy of their special care or attention. "Mormonism," to its devotees, is the most glorious thing in existence — the sublimest poem that was ever written, the profoundest system of philosophy that the world has ever known. But the "wise" and "prudent" pass it by as a thing of naught, or stand at a distance, sneering at it and pelting it with unsavory epithets. Why is it ? 

LINCOLN AND GREELEY 

Why couldn't Abraham Lincoln, that good and great man, see in "Mormonism" what we see in it, and what it really is — the Everlasting Gospel? He and Joseph Smith lived almost within a stone's throw of each other in Illinois. Why did not the future president recognize in the prophet of God what the Latter-day Saints recognize in him — the most remarkable human being that has walked this earth in two thousand years? Why couldn't Lincoln see it? The great emancipator was no enemy to the "Mormon" people. When asked, after his election as president, how he intended to treat the "Mormon" question — which was bothering the politicians as well as the priests — he answered in his quaint, characteristic way: "I intend to treat it as a farmer on the frontier would treat an old water-soaked elm log lying upon his land — too heavy to move, too knotty to split, and too wet to burn. I'm going to plow round it." And he did. 

Horace Greeley, another great character, the founder and editor of the New York Tribune, a man whose utterances were more potent in his day than those of the president of the United States — he came out to Utah in early times when the fastest means of travel between the Missouri river and the Pacific Coast, was the ox-team, the pack, or Ben Holliday's stage line. Greeley came by stage, and on his way to California, tarried certain days in Salt Lake City. He had repeated interviews with President Brigham Young, and in a book afterwards written and published he paid high compliment to the pioneers and early settlers of these mountain solitudes. He didn't believe the "Mormons" were robbers and murderers, as he had been told, and he spoke of them as honest and industrious people. But that was all. Brigham Young's views on marriage and slavery interested the great editor, but the "Mormon" religion in its sublimest phases was a sealed book to him. Why? 

OUTSIDE AND INSIDE AUXILIARIES 

Well, doubtless there were good reasons for it; and I will venture to advance one. Perhaps the Lord needs such men on the outside of his Church, to help it along. They are among its auxiliaries, and can do more good for the cause where the Lord has placed them, than anywhere else. And the same is true of the priesthood and its auxiliaries inside the Church. Hence, some are drawn into the fold and receive a testimony of the Truth; while others remain unconverted — for the present; the beauties and glories of the gospel being veiled temporarily from their view, for a wise purpose. The Lord will open their eyes in his own due time. 

ISRAEL AND THE GENTILES 

God is using more than one people for the accomplishment of his great and marvelous work. The Latter-day Saints cannot do it all. It is too vast, too arduous, for any one people. Our part in it is the greatest. We have the gospel and the priesthood, with a mission to gather Israel, build the New Jerusalem, and prepare the way for the advent of the King of kings. And this duty has been laid upon us because we belong to the house of Israel. It is the God of Israel who is coming to reign and we are the right people to prepare the way before him. 

But we don't own the steamships and the railroads and other means of rapid transit and communication, whereby the Lord's people are being gathered out from the nations — flying "upon the shoulders of the Philistines," as Isaiah predicted. The risen Savior, when he appeared to the Nephites and spoke of the glorious future, said that the Gentiles would assist his people in gathering to their promised lands. And are they not doing this? Is it not the ships and railroads of the Gentiles —  "the shoulders of the Philistines" — that are bringing the children of Ephraim to this Land of Joseph, and carrying the children of Judah to their ancient homeland — dedicated for their return by direction of the Prophet of Ephraim — Joseph Smith? 

We have no quarrel with the Gentiles. They are our partners in a certain sense. The name Gentile is not with us a term of reproach. It comes from Gentilis, meaning, of a nation, a family or a people not of Israel — that is all. "Mormon" is a nickname for Latter-day Saint, but "Gentile" is not a nickname. It simply means, with us, one who does not belong to the Church. We need the Gentiles, and they need us, but they don't know it, and we do. They are wiser than we are in material things — the things of Earth and Time. But when it comes to spiritual things — the things of Heaven and Eternity, we can teach them. We need their wealth and worldly wisdom, their wonderful skill in managing and manipulating temporalities. And they need the Gospel and the Priesthood. They need us, for we hold in our hands the Key to their eternal salvation. 

Again I say, the Lord's Work has need of auxiliaries outside as well as inside, to help it along. Because of their worldly influence — which would depart if they connected themselves with the Church —  many are kept where they are, where the Lord has placed them, and can best use them for the good of all. 

THE WISE AND PRUDENT 

Many years ago I had an interesting conversation with a man who was a member of the Roman Catholic church. He was a great scholar; he must have had a dozen languages at his tongue's end, and seemed to know all about history, science, law, philosophy, and all the rest of it. We were frank and friendly with each other, and one day he said to me: 

"You 'Mormons' are all ignoramuses. You don't even know the strength of your own position. It is so strong that there is only one other position tenable in the whole Christian world, and that is the position of the Roman Catholic church. The issue is between 'Mormonism' and Catholicism. If you are right, we are wrong. If we are right, you are wrong, and that's all there is to it. These Protestant sects haven't a leg to stand on; for if we are right, we cut them, off long ago, as apostates; and if we are wrong, they are wrong with us, for they were a part of us and came out of us. If we have the apostolic succession from St. Peter, as we claim, there was no need of Joseph Smith and 'Mormonism;' but if we have not that apostolic succession, then such a man as Joseph Smith was necessary, and 'Mormonism's position is the only consistent one. It is either the perpetuation of the Gospel from ancient times or the restoration of the Gospel in latter days." 

"Doctor," said I, "that is a very clear and concise statement, and I agree with it in almost every particular. But don't deceive yourself with the notion that we 'Mormons' don't know the strength of our own position. We know it better than you do. We know it better than any other people can know it. We haven't all been to college, we can't all speak the dead languages, and we may be ignoramuses as you say; but we know we are right, and we know you are wrong." I was just as frank with him as he had been with me. 

Now what was this great scholar's viewpoint ? With all his learning, he could not see into the heart of "Mormonism." He recognized the strength of its position; but he supposed that to be an accident. 

He thought Joseph Smith had stumbled upon something of which he did not know the true value. He was wise in worldly wisdom; but his wisdom perished in the presence of this mighty and marvelous problem. 

Another instance and I am done. A learned gentleman named Riley applied for a doctor's degree at Yale University, and as the basis of his application, he wrote a thesis entitled "Joseph Smith, the Founder of Mormonism." And what did he bring forth? Simply this: That Joseph Smith was an epileptic, who fell in a fit and imagined that he saw the Father and the Son; imagined that Moroni revealed to him the Hook of Mormon; that John the Baptist conferred upon him the Aaronic Priesthood, and Peter, James and John the Melchizedek Priesthood; that Moses restored the keys of the gathering, and that Elias and Elijah also appeared to him. All imagination, said Mr. Riley. 

But this wise man overlooked one important fact : A tree is known by its fruit; a fountain, by the stream that issues from it. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as a system of government, challenges the admiration of intelligent men all over the world. It is conceded to be a wonderful organization. And the doctrines of "Mormonism" are replete with poetry and philosophy — are beautiful, glorious and sublime. Joseph Smith declared that these things were revealed to him — that they came right down from God out of heaven; but Mr. Riley would have us believe that they all sprang from the diseased brain of a fourteen-year-old boy who had fallen in an epileptic fit! 

There are some things that do not need answering, and this one of them. Well was it said in days of old, with reference to the days in which we live : "The wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

ONLY ONE WAY 

There is but one way to understand "Mormonism" — and that is God's way, not man's. Books and schools cannot give a testimony of the Truth. Those who sneer at the Everlasting Gospel, and pelt it with nicknames, will never understand it — unless they repent, and are baptized, and receive the Holy Ghost, whereby the things of God are made manifest. What Peter said to the multitude in his great Pentecostal sermon, is just as true today as when it was first spoken. The Gospel does not change; it is the same yesterday, today and forever; and what was necessary to save a soul two thousand years ago, is necessary to save one now. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN M. KNIGHT 

Retiring President of the Western States Mission 

During the few moments at my disposal I pray that I may have the spirit of this occasion. 

For nearly nine years it has been my good fortune to labor as a missionary of the Church, proclaiming to the world the marvelous work and a wonder that has been established in this dispensation. I can truly say to you, my brethren and sisters, that it has brought into my life a greater joy than any other experience. We may buy pleasure, we may attain happiness, but real joy comes to the individual who gives long and unselfish service to his fellowmen. I have rejoiced in the opportunity afforded me to lift up my voice in proclamation oi the gospel and to declare that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of the living God. 

As I have listened to the brethren, during the sessions of this conference, I have realized more fully than ever before that Joseph Smith was the spiritual pioneer of the nineteenth century, that he was the trail-blazer, if you please, who led men and women away from the worship of idols and planted anew in their hears a knowledge of God and of his Son, Jesus Christ. He led by voice and life and never permitted the message entrusted to his care to be throttled by any power, social, economic or military. Joseph Smith established the Church on a firm foundation, builded it upon the Savior of the world, with apostles and prophets as in the great organization established by the Savior in the meridian of time. I am wondering if we appreciate the value of that organization, how important it is that we have the living oracles among us. If it were not for these men, who direct the destinies of the Church, who keep it in order, we would soon be as the world, wafted about by every wind of doctrine, and as unstable as many of the organizations calling themselves Christian churches. 

I am happy in the knowledge that the Church has been controlled, from the beginning, by the power of God, and that the men who have stood at the head have directed its destiny under his inspiration. The Latter-day Saints, as indicated by the last speaker, are not in doubt with respect to the gospel of the Master. It is the purpose and will oi our Father that all men might know the truth. To that end the gospel is being preached in all the world as a witness. The promise is made unto all who obey its saving ordinances, that they may know the truth. There are thousands and tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints today who bear witness that the Lord has heard and answered their prayers, and has sealed upon their hearts this knowledge. The missionaries who are out in the world, undaunted and unafraid, proclaim to the people that if they will obey the truth they may know that it is of God. The Savior has promised that if any man will do the will of the Father he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether we speak of ourselves. 

May I refer to one incident that happened in our mission during the last year. One of our missionaries, laboring in Casper, Wyoming, called at a home one day and was invited in, by the man of the house. He discussed our faith with this gentleman for upwards of three hours. The man then said to him : "I have been a member of a Christian church for many years, and was educated for the ministry. My father and my grandfather before me were ministers of the gospel. 

Some ten years ago I discovered that there was a lack of vitality in the organization to which I belonged, and 1 covenanted with the Lord that if I ever found the truth I would accept it. I resigned my pastorate, took up school teaching, and have been searching for the truth." He said, "I have looked everywhere, except into your organization and your faith, and I discover today that you have presented to me the message that I have been seeking all these years. I have covenanted with the Lord that 1 would join the church that presented to me the truth, and I find what I am looking for in your organization." 

It was not an easy matter for this gentleman to accept the message of the elders. Wjeeks and months went by, a serious illness overtook him, an operation was necessary; but before the operation was performed he called his family around him and said to them : "I have discovered the truth in the Mormon Church, and if I die, it is my wish that you accept their message and become identified with that people, and then have the work done for me in the temple." The man did not die. The elders administered to him; he lived, and as soon as he was sufficiently well he became a member of the Church by baptism. After baptism he said, in bearing testimony, that the scriptures were opened to his view, or to his understanding; they became a new volume. He understood them as he had never understood them before. He comprehended the truth. It was to me the best evidence of his conversion. The Holy. Spirit had come into his life, and he was able to understand the gospel of the Master as it is presented by the Latter-day Saints. Many such instances might be related. 

I appreciate that the time has expired. I desire to bear my testimony to the truth; that I know as I know I live that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, that it is the power of God unto salvation to all who will obey its saving principles and ordinances. It is not enough for us merely to go down into the waters of baptism, but after we have accepted the truth we should make application in our lives of its saving graces — add to our faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; and to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity. The apostle of old said: "If these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ." 

The Lord help us to so live that we may be worthy of all his blessings, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice." The closing prayer was offered by Elder Henry D. Moyle, President of the Cottonwood stake of Zion. 


