Morning
08 04 1928


PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

I think, my brethren and sisters, that we are to be congratulated on this blessed Easter Sabbath morn in having the great privilege and honor as servants of the Lord in his Church, to meet together under such favorable circumstances, knowing that the work of the Lord is spreading, increasing and becoming a great power for righteousness and for the well-being of mankind in the world. 

I am findful that I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; that my parents heard this word gladly from the elders who were delivering the message of Mormonism; that they received and accepted it with full purpose of heart, and that they remained faithful and devoted to the end. I am proud of this organization, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the great American Church, the Church that had its birth in the land of freedom, where men's minds were permitted to expand, to debate, to question, to tell their thoughts without let or hindrance, and not where the mind of man, as in some of the older counties, had for ages been so "cribbed, cabined and confined" that it was not safe to advance thought or to express opinion freely and frankly. 

I am glad that the birthday of the Church, the 6th day of April, is also the birthday of the nation, for on the 6th day of April, 1789, the two houses of Congress met and, in the way that the Constitution then provided, declared George Washington elected as president and John Adams as vice president of the United States. So we are proud that the Church is American-born and does not have to receive any instructions or orders from any foreign power or potentate whatsoever. 

"Freedom and reason make us men. 

Take these away, what are we then? Mere animals, and just as well 

The beasts may think of heaven or hell." We live in a land of freedom, and a land of liberty, a glorious land. And in these last days the Lord has established his Church upon the earth for the last time. 

MANY SIGNS OF THE TIMES 

How do we know they are the last days? There are many signs of the times by which we may know of this fact. I haven't time to go into all that fully, but just hastily call your attention to the prophecy of Daniel, twelfth chapter, 4th verse. Speaking of the time of the end he said : "Many shall run to and fro and knowledge shall be increased." Now imagine what there was in the way of running to and fro in his day, and all the succeeding centuries down to the last one hundred years when the revelation from Almighty God came to the Prophet Joseph Smith. There were not many running to and fro in the earth in those days. Now, in contrast, how many run to and fro on the earth, on the sea a under the sea, and in a couple of months from now probably half of the people of the United States of America will be on wheels running to and fro all over the country. What a change, what a marvelous change from the slow old movement of even a hundred years ago or less! 

Then again, knowledge, he said, would be increased. How wonderfully has that been fulfilled. It was to be increased in the latter times, as distinctive from the former times. We have books by the millions, newspapers, periodicals, magazines, knowledge on every hand. Then look at the last one hundred years, or one hundred eight years, since the first revelation, the great revelation and manifestation came to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Even the railroad was not in existence in 1820. From that time on, how knowledge has been increased on every hand! Inventions by the tens of thousands, going on and on, until we have the marvelous and wonderful radio — my voice going out now on the air. It goes around the world seven times in a second! So that people in any part of the United States who are within hearing distance of this ether wave, as we call it, will hear my voice as instantly as you hear it in this building. A marvelous and wonderful invention! It is not because the mind of man is more acute in this age than in any former ages, for the scientists all agree that the mind of man was quite as acute in the days of Abraham and in the days while the Savior was upon the earth as it is now. But those are not the days and times mentioned in the scriptures, which were called the last days and the fulness of times. 

THROUGH THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD 

The Lord, through Joel, the prophet, said: "I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh." The Lord has poured out his spirit upon the people everywhere. And his spirit is intelligence. "The glory of God is intelligence." Any man, even an unbeliever, whose mind is operated upon to invent this or the other for the benefit of mankind, is acted upon by that intelligent influence which we name the Spirit of the 

Lord, whether it is an Edison or any other man. All intelligence comes from God. In other words, light and truth, as our scriptures say. So that these inventions which have been multiplied in a most marvelous manner, have been brought about through the operation of the spirit of the Lord. 

In the 14th chapter of the Revelation of St. John, we read of the coming of this latter-day work by the hands of an. angelic messenger. John the Apostle, the beloved, banished on the Isle of Patmos for the testimony of Jesus, was then the only one remaining upon the earth, the other disciples by this time having gone to the great beyond. The angel of the Lord told him : "Come up and I will show you things that must come to pass hereafter." Wjhat did the angel show him? Marvelous things. Among others was this, which was to come to pass after that time : 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every, nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come." 

This was to be in the hour of God's judgment — drawing near to the end, you see — in the days spoken of by Joel and Daniel, when knowledge should be increased and many should run to and fro. In other words, in the last days — the set time in which all things are to be consummated. 

THIS CHURCH STANDS ALONE 

In 1820 there was no divinely organized Church of Jesus Christ, with power and authority of the priesthood, on this earth. The organization of the Church did not take ef fect until some ten years later — April 6th, 1830. From the time of John the Revelator up to 1820, we affirm, we make the positive declaration, we are convinced in our hearts and souls, for we have had it revealed unto us by the power of the Holy Ghost, that there was no organized Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth, with the authority of the priesthood to take a man down into the water and baptize him, that his sins might be remitted, or to lay hands upon his head and confirm him a member, and confer upon him the gift of the Holy Ghost. So that this Church stands alone with respect to that. 

We have no contention against any church or any people. There are many, many thousands of good people in the world, millions of them, indeed, who are faithful believers in their own way. But the Church of Christ as an organization — something through which the Lord operates, by his power and spirit — did not exist until this Church was organized. So that we may say that any other church claiming that authority, claiming the authority to bind on earth and it is bound in heaven, is not recognized by the Lord, for he himself has declared that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is "the only true and living Church upon the face of the whole earth." NOT FOUNDED ON MEN 

I know it is claimed that there has been direct succession from Peter, the great apostle. Peter, the president of the Twelve, the head, the leader, than whom in many respects there was no greater apostle. We honor him. The latchet of his shoes, I would say, I am unworthy to unloose. But he was human. This Church is not built upon Peter. It is not the Church of Joseph Smith, nor the Church of Brigham Young, nor the Church of President Grant. It is not founded on men. It was founded by direct revelation from heaven. Let me read what the Lord said with respect to this: 

"When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked the disciples, saying: Whom do men say that I the Son of Man am? 

"And they said: Some say that thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets. 

"He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? 

"And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. 

"And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. 

"And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." 

What rock? The rock of revelation; for flesh and blood had not told Peter, but it had been revealed to him that Jesus was the Christ. 

"I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven." Of course he did. He was the proper man to give them to, the President of the Twelve. 

"And whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. 

"Then charged he his disciples that they should tell no man that he was Jesus the Christ. 

"From that time forth began Jesus to shew unto his disciples, how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priest" and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day." 

THE HUMAN PETER 

Now right here, Peter, the human being, on whom was conferred this great authority, just as today by divine appointment, is conferred that same power, on President Heber J. Grant, the president of this Church, a human being like you and me, and like Peter — right at this point I read: "Then Peter took him, and began to rebuke him" (Peter the human being, undertaking to rebuke the Savior!) "saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee." We will not allow these men to take you and kill you — no sir. What was the answer of the Savior? 

"But he turned, and said unto Peter : Get thee behind me Satan, thou art an offense unto me : for thou savorest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men."— Matt. 16:13-23. 

That was the human Peter, as all men are human. Joseph Smith,  as he was, the forerunner, the man chosen probably before the foundations of this earth were laid to usher in the great and last dispensation of the fulness of times, was human. He was Joseph Smith; he was not God. This Church is not founded on him any more than on Peter, to whom the Savior had to say : "Get thee behind me, Satan." You don't know what you are talking about, Peter. 

So I repeat that the rock upon which this Church is founded is the rock of revelation. What is revelation? If you will turn to your Doctrine and Covenants, in the eighth section, you will find this definition of revelation. The Lord speaks to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery : 

THE SPIRIT OF REVELATION 

"Yea, behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart. 

"Now, behold, this is the spirit of revelation; behold, this is the spirit by which Moses brought the children of Israel through the Red Sea on dry ground." 

Do we have revelations today? Is President Grant guided by revelation? Certainly, just in that kind of way, ready to receive the promptings of the Spirit of the Lord as they shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost. Have we the same power and the same opportunity to receive the spirit of revelation? Certainly we have. Why, every member of this Church, every last one who is living as he should, keeping the commandments of God, receives that testimony, and is thereby founded upon that rock which flesh and blood hath not delivered unto him, but which our Father in heaven has revealed. And upon this rock he builds his Church. 

There isn't time to go into further discussion of this matter. I will have to hurry, but I want to read what St. Paul said in his first epistle to the Corinthians (2nd chapter, 1st to 5th verses) in respect to the resurrection of Christ, and I think it fits me and fits every member of the Priesthood, in going out to proclaim the gospel, to stick jus* to the one great text. 

WHAT PAUI- SAIP 

"When I came to you, I came not with excellency of speech, or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God." 

We are not depending so much on excellency of speech, though we are glad to hear it. 

"For I determined not to know any thing among you, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified. 

"And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling. 

"And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power. 

"That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men. but in the power of God." 

That is Mormonism. Stick to the one message — Jesus Christ and him crucified; Joseph Smith receiving the everlasting gospel from angelic beings, as John on the Isle of Patmos declared, coming at the time of the end when all these things are being fulfilled. COVENANTS WITH HOUSE OF ISRAEL 

Just one other citation that I want to give you and then I am through. In the Book of Mormon we have a prophecy of the time of the end. You will find it in the 14th chapter of First Nephi. I haven't the time to read the whole chapter: 

"And it came to pass that when the angel had spoken these words, he said unto me : Rememberest thou the covenants of the Father unto the house of Israel ?" — the covenants that had been made unto Abraham not yet fulfilled, but in the way of fulfillment. The time is here, the covenants are being fulfilled. General Allenby, in the World War, marched into Palestine and freed that country from its oppressors, and since then that work has been going on. That is what the angel a thousand years ago asked Nephi in that question : 

"Rememberest thou the covenants of the Father unto the house of Israel? 1 said unto him, Yea. 

"And it came to pass that he said'unto me: Look, and behold that great and abominable church, which is the mother of abominations, whose foundation is the devil." 

I now skip some verses to hurry on. 

"And it came to pass that I beheld that the wrath of God was poured out upon the great and abominable church, insomuch that there were wars and rumors of wars among all the nations and kindreds of the earth." 

THE FIRST WORLD WAR 

Let me call your attention to this fact, that until the World War, all the nations and kindreds of the earth had never been involved in one great war before. 

When Columbus discovered America, he found the new world. So prior to that time all the nations and all the kindreds of the earth could not be involved in war together. Since 1492 we have the most accurate history of all the wars, and all the nations and kindreds of the earth were for the first time involved in this great struggle. 

"And as there began to be wars and rumors of wars among all the nations which belonged to the mother of abominations the angel spake unto me, saying : Behold, the wrath of God is upon the mother of harlots; and behold, thou seest all these things — 

"And when the day cometh that the wrath of God is poured out upon the mother of harlots, which is the great and abominable church of all the earth, whose foundation is the devil, then, at that day, the work of the Father shall commence, in preparing the way for the fulfilling of his covenants, which he hath made to his people who are of the house of Israel." 

Now the question will come : Define that Church. What Church is it? The Lord defines it so you can tell. Find any church that is great, that is abominable, whose foundation is the devil, and upon which the wrath of God is poured out in the last days, and then you have it. I can't define it any other way. 

The Lord help us to know, by the power of revelation, that this  his Church, that it is not founded upon Peter or Paul or Joseph or Heber, or any other human being, but only upon the power and authority of the living God, and upon the solid rock of revelation from Almighty God. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Certainly Zion is growing. I hope some time we will be able to have an auditorium that will hold all who would like to attend our meetings. 

We have learned that the majority of the people prefer to hear the sermons that are preached in this building on Sundays, rather than attend overflow meetings. For that reason we have discontinued the meetings in the Assembly Hall, and are giving the people who can not get into the tabernacle the privilege of sitting in the Assembly Hall and other places and listening to the singing by the Tabernacle Choir and the remarks that are made from this stand, as they are broadcast over the radio. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE 

"Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that GM should raise the dead?" 

This question was put by Paul to King Agrippa when the Apostle stood a prisoner in bonds because of his testimony of Christ, about thirty years after our Lord's resurrection. At that time the Saints were persecuted on account of their persistent testimony of the Christ, crucified and risen. The powerful Sadducees of that day condemned the doctrine of a resurrection; the Pharisees professed vague concepts of resurrection of or from the dead, in the sense of there being some awakening of the Spirit that had been asleep; but only those who had accepted the testimony of the Christ believed in the absolute and literal resurrection. 

TRUTH NOT CONDITIONED BY HUMAN COMPREHENSION 

This.,day is observed throughout Christendom in commemoration of the greatest event of history — the coming forth of the crucified body of the Christ as the tabernacle of his immortal spirit, he a resurrected soul, the first man to thus rise from death to immortality upon this earth, "the first fruits of them that slept," "the first-born of the dead." In this day of higher criticism, of skepticism and doubt, there are many of the learned and wise — learned and wise in their own estimation and that of their fellows — who proclaim the impossibility of any process of resurrection. Are not such men seeking to limit the power of God and to make him a falsifier? 

Can there be nothing but what we are able to understand and explain as to means, mode, and accomplishment? This would be a povertystricken world if it knew nothing but what man can explain and expound. Shall it be that because we cannot do a thing, we shall say it cannot be done, even by a higher power? The resurrection of Christ had . been foretold; the predictions concerning his coming forth were literally and actually realized. Even those who were nearest unto him were unable to comprehend his own prophecies concerning his resurrection, and at first doubted the fulfilment. After he had come forth from the tomb there were some of the disciples, aye, even of the Apostles, who treated the report as an idle tale. They could not comprehend that which had never been known to have taken place before. They lacked analogy, they had nothing with which to compare the unprecedented event, and resurrection to them meant much as it meant to the Pharisees. 

AT THE TOMB AS PREDICTED 

On that Sunday morn, the third day after the body of the Christ had been laid away in the rock-hewn tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, Mary, the devoted woman of Magdala, and other women, had gone to the sepulcher to give tender ministry by external embalmment of the Lord's body. On the way they questioned how they would gain entrance to the tomb; as to who would roll away the great stone that sealed the entrance to the sepulcher. When they arrived they were astonished and affrighted, for notwithstanding the imperial seal of Caesar that had been placed on the portal, in spite of the guard of soldiery, the tomb was open. There sat upon the stone an angelic being, glorious in appearance. He spoke to comfort them, but they were terrified; yet the angel said: "Fear not ye; for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. He is not here; for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead. 

They carried back the gladsome glorious word that the tomb no longer held the body of their Master; but the disciples could not understand, notwithstanding the fact that the Lord had\> re( hcted to them, and that but a few days before — the last of many declarations of the sort — that he would be slain, and that on the third day he would rise again. "Let these sayings sink down into your ears," he had said unto them of slow understanding and of seeming unbelief, as he told again of his impending death, with which on other occasions he coupled assurances of his rising from the dead; yet they questioned among themselves as to what he could mean by rising from the dead. 

ON THE WAY TO EMMAUS 

The events followed one another in rapid succession on that most memorable Sunday in all history. You know the record of the two disciples, not of the Apostles, Cleopas and a companion, who were wending their way along the country road, leading to Emmaus; how another Traveler joined them; how their eyes were holden so that they recognized him not; how he questioned them, not to gain information for himself but to give them opportunity, as every true teacher gives  pupils a chance, to express themselves. He asked them what was the subject of their solemn conversation, and they voiced their surprise that he, even if he were a stranger in Jerusalem, had not heard of the great events of the preceding few days. They told their story; then he expounded unto them the scriptures, even from the first, showing that it was necessary that Christ should suffer death, and that he was surely to come forth from the tomb, as the prophets had foretold — and yet the wayfarers recognized him not. Not until they were seated at table in the little cottage in Emmaus, not until the honored Guest whom they had invited to tarry with them broke the bread and blessed it, did they know him. We are not told whether perchance they caught sight of the nail-prints in his hands, or whether they were moved by remembrance of other similar blessings, voiced by him and heard by them before, or by what circumstance it was, but they knew him, and he vanished from their sight. 

MANIFESTATIONS TO THE DISCIPLES 

The two men hastened back to Jerusalem, where ten of the Apostles and other disciples had assembled, locked in, by way of precaution against possible intrusion by some of the many enemies who were seeking their lives. They told their story to the newly arrived disciples. He is risen! He has appeared unto Simon, they declared; and while the little company talked and rejoiced together the Lord stood there amongst them, and they were sorely frightened. They had talked of his having been resurrected, of his having come back to life, and yet they were afraid. They thought they saw a ghost! He calmed their fears. "Peace be unto you. * * * Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; handle me and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have." And yet they could scarcely believe for the joy of it! The demonstrated fact seemed to them too good to be true. To make plain that he was a corporeal being in the sense of having a tangible body, no mere outward shape or semblance only, he asked if they had anything to eat, and they brought honey and other food to him and he did eat before them, demonstrating that his body was complete, with internal organs as well as external parts. 

Can a resurrected being eat food of earth? A resurrected being can function upon any lower plane. A resurrected personage can do anything that a mortal personage can do, and much besides. 

One of the eleven, Thomas, was absent; and when they told him what had taken place he could not believe. He was yet skeptical. Don't blame him. We know not what tradition was doing in his mind. We may not know the limitations of his powers of understanding, but he was very much like some people of this day. "I can't believe it," he said in effect, "not until I can see, not until I can feel his hands and his feet — I shall have to examine those wounds and thrust my finger into his side before I can believe." After eight days, that is to say, a week later, the next Sunday, which day of the week thenceforth became the Sabbath, the Lord's day, Christ appeared unto them again and Thomas was there. It was an affecting occasion: Thomas, come, see and feel! Thomas, convinced, bowed in worship, exclaiming only : "My Lord and my God." "Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed." 

IN THE REALM OF THE DEAD 

Through the ministration of the spirit of wisdom and knowledge, of light and truth, Christ had predicted what he would do while his body lay in the tomb; read for yourselves those scriptures. But a short time before the crucifixion he had said unto the people: "Verily, verily, I say unto you : the hour is coming and now is when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live. * * Marvel not at this, for the hour is coming in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, and shall come forth; they that have done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil unto the resurrection of damnation." A reiteration of the sublime principles comprised in that scripture has been made in this modern day, and the two resurrections are spoken of by the voice of the Lord to Joseph Smith as the resurrection of the just and the resurrection of the unjust. Furthermore it hath been declared that all who have breathed the air of earth, all who have tabernacled in bodies composed of the elements of this planet, shall be resurrected. The separation of spirit from body is but temporary. 

lucifer's design foiled 

You know the great plan that was laid in the councils of heaven before the earth was framed, that men should be sent upon the earth, that is, the spirits of men, to take upon themselves bodies. Lucifer, a son of the morning, and his followers, comprising a third of the spirit-hosts, had opposed the plan that the Father had proposed, and he and his followers, Lucifer and his angels, were cast out upon the earth, and straightway they sought to nullify the Father's decree and to destroy those bodies into which the preexistent spirits would enter to work out their mortal probation. Lucifer, known upon earth as Satan, gained a temporary triumph; he succeeded in bringing death into the world, and doubtless there was rejoicing amongst his demon subjects. What would become of the great plan of giving those spirits bodies upon the earth when death had come in and had forced a separation of spirit and body, and had brought the body to decay, resolving it into its elements? What now would be accomplished by the decision of the council in carrying out the plan of the Father? 

Christ's attributes — human and divine 

Separation of spirit &nd body was foreseen and provided for, for in due time came the Only Begotten Son of the Father, the only being who has ever walked the earth, from Adam down, not the child of two mortal parents, father and mother. Christ, the Son of a mortal woman  not begotten by a mortal father, combined within himself the powers of Godship and the attributes of mortality. How else can we explain his own declaration that he had life in himself? Consider his words as part of that sublime sermon on the shepherd and the sheep, in which he made plain that he was the good shepherd and the only true shepherd of the Lord's flock. He said unto the people: "Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again;" and he added this comment regarding his power, capacity, and ability : "This commandment have I received of my Father" — by which we may understand that from his Father lie had derived, by heredity, the power to rise from mortality to immortality. 

He could have said: "From my mother I have inherited the power to die, for she was a mortal woman; and from my Father, who was no mortal man, I have received this power to hold death in abeyance. I have power to lay down my life and I have power to take it up again. No man can kill me until I am ready, not until my hour shall come and I shall give up my life. I am here for that foreordained purpose, as a consummation of this part of my work." He followed his work to the end. We read that when he was able to utter those words of triumph — and they must have been words of exultation to him : "It is finished," that he "gave up the ghost." 

Oh yes, they killed him, that is, they killed him from their point of view, but not until he had finished his work did he relinquish his life. While he lived among men, he was preeminently the Man among men. So during his period of disembodiment he was preeminently the Spirit among spirits in the realm of the disembodied. To them he went and opened the work of preaching amongst the spirits who had lived in bodies upon the earth, men and women who had died. 

ACTUALITY OF THE RESURRECTION 

The resurrection of Jesus Christ was absolutely literal. He took up that body from the tomb as it had been laid down, for it had been predicted that he should not see corruption. The body bore all the marks of the crucifiers. So shall the resurrection of everyone be literal in this sense — that although these bodies go to decay, by the power of God shall all their essential parts be brought together again. When we stand before the bar of God we shall stand with spirit and body reunited, inseparably connected, and it is through the union of spirit and body, inseparably united, that a fulness' of joy is made possible. 

Such is the Lord's plan to bring about the immortality and the eternal life of man. Immediately following, or soon after the resurrection of Christ, many of the righteous dead came forth from their graves and were seen by mortals; other resurrections have followed, according to the appointed order in the resurrection of the just. Christ came thus and robbed the grave of its victory, assuring the eventual resurrection of all the sons and daughters of God who have tabernacled here upon the earth. Let us rejoice on this Easter day, commemorative of the coming forth of the Christ from the tomb. It falls this year very close to the actual anniversary. 

Easter, as you know, is a movable feast, fixed by decree of the Catholic Church. But this year it falls very close to the actual day on which the Christ came forth from the tomb. We have great reason to rejoice in the glorious blessing of the resurrection that is assured unto us. We should know further that during the period of our disembodiment we are not to be inactive. We have to follow up the work of the Lord among the disembodied, even as we are commissioned to do his work here upon the earth. Death is no overwhelming change by which the spirit loses its power of thought, or other of its God-given attributes. The spirit retains such and is active in the world of spirits, and will so exist and function until the time for the reunion with the body, and when the work reserved for that stage of human progress will be taken up. 

MAN IS OF ETERNAL NATURE 

Great is the plan of God with respect to his children, extending through the eternity that lies beyond. Right thankful should we be for the knowledge that has been given to us through revelation. Man could never have attained to a knowledge of these glorious truths by his own reasoning, by deduction or original conception. There are truths that man cannot find out; they have to be given unto him. cardinal, basal truths, and this is one of them. Forget not that we are eternal! We had an existence before we were born. In that existence you were you and I was I before our spirits entered into these bodies. You will be yon and I shall be I after the change called death befalls us. We shall maintain our identity, or it shall be preserved unto us, through and beyond the resurrection; for we are eternal! How could it be otherwise, when we are the children of the Eternal One ? Let us rejoice in this knowledge, which surpasses the wisdom of men, and shape our lives accordingly. To this end I humbly pray, in the name of the Resurrected Lord. Amen. 

The choir sang two verses of the hymn, "Jesus once of humble birth." 

A duet, "An angel from on high," was sung by Laurinda P. Brewerton and Donna Cox Gunderson, the choir and congregation joining in the chorus. 

AN ANGEL FROM ON HIGH 

An angel from on high, 

The long, long silence broke; Descending from the sky, 

These gracious words he spoke : Lo! in Cumorah's lonely hill, A sacred record lies concealed. 

Sealed by Moroni's hand, 

It has for ages lain, To wait the Lord's command, 

From dust to speak again. It shall again to light come forth, To usher in Christ's reign on earth. 

It speaks of Joseph's seed, 

And makes the remnant known Of nations long since dead, 

Who once had dwelt alone. The fulness of the Gospel, too, Its pages will reveal to view. 

The time is now fulfilled, 

The long expected day; Let earth obedience yield, 

And darkness flee away; Remove the seals, be wide unfurled Tts light and glory to the world. 

Lo, Israel filled with joy, 

Shall now be gathered home, Their wealth and power employ 

To build Jerusalem; While Zion shall arise and shine; And fill the earth with truth divine. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

If Parley P. Pratt had written nothing else but this hymn to which we have just listened, it would have immortalized him. He has, however, written more of the inspired hymns that are in ourhymn book than any other of our writers. 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the California Mission 

' I feel very highly honored, my brethren and sisters, in being accorded this privilege. It is marvelous to me that I should be permitted to stand before you. I feel in my soul that it is good to be here on this occasion, and I most fervently thank the Lord that the teachings that have been imparted to us in this session of our conference find lodgment in my soul, and fill me with that joy that passeth understanding. 

I will read a word or two from the revelations of the Lord that I think very important in connection with the great work in which we are engaged. 1 suppose it is but reasonable that, as a missionary, my own mind should reflect upon matters pertaining to the preaching of the gospel abroad among the nations. There has been much given in the revelations of the Lord concerning the importance of carrying the gospel to the nations of the world. I do not know whether it is common today for men to seek to know the mind and will of the Lord regarding those things which would be most important for them to do that the Lord's work might be forwarded. There are many revelations in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, indicating that in the early days of the Church men frequently sought the prophet of the Lord to know what would be most important for them to do; and the Lord answered. I will read one of those revelations: 

"Hearken, my servant John, and listen to the words of Jesus Christ, your Lord and your Redeemer. 

"For behold, I speak unto you with sharpness and with power, for mine arm is over all the earth. 

"And I will tell you that which no man knoweth save me and thee alone — 

"For many times you have desired of me to know that which would be of the most worth unto you. 

"Behold, blessed are you for this thing, and for speaking my words which I have given you according to my commandments. 

"And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father." 

The Lord himself has declared the following in relation to the value of the souls of men : 

"Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; 

"For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. 

"And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. 

"And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! 

"Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. 

"And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be- one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father!" 

The importance of carrying the message of the gospel has not only been declared in the revelations that have been given in the dispensation in which we live, but the same importance was comprehended by the servants of God in the meridian of time. The Apostle Paul declared : 

"For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of : for necessity is laid upon me; yea, woe unto me if I preach not the gospel!" 

A dispensation of the gospel had been committed unto Paul, and he knew that woe would be unto him if he preached not the gospel. 

Much more might be brought forth from the word of God in relation to this very important matter. I am wondering whether the men of the Priesthood who are at home in the midst of the people in the Zion of the Lord, feel the importance of the commandment of God in relation to the carrying of the gospel to the inhabitants of the earth. I think I would but voice the sentiments of mission presidents if I made the declaration that in every mission of these United States and the countries adjoining our nation, people are perishing for the word of the 

Lord. There are opportunities abounding on every hand for the proclamation of the gospel, and we are crying out until I suppose we become almost an annoyance to the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: "Give us more missionaries!" That is the cry from California. There is a feeling with some people, that there is not much necessity for the word of the Lord, or for religious doctrine in the state of California, as Californians are supposed to be concerned about pleasure alone. Well, I thank God that there are many earnest, God-fearing men and women in the state of California. We are finding a few of them, and we would find more if we had more men and women to bear witness concerning the truth. We need many more. I would like to plead with the men of the Priesthood, presiding men, that they feel in their hearts the necessity of sending the servants of the Lord abroad in the nations with the truths of the gospel. I would like to make a plea among all men and among women who are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that they cultivate a desire to engage in the proclamation of the gospel. I understand that I am under the same obligation as the Apostle Paul, and that unto me, in connection with my brethren; a dispensation of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ has been committed, and woe will be unto me if I preach not the gospel. I want to say, in the name of the Lord, that woe will be unto all men who bear the authority of priesthood if they do not desire to labor and do not labor to the extent of their power, that the glorious gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, be sounded among the inhabitants of the earth. If you desire to bless your sons and your daughters, and to establish them in the work of the living God, give them an opportunity, if they are of proper character, and if they have the proper desire in their hearts, to go abroad as missionaries. If there be anything else in this world that establishes the feet of young men and women in the right path, and reveals to them the truth of the gospel in the same wonderful manner that missionary service does, I do not know what it is. 

I listened with very great joy to the testimony of our Commissioner of Education that there had come to him in periods of trial and anxiety the whisperings of the Lord, the revelations of the Lord, establishing in his soul a knowledge concerning the existence of God our Father in heaven. Thanks be to God for such whisperings. I want to say to you that God is no respecter of persons. Men who are educated, who humbly seek the Lord, receive" the revelations of the Lord and the testimony of his word; and men who are not educated receive by the same marvelous power the same convincing evidence. It has been my pleasure just within a few weeks to listen to the testimony of the gospel from the lips of young girls and young boys, trembling with fear, their eyes moistened with tears, yet with joy in their souls, bearing witness that God lives, and that that knowledge has come to them by the power of the Holy Ghost. I thank God for that. I am also glad that the Lord, in his mercy, has revealed to me that this is his work, the marvelous work promised by the voice of inspiration through ancient GENERAL CONFERENCE  for the latter times. I have that knowledge. I thank God that in my soul, in my heart and in my mind I have been given to know the truth of the record that we have been singing about, the Book ot Mormon, that it is true, that it contains the fulness of the everlasting gospel I thank God for my membership in the Church of Christ, for the fellowship that I have with my brethren; and I bear solemn witness to the truth of the gospel, the truth of the things that have been taught us this day, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Canadian Mission 

1 rejoice with you, my brethren and sisters, in the testimonies which we have received today. It was inquired of old: "If a man die, shall he live again?" That question has been answered well this morning. I rejoice, and I think you do, in the information given us by our prophet, seer and revelator at the opening of this conference, that Cumorah's hill is now in the possession of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In standing upon that sacred ground on the one hundredth anniversary, I wished then, and I expressed the thought at our last semi-annual conference, that this property might belong to the Church; because in connection with the Hill Cumorah and the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, there has been a flood of information answering that question of old: "If a man die, shall he live again?" What joy must have come into the heart of Job when he was able to exclaim : "I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth : And though after my skin, worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God." 

A questionnaire was sent out by a bereaved man a score of years ago, to philosophers and scientists, requesting them to state in brief the outstanding reasons which they had for the hope of life after death, and for the resurrection of the body. These arguments and reasons given were merely corroborative of the clear revelations from our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith in these last days. Our elders of course have strong testimonies, not only of the existence of the spirit after the death of the body, and of the resurrection, but also that Jesus is the Christ — that Jesus is divine. They have all the evidence that the non-Christian Jew had or has that there shall be a Christ. They have all the evidence that the Christian believer has that there has been a Savior and Redeemer. Many of those matters have been very beautifully presented to us today. In addition to all that, there is the scripture that came from Cumorah's hill, the Book of Mormon, one of the very purposes of which was to testify to Jew and Gentile that Jesus was the Christ. I realize that there isn't time to refer to some passages of the Book of Mormon in support of this doctrine, or at least to read them. The story and testimony of the Christ as given upon this continent when he appeared to his people as recorded in the Eleventh Chapter, Third Book of Nephi, 101  a wonderful testimony. I have had the feeling as I read that chapter time and time again, that no man without inspiration ever wrote that story. We have been studying the Book of Mormon in our mission home in Canada during the past year, and after nearly every lesson I could say, and I have said many times : Isn't that beautiful! Isn't that wonderful! No man without inspiration could produce those things. And that is my testimony to you here today, that in addition to the testimony of the Book of Mormon we have the testimony in the revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the 76th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him : That he lives! 

"For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — 

"That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." 

I thank God for that information, for that revelation, and for the many others along that line contained in the book of modern revelation, the Doctrine and Covenants. I thank the Lord for the testimony that is in the hearts of the missionaries. I remarked last night to our Canadian missionaries : I wonder if the people of the Church realize the very beautiful and splendid growth these missionaries have made during their sojourn in the mission field. I wonder if the bishops of wards and presidents of stakes will so order things that that growth which they have made will continue, that they will continue to grow spiritually and intellectually in a knowledge of the truth and continue in the conviction that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that this is his work, established, never to be thrown down nor to be given to another people. And that is my testimony to you today. I bear it humbly in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Then shall your light." Benediction was pronounced by Elder Fred A. Caine, president of the Idaho Falls stake of Zion. 

The meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


