9
Afternoon 
03 10 1930
Elder Joseph W. McMurrin
20
38-40

None

None

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, in being present at this Conference, and feel, as no doubt you feel, that many very precious things have been presented for the consideration of the people who have assembled together. 

My mind is running upon matters pertaining to missionary work, that being my responsibility. I come up with greetings from the missionaries who labor in the California Mission, and I think I may be justified in saying that we feel considerably distressed in our feelings because of the tremendous reduction that has taken place in our numbers during the present year. It looks as though by the end of the year we will probably have a reduction of fifty per cent in the number of missionaries in the California Mission. Fifty per cent less than January, 1930. We have been in frequent correspondence with the presiding authorities of the Church about missionaries, until I have sometimes felt myself that when I would make reference to the need of the mission for an increased number of missionaries, it would not be very pleasant reading, because of it being so frequently repeated. 

I am conscious of the fact, my brethren and sisters, that financial conditions are not good. People are suffering from a lack of means, and I am wondering if it is possible that any of the Ward and Stake authorities who make recommendations to the presiding authorities for missionary calls, feel there ought not to be the demand made upon the strength of Israel that has been made in the past, because of the depression that prevails throughout the land. 

Personally, I think there should be some steps taken in local communities to improve the conditions from a missionary point of view. Ordinarily, when a missionary is called to go out to preach the Gospel, the responsibility pertaining to his expenses rests altogether upon the parents or other near relatives. This should be changed. I entertain the thought that if a real effort were made in the local communities, through bishops, stake presidencies, and high councilmen, to interest all the people in the expense of the missionaries who represent them in the field, a great burden might be lifted from the shoulders of the fathers and the mothers who have representatives out in the world preaching the Gospel. This responsibility properly belongs to all the people. 

I do not understand that our obligations as members in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have been removed or lessened because of the financial distresses that are in the land. We have, had quoted in our hearing the Scriptures, the inspired declarations of the prophets. One of those prophets, as we heard in the morning session, represented that the Lord God of heaven had said to him that he was a watchman upon the towers of Zion, and that his duty was to give warning to the inhabitants of the land. If they hearkened they would be preserved. If they did not hearken they would be destroyed, but the watchman would have delivered his soul. Well, we need these watchmen that the people may be warned. That is my feeling. It is very strongly upon me. 

We have been laboring — I trust, with a fair amount of zeal throughout the California Mission — as watchmen. We have been trying to bring to the attention of the people the fact that we live in a marvelous age, and that as preachers of the Gospel we have been properly called by divine authority to cry repentance among the people. We have been trying to testify that we are not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, that we know it is the power of God unto salvation, and that therein is the righteousness of God revealed, from faith to faith. We have been trying to impress the people with the thought that by this divine appointment we have been sent out to a perishing world, with the message of salvation; and while the people have not flocked in very great numbers to listen to our declaration, some have paid attention, and there have been many investigators. Many of them may not be investigating with very great anxiety, but they have at least had their hearts so touched by the teachings and attitude and personality and spirit of the missionaries, that they are glad, in many cases, to receive them into their homes; and some of them are inquiring for missionaries and we have none to send to them. 

In quite a number of instances, missionaries are laboring alone. That is not entirely in harmony with the counsels of the Church and with the rule that has prevailed quite largely in missionary work, but because of the reduction in our numbers, in an effort to hold the ground that has been won we have split up and divided our forces, in order that the word of the Lord, the Gospel of the Son of God, might be carried in some measure to the people who have been in the habit of coming in contact with representatives of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I would like to humbly appeal to the men of the Church, in the communities of the Church where recommendations for missionaries originate, that after the call has been made by the presiding authorities of the Church, the whole community render financial assistance. I am quite confident when I say what I have said regarding the reduction of missionaries in the California Mission, that I represent the condition that prevails in all of the missions. 

I do not understand that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been relieved one whit from the carrying of the Gospel message to the inhabitants of the earth. Our Father in heaven declared, at the opening of this dispensation, that this message is to be taken to all the world. That is our responsibility, that we shall be found in the nations of the world, that we shall be crying repentance, that we shall be bearing witness to the restoration of the authority by which men minister in the name of the Son of God; for we are in the same condition as were the disciples of old. Jesus taught them: "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and have ordained you, and have sent you forth, that you might bring forth fruit." That is the condition of the missionaries. They have been selected from their fellow men, and by divine authority they have been commissioned to carry the message of the Gospel to the peoples in the missions to which they have been assigned; and there surely is a crying demand for that service. 

I hope that proper local authority will be concerned in relation to this matter, that the hands of mission presidents may be strengthened, and that the opportunities that abound may be utilized, in the preaching of the word of God. 

I think I ought not to take more time, but I most earnestly make this plea. I am glad to say that although our numbers are smaller than they have been at any time during my presidency in the California Mission, we are nevertheless a happy company of men and women. We do believe in the Gospel that has been revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. We do believe that the promises of the prophets of old, in regard to the latter times, are having fulfilment; and our hearts, as we endeavor to deliver this witness to the people, burn with joy within us, and you know the promise has been made by the Lord Jesus Christ that by that burning we should know concerning the truth of his work, and we have that burning in our souls and know the truth has been revealed. 

We want help, that we may deliver the message that has been committed into our hands. May there be ways and means found to give the help, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
