3
Morning 
03 10 1930
Elder Charles A. Callis
3
14-15

None

None 

Brethren and sisters: Weakness is given to make a man humble; therefore, I feel very humble and dependent upon God at this moment. 

The Assyrians, with horses and chariots, sought to apprehend Elisha. "Fear not," said the prophet, "for they that be with us are more than they that be with them." 

I believe this truth applies to the Latter-day Saints. Ever since the world began all the prophets and righteous men have beheld in vision the work that we are doing and they have rejoiced in this glorious day. 

When Napoleon formed his armies in battle array in Egypt, pointing to the pyramids he said: "Soldiers, forty centuries look down upon you." All the former dispensations merging into this dispensation are looking upon us. God help us that they may behold in our labors richness of spirituality and steadiness of purpose. 

The Prophet Mormon in his teachings says that angels have a ministry: 

"Nay; neither have angels ceased to minister unto the children of men. 

"For behold, they are subject unto him, to minister according to the word of his command, showing themselves unto them of strong faith and a firm mind in every form of godliness. 

"And the office of their ministry is to call men unto repentance, and to fulfil and to do the work of the covenants of the Father, which he hath made unto the children of men, to prepare the way among the children of men, by declaring the word of Christ unto the chosen vessels of the Lord, that they may bear testimony of him. 

"And by so doing, the Lord God prepareth the way that the residue of men may have faith in Christ, that the Holy Ghost may have place in their hearts, according to the power thereof; and after this manner bringeth to pass the Father, the covenants which he hath made unto the children of men" (Moroni 7:29-32). 

We proclaim in humility, dear brethren and sisters, that Mormon foretold the mission of his splendid son, Moroni, and that Moroni did appear to a chosen vessel of the Lord, even the Prophet Joseph Smith, who with magnificent courage and firm in the faith of the living God proclaimed his message to the nations of the earth. With angels we share a heavenly gift, even the gift of the Holy Ghost, for the Book of Mormon tells us that angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

We are told in holy writ that angels are our fellow servants, and the Apostle Paul tells us that we are laborers together with God in the accomplishment of his glorious purposes. Is not this a high honor? Is not this a sacred responsibility? Ought not this knowledge to inspire us with the loftiest ideals and devoted service to our Heavenly Father? 

I thank God for the gift of the Holy Ghost. It is this gift that distinguishes us from people described by a great writer as "the windmill species." Established in the truth by this personal testimony, we have faith in our leaders. The pilot in steering his vessel with its precious cargo of lives and merchandise would imperil both by steering according to weather vanes. But with the compass he will steer his ship through dark clouds knowing that beyond lies the haven of security and safety. 

So in this Church we are not guided by the theories of certain men which "with the hour begin and end," but we are guided by the compass of divine revelation which is in the possession of the leaders of this Church, even the revelations of God, the gift of the Holy Ghost, which God pours into every believing heart, and as we follow the direction of this compass we shall be guided safely into the harbor of eternal life. 

Oh, I thank God that we are following our Lord Jesus Christ. We desire to do his will. We love him. We love God our Heavenly Father. I bear you my humble testimony that God is with this people, that he is leading the Church, that Jesus Christ is our Redeemer and Savior, and that he is our friend if we will keep his commandments. I rejoice in the Gospel because I know it is the power of God unto salvation, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.
