4
Morning 
03 10 1930
Elder Arthur Winter 
112
15-17

None

None

I need scarcely say to you that it is indeed a surprise to me to be called upon to speak to this vast audience. 

It has been my privilege to go forth on a short mission during the summer and visit the various missions of Europe. Many years ago I received two patriarchal blessings without any solicitation upon my part, and in each of those blessings a promise was made that was quite significant in the wording. I have often wondered how it could ever be realized. In each case the promise was made by the Patriarch that I should "travel from nation to nation" and preach the Gospel. The wording which is practically the same in both cases, was somewhat peculiar; it was not that I should go from place to place, from county to county, or from state to state, but that I should travel "from nation to nation," and preach the Gospel. 

In this call that came to me from the Presidency of the Church, along with Bishop Wells, those two patriarchal blessings, upon that point, were literally fulfilled; for I have in very deed traveled from nation to nation and preached the Gospel. 

Bishop Wells and I have visited every mission in Europe. First of all we had the opportunity of meeting with all the mission presidents of Europe in the city of Basel, Switzerland. We were with them in the closing sessions of their conference. The final session was a testimony meeting and I do not recall having attended a testimony meeting where the Spirit of God was poured out in richer abundance than it was at that time. 

The mission presidents of Europe are a splendid lot of men and are doing a magnificent work for the proclamation of the truth. They are led and supervised by President John A. Widtsoe, of the Council of the Twelve. He has a tremendous responsibility upon him, which he is discharging in a most remarkable manner. He is undertaking to systematize, organize and unify the work in all the missions abroad, so that the most effective work can be accomplished and the truth be made known in the most efficient manner. 

The Elders who are laboring in those missions are as fine a body of men as can be found anywhere on earth, and they are doing a marvelous work. Notwithstanding their youth and inexperience the Lord has touched their hearts. His Spirit is working with them and they are presenting the message of the Gospel in a very creditable manner. 

There are over thirty thousand members of the Church in the European missions and they are being organized as nearly as possible like the organizations at home. The priesthood work is being developed as fast as possible. The auxiliary work is showing a remarkable advance over the years gone by. The sisters are doing a splendid work in this particular. The wives of the presidents of the various missions are leading out and cooperating fully with their husbands. Sister Widtsoe especially is distinguishing herself by the intelligent and effective work she is doing among the sisters. The Relief Society, the Mutual Improvement Associations and the Sunday Schools, are all flourishing. The Primary Association has not yet been developed to the extent of the other organizations. But it is not being overlooked. These auxiliaries are more advanced now in the various missions of Europe than ever before, and are doing a splendid work in training and developing the people, both young and old. Many who are not of the Church belong to these associations, and through the influence of little children the mothers and fathers are being made acquainted with the truth. 

I am happy to say that the feeling of the world toward the Latter-day Saints has changed materially since I last visited Europe. The press shows a marked change for the better in its attitude towards the Church. There is now a willingness to publish articles in refutation of the slanders that may be put forth by our enemies (for the devil is not dead yet and the Church still has enemies in Europe), and the papers generally are trying to be fair in their attitude upon the "Mormon" question. Moreover, they are opening their columns to us. When conferences are held it is not uncommon for the newspapers to send representatives to such gatherings, and they usually give a fair account of what transpires. 

I rejoice in the wonderful experience I have had through this opportunity of visiting Europe. The work of the various missions is progressing, and the Gospel is being taught in its purity and power. 

However, there is one serious drawback to it all, and that is the indifference which prevails among the people. Since the war, particularly, there has been a noticeable change in the religious attitude of the people of Europe. Where they formerly believed in the Bible, in the church, in the observance of the Sabbath, and in those things that tend to build up and uplift humanity, they have gradually assumed an attitude of indifference to all these things. They no longer have much use for religion or for the churches. That spirit is growing, and I do not know just how we are going to meet it. It is one of the problems of missionary work today. Formerly you could approach the people with the Bible and sustain the principles of the Gospel from the "good book." But today too many pay little or no attention to the Bible. The approach therefore must be different. Our missionary methods and efforts will have to be changed somewhat in order to meet the changed situation. President Widtsoe is working along these lines, devoting a great deal of thought, time and energy to the development of other methods so as to meet the new conditions and get the people interested in the Gospel message. 

I want to say in closing, my brethren and sisters, that I am very happy in the work of the Lord. It is the dearest thing on earth to me. It is fifty years this month since I was baptized into the Church; and out of that fifty years of experience in the Church I can testify to you today that I know this to be the work of the Lord. I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. And I know too that the Church is led by the inspiration of the Lord. The Lord has not forsaken it. He has not gone on a journey. He is guiding and directing the affairs of this Church. He is inspiring the leaders of the Church. For forty odd years I have been in close contact with them. I have seen their, lives, and I am here to testify to you that in guiding the affairs of this Church they have been led by the inspiration of the Almighty. We need have no fears as to the future of the work of the Lord, for it is his work and will triumph and I bear testimony to it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
