20
Afternoon 
04 10 1930
Elder John Wells 
108
81-88

None

None

I have been blessed with the privilege of performing a short mission to Europe, having been appointed by the First Presidency. I was very glad, indeed, that this privilege came to me, for I have never been on a foreign mission. My labors as a young man while in England were quite extensive, though necessarily restricted to a branch in Nottingham and its nearby towns and villages. When I was asked to go to my native land for a short time, I was very happy about it, particularly when a similar call came to my dear friend, Arthur Winter, who spoke to you yesterday forenoon and gave you some general ideas concerning our duties and the conditions in Europe. 

It might interest you to know that Brother Winter and I were born in the same town, played together as children in the same streets, went to the same school, and worked together in the same office. He heard and accepted the Gospel and labored assiduously with me month after month teaching me its wonderful principles and bearing constant testimony to its truth. Arguments, scriptural and otherwise, did not seem to affect me, but at last I asked the Lord to give me light and understanding. When I did this fervently, I began to understand the Gospel and accepted it. Twenty-five years ago Brother Winter and I had the privilege of returning to our native land where we enjoyed a brief stay. Words cannot express our thankfulness to the Lord for the Gospel, for the marvelous opportunities that have come to both of us because of the blessings we enjoy, and for the privilege of coming to this goodly land where we had the opportunity to be trained and educated in the Gospel, and now after twenty-five years, we again return from England full of thankfulness to our Heavenly Father for all the Gospel has done for us. 

The First Presidency instructed us to report to President Widtsoe and to labor under his direction. During our voyage to Europe we received a radiogram requesting us to go on to Basel, Switzerland, instead of landing at Plymouth. At Basel we attended the closing session of the conference of European Mission Presidents. A day was spent with President Widtsoe who outlined what he would like us to do when visiting the missions. These instructions were carried out as far as time and circumstances would permit. Our work was mainly this: to reduce the clerical labor in the mission offices, to simplify and reduce, if possible, the labor of district presidents and secretaries, to encourage the organization of branches with the local priesthood in charge, to develop local self-government in the branches. President Widtsoe placed upon me the special duty to work out the organization, duties and functions of the Aaronic Priesthood, the law of tithing, the proper use of the tithes for mission purposes, the care of the poor, etc. 

It was very refreshing indeed to be in the company of President Widtsoe, with his splendid powers of administration and his wonderful grasp of the needs of the missions of Europe. Since he has been released as president of the British Mission, he is laboring night and day to organize and systematize the work of the various missions of Europe. 

Basel is the headquarters of the Swiss and German Mission. There we found a fine body of Latter-day Saints. There were many large branches of intelligent members, and by the time we had visited this mission and the German-Austrian Mission, we had a very high opinion of the German people. They are refined and educated and have very high ideals. 

Our next stay was in Geneva where we met with the President of the French Mission, who has a fine group of young elders. They are trying to allay prejudice and want the privilege of giving the French nation a fair opportunity to hear the Gospel. President Woolf has moved headquarters to Paris where he expects to organize a branch and to gather in quite a number of Latter-day Saints who are taking special courses in the great universities in science, art, and literature. There are some members of the Church who are residing in Paris permanently. 

On leaving Geneva we visited Oberammergau where we saw the great Passion Play. It is a wonderful production, but if I had my choice, I would rather see our own great pageant. I felt the influence of our own pageant more than that of the Passion Play. In saying this, however, I do not wish to belittle the marvelous work of the village folks of Oberammergau. 

From there we went to Czecho-Slovakia where we met a number of elders in the city of Prague. They are happy and optimistic as to the future. I believe the English language is spoken more in that city in proportion to its inhabitants than in any other foreign city. The elders were preaching to crowds of people in English. They found they were not making progress in acquiring the Czech language, so they resolved to speak only the Czech language among themselves. They are now prepared to go out into the country districts. I believe there is a great future in this land. The reformation started in the city of Prague. It was the home of John Huss. I was gratified to hear that the people were thankful for what the United States has done for them in securing their liberty, and they are naming streets and other places after great men of the United States. 

From Prague we went to Dresden and found that President Edward P. Kimball had been released because of the illness of his wife. He was just getting started in the work, introducing ideas for the development of the missionary work in the German-Austrian Mission. While there we attended the great health exhibition. The Latter-day Saint exhibition typified the words, "By their fruits ye shall know them." The exhibit stressed the Word of Wisdom and its results on the people in Utah. A table had been provided in the room upon which were small folders called "The Word of Wisdom," and one hundred and twenty thousand of these folders had been taken. We then went to the former home of Karl G. Maeser in Meissen and stood in reverence before the house, discussing the life and labors of that great man. One of the brethren said, "What a marvelous work Brother Maeser did for the Church." He was answered by another, "Yes, and what a marvelous work the Church did for Brother Maeser." 

From there we went to Berlin where we met with a number of elders. That city has a fine body of Latter-day Saints and a splendid troop of Boy Scouts. We met with the branch members one night. 

The next stopping place was Copenhagen which has been one of the most fruitful missions of the Church. It is claimed that more people have embraced the Gospel in Denmark in proportion to its population than in any other country. A beautiful mission home and chapel are being erected there. The buildings are a credit to the community, and these two fine buildings will serve notice to the Danish people that the Latter-day Saints are there to stay. 

In Stockholm we were very cordially received. Several days were spent in office work. We met with the saints in their meetings on two different occasions. We also met with the local priesthood and with the missionaries; in fact, this was our policy everywhere we went. The people, as well as the missionaries, accorded us royal treatment, and when we left, a large body of the saints were at the station to bid us farewell and sang two of the songs of Zion, much to the astonishment of the passengers on the train. 

We continued our journey to Oslo where we attended to the business of the Church. We visited one branch forty-five miles south, met with the elders, and during our stay there the old folks' annual party was given. I noticed many elderly people who, under ordinary circumstances, will never have an opportunity to come to Zion, and yet they are full of faith and devotion. 

Our next visit was to Rotterdam. We met with the President and his staff and with the saints in Rotterdam and Utrecht. A special meeting was held with the elders in Utrecht at which there were thirty elders present out of the fifty in the mission. 

After that we went to Birmingham in England, which is now the headquarters of the British Mission. There we had the pleasure of meeting a large body of elders. After attending to routine and clerical work, we enjoyed the hospitality of President Lund and his wife. A few days later we met with all the district presidents along with President and Sister Widtsoe. 

Liverpool was our next destination. We reported to President Widtsoe our labors in the missions and to Sister Widtsoe we reported Relief Society, M. I. A., and Primary matters. In England we found a large number of Latter-day Saints out of work. Poverty is very closely related to the unemployed, but through the efforts of branch organizations, some are obtaining employment, and I am pleased to say that no Latter-day Saints are suffering for the necessities of life. 

Many have inquired, "How did you find conditions in England, Germany, etc.?" We found serious business depressions and much poverty. We thought we noticed the demoralizing effect of the "dole" system in both countries. In most of the countries we visited there was a disposition to ignore religion. Some said, "What is the use of religion? It did not stop the war." We said in several cases that had the Gospel of Jesus Christ dominated the Christian nations, war would have been impossible. 

Some of the countries of Europe are still unsettled politically, as well as economically, and it is probable that during the next few years there will be serious changes in their forms of government. 

All the elders seem enthusiastic. They are developing remarkably. They are the finest body of men I have seen outside of Utah. I was delighted with their poise and intelligence. The captain on one of the ships said to me, "I am always glad when there are Latter-day Saint missionaries on my ship. They are the cleanest, best behaved, best mannered people that travel. I am always glad to have them. Tell your people that from me." 

As to the indifference of the peoples of Europe to religion, I am wondering. There is a reaction against all kinds of religion. The result will be, I believe, that in the near future honest men and women will look for a worth while religion, and I hope when that time comes such honest people will listen to the message of this Church. 

May the Lord bless the Latter-day Saints. May we sense deeply our responsibility to preach the Gospel and warn the world. May the quorums of High Priests, Seventies, and Elders rise to their responsibility and cooperate with the bishops so that the widow's son or daughter may have the privilege of going into the mission field. If each of the five hundred Elders' quorums, one hundred and fifty Seventies' quorums, and one hundred and four High Priests' quorums would make up their minds to support one missionary, the number on missions could be very materially increased. I pray the Lord to bless us all so that His will may be done and righteousness established in the earth. I ask these blessings in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.
