22
Afternoon 
04 10 1930
Elder Levi Edgar Young
48
88-91

None

None 

As I reflect on what has been said at this Conference, I feel more deeply than ever before that communion with God is the greatest fact of life. All our words, all our activities, all our ideals find their meaning here. The spirit of religion is not the burden of duties that makes life prosaic, but it is a personal mystical union with God, to be attained each man for himself. It is a knowledge of the nearness of God. The chief characteristics of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are its divine truth and beauty. In Keat's Endymion is this lovely thought: 

"A thing of beauty is a joy forever: 

Its loveliness increases. It will never pass into nothingness; But still will keep a bower, quiet for us and a sleep Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing." 

The Gospel of our Lord is a message of beauty, and a joy forever. It teaches us that the way of true life is not the world's way. The Prophet Joel tells us in sublime words that "Ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the Lord your God, and none else: and my people shall never he ashamed. And it shall come to pass afterward, that I shall pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy; your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions." 

What the Christian world needs today is to know Christ; and the world can only know Christ by its coming to know the" living, personal God, the Creator of heaven and earth and all things therein. He is our Heavenly Father, and in his image man is created. Jesus Christ came to redeem us, and to teach us the divine truth of eternal life. Turning to the American scriptures, the Book of Mormon, which in the years to come will be more widely read and better understood, I read these words as recorded by the prophet Nephi: 

"And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude gathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about the temple which was in the land of Bountiful; and they were marveling one with another, and were showing one to another the great and marvelous change which had taken place. 

"And they were also conversing about this Jesus Christ, of whom the sign had been given concerning his death. 

"And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one with another, they heard a voice as if it came out of heaven; and they cast their eyes round about, for they understood not the voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a small voice it did pierce them that did hear to the center, insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn. 

"And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they understood it not. 

"And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came. 

"And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them: 

"Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name — hear ye him. 

"And it came to pass, as they understood, they cast their eyes up again toward heaven; and behold, they saw a Man descending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; and he came down and stood in the midst of them; and the eyes of the whole multitude were turned upon him, and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant, for they thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them." 

The people heard and cleansed their hearts and understood. Then in the Holy Bible is the story of St. John concerning the resurrection of Christ. It is lovely in its simplicity; it is the comforting message of the ages. 

(Gospel of St. John 20:1-19). 

"The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre. 

"Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. "Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple and came to the sepulchre. 

"So they ran both together; and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre. 

"And he, stooping down, and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying; yet went he not in. 

"Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie, 

"And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. 

"Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed. 

"For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead. 

"Then the disciples went away again unto their own home. 

"But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping; and as she wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre. 

"And seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. 

"And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them. Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him. 

"And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. 

"Jesus saith unto her. Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. 

"Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and, saith unto him, Rabboni; which is to say, Master. 

"Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father: and to my God, and your God. 

"Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken these things unto her 

"Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus, and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. 

Down through the ages, people have sought after Christ; some have found him. But the new contact with God came a hundred years ago when a little boy — a pure boy and filled with faith — went into the woods to pray for light and truth. God the father and Jesus Christ, the Son, came to him. Joseph Smith heard the message of the Father, and it was then that Jesus Christ became a living reality. Man had again been brought into communion with God. 

This fundamental truth is at the very foundation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; and it takes this new revelation to understand life and immortality. When the world will open its heart to these three historic truths, mankind will again know that life has a meaning, and a meaning for good. Men will direct their lives in accordance with God's will, and come unto greater faith and more abundant life. Knowledge alone cannot solve our social and religious problems; but knowledge with faith in God can. This thought is beautifully expressed by George Santayana of Harvard University: 

"O world, thou choosest not the better part, It is not wisdom to be only wise. And on the inward vision, close the eyes; But it is wisdom to believe the heart. Columbus found a world, and had no chart, Save one that faith deciphered in the skies; To trust the soul's invincible surmise Was all his science and his only art. Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine That lights the pathway but one step ahead Across a void of mystery and dread. Bid then, the tender light of faith to shine By which alone the mortal heart is led Unto the thinking of the thought divine." 

God lives; Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Redeemer of the world. The beauty of his message will always appeal to the children of men, for in it they will discover that there is an infinite power in each and every child that leads him to the meaning of life. A new era opens before us, and if we will pursue the path that has been mapped out by Christ our Lord, we will grow unto perfection through service and our spirits will take flight to more distant summits from which we can become a light unto mankind. May we as a people take new courage; may our faith in the message of the Lord increase and deepen from day to day. Amen.
