43
Afternoon 
05 10 1930
Sister May Anderson 
105
134-135

This splendid Conference would not be entirely complete without reporting that the children of this Church are being cared for, that the children's organization, the Primary Association, has about one hundred thousand members, with about ten thousand women who are all striving to help in the work of prevention rather than the work of cure. 

The Church asks us to teach the children the principles of the Gospel, to take care of their leisure time activities, and to bear in mind that every boy and girl born in the Church has the right to a strong body, that he and she may make their way in the world as fairly as possible. 

For the religious instruction we are using the Articles of our Faith, and we think it the greatest code of moral conduct that was ever produced. As we are using it we shall probably send into the homes of the people of the Church thousands of little cards bearing the Articles of Faith. 

For the supervision of the leisure time activities of the children we are providing safe and sane activities that will give them joy and pleasure, that will help them to be happy and good. 

In our labors for the health of the children of the Church we use that wonderful blessing, that divine revelation, that has been given to us, the Word of Wisdom. In our health program we include a hospital where we hope to take care of any boy or girl who needs medical or surgical aid and whose parents are not able to provide the necessary care. 

Now, how shall we connect up with you, my brethren and sisters, to put this thing over splendidly? I am happy for this opportunity to say that we hope the Bishops will stand with us in helping to get the boys ready for the Priesthood. We hope the Mutuals will stand with us in getting the boys ready for Scouting. We hope that every home in this Church will stand with us to provide the right foundation. We shall plead, and we hope not in vain, that there will foe no home in our Church where boys and girls will know anything about liquor. We hope there will be no home-made wine in any home in our Church. We hope there will be no coffee, no tea, no tobacco. We plead with you, my brethren and sisters, to make life safe for the boys and girls. Prevention is eminently better than cure. There is nothing that is more favorable nor better than the home. We can only add to what you do. 

One other thing that we are doing and have been doing for a long time is to persuade the people of our Church that activities for boys and girls should be in the daytime and that there should not be any inducement offered to our youngsters to be out at night. Night is dangerous, and when boys and girls go out on the streets away from their fathers and mothers no one can tell what is happening. We hear some strange stories, and we are saying to you with all the ardor of our beings that we want you fathers and mothers to stand with us to make this world safe for our boys and girls. 

Let us live the Word of Wisdom in what we eat and what we drink and also in the way in which we take care of the time God has given us. That you will stand for the finest homes in the world, for the finest children from such homes, and that the Primary Association may be indeed a real help in the Church, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
