31
Morning 
05 10 1930
President Heber J. Grant
10
112-113

None

None 

There appeared in the Deseret News last night, occupying nearly an entire column, a list of influential citizens who are engaged in marking Utah Pioneer trails — landmarks along the trails. We would like all of our people to take interest in this matter. It is something that every citizen of Utah should be interested in, without regard to creed or religion. We are pleased to see many of the most influential men of the City and State engaged in this movement. 

We would like every one to remain in this building after the benediction until the Choir has withdrawn and become stationed in the place where they are to sing for the Movietone News. Their singing is to be heard probably by about thirty million people through the instrumentality of the talking pictures. The Fox Movietone people are here to take the picture. 

I wish to say that we are obtaining most marvelous and wonderful response from the broadcasting by radio of the singing of the Choir and the renditions on the Organ every Monday afternoon. We have received letters from all over the country giving expressions of delight regarding these recitals. The broadcasting company that has charge of this work has written to us expressing delight and appreciation. It is no small thing for our Choir and our Organ to be heard all over the United States. This advertises Salt Lake City in a most remarkable way. We are grateful to the radio broadcasting people for giving us this privilege. We are grateful for the loyalty of our Choir and our organists for giving their services in these special recitals. We are thankful to the employers of Choir members for releasing them to come here and give those broadcasts, and I say without fear of contradiction that they are one of the greatest advertisements for Salt Lake City that could possibly be had. In fact we know that other cities (I won't mention the names of any of them) are complaining and asking for the same privilege, but they do not happen to have the Mormon Tabernacle Choir nor do they have the great Tabernacle Organ. But they would like to advertise their own towns.
