37
Afternoon 
05 10 1930
Elder Miles L. Jones
101
128

I am very pleased, my brethren and sisters, to have the opportunity of visiting with you upon this occasion. I have had the privilege of attending every session of the Conference and I have enjoyed them to the fullest extent. 

I heartily endorse what was said by President Grant and President Moyle, also by President McMurrin, in regard to two or three items. President McMurrin referred to the shortage of missionaries. I was asked today by one brother if volunteers would be accepted. I want to say, brethren and sisters, if you have volunteers they should be recommended and called in the regular way. We can use one hundred of them in the East Central States Mission. 

President Grant referred to the wonderful work that is being done by the Choir. I can bear testimony to that because in passing along the streets of Louisville and other cities we find every Monday afternoon that those programs are being broadcast so that even the people in the streets are able to hear them; and they are doing a wonderful amount of good because they make many friends for us and give us an opportunity to talk upon the principles of the Gospel. 

Just a few days ago we held a series of meetings in one of the cities close to Louisville. The next morning after holding these meetings, as my wife and I were leaving the city, we met one of our local brethren who remarked that he had just been talking to one of his neighbors who belongs to another denomination. In the course of this conversation he said: 

"In our services last night our minister referred to a certain class of people in this manner: 'There is a little community of saints here that meet together as a family, and they are the best people in all the world, and they have a prophet to lead them'." 

I want to tell you, my brethren and sisters, there is a community in Bath County that meet together as a family. They are among the best people in all the world, and they have a prophet to lead them. And in practically every county in this nation there are similar communities, and they are led by a prophet of God, even President Heber J. Grant, who stands at the head of this Church today. I know of his integrity. I have traveled with him, I have eaten with him, and I have slept with him. I know that his heart and his soul are wrapped up in this work, and he is God's mouthpiece upon the earth. 

May our Father's choicest blessings ever abide with each and every one of us, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
