23
Morning 
05 10 1930
Elder Reed Smoot
39
92-95 

None

None

I want to express my thanks to my Heavenly Father for the privilege I have of attending this great Conference. If the people of the world, who think that Mormonism, so-called, is losing its force or its membership, could but stand upon this platform and look into the faces of this magnificent audience, their doubts or apprehensions — or wishes, in many cases — would be expelled. 

I know that this is the Church of the living God. I know that the Church, as established in this latter day, is the Church spoken of by the prophets of old, and I know that the destiny of this Church shall be as prophesied, and all the requirements made of the people belonging to this Church will be fulfilled. Men holding the Holy Priesthood, men holding responsible positions, from the President of the Church down, will fulfil every requirement, and the Gospel of Jesus Christ shall be preached to all peoples of the earth, before the end shall come. 

INDIFFERENCE OF THE WORLD TOWARD RELIGION 

There is an indifference manifested, I think, throughout the world, toward religion. That indifference, it seems to me, is growing; I am quite sure it is among many of the people that I am called to associate with. They deny the power of God. They deny the power of the Priesthood. They deny even the work of the Savior and his mission here upon this earth. 

My brethren and sisters, when we think of the fact that the Gospel has been established upon this earth for a hundred years, and thousands and tens of thousands of missionaries have been sent to nearly all parts of the earth, bearing testimony that God has revealed his mind and will and has established his Church again upon earth, the headway that we have made in that one hundred years may seem small to some, but the seed has been planted, the authority of God has been conferred upon man, and his Church organized; and I haven't the least doubt that every revelation that has been given concerning it, concerning its work, concerning the peoples of the world, will be fulfilled. 

Many times in my conversations with public men, they deny, without hesitation, that there is a God. They deny that it is possible to receive a revelation from God, the source from which we claim to receive revelations. 

"BELIEVE THE WORKS" 

I often think, my brethren and sisters, of the time when Jesus himself was upon the earth, and of the statements that were made by him to the Jews as to his coming, his mission, his authority. They were ready to stone him; and we find the Savior answering, upon an occasion of that kind, as follows: 

"If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not. "But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works: that ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him." 

So say I to the world. If you don't believe that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has the authority to speak for God or for man, believe in the works of its members; see what they have accomplished; see what character of men and women the Church is composed of. 

If it were possible I would like to have such men upon this platform today and let them look into the faces of this magnificent audience, see and hear the faith expressed by the servants of God. I would like them to understand that every one within the sound of my voice will say "Amen" to the testimonies that have been given during this Conference, and have faith that the predictions that have been made will be fulfilled. 

Have you noticed — I certainly have — that active members in the Church seldom apostatize? That is natural. They are interested in the work. They know that it is God's work, and being active in it, they obey the commandments. They never cease to pray themselves. They never cease to have family prayers. They never cease endeavoring to live so that men, seeing their works, can at least believe that the Gospel of Jesus Christ has an influence upon their lives. 

One of the best ways in the world to preach the Gospel is by example, and many times you can reach people in that way of preaching that you could not in any other way. So we boldly say to the world: If you do not believe in the professions and testimonies made by us as to this being God's Church, his power made manifest in the organizations and through the individuals of the Church, believe the works of this people; compare their labors and works with those of any other people upon earth; compare their honesty with that of any other body of people on earth; compare their loyalty to our government, with the loyalty of any other people on earth. 

SOMETIMES A LACK OF FAITH 

My brethren and sisters, we believe and we know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ, when it is manifested in the life of any man or woman, makes him or her a better citizen, and makes him or her more loyal, no matter where it may be. Sometimes some of us may lack faith. I think perhaps that is rather natural, for as I read the scriptures I find that men in the favor of God himself sometimes waver a little in their faith. 

May I call your attention to the case of Gideon. Gideon, a servant of God, holding the priesthood of the living God, having a mission to perform, knowing it to be a mission, had doubts; for don't you remember he asked of God, so that there could be no doubt in his mind, that a sign be given to him, namely, that a fleece of wool which he would place upon the floor, should upon the morrow be wet with dew and the earth all about it be dry. And through the goodness of God the manifestation was made to him. Even then Gideon was not satisfied, for in order to be sure that the requirement was one for him to undertake, he then requested: "Please, Heavenly Father, let the wool be dry and upon the ground let there be dew." And with all patience it was so granted unto him. "Oh ye of little faith!" 

OUR GREAT MISSION 

I want to say at this time, my brethren and sisters, that I feel just as sure as I live, that every requirement made by our God has been made for a purpose, and it is our duty to live to the requirements made by this Church; and I am positive that the God of heaven will bless those who fulfil these requirements. 

Of course, we all know that there is a change in attitude toward our people. I am thankful to my Heavenly Father that this is the case, but I do want to warn the people that if, through the goodness of God, that change has come, and we, through that fact, become slackers in his Church, it would be a great loss indeed. Oh, how little interest there is in religion today! I mean a religion such as the Latter-day Saints possess. How many people are there in all the world, outside of the Church, that will testify that there is a living God, and that Jesus is the Christ? Not many of them. 

So, my brethren and sisters, we have a great mission to perform. The time must come when this Gospel will be preached to every kindred, tongue and people upon the earth. I have often wondered how that could be done, but modern science has solved that. President Grant can stand upon this platform and testify and his voice will carry to the farther ends of the earth. Who knows but that God will provide that means of transmission of the testimonies regarding God and his work upon this earth, in order that the Gospel may be preached to every living creature. God never made a requirement of any people in any age of the world, unless he provided a way for the fulfilment of that requirement. 

BLESSINGS THROUGH OBEDIENCE 

The greatest gift of God is eternal life. Is it worth living for? Is it worth sacrificing some of the pleasures of life for? To me it seems that it is worth everything — eternal life! 

God has established his Church in this dispensation. He has made promises to his people, and among them is the one that if they obey his commandments, if they live according to the teachings of the Master, if they fulfil all the laws of God while living upon this earth, they are entitled to the promised blessings of God. 

May God's blessings ever attend his Church. May it grow and increase in power and in numbers, and may our lives be such that people who come in contact with any member of the Church will know at once that there is something in Mormonism different from any other religion. A thorough investigation will reveal that this difference lies in the fact that we are members of the Church, that we believe in its principles; and those principles are the ones that will give us eternal life if we will live them. 

May the people of the Church live in such a way, and may we all labor to the end that every prediction made by the prophets of God, as to this last dispensation, shall be fulfilled. God grant us eternal life, God grant us wisdom while we remain upon this earth, and God grant that his Church may grow in power and in strength and in influence, and reach the hearts and souls of all honest men and women in the world, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
