26
Morning 
05 10 1930
Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon 
5
99-105

None

None

I regret, my brethren and sisters, that through some trouble that is not yet discovered, the amplifiers on the public address system are not serving satisfactorily this morning. The technicians are working actively to try to discover just what the trouble is. Apparently, the cables leading from this building to the panel have been affected by steam in the tunnel, and there has been some short circuit which has interfered with the effective transmission of the energy. 

I rejoice with you in this splendid Conference, and I am tremendously impressed with the sight of this magnificent audience. I hope that I may be able to speak in such a way that I can be heard. I rejoice in my membership in the Church. I appreciate the consideration and kindness shown me by the First Presidency, the other General Authorities, presidencies of stakes, bishoprics of wards, mission presidents and the members generally in my labors. 

DESTINY OF THIS WORK 

I have absolute confidence in the destiny of this great work. What is that destiny? It is, as I see it, to bring to the people of the earth, everywhere, living faith in God and to promote righteousness, truth and peace. Yet there are people who, for some unknown reason, seem to fear that the fulfilment of the destiny of the Latter-day Saints would threaten the welfare of other peoples. Can there be any question as to the fact that, if the destiny is as I have stated it, it is only for the advancement of mankind generally? There is in the heart of every Latter-day Saint nothing but the best of feeling toward all men. For we are all desirous that, as we have received the light and message of the Gospel, others also may receive it; even as many as are willing to listen thereto, and to receive of the blessings which follow acceptance and observance thereof. 

WELFARE OF CHURCH MEMBERS 

We have been favored with splendid instructions by all those who have spoken in Conference thus far. There have been discussed various problems that affect the welfare of this people; and not only of this people but of mankind. I want to say to you that I am sure, because I have occasion to have some contact with them, that the First Presidency are vitally concerned with the welfare of every Latter-day Saint, and, for that matter, of mankind everywhere; and that they are concerned, not only with the spiritual, but also with the temporal and material progress of the Latter-day Saints. 

MATERIAL AFFAIRS, PART OF OUR RELIGION 

Understanding, as we do, that we are eternal beings, and that we have come upon this earth for an important purpose, and that in our mortal state we must live, eat, wear clothing, and partake, to some extent, at least, of the comforts and conveniences of life, we appreciate the fact that material and temporal, as well as spiritual, things are a part of the Gospel. This is particularly so if we cultivate in our hearts the idea that all that we obtain, all that we have, all that we do, we are doing and using with an eye single to the glory of God, and to the advancement of his work. If we can get that spirit in our hearts and minds, we shall realize the fact that material and temporal things are a part of our progress and development, while here upon the earth in preparation for eternity. 

INJUNCTION TO WORK 

One of the problems that is confronting us at the present time, in common with the rest of mankind, is that of unemployment and the decrease in industry. From the earliest history of mankind, we learn that in the days of Adam the Lord gave him this injunction: "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." Later on, in the time of Moses, the Lord declared to his people, in regard to the Sabbath Day: "Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou shalt not do any work." 

WORK DAYS PER WEEK 

So, since there was one day for rest, there were six days for labor. In the meantime, with the growth of industry, many of those engaged therein have gotten the idea at times that seven days per week are necessary for work. Consequently, many industries have been working regularly seven days a week, and preventing their employees from enjoying the fruits of the Sabbath Day, when, as a matter of fact they could, in many instances, limit their work to six days. But nowadays, with the increased development in mechanical appliances and equipment, men are coming back to the realization that six days a week is sufficient, and that even a five-day week may be advantageous. Thus, men may be able to earn enough in five days per week, due to improved conditions in industry, when they are working properly; so that they would have two days for leisure and for worship. 

NECESSITY OF WORK 

Now, I say, the importance of work has been stressed not only in previous ages of the world's history, but, also, more extensively in this period. The Lord has revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, the instruction that labor is necessary for mankind, as one of the fundamentals in our progress in this life and throughout eternity. The Lord has specifically declared: "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." That involves physical and mental labor, and it involves also labor in a spiritual sense. 

VALUE OF WORK 

Thomas Carlyle declared: "Blessed is the man that has found his work. Let him ask no other blessedness." Again, J. H. Patterson says: "It is only those who do not know how to work that do not love it. To those who do it is better than play; it is religion." A certain artist says, regarding success: "The greatest single element in any one's career is work. This is the despot that escorts you to the winning post." Another writer declares — "Work! Thank God for the might of it, the ardor, the urge, the delight of it. Thank God for a world where none may shirk, thank God for the splendor of work." I am sure that every one of us who has labored, and does labor, has appreciated the value of work and the importance of it; that it is a part of our lives; that it develops us. It develops our physical strength. It develops our mental keenness. It gives us courage. Stimulates desire for achievement. It inspires in us consideration for our fellow men. Every one of us is expected to labor, to learn the value of labor, to appreciate the joys of achievement, and the benefits that come therefrom. 

RESULTS OF LABOR 

When we consider the tremendous results that have occurred through the ingenuity of mankind, and through the application of that ingenuity to the production of commodities that make for progress and development, and provide comforts and conveniences, we can appreciate the wonderfully beneficial results of labor from the material standpoint. I am reminded, by the way, when we speak of ingenuity and inventiveness, that we, in America think we are in the forefront. I noticed, however, recently, that America stands only about seventh or eighth in the matter of inventiveness. The little country of Switzerland stands first of all the nations in inventiveness, Germany next, France next, and so forth. 

RIGHT TO WORK 

Now, as it is necessary that men should work, and as they have been enjoined to labor, as idleness has been condemned as being unfruitful and tending to degradation and demoralization, at the same time, it follows that there ought to be the opportunity to work. Every man has the right to work, and some provision should be made whereby he can obtain work. In earlier days men were able largely to provide their own employment. In ancient days people lived simply, choice land was freely available, men had their flocks and herds, and they cultivated the land to the extent that they found it necessary in order that they might draw therefrom a sustenance. 

SPECIALIZATION 

Nowadays, with the complexity of civilization, it is not so easy always for men to secure employment. With this increase in complexity of industry and of civilization men are learning special trades and professions. It is a day of specialization. One of the Brahmanist proverbs says, with regard to trades and the importance of them: "The parent that does not teach his child a trade, teaches him to be a thief." Whether that be true or not, the fact is that with present conditions the learning of trades and the application of those trades to industry is of great importance. 

MAN’S STEWARDSHIP 

If those who labor have in their minds appreciation of the fact that that which they do and the opportunity that is given to them to work is, in fact, a blessing from God; that of the things that they acquire, since they are only tenants here upon the earth, part at least really belongs to the Lord; and if they cultivate that appreciation, they will then be willing, if they are taught the principle, to observe the law of tithing which has been discussed this morning, and at other times during this Conference, which means the giving of one-tenth of the product of one's labor and of one's increase to the Lord, for the promotion of righteousness, truth and faith. Where people observe that principle they receive blessings. 

TITHEPAYERS AND EMPLOYMENT 

In connection with that, and this question of unemployment, I am reminded of a statement made by President William R. Sloan, of the Northwestern States Mission. He stated, the other day, that through a careful investigation made in his mission, it was shown that in the case of every full tithepayer, there was not one who had lost his job in the midst of this depression. Every one of those who were paying full tithing has been able to retain his work. Is that, to you, any evidence of the benefits that come through the observance of tithing? That is not, however, the primary purpose of tithing. The primary purposes are to train us in obedience, to help us to overcome selfishness, to give of our service and our means to the building up of the work of God, and to the extension of these things which make for the welfare of mankind. 

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 

I need not discuss with you in detail the present economic conditions. We realize what they are. Our staple industries in this state and in other parts of the country are depressed tremendously because of the low prices of those products. Wheat, wool, sugar, and the metals, which affect us directly, are low in price. They are affected by over-production, decrease of demand, and lack of proper distribution. The result is depression and resulting unemployment. It has been suggested, and it seems to me a very desirable thing, that there should be provision made by the government for the registration of all those who are not employed, and special efforts made to try to provide employment for them. There are positions and jobs open, in some instances, that might be filled by those who are most worthy, if their names and the kind of work that they are able to do were available. 

STIMULATION OF INDUSTRY AND CONSTRUCTION 

It is, of course, a very desirable thing that industries should be stimulated in this locality and other localities, where possible, to take the raw materials and to produce manufactured goods therefrom that are in demand. In connection therewith, any possible construction that can be done at this season of the year and during the winter time, in order to save trouble and suffering to those who are out of employment at the present time, would be very helpful. I want to indorse the recent editorials in the Deseret News and in the Salt Lake Tribune, with regard to the urging of construction work that can properly be undertaken during this fall and winter, by the cities, counties, and states, to the end that those who are out of employment may be able to get some help, at least, in that direction. 

HOW THE CHURCH CAN HELP 

How can the Church help in this respect? The Church has been charged with being materialistic. Now, the Church is not in a position, as it used to be when it practically occupied this community entirely, to undertake public works. But it can help in trying to put members of the Church in contact with opportunities for jobs. There can be no objection, surely, on the part of any one to that. We should not undertake to open employment offices for people generally, because that is not our function, but we are justified in trying to contact with those who need employment, among the members of this Church, and to help them. 

HELP MEMBERS TO HELP THEMSELVES 

It is our business also, as bishoprics of wards, to see that no one suffers. The Church is carrying a heavy responsibility to see to it that none of the active members of the Church suffers for the necessities of life. But in all of this, the effort of the Church authorities, the bishops, presidents of the stakes, and relief societies, is to help people to help themselves. The policy is to aid them to become independent, in order to be able to serve and to help to build up the Church, as well as the community, rather than to have to depend upon the Church for assistance. Yet in times of need, — and there are such times that come to many people — the Church properly steps in and undertakes to help them, and to bring into action other agencies which can help to promote better conditions and the avoidance of suffering. 

EMPLOYMENT BUREAU 

I want to call your attention to the fact that there have been suggestions made whereby, in every community throughout the Church where there is unemployment, conditions can be improved. In this city the presidencies of the six city stakes, and the bishoprics of the wards have organized the Deseret Employment Bureau, — a central head — where members of the Church in these stakes can come to seek employment. They are first registered and the necessary information obtained regarding their addresses, qualifications, references, and membership, and then those in charge seek to find employment for them. The result has been that out of about 1800 men who have registered there for the nine months of this year, about 1200 have secured some employment. Also, the General Board of Relief Society, which has an employment bureau for women, has done at least as much in the way of getting employment for women and girls during the same period. Surely, that is a very helpful thing. 

EMPLOYMENT PLAN 

But that is not all. These six city stakes and the wards included therein have undertaken not only to provide a control employment bureau as a place of final reference after local efforts have been exhausted, but they have undertaken to organize in each ward an employment committee, consisting of a high priest, a seventy, and an elder, together with a relief society member, under the direction of the bishopric. This committee's function is to seek out those in the ward who are out of employment, list their names, addresses, and qualifications, and then in connection with all the priesthood members in the ward, to try to place them in contact with employment. If the priesthood are unable to get employment for them, then they are recommended to the control bureau, which represents the stake agency. 

RESULTS IN MAR VISTA WARD 

In this connection, I want to just briefly tell you what is being done in one of the wards in California, which is carrying out this very thing. Brother Orson Hewlett told this story of the Mar Vista ward in Los Angeles. They have a committee of this kind. Every Tuesday evening, when they hold their priesthood meeting, those who are out of employment are asked to raise their hands, their names and addresses are taken, and the kind of work they can do noted. Then if there is any one there who can suggest any opening for them — and there are often opportunities that men know of right there in that meeting — they are referred to those places. After these names are taken, this committee and others of the priesthood undertake to try to find them employment. The report is that splendid results have been obtained. Not only that, but the complete census of that ward has been taken and, in connection therewith, there have been listed, in type-written form, the names, addresses, and kind of work that those who are out of employment can perform. The result is that they are making headway and helping in that way to relieve suffering and avoid trouble and distress. I am sure that, if the priesthood quorums throughout the various wards of the Church will carry out this plan wherever unsatisfactory conditions prevail, a great improvement will be manifest. 

BENEFITS TO THE PRIESTHOOD 

We notice from the Deseret Employment Bureau reports that the applications for employment in the last few months have decreased somewhat. Whether or not that is due to the fact that employment conditions are improving, I am not prepared to say. However, I want to say to you that if all the wards and stakes, where any unemployment is found, will organize these priesthood committees for welfare work and for employment, and if the relief societies will also organize for this purpose, as is being done in many of the wards, that a great deal of trouble will be overcome. The priesthood quorums throughout the Church will help materially in putting the man in contact with the job, thereby providing gainful effort, and overcoming the necessity of providing charity. In addition thereto, the indirect benefits accruing therefrom to the various priesthod quorums will produce a finer social atmosphere, develop a greater cooperative spirit, promote brotherly love and fraternal fellowship, increase attendance at priesthood meetings, increase tithes and offerings, and produce splendid brotherhood. 

I appreciate the blessings and privileges of the Church. I realize the fact that there is divine guidance through the inspiration given to those who lead this Church. I pray that we may sustain them, and labor together diligently, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
