36
Afternoon 
05 10 1930
Elder James H. Moyle 
100
126-127

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am pleased to say that the missionaries in the Eastern States are in exceptional good health, and are performing a splendid work. 

There is probably nothing that indicates this more, in view of the distressing shortage of employment, than the fact that the number of tithe-payers has materially increased, with about twenty-four per cent increase in the amount of tithing paid. In confirmation of what has been already said, none, so far as I know, of those who pay tithing, is unemployed, with one exception, and he lost his temper and quit his job. 

In confirmation of what President Grant has said, I can testify to the fact that there is a marked change taking place in the sentiment of the people of the country toward our people. The Church is really, as he said, coming into its own, and I can conceive of nothing, unless it be the providences of God, that has made the marvelous change that has taken place. Naturally, no doubt, for I believe that is the way the Lord works. I am sure that the organ recitals from this tabernacle have performed a marvelous work in softening the minds of the people and helping to bring them to a realization of the fact that such music does not come from a low, uncultured and base people, but rather those with high, noble and pure conceptions. The work too on this temple block, at the Bureau of Information, I believe is being very helpful in changing the attitude of the many travelers and tourists who come to Utah. They meet our people and become acquainted with them and their accomplishments. They constitute a great auxiliary force in refuting the scandalous stories that have been so frequently circulated about us. These people frequently manifest their friendliness toward our missionaries, as they very frequently report in our conferences. 

One of the most notable developments in the Mission is the changed attitude which has taken place toward us, particularly since the Centennial celebration. We have comparatively little trouble in getting notices into the papers. They treat us well. Many of them will publish much that we want them to do. We gathered something over a thousand clippings and some of them splendid, lengthy articles, dealing fairly with our people, concerning the Centennial celebration. 

I am sure the periodicals and daily newspapers are ready to publish, if prepared in the right way, the most important and interesting facts relating to our organization, the culture "Mormonism" is developing, our accomplishments in matters of health, superior methods of training, educating and developing the young; our unparalleled missionary system and method of developing preachers which enables the Church to carry on without a paid clergy, and which insures the highest percentage of all church-going attendance without a paid preacher; a charity system, which is equally unique, not only in its completeness, but which is carried on so as to insure one hundred per cent of the money contributed going to the charity for which it was contributed, without anything being deducted for collection or distribution. I know of no other organization in which that is accomplished. 

These are of the utmost interest to all thinking people interested in the development and progress of human welfare, and when once understood arouse interest in learning what is behind it all; in other words, the material benefits or "fruits of Mormonism" once known arouse a desire to know why and from whence they come, and induce a study of the principles of the Gospel. 

During the last five months we have developed preaching the Gospel, as predicted in the Book of Mormon, from the house tops, or more literally over the radio free of charge in a number of large and prominent cities in the Mission. This is being done by young inexperienced missionaries. They write their own addresses and deliver them, first submitting them to us for revision. But in only a few cases has there been any substantial revision. Young men coming to the Mission at nineteen and twenty years of age. One, and I think the one who has led most successfully in obtaining this privilege, came to the Mission only twenty years of age. At first we were given only ten or twelve minutes in which to speak, the balance of the half hour to be devoted to music. Oh, if we could have more missionaries who, could sing! If you will furnish us with singers we will secure the radio for preaching the Gospel free. It was not long before the time was extended to a full hour in some cases, a half hour for preaching and a half hour for singing and music. And in all cases the time to preach has been extended. 

I would like to call attention to one other very interesting development. We are now exhibiting Mormonism in the fairs and large exhibitions, in which we lay special stress upon the. Word of Wisdom and its benefits upon our educational system, our training of the young; and our charity system. We are calling attention notably to the fact that not a dollar is expended in collecting and distributing funds for charitable purposes. 

This affords unexampled opportunities for Gospel conversations and the distribution of tracts by the tens of thousands. More than five thousand were distributed by half a dozen missionaries in one day from our booth in the great Eastern States Exposition recently held at Springfield, Massachusetts. 

The best feature of it all is the presentation of a few of our finest missionaries, whose very presence attracts attention and radiates the spirit of the Gospel of our Redeemer. 

My time is up. May the Lord help us to appreciate the great work in which we are engaged, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
