41
Afternoon 
05 10 1930
Sister Louise Y. Robison
103
132-133

None

None 

In an address given by our dear President Grant in Relief Society Conference last Thursday afternoon, he said, "I have no fear for the Church of Jesus Christ as long as the women of the Church are devoted to its principles." This implies a great responsibility, also a challenge to us to analyze ourselves and find if we are meeting the requirements. 

Attention has been called most forcibly by speakers in this Conference to the disregard of law by the people of the United States. This should be the concern of every mother, and she should ask wherein she can help correct this situation. 

A simple suggestion would be to avoid criticism of any person in authority, either civil or religious, before our children. It is an easy matter to cause distrust in their minds. They have not the philosophy to reason things out and the world is insecure to them. Unfortunately when we break down the confidence of our children in those holding authority, it is not long before the advice of parents is questioned. 

The cause of prohibition, in which we are so interested, is often weakened by the comments made in the home. If a parent, in whom the child has confidence, criticizes an enforcement officer or expresses the opinion that the law can never be enforced, the effect it must have on young people is soon apparent. We must remember that the men and women of the future will be only as strong as we help our boys and girls to be in our homes. 

Speaking of prohibition, only last summer I heard the Commissioner of Education of Idaho, speaking in defense of prohibition, declare that it is a mistake to say there is more drinking among business men now than formerly. He referred to a group of Union Pacific men who met in Nebraska less than twenty years ago, and before the first evening was over there were few men who had not been drinking. Approximately this same group met in Denver within the last two years. Mr. Gray, the president, heard there were four men who were drinking. He found them, put them on the train and sent them home, dismissed from the company. 

I have a testimony that this is the Church of God, that the Prophet Joseph Smith really did have his mission given him by our Father in heaven. May all mothers have the Spirit of God to be with them that they may never say anything unlovely or unworthy! May we, as Latter-day Saint mothers, ever be true to the covenants we have made, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
