30
Morning 
05 10 1930
Elder Hyrum G. Smith 
32
110-112

None

None

I desire, my brethren and sisters, to have the Spirit and blessings of the Lord, to express my gratitude for your faith and prayers, and for the mercy and blessings of the Lord that I am able to be present upon this occasion, to enjoy in a degree the blessings of health and to enjoy the teachings and testimonies of my brethren. I am pleased to see this house filled with those who are not here to be seen of men, but to serve the living God, and to receive further strength and enlightenment to honor him in the work that is sacred and important in this day and time. 

HAPPINESS THROUGH BLESSINGS OF THE GOSPEL 

For some reason or other there has never come into my life that happy privilege which has come to many of the missionaries of going into the world and seeing people hearken unto their testimonies and come from a world of darkness into a new world of light and understanding. But it has come to my heart to be happy when I hear the testimonies of my brethren, for I realize that joy has come to their hearts through the blessings of the Lord upon their humble words in defense of truth and righteousness. So I share with them the great joy of seeing our brethren and sisters accept the truth and come out of the world — all the nations and kindreds and tongues of the world — fulfilling the great promises of our Lord in gathering his children to the truth. 

STRIVE FOR PEACE 

I am grateful for the peace that exists in the Church today. It has always been my pride to be a peacemaker, and to abhor contention and strife. I would like to bespeak for the Church a greater degree of peacemaking. We should all be peacemakers, every one of us, first with ourselves, in our homes, and then with our neighbors. I bespeak for you, my brethren and sisters, a further degree of energy and diligence in the preparation for peace in our own homes and in our own hearts. Then the strength of our testimonies, through our works, will continue to grow and bear fruit, even in spite of the fact that war and contention may be around us. 

MAKING A PROPER USE OF OUR AGENCY 

I realize also that it is our right to do as we please; in other words, we have our agency. The Lord has never taken it from us, and I am of the opinion that he never will, so long as we do as we please in a manner that will not interfere with any one else in his right to do as he pleases. Yet we should be wise, prudent, and careful in the use of our agency. We are naturally prone to do the things that we know how to do and the things that we like to do. We get into the habit of doing things, sometimes in spite of the fact that we know better than we do. We know we should do better. We know we should do differently than we do, yet we know we have our agency. Therefore, I sincerely admonish my brethren and sisters to strive more diligently to do the things they know best to do, and then strive to do better all the time the right thing. 

I have heard it said and preached that there are many among us who pray: "Oh Lord, help us to be right, for our minds are already made up." That is largely due to the fact that we are in the habit of doing about as we please. I hope, my brethren and sisters, when you go to your homes, after this Conference, that you will do very much as you please, but please be more careful, more prayerful, more humble, and more willing to do the things you have been taught, the things you know are better than your own way, even better than you have ever done in the past. By this means we will all grow in the spirit of brotherly love, in the spirit of the Lord, and in the spirit of peace. 

THE WORK OF THE LORD 

I realize that the time is well spent, but this is a glorious privilege to stand here and look into the faces of thousands of my brethren and sisters who I am sure know as well as J do that this is the work of God, a marvelous work and a wonder. There is nothing in all the world today more wonderful than the work of the Lord, especially the work which has been entrusted to the hands of the Latter-day Saints. 

Every part of my body, every bit of strength that I possess, every atom of my being, bears testimony that this is the work of the Lord. In fact, I know nothing else in all the world so well as I know that this is the work of God. I pray for greater strength, greater courage, a greater degree of obedience, that I may go forth with you, my brethren and sisters, and live in such a manner as to enjoy the blessings the Lord has in preparation and in store for us.

BLESSINGS THROUGH KEEPING COMMANDMENTS 

I assure you, my brethren and sisters, through the spirit of testimony that fills my soul, that the Lord is not going to leave us, nor this people, without his blessings. If you will use your agency in honoring him, through keeping his commandments, he will bless you in your homes, in your stores, in your fields, in your places of business. He will bless your herds and your cattle and your folds. He will bless you in all your righteous endeavors to do good; he will open up the way before you, that you may have a greater desire to share with others, and to prepare your sons and daughters to go upon missions in defense of his work, in a spirit of true unselfishness. I know that the blessings of the Lord are rich in preparation for the faithful of Israel, both scattered and gathered, and I pray that his Spirit and blessings may continue to grow in your hearts and be at your hand, that you may serve and honor him and be in very deed what you profess to be. 

I bless you and promise, my brethren and sisters, that in whatever capacity you are called to labor, whether at home or abroad, peace, contentment, and a greater degree of courage will come to you in your work. 

THE NEEDY AND UNEMPLOYED 

I pray also that the Lord will bless those who are unemployed, that through a spirit of willingness to work and to share they may enjoy the spirit of peace and the opportunity to provide their necessities. I pray the Lord to bless all the needy, and leave none to suffer unjustly or unnecessarily. As his servant, I bless the Church to this end, that in the Church, through using the powers which God has given us, we may not suffer nor allow our neighbors to suffer unjustly, nor unnecessarily. 

May the Lord bless us all and continue to inspire those whom he has called to lead Israel, from his servant, the President of the Church, down to the least and last one called, whether in the priesthood, in the auxiliary organizations, in the temples, in the schools, in the fields or shops, in the offices, or wherever they are called to labor. 

I bless the Church and those who are working honestly and willingly to honor and serve the Lord in righteousness and truth, that in their hearts peace may abide, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
