35
Afternoon 
05 10 1930
Elder Samuel O. Bennion 
2
125-126

None

None

I have been greatly impressed during the past summer in reading the History of the Church which has recently been compiled by President Brigham H. Roberts, and in finding therein the expressions of the leaders of our Church who have long since passed away. 

I commend to the men and women of this Church, especially the youth, the reading of that history. I hope that it may be found in all the homes of the people. 

Those men bear witness, and the history of them gives evidence, that they were in reality servants of the living God. No one could accomplish what Brigham Young did, and those mighty pioneers who were with him in the beginning of this great work in this western country, unless God had been with. I think we ought to become more familiar with the work of our people, that we may realize what it cost to establish the Church of God in this land. The Lord has provided a background of history that will refute any charge that could be brought against this people. The historical record is wonderful and the doctrinal record is just as certain. The Lord selected mighty men, and according to the Prophet Joseph Smith, they were chosen before the foundations of this earth were laid, to establish his work in the day and age in which we live. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that things do not happen by chance; but that the Lord provides for all the things that have come to pass. Then he has placed the responsibility on his people to do their best to carry out his purposes. He gave a revelation in which the free agency of man is referred to as follows: 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward." 

I bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, that the men who have stood at the head of this Church in this land from the day of Brigham Young until now have been men of God and have exercised the privilege that God gave them, and that the Church has been stabilized and led just as though our Eternal Father had been here. For I am convinced that Jesus Christ, who gave his life for the children of men, has never at any time since the organization of this Church been very far from it. I bear my testimony to you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
