42
Afternoon 
05 10 1930
Sister Ruth May Fox 
104
133-134

None

None

My brethren and sisters, last Sunday evening I attended a missionary farewell. The young man was quite bashful and while he was getting up he heard a dog bark on the outside. So he opened his remarks by saying, "How I envy that dog!" 

I have been feeling that to be in a comfortable chair by the radio at home would be a very happy condition. However I realize that I am not standing before you because of any merit of my own, but I am here to represent my counselors and the young ladies of my board and about twelve thousand splendid officers in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. 

I am very proud and happy to stand here and represent them. In that capacity I would like to remind the audience that one of the books on our reading course this year is "The Life of the Prophet Joseph Smith," written by our late Brother George Q. Cannon. We feel sure that if you will read it and encourage your family to read it your sympathies will be renewed for the founders of this Church and your faith will be increased. 

This morning as I sat in this great congregation I felt that it was a very great privilege and blessing to be one of the ten thousand who were here assembled. I testify to you that the words that have fallen from the lips of the brethren who have spoken from this stand have been verily the words of God, given to us by the voice of his servants, and so I think I cannot do better than to remind you of the Savior's words when he said: 

"Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock; 

"And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not; for it was founded upon a rock. 

"And everyone that heareth of these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand; 

"And the rain descended and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell; and great was the fall of it." 

My brethren and sisters, you and I are building our houses upon the rock. May God help us to build them so strong that no matter how hard" the winds may blow or the rains descend our houses shall never fall. God grant it in the name of Jesus, Amen.
