44
Afternoon 
05 10 1930
President Heber J. Grant 
10
137-139

None

None

The time has expired, but I cannot refrain from saying a few words. I am grateful for the splendid attendance we have had here today. It has been remarkable. I am thankful for the rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord. I am grateful for the splendid singing that we have listened to and for all of the inspired remarks that have been made; particularly am I thankful for the splendid testimonies averaging from three to five minutes — all kept within the time. I am very grateful indeed for these testimonies. I wish we had time to hear them at greater length, but the simple declaration of a knowledge of the divinity of this work from the men and women who stand at the head of the missionary work and the auxiliary associations in this Church is a source of great satisfaction, and these testimonies cannot be denied. No matter whether people believe them or not, those of us who have the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord know that they are true, because we have that same testimony ourselves. 

I did not make any remarks at the close of the last Conference because the time had expired. But I have made up my mind that in the future even if the time has expired I am going to say a few things that are in my mind. 

APPRECIATION OF ELDER ROBERTS' WORK 

I want to express my gratitude, my thanks, my love and my blessing to Brother Brigham H. Roberts for the marvelous and inspiring energy that he has put forth in producing the six great volumes of the history of this Church. It is a monumental labor and he has worked at it day and night. I know of no man who has been more diligent in his labors for the Church, day in and day out, than Brother Roberts has been preparing this great history, and he has the gratitude of all the brethren of the Presidency and the Apostles for the diligence, the great care and attention that he has given to the production of these volumes. He is still busily engaged, more perfectly arranging the indexes, etc., for the history. I rejoice in this wonderful accomplishment. 

GRATITUDE FOR WORK OF CHOIR 

I was thrilled by the United States Marine band concert that was held in this building recently. I enjoyed it very much. But the real thrill came when I heard the two selections that were rendered by our Choir. I have never heard our sweet singer, Sister Laurinda P. Brewerton, who sang the solo part in "Inflammatus," sing better at any time than she did on that occasion. It seemed to me that she was inspired. I know that the band must have been inspired. 

I rejoice in the broadcasting. I repeat the gratitude of the General Authorities to the employers of the members of our Choir who are excused each week in order to participate in this broadcast. 

BLESSING AND TESTIMONY 

I wanted to say this much, and I want to leave my blessing upon all the General Authorities, the General Officers, the Presidents of Stakes, the Bishops of Wards, the Presidents of Branches, Presidents of Missions and all men and women in any place of responsibility in this Church. They have my love, my confidence and my blessing, also the blessing of my Counselors. I leave my blessing upon all Israel, and upon all honest people the world over. I thank God that I know he lives, that I know that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and living God, and all the doubt of all the world cannot change the knowledge that God has given to me and to the Latter-day Saints by the hundreds of thousands. May God's blessings attend you all, I ask, in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer, Amen.
