28
Morning
05 10 1930
Elder Hyrum W. Valentine
117
106-107

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I can assure you that I feel that this is a very signal honor for me, but I feel tremendously weak and most humble in this responsible position. 

I have enjoyed exceedingly the spirit of this Conference. I have been thrilled with the messages that have been borne in upon us, and I give myself willingly over to the inspiration of the Lord, that I too may be the means of adding to or emphasizing the messages that we have already received. 

I thank the Lord for my membership in this Church, and I have been made to say frequently and recently that I believe the time has long since passed when we should speak of the duties and obligations that rest upon us, as members and workers in this great and glorious service; for I believe that it is not so much a duty, and not so much an obligation that is resting upon us, but it is a divine privilege and opportunity to be a member of this Church; and the greatest blessing that can ever come to us in this world or in the world to come, is to be called upon to render service in this great and glorious cause. I thank the Lord for such a testimony in my heart, and I pray that he may give me the power to take advantage of the opportunities and blessings that are afforded me in this divine work. 

We will not know the divinity of this work except by participation therein. I have often said, and I desire to repeat, that of all people in the world we are the six or seven hundred thousand who, if the opportunity were given, and if it were made possible for all to speak with one voice, would be able to rise upon our feet and say, "I know this is the work of God" — a literal fulfilment of the promise of the Savior of the world, when he said: "They that do the will shall know of the doctrine." And I say the six or seven hundred thousand people that we have as members of this Church can rise and say that they know of themselves that this is the work of God. May we press on, and may we realize that there are specific things that we must do, and not only be members of the Church, in order to realize the growth, the progress, the opportunity, the blessings that are ours in this great work, through our activity and participation. Where in all the world is there such an opportunity for work and service for boys and girls, little children, adults, and those who are advanced in years, as in this the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? 

This organization has sometimes been compared with the German army. It should not be compared with any army or any navy, but it should be contrasted. This is the Church and Kingdom of God, the perfection of an organization for growth, for progress, for development, for construction; whereas an army, a navy, is an organization that may be effective, it may be efficient, but if it is it is effective and efficient for destruction and disintegration. And for that reason the two cannot be compared, but contrasted. 

Thank God for our membership! Thank God for our leaders! Thank God for the divinity that is characterized in every activity of this work! May the Lord help us to be faithful and true and diligent and energetic, grasping our opportunities, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
