34
Afternoon 
05 10 1930
President Anthony W. Ivins
13
117-125

None

None 

Before beginning my remarks I desire to express the gratitude I feel this afternoon that my life has been prolonged and the privilege granted me of meeting again with this vast congregation of Latter-day Saints, these people of American birth, people of English birth, people from the Scandinavian countries, people from that wonderful nation, Germany, people from France, and from the islands of the sea. It is a miracle of the ages that these representative people are gathered together, baptized into one faith, bound together by a single brotherhood where the prejudices of the past may be forgotten, and they have become one in the service of the Lord, looking steadfastly forward for the coming and establishment of the kingdom of Christ his Son. 

I have opened the Bible at the scripture to which Brother J. Golden Kimball called our attention at the beginning of the Conference. The Lord here tells us that when a man speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not nor come to pass, it is evident that the man spoke presumptuously and without authority. It conversely follows that if a man prophesies and the words which he uttters come true he is a true prophet. 

NEWSPAPER HEADLINES 

A few weeks ago, unfolding the morning paper, as it is my custom to do before going to my daily tasks, I read the following headlines: "Jobless Fire Idaho Forests; idle men start blazes in order to procure work; one thousand acres of timber on fire." "Rebels begin rule in Argentina, after battle in streets. Government quits after rebellion takes many lives. Argentine Army and Navy mutiny." "Santo Domingo made shambles by storm. Deaths near two thousand. Damage set at twenty millions of dollars." 

The following morning the paper reported four thousand bodies, victims of the tornado which had swept the city, had been cremated. The same paper contained a map designating the parts of Brazil, Argentina and Peru which were in open rebellion to their governments, in South America, and told us that nearer home, in Illinois, a party of American men and women, returning from an evening spent at a theater were held up and robbed of one hundred and thirty thousand dollars. 

On my desk, at the same time was a local paper which gave notice to the people of the city and state that a defaulting employee who had been arrested, charged with having embezzled one thousand dollars from his employer, was released by the police department, after the gamblers of the city, to whom he had lost the embezzled money, had been assessed and returned the money which the defaulter had lost to them, with the threat that if they refused their gambling dens would be closed. It logically follows that if they complied with the demand made they would receive protection and be permitted to continue their nefarious occupation. 

SIGNS OF CHRIST’S COMING 

Contemplating these occurrences and those of the past six months, since the last General Conference of the Church was held, my mind reverted to the words of Christ our Lord uttered just prior to his betrayal, trial and crucifixion. As Jesus came out from the temple at Jerusalem his disciples called his attention to the manner of construction of the buildings and the great stones which the workmen had placed in the walls. The Redeemer answered them saying: 

"Seest thou these great "buildings? There shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down." 

Passing on to the Mount of Olives his disciples spoke to him privately saying: 

"Tell us when these things shall be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the World? 

"And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. 

"For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many." 

And then he went on to tell them that it would be at a time when they would hear of wars and rumors of wars, that nation would rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; that there would be famine and pestilences and earthquakes in divers places. 

He declared that Jerusalem would be trodden down by the Gentiles and her people scattered, but with the assurance that at a period designated as the latter days, when the times of the Gentile nations would be fulfilled, they would be gathered again and restored to the heritage promised by the Lord to their father Abraham. 

He declared that prior to his coming to assume dominion over the earth upon which we dwell the fulness of the Gospel which he taught and exemplified in his life, would be restored to earth and carried to all nations, kindreds, tongues and people; that those whom he would call would go into all the world, calling the people back to faith in a living God, and service to him who created the heavens and the earth, the sea and the fountains of water, and warning them that the hour had come when the righteous judgments of an offended God, whom they had ceased to serve, whom they defy, and whose holy name they blaspheme, had come.

He declared that after testimony of the restoration had been borne by the faithful witnesses whom he would choose, he would speak to the people of the world by the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and of tempests and the waves of the sea heaving themselves beyond their bounds, and earthquakes which would cause men to fall to the ground and not be able to stand. It was to be a time of commotion which would bring perplexity and distress to the nations, such as the world had never known. "And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in power and great glory." 

Nearly twenty centuries have passed since the declarations to which I have referred were made. It cannot be claimed by critics, as is so often the case, that there is an error in dates, and that the declarations were made after the events referred to had occurred. 

FULFILMENT FOLLOWS 

Now, what of the fulfilment? 

The spot upon which the temple of Solomon was to be erected was designated by the Prophet Gad. It was built at Jerusalem, upon Mount Moriah, said to be the place where Abraham built the altar upon which Isaac was to be offered a sacrifice to the Lord. At least 150,000 men were employed in the construction of the temple. It was without doubt the most expensive, elaborate and richly adorned edifice erected up to the time of its construction, about a thousand years before the birth of Christ. Gold was used lavishly in its adornment, at least seven million dollars' worth as we count values. 

The temple was desecrated and a large portion of its priceless adornment carried away by the armies of Egypt and the kings of Israel, after the Ten Tribes had revolted. It was finally destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar, the great king, at the time the Jews were carried into captivity to Babylon, about 600 years before the birth of Christ. The Bible tells us that he carried away all the treasures of the house of the Lord and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold which Solomon the king had made in the temple of the Lord. 

It was about eighty-seven years later, after the fall of the Babylonian kingdom to the Medo-Persian armies, that Cyrus, the Persian king, issued a proclamation granting permission to those of the Jews who desired to do so to return to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple which had been destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar. 

A large number of Jewish families availed themselves of this opportunity and under the leadership of Zerubbabel and others returned to Jerusalem, rebuilt the temple and restored the ritual which had been established there by King Solomon. 

After the conquest of the Medo-Persian kingdom by Alexander of Macedon, known as Alexander the Great, the Greek general Artiochus Epiphanes, took the city of Jerusalem by storm, put many of the inhabitants to death, profaned the temple, and dedicated it to the idolatrous worship of Jupiter Olympus. 

Forty years before the birth of Christ, Herod the Great became king of Judea. He was an Idumean or Edamite by birth, a descendant of Abraham through Isaac, being descended from Esau, his eldest son, and was not in sympathy with the Jewish people, or their religion, but through the influence of Rome had become the titular king of Judea. It was this man who ordered the slaughter of the children, after the birth of Christ, in order to remove one whom he feared might seek to succeed to the throne which he occupied. 

He undertook the restoration of the temple on a far more elaborate plan than any builder who had preceded him in so far as size and substantial construction were concerned, but not with the priceless embellishment which Solomon had lavished upon it. He declared that he would build it so strong that it would never again be destroyed. This construction was in progress at the birth of Christ, and was finished during his ministry. 

During the war of the Maccabees, when the Maccabaeus brothers, Jonathan, Judas and Simon sought to throw off the yoke which the government established by Alexander the Great had fastened upon them, ambassadors were sent to Rome with a petition to the senate asking for support in their wars with the Greeks. 

The petition was regarded with favor, and a treaty entered into by which Rome pledged herself to come to the aid of the Jews, and the latter agreed to assist Rome against her enemies in case of need. Rome notified Greece that if her oppression of the Jews did not cease at once she would make war upon her both by land and by sea. The text of this treaty, which is available, was written upon plates of brass, and sent to Jerusalem. One of the few instances where a message was written upon metal plates in ancient times. As a result of this treaty Palestine became a Roman province, and remained so until after the birth and crucifixion of our Lord. 

This was the condition at Jerusalem at the time Jesus made the statements regarding the destruction of the temple to which I have referred. 

Jewish and Roman thought were incompatible, and in A. D. 66, thirty years after the crucifixion, a general revolt against Rome occurred, and the Jews took possession of Jerusalem. 

Vespasian and his son Titus were sent with a Roman army to bring them back into submission, and after a siege which continued about four years, one of the most frightful and atrocious sieges of history, characterized by unspeakable horrors, the city was taken by Titus, who burned the temple, leveled the city to the ground and scattered the Jewish people to the four corners of the earth. Historians tell us that the very foundation stones were dug up by the Romans in the hope that treasure might be found buried there. 

THREE CENTURIES LATER 

It is said that the Roman emperor, Julian, three centuries later, in his hatred of Christianity, which had become the dominant religion of his country, seeking to restore the pagan worship, sought to rebuild the temple at Jerusalem, but met with so many obstacles, some of which appeared to be supernatural, abandoned the undertaking and returned to Rome with the statement: "The Nazarene has triumphed." 

I have gone briefly over the history of the past in order to bring before you, my brethren and sisters, the undeniable evidence that the words uttered by Christ our Lord, in which he declared the destruction of the temple at Jerusalem and the scattering of the Jews have been literally fulfilled. 

SIGNIFICANCE OF SCRIPTURE 

You may ask, what relationship to us has this scripture to which I have called attention? We who are assembled here, members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, gathered in conference nearly two thousand years after the events referred to occurred. 

It has very great significance, my brethren and sisters, and it is for that reason that I have called your attention to it. It tells us how unchangeable and certain is the fulfilment of the words of the Lord as he has uttered them through his servants the prophets.

The fulfilment of prophecy came in the past and generally comes through such natural means that we hardly observe it or know that it is coming. And so I feel that there are many others of the declarations of the prophets to which I might turn, the fulfilment of which is before our very eyes, and almost without our knowledge or attention. 

LIGHT AND KNOWLEDGE 

Seventy years have passed away since I became a member of the Church by baptism. During that period of time there has radiated from the presence of God our Father a dispensation of light, increasing knowledge and intelligence, which is the glory of God, to a degree never before known, nor even dreamed of by our fathers. 

With these increased conveniences and blessings which have come to us, there should have been manifested in our lives both by example and precept, greater faith in and service to our Father who is in heaven, who is the author of all these blessings. 

I ask you, my brethren and sisters, and with you I ask the Christian world at large, has this been the case? Are we a better people in our morals? Do we observe with greater reverence the Sabbath day to keep it holy? Do we revere the name of the Lord and hold it more sacred because of his increased blessings? Have we become less selfish and grasping after wealth? Do we think more of the poor and unfortunate, or do we in our hurried struggle of life forget them and leave them to suffer while we live surrounded with abundance? Do we love and serve our country more, and more devotedly honor its laws? 

I leave you to answer these questions. 

VISIT TO ST. GEORGE 

A short time ago, in company with President Grant, I visited my old home at St. George. Early in the morning before it was light, I rose and walked out to the little cemetery and stood by the graves of my parents. As the light increased I walked down the narrow streets and read the inscriptions on the tombstones. I remembered every one of the men and women whose names were inscribed upon them. T thought of them all and could remember something in their lives — every one from the humblest to the most honored — which had led me to love and honor them. 

I knew these men as I have known no others. I knew the sacrifices which they had made, that they had given all they had to give- for an ideal. I had seen them face danger with the courage of Spartans, and perform acts of mercy with the gentleness of women, and when their mortal race was run and they were face to face with death, meet it with the sublime resignation of martyrs. 

They had been my teachers, the guardians of my youth. They taught me faith in a living God, that he is the same good Heavenly Father that he ever was, and will watch over and bless all those who put their trust in him. They taught me that birth into this life was not the beginning of my existence nor death the end of it. They taught me to defraud no man, though the thing may be small. They taught me to love virtue and refrain from any habit which, when my record is read from the house top, as it will be, would bring the blush of shame to my cheek. They taught me to love my country and honor and obey its laws; that the government under which it is my privilege to live is a God-given heritage, and that it was my duty to defend it against all enemies, be they foreign or domestic, if necessary at the cost of life itself. 

A SILENT PRAYER 

As I stood there in the gray dawn, in that silent city of the dead, I breathed a silent prayer of thanksgiving to my Father in heaven that my lot had been cast with these humble, God-fearing men and women, and prayed that as I had been with them and served them in mortal life, so might I be with them for service in the life to come. And I knew that if I proved my devotion to the truth as they proved theirs that my prayer would be answered. 

I desire to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that had I been brought into any other cemetery within the boundaries of this state and walked there and communed with the people who have given their lives for this same ideal I would have found exactly the same condition. 

EARLY DAY FIDELITY 

I could not refrain, and that was what led me to quote from these daily papers as I did in the beginning of my remarks, from drawing the contrast between the conditions which existed at the time when the example and influence of these men dominated the politics of this State and those which exist today, if we are to believe the reports which come to us through the daily press of the country. 

I do not remember an instance where an innocent man was convicted of wrongdoing, or where a known criminal escaped punishment. There were no men in the State prison who had violated the trust reposed in them by their fellow citizens who had elected them to office, nor men out of prison who, if justice were administered, would be inside. Men were taught that public office was a public trust and must be administered with fidelity and honor, and they did it. I wonder what their reaction would be if they were here today to witness the changed conditions which exist in this modern world of ours, a world so different from that in which they lived that it can scarcely be recognized as belonging to the same planet upon which they lived. 

GOOD MEN NEEDED IN OFFICE 

I have no desire to go back to that day, to exchange automobiles for ox teams, which I have driven, nor to exchange our wonderful harvesting machinery for the cradle with which I have harvested grain, and the flail with which I threshed it. But I do appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, to return to the old paths of virtue, honor and integrity which your fathers trod. No matter what the development of science or of invention may bring to us these virtues remain the same. They are eternal truths and the advancement of our so-called civilization cannot change them. 

No one will deny that we are living in perilous times. No one who is familiar with the Scripture will deny that we are living at. the time when our Lord says his glorious appearance is near. 

Only the day before yesterday the press advised us that one million dollars was being subscribed by the lawless element in Chicago for the purpose of removing from office the Commissioner of Police because of his activities in the suppression of crime. 

If it is true that organized crime has fastened its tentacles upon our own city and state, as reported in the quotations which I made in the beginning of my remarks, is it not time that we arouse from the lethargy of indifferent citizenship and demand reform and see to it that good men and wise men are selected to control our public affairs? 

There are such men, equal to any of the past. They are to be found in all political parties. They are not confined to any religious organization, but are all around us in every vocation of life. Such men now represent us in political life, in national, state and city affairs. As I know many of these men I cannot think of others for whom I would desire to exchange them. I regret that I cannot feel so toward all. 

I make no plea for any candidate, for any political party, or any church. But I do plead with all the people, and particularly the church, and I refer to all Christian people, to unitedly resolve that the sacred heritage bequeathed to us by our fathers be sacredly preserved, that this country of ours may continue to be a light to the world, reaching out its hands to all people, guaranteeing to all men liberty under the law, but license to do wrong to none. I regard it as my duty and the duty of every other professed Christian to assume this attitude if our country is to be rescued from anarchy, violence and chaos. 

My brethren and sisters, I have studied the history of the past. I know the story of the rise and fall of Rome, of Babylon, of Egypt, and of other great nations, and the one outstanding thing that brought that about was the corruption of the officials who were placed in charge of affairs of state. I do not wish to continue to quote scripture in order to demonstrate that we are living in a time when the Lord has said that these very things shall exist. But he has warned us against them. He has declared the destiny of this nation and of all other nations. I wish simply to say that if they are to persist, if they continue, it will be when the people return to the Lord God of heaven and in justice and righteousness serve him, both in civil and ecclesiastical affairs. And if this shall fail these very elements that have resulted in the destruction of the civilizations of the past, if they shall be permitted by us to persist, will eventually bring to us perplexity, confusion and final chaos. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and may he help us all to magnify our callings, to stand righteously for that which is right and immovably opposed to that which is wrong, is my prayer, and I ask it through Jesus Christ our Lord, Amen.
