Second Overflow
03 04 1927


ELDER BRIGHAM S. YOUNG 

Former President Northwestern States Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters: It is a great privilege I enjoy in standing before you for a few moments. During that time I trust that I may enjoy the spirit of the conference, which has marked the preceding meetings of the morning. I have recently returned from a mission to the Northwestern states. It was a glorious period in my life. One of my regrets is that every man in our communities may not have  pleasure and enjoy the profit of presiding over a mission. It is one of the finest and most developing experiences that can come into the life of a Latter-day Saint. 

Perhaps the most baffling and most difficult problem to overcome in missionary labor is the indifference of the world to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We learn that men of intelligence, who are otherwise engaged in the deep quest for truth, give no consideration to the most wonderful and vital philosophy that has ever been revealed to the world, in the system incorporated in the gospel of Jesus Christ and revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It establishes an idealism that is incomparable, in the history of the world, except where the truth has formerly existed. Men who are seeking the good of their fellows, if they would but heed the call of the gospel, could accomplish to the fullest of their heart's desire. I was disappointed in men whom I met, men of high character, men of intelligence, men with vast intellectual understanding, but who were incapable, apparently, of seeing either the philosophy or the wondrous saving power incorporated in the system of theology revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. And yet when I come to draw comparisons between the indifference of the people of the world and, unhappily, the indifferences manifest among the people here at home, I am not so greatly astonished. 

Today marks the 97th anniversary of the establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. How far have we who have lived in the light of that gospel progressed under this wonderful system that God has given us for our development? You have but to ask yourselves what effect it has had in our lives; and as it has affected our lives, so have we made progress. As we advantaged ourselves of that which the gospel has for all men, and particularly for those of us who have been reared in it, to that degree are we extended in the breadth and depth of our understanding. The gospel is of a character that a man may be benefited by it if he will, but it has no help for the man who fails to take advantage of that which it offers. It is a perfect system of self-development. A man can rise to the most exalted heights, if he will; or he may loiter by the way, waste the day-light until he is overtaken in his darkness and thence must grope his way, because he failed to take advantage of the light. 

Today is our day, brethren and sisters. We cannot hope, when the night comes, when the grave has demanded its own, for the development and progress that is available to us today. These bodies of ours God has given us for development. We are separated from them when we go into the grave. We are not ourselves, we are only partial when the body and the spirit are separated. Why will we loiter, instead of developing that which is perfect, the human soul. Separated, it is a divided thing; together, it may rise to the most exalted height. We preach to the world faith. Have we faith? We preach to the world repentance. Do we repent? Do we place our feet each day upon the mistakes of yesterday, using them as stepping stones to a higher life, to the new birth symbolized by the baptism of water? Have we taken to ourselves every day the new birth of the Spirit? Have we risen to more exalted heights? Are we in closer communion with God than we were yesterday? If not, we have failed to take advantage of the opportunity offered in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

The prophet said, "You must acquire capacity." To do what.' To endure, to suffer, to wait, to be patient, to plod, ever with the goal in view of the service of the Almighty and the salvation of his children. The reason God is God is because he has acquired all for which we are laboring. To the degree that we fail in acquisition and development, to that degree must we wait before we can come into the presence of him who has overcome all things. 

It is true that we have the gospel of Jesus Christ, but it is only of value to us as we profit by what it offers. Are we profiting? That is for us to answer. If we are not honest, if not truthful, do not love our neighbors; if we are not devoted to the service of God, we have lost, have failed in development, failed in expansion. We have failed, as the Prophet adjured us, in the acquisition of capacity. 

The glorious thing in this gospel to me is, as the Prophet has told us, that we must acquire capacity that we may learn how to be gods ourselves. The most tremendous thought that was ever revealed to the human family was, that we, the sons of God, may rise to be what he is. That is the most glorious thing that ever animated the human heart or stimulated the human mind, that we, weak, erring though we are, may be even as God, our Father. What a tremendous thought. Can we do it by permitting ourselves to be engaged in the grovelling things of the world, or descend into the filth that marks the age in which we live, or shall we rise above it ? As Brother J. Golden Kimball said here this morning, shall we think for ourselves? Shall we be of those who radiate the light of the gospel of the Son of God, or shall we follow after the world, partaking of what the world has to offer and sharing in the sufferings that must inevitably ensue? Sin is death, as righteousness and the works of God are salvation. Let us hold, as Shakespeare says, a mirror up to our souls wherein we may see reflected what we are. We are radio stations. From us emanates just what we are. We are sending out into the universe these flashes that come from the human heart, that come from the soul which is a god in embryo. 

This people, after 97 years of activity and teaching, should be as a city set upon a hill. And, as was said here this morning, Salt Lake City is a noted city, by reason of its history, its manner of establishment, the circumstances which produced the development of this intermountain country. We are a noted people, by reason of the achievements of the Latter-day Saints in the valleys of the mountains. This is a remarkable city. But, if we were living as the Almighty intends that we should live, we would be so remarkable that no man or woman would come among us but would testify of the truth that this is indeed the city of the Saints, a place where God abides. 

I am anxious for our people. I am anxious that the gospel of Jesus 

Christ may be extended to the world. We can preach it. May all of us in our lives so manifest the glories of the gospel that men and women shall praise God because of having seen manifest in us the gospel of his Son. This I ask in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. ANDERSON 

Former President Swedish Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters: I sincerely pray that God may inspire me with his holy Spirit in what I shall say. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has a message to the world : they declare that God created the heavens and the earth and all that is in them; that he is the Father of our spirits; that we lived with him in the eternal world; and that Jesus Christ is his only begotten Son, the Savior and Redeemer of the world. Further, that God arranged a plan before this earth was organized by which his sons and daughters who would obey could return into his presence. 

The fundamental of that plan is faith in God and in his Son Jesus Christ. Jesus, in speaking to the Jews, called their attention to this very important fact. He asked them, "Do ye believe in God?" They claimed to believe in God. Then he said, "Believe also in me." Have the people of the world the message of Jesus Christ? Do they actually believe in him as the Savior and Redeemer of the world? Christ says, "Whither I go ye know, and the way ye know. Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way ? Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me." Jesus is the way, the truth and the light; no man cometh back to God except through Jesus Christ. 

This plan requires not only faith in God and in his Son, but it requires repentance from sin, leaving off wickedness and all that which is wrong before God; for if one desires to enter into the presence of God, one's sins must be taken away. The plan provides baptism for the remission of sins. And in order that one may remain faithful and true to God, so that he shall not falter by the way-side, a further arrangement is provided, the bestowal of the Holy Ghost, which leads men and women into all truth, leads them back to God, and makes it possible for them to live that Christ-like life which shall eventually prepare them for, and entitle them to, eternal life. 

We read in the holy scriptures that Jesus took Peter, James and John upon the Mount and there conversed with Moses and Elias, and a cloud over-shadowed them, and a voice was heard from the cloud saying, "This is my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, hear ye him." Was this voice only to Peter, James and John? It was the voice of God to all his children, born and unborn, declaring that this was his Son Jesus Christ, the well beloved. "Hear ye him." Have the people of the world caught the echo of the sound of that voice? Has faith entered into their souls? Do they believe Jesus Christ to be the very Son of God, as the Father declared he was? More than a hundred years ago GENERAL CONFERENCE  same voice came back to the earth and declared to the boy prophet, Joseph Smith, that this was his beloved Son and to hear him, and from that day to this the message has gone forth from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that God has again spoken, declared anew the divinity of his Son, the way to salvation, the plan prepared for his children, that it might be possible for them to return to him and gain eternal life. 

What the world needs today is a spiritual awakening, a realization of what God requires of them, a turning away from sin, seeking the way to which Jesus Christ calls attention. 

Jesus remarked to his disciples, when he sent them out to preach the gospel and to baptize in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Ghost, "I will be with you even unto the end of the world." But what requirements did he make? "Observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you." That warning is to all the world, to those who accept Jesus Christ and the gospel plan. They are required to observe and keep all of the commandments and the sayings of Jesus. If it so be that we do that, he will be with us even to the end of the world. Salvation and exaltation are promised only upon condition that we remain faithful unto the end. 

I bear witness to you this afternoon that the gospel of Jesus Christ is restored and that this is the Church and kingdom of God established upon the earth. I also bear witness to you of the truth of the saying of Jesus when he said that the kingdom of heaven is likened unto a pearl of great price, that when men found it they went and sold all that they possessed that they might possess that pearl of great price. 

The gospel of Jesus Christ means more to me than all the gold and silver of this world, and all that this world has to offer. I prize my standing in this Church above all. And I pray that God will bless you, and each of us, that we may continue faithful unto the end, and those who have not yet made covenant with God, that they may seek until they shall find. Go to God and he will not turn away from you tyut will show you the way, the truth, that shall eventually save and exalt you in his presence. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 

Former President Canadian Mission 

I believe I appreciate the great responsibility that rests upon one who is called upon to proclaim the gospel of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. Four years ago, it was my privilege to enter the ministry in the Dominion of Canada. During that length of time there have been many experiences which have come to me, for which I am grateful. Like President Young, I feel that if it were possible for every man to be called into the ministry, what a wonderful blessing it would be to him. I appreciate beyond my power to express to you today the honor that came to me to preside over one of the missions of the Church. I am grateful to the authorities of the Church that they have had confi in me that has given me inspiration and encouragement to work in that part of God's vineyard. I am grateful that I have been associated with young men and women who have devoted themselves to the work of the ministry, in bearing their testimony concerning this great and mighty work. I am grateful that I succeeded a man who had spent a number of years in different parts of the world, whose experience taught me many things. I am grateful that there has been a man chosen and selected to take my place who is filled with the testimony of this work, whose fine intelligence and spirit will count much for his leadership in that part of the world. It was my privilege to accompany him during three or more weeks through different parts of the mission, and I want to say in favor of President Charles H. Hart, that he has won for himself a place in the hearts of those with whom he has come in contact. I am sure that his leadership will bring many souls to a knowledge of this work. I am grateful for my honorable release. I am grateful for the responsibilities that now confront me. And through the help of God I hope and pray that I shall always be engaged in some activity where my life will touch the hearts of men and women and inspire them to a greater realization of the greatness of the gospel of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. This period of my life in the Canadian mission has been the greatest since I can remember. I have filled missions before, but I believe that I have a deeper understanding of life as it fits into the gospel of our Lord and Master than I ever have had before. My testimony concerning the divinity of this work has grown, and my joy has been when the opportunity has come to me to stand in the presence of men and women, on the streets, in the halls and in the cottages, bearing witness to the restoration of the gospel of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. 

ijust prior to the time of my departure from the mission field, I was invited into a home, and in the course of our evening's conversation, naturally we drifted upon those principles that we were advocating. The gentleman of the home made this statement, "I believe that you have one of the finest and best religions that I have ever known, but there is one thing that I cannot understand or comprehend : Why is it necessary in this day and time to have a prophet, or prophets of God?" I asked him if he accepted the Bible as being the word of God. His reply to me was that he accepted this sacred record. 

"You believe, do you, that Adam, in the beginning, talked with God, and that it became necessary for God to reveal to him his mind concerning the gospel of Jesus Christ at that time?" He said, "I accept that without any mental reservations." 

"You accept the thought, do you, that is expressed in Holy Writ, that God directed Noah through the light and power of his Holy Spirit to do the work that he did, and that Noah was in constant communication with him concerning the work that he should do, in order to bring the gospel message to those who were then living?" 

"I accept of that," he said. 

"And you accept the historical record that Enoch talked with God, 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

and that all that Enoch did in bringing to pass the proper interpretation of the gospel of our Lord was a necessary thing in his day?" 

"I accept that without any mental reservations," he said again. And so we went down through the prophets until we came to the day of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. We asked him the question if he accepted in his heart the plan of life and salvation as it is recorded in the New Testament, and that that plan of life and salvation affected human life here, hereafter, and in the days before we came into the earth. He said, "So far as I have been able to see and understand, I believe Jesus Christ is the Son of God, that he is the author of such a plan as you suggest, and that he was guided and directed by the spirit of revelation in all the things that he accomplished while he was upon the earth; that, through his sonship, through his mission as the Messiah, as the Redeemer of the human race, he brings not only salvation here upon the earth but an exaltation through obedience to his principles in the kingdom of God, in the hereafter." 

I said to him, "If you believe all of that, I think that I am able to reason with you and show you how necessary it is to accept Joseph Smith as an instrument in God's hand in bringing to pass the restoration of the gospel of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ." 

He replied, "I would be glad if you could impress that thought in my heart and in my mind." 

We therefore referred to that passage of scripture that we so frequently use in the ministry, the revelation of John, while he was upon the isle of Patmos : "And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." And I asked him if he believed in that scripture. 

He said, "I must accept of it, if I accept of Jesus Christ the Lord, because it was his gospel that the angel was to bring." 

"Then you must accept the thought that either that angel has come and delivered his message, or that he is to come." 

"I believe," said he, "that that angel must come or that he has come." 

Then we spent the remainder of the evening in explaining to him the claims that were made by the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the advent of the angel Moroni, bringing to him the everlasting gospel, as we see it and understand it and feel it, as we read those passages in the Book of Mormon. We were able to come to a conclusion that the gospel of our Lord and Master had been restored to the earth. His heart was lifted and there seemed to be a spirit take possession of him and he praised God. From the expressions that followed, weeks afterwards I am sure of his appreciation of the knowledge and the feeling that he had concerning the divinity of this work. 

My brethren and sisters, I believe there is no need in all the world  is of greater importance to us than to have a deeper meaning of the gospel of our Lord and Master. I wonder, sometimes, if we understand that passage of scripture that is so frequently quoted in the world: "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." I wonder if we catch the significance and the depth of that thought, that love. We know our love for our own offspring, and how difficult it would be for us to sacrifice any one of them for a cause, unless we were commanded of God. I believe that we can understand pretty well what Abraham was up against when he was commanded by God the eternal Father to offer his son Isaac as a sacrifice. But that was not comparable to the love that God had for his children here upon the earth, that he would offer his only begotten Son to redeem mankind, to introduce into the world a plan of life and salvation, that by yielding obedience to it we would receive our exaltation in God's celestial kingdom. And that is what the message of Jesus Christ means to every man and woman in this world, so far as they are able to understand it. 

I am thankful, beyond my power to express, that I have had the opportunity of bearing witness that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, that- the gospel of redemption was instituted by him in the eternal worlds before his advent into mortality, that I was a party with you in accepting of that plan. I am grateful that I have had the privilege of bearing witness that the restoration of that gospel has come to mankind through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I stand as a living witness to the healing power of God, my eternal leather. Had it not been for the power of the Priesthood of God, I should not be here today, I should have passed on years ago. But through the love of God, through his son Jesus Christ, the recognition of his Priesthood, the healing power thereof, I have been permitted to live on the earth, to leave my testimony not only at home but in many of the nations of the world and on the islands of the seas. I bear it to you at this particular time, and ask God to bless it and sanctify it to our use and us to his service, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang, "God is with his people," Elder D. Jongejan singing the solo part. 

ELDER E. L. BUTLER 

Former President Samoan Mission 

When I was introduced as one who has been president of the Samoan mission, I imagine, possibly many of you felt somewhat as Brother Parry, who, when I was bringing some children with me through the Temple grounds with a party of tourists a week or so ago, asked if there were any missionaries present, and if so to stand up. When I arose, he said, "Brother, where were you a missionary?" I said, "In Samoa." And he said, after scratching his head, "All right, I'll bite. Where is Samoa?" 

I assure you that it is indeed a pleasure to me to be here today. I certainly enjoyed the first meeting of this conference in the Tabernacle this morning, the good sermons of President Grant and President Ivins. It has been nearly six years since I had the opportunity of attending a general conference of our Church. I have been in the islands for five years and four months on this, my second, mission to Samoa. In all, I have spent about nine years in the islands. 

Possibly that mission seems insignificant to many in this audience, but it might surprise some of you to tell you that we have more adherents to our Church in Samoa than we have in the whole great continent of Australia. And I believe there are just as faithful souls among the Saints in that mission as there are in any other mission in the world. I believe that last year we had more converts in that mission, with our eighteen missionaries, than they had with somewhat more than forty in the Australian mission. They are sincere converts, and they are a fine race of people. And what I would like to say today, if God will bless me with his Holy Spirit while I stand before you, is something that will cause the mothers, the fathers, or the brothers and sisters, or those who are supporting their loved ones in the various mission fields, to feel that their means are not wasted. I want to thank the fathers and the mothers, yes, and the brothers and the sisters, of those missionaries we have in Samoa for the hearty support they have given them, in the way of encouraging letters, and in the money expended to care for those missionaries while they are in the mission field. Brethren and sisters, your means and your kind words are not wasted. Those missionaries are giving an account of themselves, are doing a splendid work; and the prophet of God is not wrong when he is sending out somewhat more than 1,200 missionaries each year to different parts of the world. As Brother Young and Brother Quinney have said, it is one of the grandest opportunities that comes into a man's or a woman's life. Many of us who are in this audience are missionaries or have been missionaries. Some of you are sending your boys and girls; some of you are waiting for their return. Sometimes we feel that it is a sacrifice, that it is hard to raise the means to support John while he is away, or Mary while she is in the mission field. But it is just as essential that we work for the development of the spiritual side of the nature of our children as it is that we work for the development of their mentality, or the development of the physical side of their natures. With all due respect to the work accomplished by the auxiliary organizations of our Church, the greatest training our children get is when they are in the mission field preaching the gospel. 

I want to tell of a few little incidents that happened while I was in the mission field, just to illustrate the experiences that your sons have. After I left Salt Lake City and while we were on board the steamer, I was in charge of a company of eleven missionaries a number of them going to Honolulu, the others to the Samoan mission. On  way between here and the Hawaiian Islands, there was on board an officer of the Reorganized Church, and we had many opportunities for a discussion of the principles of the gospel. At Honolulu another officer of the Reorganized Church came on board, and he asked the privilege of explaining to these young men the difference between our doctrines and those of the Reorganized Church. He said, "Some day we expect to have all you 'Mormons' come in with us in the true Church." I said, "All right, brother, but if you want to explain your side of the question to these young men, I think it no more than fair that I have a chance to answer you and have them all listen." He said that was fair. I said, "I have no doubt that any one of them could answer you all right, but I ask that privilege." 

We went to one of the largest staterooms on the boat, and for an hour and a half this man explained the principles of his religion and the difference between the "Mormon" Church and the Reorganized Church. We did not have time that day to finish our discussion, -but the next day we met in this same stateroom and for about an hour and a half I answered his arguments one by one to the best of my ability. I felt satisfied when these young men came up and shook my hand and said, "Thank God, we are 'Mormons.' " 

Brethren and sisters, as mission presidents, we are doing all we can for the development of your boys and girls who are placed under our care. We are doing our best for their benefit, to see that the spiritual side of their natures are developed as they should* be. But do not expect too much of the mission! Do not expect too much of a mission president. I say, do not expect too much, but do all you can at home before they go on missions to see that they live their religion. Do not believe that old saying that a rough and ready boy, or one who has sown his wild oats, makes the best missionary. It may be true to the extent that the boy or girl who has the energy in them makes the best missionary, but it is not true that the one who has sown wild oats makes the best missionary. That is not true, because he has to overcome many of the characteristics developed through his life before he can be a true missionary. 

We have a varied experience in our mission. We have to learn another language, and we meet and do most of our work among the islanders, the natives. But we also have the opportunity of meeting the white people who are there. One or two instances I would like to relate. 

About three years ago, my wife and I were asked by a chaplain of the navy in Tonga Tonga, Tutuila, Samoa, to take charge of his service. (This is in line with the statement of President Grant this morning, speaking of the tolerance that is shown today toward our work.) The chaplain sat in the back of the hall. We had an audience of about forty-five or fifty, consisting" mainly of the officers of the U. S. Navy with their wives. Governor Kellogg of American Samoa was present. We did our best to present the truths of the gospel to those people. Most of them had never heard the principles of our religion. You can judge of our success by the fact that when that meeting was closed, from the Governor down, every one came and shook our hands and invited us into their homes — something which had never been done before. Later we had an opportunity of holding service there a number of times. The youngest elder in our mission at that time, Elder Benham, from Clinton, held service there. At one time when the chaplain had gone away the Governor came to me and told me that he was going to ask one of our missionaries to take charge of the Thanksgiving service for the Navy, because the chaplain would be away. Elder Benham, who had associated with these people, was chosen to take charge of that service. That chaplain had experienced difficulty in getting more than five to ten out to his services, but on the morning when Elder Benham went down, the sailors, the officers, got together and they were practically all unanimous in their decision to attend the service — because of their love and respect for the "Mormon" missionary; not because of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but on account of their love and respect for that young man who was holding the service. 

We had the opportunity of entertaining Sir Charles Fergusson, the Governor General of New Zealand, and Lady Fergusson at our mission headquarters in Apia, Samoa, together with Sir George Richardson, the Governor of Western Samoa, and Lady Richardson, his wife. I presented both of those gentlemen with a volume of the book, The Fruits of Mormonism, by Dr. F. S. Harris and N. I. Butt. I learned afterwards that the gentlemen read those books. They acknowledged to me that they did not know anything about "Mormonism," but they told one of our elders later, when they visited one of the other islands, that they were interested in our doctrines. At the time that I was released to come home and my successor, Elder Willard Smith, from Canada, was appointed to take my place, we called upon Sir George Richardson at his home. I might say, incidentally, that it is the old home of Robert Louis Stevenson which is now the Government home. Our mission headquarters are in the shadow of the hill upon which is located the grave of Robert Louis Stevenson. We called at the home, and met Sir George Richardson and Lady Richardson, and introduced President Smith and his wife. Afterwards we met him in his office, and we talked over business affairs, and he said that he had great respect for the work we are doing in Samoa, and said that as far as it is in his power, he will give us his support. He said that he and his wife had often talked about the character of the "Mormon" elders. He said there had been many come to Samoa since he had been there, three and a half years, and he had never known one of them to commit an act that would bring disrepute upon his name. And he said, "You know, Elder Butler, how many young men I have had to send back to New Zealand because of their acts in coming to this island. Why is it that your boys come out here, young men, and can stay here three years, and we never hear of a smirch upon one of their names, but our boys come from New Zealand in governmental capacity for government positions, and we have to send a certain per cent of them back,  their acts are something that bring a stigma upon the government?" I said, "It is the government that they have in their own homes and the teachings under which they are reared." 

I feel that I have talked long enough. I pray the blessings of our Father in heaven upon this audience, upon our conference, and I want all of you fathers and mothers to feel that whatever you expend in sending your boys and girls upon missions is well expended. 

God bless you is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ANDREW JENSON 

Assistant Church Historian 

Just before Christ ascended into heaven, he addressed his apostles as follows : "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you." (Matt. 28:18-20.) „ 

In obedience to that command the apostles of old and others preached the gospel, first, in Palestine, and later, in the surrounding countries. Paul, the apostle of the Gentiles, was the first missionary, as far as history tells us, to testify of the risen Redeemer in Syria, Asia Minor, Greece, Italy, etc. It is not known into how many countries the missionaries of the earlier Christian Church extended their operations, but it is an established fact that they preached in most, if not in all, the countries bordering on the Mediterranean. Some legends, at least, would have Thomas and others preach the gospel in England, as well as in far-off India. It must be remembered that the world was not known to the people in those days as it is now. For instance, America was perhaps not known to the people of the eastern world, nor was the south part of Africa known to the nations, in the northern countries, until centuries later. 

The angel designed to restore the gospel anew in our day is heralded by John the Revelator in the following language: "And I [John] saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." (Rev. 14:6.) 

While the prediction reads that the angel had the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, it is not to be supposed that he personally would have to proclaim it with his own voice, or by his own exertion to everybody. The natural conclusion is, that men in mortality would be called, as had been the case in all former dispensations, to do the missionary work among their fellow-men. Thus it was that Joseph Smith was chosen as an instrument in the hands of the Lord to usher in a new dispensation, and no sooner had he been favored with a glorious vision, early in the spring of 1820 (in which he saw the Father and the Son), than he bore testimony of what he had seen and heard. Afterwards he received several visits from the Angel Moroni, in whose appearance the Latter-day Saints see the fulfilment of John's prediction. Several years passed during which other holy messengers restored the Priesthood to the earth through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, and as soon as the Church was organized missionary labors were commenced in earnest. And while Oliver Cowdery is credited with preaching the first gospel sermon ever delivered by any elder of the Church in our dispensation, it is but fair to the Prophet Joseph Smith that he should be called the first Latter-day Saint missionary, for ever since he had received his first vision, in 1820, he, even in the midst of severe persecutions and sufferings, ceased not bearing his testimony to the effect that he had conversed with angels and had been chosen of the Lord to introduce a new gospel dispensation. 

By careful study of the early historical documents of the Church we have been able to ascertain that the Church sent out at least sixteen missionaries in 1830, including Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, already named. In addition to these, David Whitmer, Samuel H. Smith, Joseph Smith, Sr., Don Carlos Smith, Parley P. Pratt, Hyrum Smith, Newel Knight, Richard Ziba Peterson, Peter Whitmer, Jr., Sidney Rigdon, Frederick G. Williams, John Murdock and Orson Pratt, all performed missionary labors, in several of the states in 1830. The record also shows that fifty-eight missionaries were sent out from the headquarters of the Church to preach the restored gospel, in 1831, seventy-two in 1832, forty-one in 1833, one hundred eleven in 1834, and so on. 

Until 1837, the preaching by the elders was confined to the United States and Canada, but in 1837, Heber C. Kimball and others opened up the great missionary work which since that time has been carried on continuously in the British Isles. In 1843, the first missionaries were called to preach the restored gospel to a people who did not understand the English language. I have reference to the Society Islands mission, which was opened early in 1844 by Noah Rogers, Addison Pratt and Benjamin F. Grouard, who were called as missionaries to the islands of the Pacific in 1843. Two or three thousand natives of Tubuai, the Tuamotu Islands, and adjacent groups soon became identified with the Church. 

During the exodus of the Saints from Nauvoo in 1846 and 1847, missionary labors were somewhat at a standstill, as many of the young brethren who had previously been engaged in the missionary fields were chosen as pioneers, or as soldiers in the Mormon Battalion, but after the Saints had found a more nearly permanent home in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains, missionary labors were carried on with vigor and much success. Then it was that the first missionaries were called to continental Europe, and also to the Hawaiian Islands; soon branches of the Church were raised up in several European countries, and missions established, most of which are in existence to this day. Alto the Church has established about forty distinct missions, known by the following titles : United States, Canadian, Palestine, Tahitian, French, Italian, Scandinavian, Swiss, Icelandic, South American, German. Maltese, West Indian, Gibralter, South African, Chinese, New Zealand, Siam, Netherlands, Samoan, Austrian, Finnish, Mexican, Turkish, Belgian, Tongan, Japan, Armenian, etc. 

The missionary labors in the United States have been grouped into several distinct missions, each of which includes several states, such as the Eastern States, the Northern States, the Southern States, the Indian Territory, the Central "States, the Western States, the Northwestern States, the California and the Northcentral States. The original Scandinavian mission has also been divided into the Swedish, Danish, and Norwegian missions. Also the British mission has, at times, been segregated into smaller groups which have been known under different titles, such as the English, the Welsh, the Scotch and the Irish. By recognizing these general sub-divisions we find that the Church since its organization, in 1830, has established about forty distinct and separate missions, of which twenty-seven are still in existence. 

After a thorough study of Church history, and by gathering information from all possible sources, we are now able to state from actual count that the Church, since its first organization in 1830, and until the close of the year 1926, has sent approximately 35,275 missionaries out from the headquarters of the Church to preach the gospel in many lands and climes. But this number does not by any means represent all the missionaries who have labored for the spread of the gospel. For, while the elders delegated and sent out from the headquarters of the Church usually opened up the several missions throughout the world, thousands of local elders (that is, converts who in the different states and countries were ordained to the ministry) have labored with equal zeal and success; and particularly in countries where the English language is not universally spoken, these local, or native, elders have had, in many instances, even more success than some of those sent out from headquarters. In earlier days there were perhaps twenty local missionaries to each American elder in the British Isles, the Scandinavian countries, and even in Germany and Switzerland. That rule, however, has been reversed in later years when most of the missionary work has been done by American elders. But taking a retrospective glance at the missionary operations of the Church, during the ninetyseven years of its existence, we are safe in making the assertion that, at least, 70,000 elders and missionary sisters, called and set apart regularly to the ministry, have been engaged in actual missionary labors in the world, by maintaining that the local, or native, elders have equalled in number the missionaries sent out from Church headquarters. 

In view of these facts, it may consistently be left to the good judgment of fair-minded persons who are interested in the great Latterday work, commenced by the Prophet Joseph Smith under divine guidance, whether the elders and missionaries of the Church have been true to their calling to preach the gospel as they have been commanded, to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. And especially when it is considered that this great host of laborers in God's vineyard have preached and labored mostly without purse or scrip, or at least have done their work at their own expense, or at the expense of parents, relatives and friends. 

If there are any countries in the world which have not been covered by Latter-day Saint missionaries, it is surely not the fault of the Church, nor is it to be ascribed to any neglect on the part of its missionaries. It is mostly due to the fact that religious liberty does not exist in all nations, and that, in many instances, our elders have been prohibited by stringent laws from ful filing the divine command. In several countries they have even been forbidden to land, and in other countries where they have succeeded in landing, they have been imprisoned and banished. I am convinced that the Church authorities have always been willing, and are still willing, to send elders to every nation under the sun, whose governments and inhabitants would be willing to receive them. God grant that the elders of modern Israel may soon enjoy the privilege of preaching the gospel, without hindrance, in all the world. Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

I have greatly rejoiced in the testimonies and instructions we have received from our brethren, and in the excellent music which has been rendered here in this session of conference. Surely our hearts have been filled and we have rejoiced in the blessings of our heavenly Father. No greater work was ever undertaken than that of saving the souls of the children of men. No greater work has the Lord God of heaven ever undertaken than to save the souls of his children. It is the grandest, the greatest undertaking that ever has been inaugurated. Even he who fashioned the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are, has no greater work than that of saving his own children. We find that in the revelations of God given to the Prophet Joseph, as recorded in The Pearl of Great Price. Indeed, it is the writings of Moses, translated by the gift and power of God, through Joseph Smith the prophet, wherein he says, "This is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." We may look out upon this great universe in which we live; the planet on which we stand, the earth, is merely a little speck in that great universe; yet, he it is who made that universe. And this earth upon which we stand, with all of its wonderful mechanism, with the wonderful revolutions which this earth makes upon its own axis, once in twenty-four hours, giving us day and night, and then upon its orbit around the sun in its allotted time of 365 days 5 hours 46 minutes and 48' seconds, year in and year out with mathematical precision! What a wonderful thing it is! The other planets make similar revolutions in their allotted times. And then again  look farther out into the universe and see those glittering stars, each one, as we are told by astronomers, is a blazing sun, having its own planetary system similar to the one of our own solar system. How marvelous is the work of God, all over this universe! 

Is there anything greater than the making of a universe? Yes, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of God's children. The worlds have been created to become the habitations of the children of God. Shall they be of greater consequence than the children of God themselves? Oh, no! The great work of God is to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of his children. And it has been written that though a man shall labor his whole life and save but one soul, how great shall be his joy with that soul in the kingdom of our Father. These reflections ought to make us think seriously of this work of God, with which we are identified, and in which we should have our part, for he has invited us to have part with him in that great and glorious work. How great shall be our joy, or how great shall be the joy of those men and women who go out into the world, who leave their homes, their fathers and their mothers, their wives and their children, and all that they love and hold dear, and go out and devote years of their time in helping our Father in heaven to accomplish his great and glorious work of bringing his children to a knowledge of the truth, that they may have eternal life! 

This gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ has within it the power of God unto salvation, it is working upon those who have embraced it, who have received it, and the result is that this people are the best people on all the face of the earth. It is working in their lives! Th^ey are learning how to do something for their fellow-men; they are learning how to control themselves and to become better men and better women day by day. And as we come from week to week, partake of the emblems of our Lord's suffering, to our Sacramental meetings, and there with clean hands and pure hearts, we are indeed eating and drinking eternal life into our souls. Why? Because in doing so we are keeping this command of God and bearing witness that we do always remember Christ, who gave his life as a ransom for all mankind. But we must come to the table of the Lord in a repentant mood; full of faith, manifesting our faith in him 'as the Savior of the world, for there is no other name given under heaven whereby men and women can be saved. 

I say that this gospel is working. It is sanctifying and purifying our hearts; if we are living it, and practicing the principles of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, it is sanctifying our hearts, it is making us better men and better women than we were, we are growing in the knowledge of God and in good works day by day. That is the plan that the Almighty had, and he expects that his children shall derive the benefit if' they will only obey him. 

The saving of a human soul! What a great work it is. Even though that soul be only your own, what a great and glorious work it is, if you shall only succeed in that! What is a soul ? You know .there are a great many peculiar ideas in the world regarding- what a soul is. Men have an idea that it is something fluttering around on the inside of this anatomy, and they call it a soul. Contrast their vague conception of that soul with the clear, concise definition that was given to the prophet Joseph in that glorious revelation known to us as Section 88, in the Doctrine and Covenants, "And the spirit and the body are the soul of man." Our spirits which came from God, begotten of him in the eternal worlds, and for which this world was created, and our bodies that we obtained in coming here, constitute our souls. The spirit, dwelling in this body, animating it and making it alive, is a child of God. 

There are many things to accomplish in bringing to pass the soul's immortality and its eternal life, but before it can ever enter into the presence of God it will have to be sanctified from all unrighteousness, for no unclean thing can enter there. And so we read in that same section of the Doctrine and Covenants, "And the resurrection of the dead is the redemption of the soul." The spirit and this body, in conjunction, make a human soul. After a while they separate and the spirit will go back to God, whence it came, and the body, the other part of that soul, will return to mother earth, whence it came, and that separation that takes place we call death, the natural death, the temporal death. But after a while it is to come and take up that body, this spirit is, and become immortal. By what power can that be done? By your own individual power? No. This same revelation explains by what power that shall be done, for it says, "The redemption of the soul is through him who quickeneth all things" — through him who created man in the very beginning, the Creator of the heavens and the earth, who makes the grass to grow, who makes the birds to fly, the fish to swim, the beasts to rove upon the fields — every living thing. Through him who quickeneth all things, through him shall be brought to pass this resurrection from the dead which is the redemption of the soul. Redemption from what? From death and the grave. Therefore, we read on, "This soul must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness." Why? "That it may be prepared for celestial glory." That is what the revelation says. Hence the gospel has been revealed, that we might sanctify and purify our lives from all unrighteousness. 

That is what the gospel is for, and it is working upon this community. We are not all perfect; we are a long way short of it, but it is working. It is making us better men and women than we were, we are growing in the knowledge of God and in good works day by day. Let us continue to advance and to grow. Let us lay hold on eternal life by keeping the commandments of God, by cleansing and purifying ourselves from all unrighteousness. That is what the gospel teaches us and that is what it is for. Now we hear of the glad tidings that come from the mission field, how our boys and girls, our young men and women, who go out as missionaries, are placing splendid examples before the people in the world. What splendid news we hear of our young men and our young women everywhere throughout all the mis of the world! And we also hear a good report of our young men and our young women here at home. They are the best, the cleanest, the purest men and women, boys and girls, that are to be -found in all the world, freer from the contamination of the world, freer from those terrible diseases that afflict a wicked and a corrupt world. Let us continue to walk in the truth, let us continue to abide in that gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, for it will cleanse and purify us from all unrighteousness. 

This is the work of a lifetime. Do not get the thought that you are good enough just as you are, for though good as you are and clean as you are, honest as you are, virtuous as you are, we can all improve, every one of us. Let us grow in the knowledge of God and in good works. Let us not approach the world in that Pharisaical spirit, "I am holier than thou." Oh, no; for "we are all sinners, and if any man think he is without sin, he deceiveth himself and the truth is not in him." What advantage, then, have we over the world? Why do our missionaries go out into the world if they are not perfect, if they are not free from sin and also have need to practice repentance? Do our missionaries need to repent? Of course, they do; so do you, and so do I, and so does every child of God. And there is no progress without repentance from sin, and without faith in God. These are matters for daily practice in these things that pertain to sanctifying and cleansing ourselves from sin. 

Good? Who is there that is good? Remember the Pharisee who came to the Savior and said, "Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may obtain eternal life?" And the Savior turned around to him and said, "Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one, that is God." That tells the story. We are weak, mortal, human beings, but we have received the gospel, that has within it the power of God to cleanse us from those sins and from that weakness. Why do we go out to the world? Because we received that gospel, and it is our duty to promulgate it and carry it to the farthest ends of the earth. We have advantages that the world does not have. And what are they? We have the help of God. And how does he help us? By giving us the Holy Ghost. But he does not give us that holy Spirit until we have been through this cleansing process, until we have faith in him, until we have repented of our sins, until our sins have been remitted by our being baptized, and buried with him by baptism unto his death and then come forth in the likeness of his glorious resurrection. Then we are prepared to receive that marvelous gift. And that is what we have received, and that is the way the Lord helps us to gain the victory over evil — by his help, the sweet companionship of his holy Spirit, and every man and every woman who receives this gospel has the gift of the Holy Ghost. It remains with them. Its influence is felt wherever they go. And those who come in contact with them feel in their souls that this is a servant of God, or a handmaiden of God, sent to them with a message of life and salvation; for they have the gift of the Holy Ghost; that is what our elders go out with. They go out prepared, having been endowed with power from on high. They go out prepared to bestow that gift upon their fellow-men, that they may have the same advantages which the Lord in his mercy and goodness has granted unto us. 

That is the gospel. Let us appreciate it. It is the power of God unto salvation. It is working with the Latter-day Saints. Let us endeavor to make it work with all the children of God with whom we can possibly come in contact, for they are all the children of God, precious souls in his sight. He desires to save them. He loves them. He so loved them that he sent his Only Begotten Son into this world, that they might not perish, that those who belong to him and keep his commandments, obey his gospel, might obtain eternal life. 

Now, brethren and sisters, may the Lord bless us all; may his Spirit be our constant guide and companion; may we all grow in the knowledge of truth day by day and in good works, that we may glorify our Father in heaven, that those who see us shall glorify him and glorify his work, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang, 'Tnflammatus," Mrs. Jane Van Roosendaal singing the solo part. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Thomas Leishman. 


