Morning
04 04 1927


PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters : I ask your support and faith for me during the few moments that I shall stand before you. 

The keynote of the conference, as it was given by President Grant yesterday, and quite strongly supported by the speakers who followed — his counselors and others included, was the divine mission of the Messiah, and also the divine appointment of Joseph Smith to be the restorer of the gospel. 

THE MISSION OF THE LORD JESUS CHRIST 

If I may have the power of utterance, I would like to dwell for a few moments on the mission of the Savior. We have no authentic picture of the Savior, as we have no absolutely authentic picture of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. But we do have a pen picture of the Savior that has behind it reasonably good authority. It was published some years ago in the Millennial Star, and subsequently in the Juvenile Instructor. I am very sure that Latter-day Saints, and those who missed seeing this description would be very pleased to hear it now. We must take it for what it is worth, but I may say that it is a matter and a description of very peculiar interest. It is taken from a letter from Publius Lentulus to the Senate of Rome concerning Jesus Christ : 

A DESCRIPTION OF THE SAVIOR 

"It being the usual custom of Roman Governors to advertize the Senate and people of such material things as happened in their respective provinces, in the days of the Emperor Tiberias Caesar, Publius Lentulus, President of Judea, wrote the following epistle to the Senate concerning the Savior : 

"Conscript fathers : There has appeared in these our days, a man of great virtue, named Jesus Christ, who is yet living amongst us, and of the people is accepted for a prophet of truth, but his disciples call him the Son of God. He raiseth the dead and cureth all manner of diseases — a man of stature somewhat tall and comely, with a very reverend countenance, such as the beholders may both love and fear; his hair of the color of a filbert full ripe, and plain to his ears, but thence downward it is more orient, curling and waving about his shoulders; in the midst of his head is a wave or partition of his hair after the manner of the Nazarites; his forehead plain and very delicate; his face without spot or wrinkle, beautiful with a lovely red; his nose and mouth so formed that nothing can be reprehended; his beard thickish, in color like the hair of his head, not very long but forked; his look innocent and mature; his eyes grey, clear and quick; in reproving he is terrible; in admonishing, courteous and fair spoken; pleasant in conversation, mixed with gravity. It cannot be remembered that any have seen him laugh, but many have seen him weep. In proportion of body most excellent; his hands and arms most delectable to behold; in speaking, very temperate, modest and wise. A man of singular beauty, surpassing the children of men." 

isaiah's prediction of the coming of the lord 

The coming of the Savior was predicted by ancient prophets who looked forward to that event with joy and gladness of heart. In the ninth chapter of Isaiah we find these words : 

"For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder : and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace. 

"Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end, upon the thrcne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this." 

T certainly feel, my brethren and sister.s, that these wonderful words could not then, and could not now, be applied to any man in the flesh upon the earth except the Messiah. And I may add that his birth was attended by a number of extraordinary incidents, giving proof that the heavens approved of his coming and rejoiced in his advent. 

THE ANNUNCIATION 

This very remarkable circumstance occurred just prior to his natal day : 

"And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth, 

"To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary. 

"And the angel came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou that art highly favored, the Lcrd is with thee : blessed art thou among women. 

"And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. 

"And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary : for thou hast found favor with God. 

"And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus. 

"He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest : and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David : 

"And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end. 

"Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man ? 

"And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power cf the Highest shall overshadow thee : therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God." 

THE BIRTH OF CHRIST 

It was an extraordinary incident. And then again we read in the second chapter of Luke the very interesting account of his actual birth : 

"And so it was, that, while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should he delivered. 

"And she brought forth her first born son, and wrapped him in swaddling clcthes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn. 

"And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flocks by night. 

"And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them : and they were sore afraid. 

"And the angel said unto them, Fear not : for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. 

"For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. 

"And this shall be a sign unto you; You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clcthes, lying in a manger. 

"And suddenly there was with the angel, a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, 

"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. 

"And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. 

"And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger. 

"And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. 

"And all they which heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. 

"But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart. 

"And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them." 

THE DOUBTING OF THE JEWS 

Now, we see the birth of the Savior was attended by a number of very extraordinary incidents, but it seems that his birth was hidden from his people, the Jews, generally. And I think it was due to the fact that they were unbelievers. They could not bring themselves to acknowledge that this babe who was cradled in a manger was the Son of God, the Savior. It was true they were looking for him, but they expected him to come with demonstrations of power, as King of kings and Lord of lords. The great mistake that the Pharisees, the Sadducees and others made in respect to this important event was that they had their'eyes upon the second coming of the Savior, and therefore overlooked his first coming. It was a sad mistake upon their part. I think it was rather fatal to their welfare, the lack of this knowledge; and wherever there was a lack of faith, the Savior could do but very little. 

JOHN THE BAPTIST EVEN IN DOUBT ( 

Even John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, was somewhat in doubt concerning him. We read in Matthew 11:2-4: 

"Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples, "And said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another ? 

"Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and shew John again those things which ye do hear and see : 

"The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them." 

CHRIST ORGANIZED HIS CHURCH 

The particular attention that I wish you to give in respect to the divine mission of the Savior is this, that when he entered upon his ministry, which embraced but a short period of time, he organized his church with apostles and prophets, pastors and teachers, high priests, seventies and elders, with bishops, priests, teachers and deacons. He gave to the world a complete plan of redemption, and in connection with this plan of redemption the Savior preached the gospel, the everlasting gospel, which was before and which would be after, and continuous. He said to his apostles on one occasion: "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit." And this utterance of the, Savior signified, I think, the authority by which his apostles were called and sent forth, and also indicated in a way the will of God, because the Savior said, "I came not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me." And so of course we must assume that it was the will of the Father that he should organize this church and put into it these various authorities. 

Christ's marvelous doings created a profound impression 

The marvelous work accomplished by the Savior, and his doings and sayings made a profound impression upon the world in his day, and upon the world in our day. It was the great central theme that is described by the Bible. The prophets of old were looking down to his day, and after his crucifixion the prophets were looking back to his day. It is said in the scriptures that Christ "went about doing good," and in reflecting upon that expression I have wondered in my own mind if a greater compliment or greater praise could be given to any man than that he went about doing good. But mark you, brethren and sisters, the fact that he did go about doing good brought down persecution upon him. It was not for any evil thing that he did that he was persecuted, because he was without sin. a righteous man. It was because of his righteousness. 

under the spirit of persecution 

Paul, the apostle, in one of his epistles to Timothy said : "Yea, and all who live a godly life in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution." And persecution began with him very early and continued throughout his life. He said to his disciples upon one occasion : 

"Blessed are ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of Man's sake. 

"Rejoice ye in that day and leap for joy: for, behold your reward is great in heaven : for in the like manner did your fathers unto the prophets. * * * 

"But woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for so did their fathers to the false prophets." 

Now, I apprehend, my brethren and sisters, that it would be very difficult for anyone of us to rejoice and "leap for joy" under the spirit of persecution, and yet we are enjoined to do that, and I think if we could do it, it would be a very proper thing, a very fine thing. Under that spirit of persecution Jesus the Lord was finally brought before Pontius Pilate and under some very extraordinary, foolish charges, he was condemned to death. The following is what purports to be the death warrant of Jesus Christ; if it be true, and it seems to be, you will find it very instructive: 

"THE DEATH WARRANT OF JESUS CHRIST 

"Sentence rendered by Pontius Pilate, Acting Governor of Lower Galilee, that Jesus of Nazareth shall suffer death on tne cross. 

"In the year XVII of the Empire of Tiberias Caesar, and the 4th of March, the city of holy Jerusalem; Annas and Caiaphas being priests, sacrificers of the people of God. I, Pontius Pilate, Governor of the Praetory, condemn Jesus of Nazareth to die on the cross between two thieves — the great and notorious evidence of the people saying : 

"1. He is a seducer. 

"2. He is seditious. 

"3. He is the enemy of the law." 

And yet Christ said he came not to do away with the law, nor to condemn it, but to fulfil the law, because he was the Lawgiver. 

"4. He calls himself falsely the Son of God." 

Is not that an extraordinary charge to have been brought against the Savior — that he called himself the Son of God ? And the very people who brought the charge and prosecuted him to the bitter end were also sons of God. 

"5. He calls himself King of Israel." 

Now mark the sixth charge brought against the Savior. You will see how extraordinary it is : 

"6. He entered into the temple followed by a multitude, bearing palm branches in their hands. 

"Order the centurion, Quintos Cornelius, to lead him to the place of execution. Forbid any person whomsoever, poor or rich, to oppose the death of Jesus. 

"Witnesses : 

"Daniel Robani, 

"(A Pharisee) "Janus Zorobabel " Capet, 

"(A citizen)." 

Jesus shall go out of the city by the gate Strenuous. Here is a note : 

"The above sentences are engraved on a copper plate, which was found in an antique vase of white marble, while excavating in the city of Aquilla, in the kingdom of Naples, in the year 1825. It was discovered by the Commission of Arts, attached to the French Armies. At the evacuation of Naples it was found enclosed in a box of ebony* in the sacristy of Courtem. Mr. Dennon, of tte Commission of Arts, caused a model to be made of the plate. At the sale"of his curiosities it was bought by Lord Howard for 5,844 francs (f243, 10s).— Ccurricr drs EtatS Unis.'' 

THE APOSTLES ALSO SUFFERED PERSECUTION 

1 might say in conclusion, my brethren and sisters, that the apostles of the Savior suffered also most seriously from the spirit of persecution. All of the apostles, as I remember it, except one, gave their lives for the testimony of Jesus. John only escaped because of the promise of the Master, who said that he should live until Christ's second coming. 

I am sure a contemplation of these things will be very profitable to us. The Lord bless you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I feel very humble this morning, and my soul is filled with gratitude to our heavenly Father for membership in this Church. Of all the blessings that have come to me in life the most precious is the knowledge that God lives and that this is his work, because that comprehends all other blessings that I may hope to enjoy in this life or in the life that is to come. 

THE WEATHER FIFTY-SEVEN YEARS AGO 

Fifty-seven years ago today, I am informed by good authority — the testimony of my mother — there were two feet of snow on the ground in the Salt Lake Valley. And when I contrast this beautiful morning — the sun shining, birds singing and flowers in bloom — I have an impression that there is quite a difference in the climatic conditions. And I also have reason to believe that there is a very great difference in the general condition of our country and the circumstances surrounding the membership of this Church, since April 4, fifty-seven years ago. 

MANY CHANGES IN OUR LIVES 

It is peculiar how many things transpire in our lives in a short period of time. If you men and women who are here who have passed fifty years of age will review and consider how many remarkable circumstances have transpired, how many inventions and discoveries have been recorded, within your memory, you will realize that we are moving at a very rapid pace. 

THE GOSPEL WILL BE PROCLAIMED IN POWER 

The Lord revealed to one of his prophets that at the coming forth of the Book of Mormon he would commence his work among the nations for the restoration of his people. When we realize with what speed the gospel of Jesus Christ may be disseminated now as compared  the year 1830, we can see that the Lord has set his hand and the opportunity to know is offered to men. It will not be long now, until in every part of this world the gospel may be heard through the servants of the Lord proclaiming it in power. Our heavenly Father will adjust conditions in the world so that the gospel may be preached. The great World War has readjusted the boundary lines and changed conditions in some nations, and the conflict that is now on in China, and the earthquakes and other disturbances that are afflicting mankind, will be in preparation of the further promulgation of the word of the Lord. 

MISSION OF THE MEN WHO BEAR THE PRIESTHOOD 

Your mission is a very remarkable one, you men who bear the Priesthood. LTpon you has been conferred divine authority. You did not obtain your right to preach and teach the gospel and officiate in its ordinances as a result of training in a college or university. You received your authority from men divinely commissioned to act as servants of the Lord, and it was conferred upon you by those who received it direct from Jesus Christ our Lord. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S MISSION 

Joseph Smith was only a boy when the hands of Peter, James and John were laid upon his head and he was ordained to the Melchizedek Priesthood, — he and Oliver Cowdery. A little later Joseph Smith was directed to organize a Church. He was only a young man, but he organized it under the direction of the Redeemer of mankind. And it is patterned after the Church which was organized by the Savior when he was upon the earth. I have no doubt there were many who looked upon this young man as an upstart, and thought it was ridiculous that one who had not been educated to become a leader should presume to lead. But he was like the other servants of our heavenly Father who have lived upon the earth, who have been called by the Lord to perform a special labor, and the lack of knowledge pertaining to the things of this world did not preclude the possibility of the Lord's giving unto him information that made him equal and even superior in many respects to those who had possessed great earthly opportunities that were denied him. 

It has always been a source of satisfaction to me that this youth possessed such a character that his father and his mother, his brothers and sisters, yes, and his uncles and aunts, who were much older than he was, were impressed with his testimony and were glad, notwithstanding it was unpopular so to do, to ally themselves with him and his teachings. 

TESTIMONY OF PATRIARCH JOHN SMITH 

I have here a document that was printed in the Deseret News, in the year IS'51. It is a statement of an uncle of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and there are a few things in it that I think may be interesting to you. It indicates the faith of this good man, who, by the way, was the first stake president in the Salt Lake Valley. I refer to John Smith. He became Patriarch of the Church. He was an uncle of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and was born in 1781. This is his statement. I will read only a portion, because it is somewhat lengthy : 

"It is now upwards of twenty-one years since the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with six members, most of whom are numbered with the dead." 

Before proceeding 1 want to call your attention to the fact that this was written not long before the death of this good man. 

"Soon after its organization I heard the gospel through my nephew, Joseph Smith, Jr., and obeyed the commandments of the Lord by entering in at the door, which is baptism. 

"If the Presidency and Twelve who are now living had not been servants to the cause when Joseph lived, they would not have been worthy to fill the exalted stations which they now occupy; and always remember 'That he who is the greatest among you must be the servant of all.' 

"Bring up your children in the way they should go, that they may be ornaments to the society and a blessing unto you in your old age; and remember that God will not hold you guiltless if you should neglect to attend to this matter. Remember also to teach them to pray; and cause your sons to take part in the family prayer; and beware what company they keep, for 'evil communications corrupt good manners.' 

"Let not your daughters mix with the sons of the stranger whom you know nothing about, and who are not of the house of Israel; but gather your children together, and teach them the principles of truth and righteousness, and teach them to obey the laws of God, and the day will come that they will arise and bless you. 

"Teach unto them every truth which God has revealed. Instill into their young minds every principle that will make them a noble race, and remove from their paths everything that is contrary to God and his commandments. * * * You will then have a race of children who will rise in the midst of Israel, and will break the shackles of superstition, and be fit beings to carry on the work which their fathers commenced; and the Spirit of God will assist you in doing these things, provided you put forth all your energies with your might. * * * 

"Let every elder of Israel put on 'the garments of righteousness, teaching by precept and example the true principles which exalt the mind, expand the understanding, and make man a fit companion for his Creator. Never dishonor the high and holy calling which has been placed upon him by teaching and suffering to be taught in his home or anywhere that he has influence or power to control, doctrines that are not of God. * * * 

"I must conclude, for I feel the infirmities of age creeping on, and knowing not when the Lord shall require me hence, I wish to take this opportunity of adding my mite to the testimonies of the thousands who are scattered throughout the globe, and of those who are gdne beyond the veil, and who sealed theirs with their blood. * . 

r J' 1 ? Ki , rt!. an<J; 0hio - four brothers sat in the patriarchal seat in the temple of God, and I only of that number am left to tell the tale; and as I am now past the time allotted to man to live, it is reasonable that I also will be gathered unto my fathers in the time appoi-nted of God. 

"I therefore bear my testimony, which I wish translated into every language and read to every Saint, and printed wherever the type is used; that the world may see and hear what I have to say; for if I were young I would visit them, when they should hear from my hps that God has again spoken from the heavens  that he has again condescended to send his angels to visit fallen man, and point out the way whereby he can be saved. He appointed Joseph Smith a prophet and revealed unto him his commandments. 

"l testify that Joseph Smith was a Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and a man of God; and what was revealed through him will prove life and salvation to those who believe and obey, or death and condemnation to all who count it as naught, and harden their hearts against the truths he preached and practiced. I knew him — " 

I want to impress this paragraph upon your minds : 

"1 knew him when at his mother's breast, I watched and counselled his youth, but when God spoke and taught him, I bowed to his superior knowledge, and although he was a boy and I an old man, and his Uncle, yet I was not ashamed to learn true principles from him, and like Paul at the feet of Gamaliel, drank in the truths which flowed frcm the prophet's lips. 

'*[ was in jail with him and his brother Hyrum a few hours before they were killed, and I can testify before God, that they died innocent of any crime, and that they sealed their testimony with their blood. 

"I testify to all men, that I know that the angel has appeared which John the Revelator saw, who had the everlasting Gospel to preach to every nation, kindred, tongue and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and giye glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come. 

''And I call on all men, priests and people, kings, potentates and rulers, to cease their strife, come and obey the gospel, gather with Israel, obey the commandments of God, that you a'nd your dead may be saved and brought up in the first resurrection. 

"1 say to the Saints that by the power of the holy priesthood vested in me, as Patriarch, I bless you, and I say unto you, Be faithful and you shall be blessed in your basket and your store; you shall have all blessings which were promised to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; and the Lord will preserve you as in the hollow of his halnd, and no power shall stay the work, for everything that shall be brought against it will fail. * * *" 

He concludes by signing himself "Jotm Smith, Patriarch of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." 

I read this, my brethren and sisters, for the purpose of calling attention to the fact that that was the class of people from whom the prophet of the Lord sprang. Men and women who had faith in God, who were readers of the scriptures, who believed in the power of God, and who, where it would be natural for them, because of their age, to direct the youth of their own household, were humble in their souls, and prepared to bow to the superior wisdom, not of the boy, but of our heavenly Father who inspired him. 

It is a beautiful testimony to me because in the evening of his life, when he was all ready to pass to the great beyond, he wanted to leave that testimony to the Latter-day Saints. There is much more in the document, but I do not feel like I ought to take the time to read it. 

TESTIMONY OF PRESIDENT GEORGE A. SMITH 

I have another short document which is from his son, and I shall read a short paragraph from it, which has a bearing also upon something which you may be glad to know. This is from the historical discourses of President George A. Smith, a counselor to Brigham Young, reported by David W. Evans, in the year 1869 : 

"We look around today and behold our city clothed with verdure, beautiful with trees and flowers and with streams of water running in almost every direction, and the question is frequently asked. 'How did you ever find this place?' I answer, We were led to it by the inspiration of God. After the death of Joseph Smith, when it seemed that every trouble and calamity had come upon the Saints, Brigham Young, who was President of the Twelve, then the presiding quorum of the Church, sought the Lord to know what they should do and where they should lead the people for safety. While they were fasting and praying daily on this subject, President Young had a vision of Joseph Smith, who showed him the mountain we now call Ensign Peak, immediately north of Salt Lake City, and an ensign fell upon that peak, and Joseph said, 'Build under the point where the colors fall, and you will prosper and have peace.' The Pioneers had no pilot or guide, none of them had ever been in the country or knew anything abput it. However, they traveled under the direction of President Young until they reached this valley. When they entered it President Young pointed to that peak, and said, T want to go there.' He went up to the point and said, 'This is Ensign Peak. Now, brethren, organize your exploring parties, so as to be safe from Indians; go and explore where you will, and you will come back every time and say, This is the best place.' They accordingly started out exploring parties, and visited what we now call Cache, Malad, Tooele and Utah valleys, and other parts of the country in various directions, but all came back and declared this was the best spot." 

THE FAITH OF ASAEL SMITH AND DESCENDANTS 

Asael Smith believed in this latter-day gospel. He was the father of John Smith, the first man to whom I referred, who was the father of George A. Smith, who was the father of John Henry Smith, who was my father, and I have a son in Germany preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ— the sixth generation in the Church in our line, doing his mite as each of these individuals has done in this one family. And then we have many other families of that early day represented in the mission field. Some of the men upon this stand are descendants of those who were in the Church in an early day. 

MEN OF STRONG CHARACTER HAVE PROCLAIMED THE GOSPEL 

There are throughout the organized stakes of Zion, men of strong character, men who think and reason for themselves, men who have tested the value of the gospel of Jesus Christ by observing its teachings, men who have not been afraid to go into the world and proclaim an unpopular doctrine, men who have been willing to offer t'heir lives in order that the gospel might be proclaimed. It is to humble men like these who do not exalt themselves in the eyes of their fellows, who believe in the divine mission of our Savior, who know as they know they live that our heavenly Father has revealed himself in this latter day, that our Lord has given a living testimony of the truth. This great Church has been presided over by men who have been specially prepared, specially taught, specially equipped for that high honor that has been conferred upon each as he has taken his place. Our heavenly Father in his wisdom has surrounded these leaders of Israel with others who like themselves have faith and who do not bow to the individual, because of his personality or individuality as president of the Church, but who recognize him as the mouthpiece of our heavenly Father and sustain him and uphold him and pray for him, and love him, in order that they, too, may receive the blessings of our heavenly Father! 

There is no other organization like this in the world. There are no other people led as this people are led. It is truly said that those who preside are just men. It is through them that our heavenly Father will perform his work. It is through them that the gospel must be taught, and I call your attention to this fact : Not one of these men who have presided over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints but has been willing" to give his life for it if need be. The first one did give his life, and the others have been just as willing, if .need be, in order that the work of our heavenly Father may be perpetuated, and that all men might be called to repentance. The man who presides over us today is not presiding because of his own native ability. He is not presiding because he is the son of some great potentate, but he is in the position he occupies because our Father in heaven knows the integrity of his soul. Realizing the determination he would have to carry this message to all the nations of the earth, he prepared him for the high calling that has been conferred upon him. Fie presides as the representative of i our heavenly Father. 

LET US TEACH OUR CHILDREN THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME 

Brethren and sisters, let us remember the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The good man to whom I have referred, and whose instructions I read, who was one of the early patriarchs of the Church, advised us to teach our children. If there is anything needed among the people today more than another, it seems to me it is that we shall honor Home Evening, as it was recommended to us by President Joseph F. Smith; that we shall meet with our children around our own fireplaces and teach them the gospel of Jesus Christ, the power of God unto salvation. And if we will do that, we have been promised that the Lord will add his blessing. 

TESTIMONY 

Fifty-seven years ago today I first saw the light, not very far from where I now stand. It has been fifty-seven years of experience, with some privations, some difficulties, some anxieties, and much happiness. In your presence I thank my heavenly Father for the opportunity that has come to me. I am grateful to have the companionship of my brethren and sisters in this wonderful organization, and there has not been a day since I arrived at the age of accountability; there has not been a moment of time since I had the power to reason and think and understand for myself that I have not known as I know that I live that this is my Father's work. God help us to be worthy of the splendid privileges that are ours. Help' us to be worthy of him who gave us {life and being and honored us with his holy Priesthood; and in kindness and love let us reach after those who do not understand, drawing them by cords of kindness and love, that they, too, may partake with us of this blessing which is the power of God unto salvation to all those who will believe and obey. 

That the Lord may give us this power, and that we may pass it on to our children and our children's children to the latest generation, that in his own due time, when he shall gather his jewels, we, who have had this great opportunity, may find our names enrolled in the Lamb's book of life, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS 

Notwithstanding I was born in the Church and have passed my sixty-sixth birthday, I feel but a mere child in this great latter-day work. In speaking to you, my brethren and sisters, this afternoon, I will call your attention to the word of the Lord to his servant, Moses, as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, first chapter and thirty-ninth verse: . THE WORK AND THE GLORY OF THE LORD 

"Behold, this is my work and my glory— to bring to pass the immortality and * eternal life of man." 

I conclude from these words that with the Lord the salvation of man was the end he had in view, and that all other works of his are but a means to that end. In these last days, after a period of spiritual darkness has been over the earth and the hearts and the minds of the children of men for centuries, our Father has restored anew the gospel, established his Church, and restored the holy Priesthood, having the same end in view. 

THE GOSPEL TO BE TAUGHT 

The gospel is the law of the Lord by which all men are to be judged and to be condemned or justified according to merits, therefore justice demands that the gospel be taught unto all men. The Lord has most graciously provided that this shall be done, that those who do not have the opportunity of hearing the gospel in the flesh shall have an opportunity of hearing it in the hereafter, and that those who have not the opportunity of receiving the saving ordinances of the gospel in life may have the work done for them vicariously by their kindred who come after them. This principle of the living working for the dead, and of the dead looking to the living to do the necessary work for them, is what is called the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, and it has the same end in view, that of the salvation |of men. 

I think the President of this Church has the same motive concerning the Latter-day Saints and the children of men generally that our Father in heaven has, and that is to bring about, by the means at his 

command, — the organizations, institutions and workers in this Church, 

the salvation of the children of men. It would please the President of this Church more than anything else if we who are members of the Church would be true and faithful to our covenants and keep the commandments of the Lord. 

FAITH THE MOVING CAUSE 

If we had sufficient faith, my brethren and sisters, I feel sure that there would be no doubt in regard to our salvation. Faith is the moving cause of all action. It is the foundation of all righteousness, and righteousness is the thing that is going to save men and women in the kingdom of God. One of the purposes of our meeting together in these conferences is that the faith of the Latter-day Saints may be more firmly established', that under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, which is always present in these conference meetings, and the instructions that are given, we may be reminded of our first love, of this the gospel of our Redeemer; that we may be reminded of the manner of men and women we should be. The very elect of mankind have been chosen out of the world, and very few indeed, in the language of the scripture — one of a city and two of a family — to carry on the work of our Father, 

looking to the saving of his children. TESTIMONIES HAVE STRENGTHENED FAITH 

Those who were present yesterday morning at the opening meeting of this conference and heard the remarks of President Heber J. Grant' must have been deeply impressed, as I was, with the strength of character and of testimony of this our beloved President. Many evidences were brought forth proving the truth of this work, and that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God; and a powerful testimony was borne that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior and Redeemer of mankind. The testimonies of others of the brethren have been in accord, all calculated to strengthen the faith of the Latter-day Saints and to convince those who are not members of the Church. We, each and all of us, ought to feel as our Father in heaven feels in regard to man's salvation, and that so far as we have the power we should endeavor to lead men and women with whom we may be associated to an investigation of the truth, and possibly through the blessing of the Lord to membership in his Church, and finally to salvation. 

FURTHER CONCERNING TESTIMONY. 

I realize that some are less credulous than others. The evidences presented which have convinced us beyond question or doubt seem to be insufficient for the converting of many of our Father's children. For this, of course, we are sorry. 

Nature's testimony of God is incontrovertible. Men may question the authenticity and the truth of the scriptures, perhaps, but the evidence of nature is incontrovertible. The Apostle Paul in reasoning with the Romans used this expression : 

"For the invisible things of God from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead; so that they are left without excuse." 

Men are known by their works. A prophet is known by his works. The tree that bringeth forth fruit is judged by the fruit. The things 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

which God uur Father has created, all that we see in nature, are his handiwork and testify of his existence, of his power, and of his love. Hence we sing that beautiful hymn: , 

"Earth, with her ten thousand flowers, Air, with all its beams and showers, Heaven's infinite expanse, Sea's resplendent countenance — All around, and all above Bear this record, God is Love." 

There are other evidences. The Savior said to one of his apostles, St. John, 20th chapter: 

"Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed; blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed." 

The Lord expects men and women to receive the testimony of those who have seen : 

"And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book; 

"But these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name." 

The scriptures tell us that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation, "for prophecy came not in olden times by the will of men, but holy men of God spake as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost." The scriptures, then, are the product of the Holy Ghost, and they are written that they might testify of him. And they have so thoroughly testified of him that men believing on him, by reason of the testimony of these scriptures, have reasoned out also a philosophy, that God, who is the Father of Jesus Christ, is a personal, immortal and glorified being. 

Let me read to you of Henry Ward Beecher's conclusions, drawn from the scriptures. He says : 

"I am compelled to say that 1 must form an ideal of God through his Son Jesus Christ. Christ is indispensable to me. My nature needs to fashion the thought of God, though I know him to be a spirit, into something that shall nearly or remotely represent that which 1 know. 1 hold before my eyes therefore a glorified form. But after all the glory, whatever may be the nimbus and the effulgence round about it, it is to me a glorified form of a glorified man, and I therefore fashion to myself out of the spirit, that which has to me as it were a divine presence and a divine being; namely, a divine man."  

Why cannot other intelligent men and women reach the same conclusion from these same scriptures? It seems to require more evidence to convince some than others. To me these are convincing evidences, and the fact that we teach truly scriptural doctrine is one of the strong evidences of the truth of this work in which we are engaged. 

THE LORD HAS RAISED UP WITNESSES TO TESTIFY 

Now again the Lord has raised up witnesses who are to testify, and the people who hear them are supposed to believe, and if they do not believe they will be left without excuse. 

I will read from the first chapter and eighth verse of the Acts of the Apostles : 

"But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you; and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and it* Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth." 

That is the kind of witnesses the apostles of the Lord were to be in his day, and in this day he has also special witnesses, and the people are expected to hear their testimony. 

You remember the parable given by the Savior, of the rich man and the poor man, how that the rich man found himself in torment after life, because of his neglect to do the things he knew he should have done, and when he appealed to Father Abraham to send someone from the dead down to earth to visit his five brothers and warn them that they might not come to that place and condition of torment, the answer was, "They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. And if they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither would they be persuaded though one were sent from the dead." * 

THEIR TESTIMONIES WILL STAND AGAINST THE WORLD 

These testimonies borne by the servants of God in this day will stand against the world. Men of the world need a tutor, a Phillip, to explain the scriptures to them so that they may understand them. 

MONUMENT TO THE THREE WITNESSES AND THEIR TESTIMONY 

Last Saturday we unveiled a beautiful monument here to the memory of Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer and Martin Harris, the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon, who testified that an angel of God came down from heaven and brought and laid before their eyes, that they beheld and saw, the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated by the gift and power of God through Joseph Smith; that they heard a voice from heaven saying that the plates had been translated by the gift and power of God, and that voice commanded them to bear record to the world, and they gave their record and testimony to the world. 

Another testimony, that of eight reputable men, who declared that Joseph Smith, having the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated in his possession, showed the plates to them and that as many of the leaves as he had translated they did handle with their hands and they saw the engravings which were upon the plates, and declared that they had the appearance of ancient work and of curious workmanship. 

BOOK. OF MORMON TESTIFIES OF THE WITNESSES 

I shall read to you what is found in the Book of Mormon telling of these witnesses who should be raised up, long centuries yet to come, after this prediction. It is found in the Book of Ether 5 :3, 4: 

"And unto three shall they be shown by the power of God; wherefore they shall know of a surety that these things are true. 

"And in the mouth of three witnesses shall these things be established; and GENERAL CONFERENCE  testimony of three, and this work, in the which shall be shown forth the power of God and also his word, cf which the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost bear record — and all this shall stand as a testimony against the world at the last day." 

Why? Because men and women learning of these things are supposed to accept the testimony of these witnesses. 

The testimony of all these witnesses is a direct testimony of the truth of the Book of Mormon. We declare that it contains the fulness of the everlasting gospel as restored through an angel, as the plates from which this book was translated were given to Joseph by an angel. And thus the vision of John the Revelator on Patmos was fulfilled, when he saw that an angel should fly in the midst of heaven having the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell upon the earth, etc. 

THE TESTIMONY OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH 

Those witnesses and their testimony, to me (perhaps I am more credulous than some), is an equally strong testimony that Joseph Smith, who translated from those plates the Book of Mormon, is a true prophet of God; and, being a true prophet of God, his story of his first experience when he went into the woods to pray, and in answer to his prayer the Father and the Son appeared to him, must have been true. For, had it been false, he would have been a great imposter, and God never would have used an imposter in bringing to light this truth, the Book of Mormon, the fulness of the everlasting gospel. So that these testimonies are to me just as strong evidence that Joseph Smith's story of the visitation of the Father and the Son is true, and that means that God the eternal Father is a personage having a body of flesh and bones and spirit, a glorified immortal being, and his Son Jesus Christ is like the Father. To me it is, also satisfactory evidence that what the Lord told Joseph Smith, as Joseph explains it to us, is true in regard to a universal apostasy, and the intention of the Lord to restore his gospel and his Church in the near future. The visitation of the angel Moroni to Joseph is an established fact by these witnesses, by their testimony, also the visitation of John the Baptist and the conferring of the Aaronic Priesthood upon Joseph and Oliver, and iater the visitation of Peter, James and John, who held the Melchizedek Priesthood, who conferred upon Joseph and Oliver the keys of that Priesthood. 

Now just a word or two from the Doctrine and Covenants in conclusion. We read in the 20th section : 

"Therefore, having so great witnesses, by them shall the world be judged, even as many as shall hereafter come to a knowledge of this work. 

"And those who receive it in faith, and work righteousness, shall receive a crown of eternal life; 

"But those who harden their hearts in unbelief, and reject it, it shall turn to their own condemnation." 

May the Lord add his blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus Chrfst. Amen. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

President of the Central States Mission 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to be in attendance at this conference, and I hope and pray that I may be led to say that which the Lord would have me say. 

I do not know just what effect the testimonies of men, who have been members of the Church for many years, have upon those who do not know the truth, or just how far they may be led through such testimonies to investigate the gospel. But there is one thing by which they must* be impressed, and that is that an organization that has held its own without a change for nearly a century is almost without a parallel in the world. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has not changed in its doctrine. It is almost one hundred years since the Church was organized, and the doctrines that were taught by those early elders are still taught by the men and women of the present time. 

Those early leaders taught that man had an ante-mortal state, and we have held to that doctrine for a century. In my experience I have not found any man able to prove that doctrine to be untrue; on the contrary, I have read the testimonies of hundreds of men and listened to thousands of them bear testimony that it is true, and give good scriptural evidence for it. The elders of the Church testified in the beginning concerning the Father and the Son appearing to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and declared unto the children of men that he is a personal being. The Church has taught this doctrine since that time, for nearly one hundred years, and in my experience I have never found nor read of anyone who has been able successfully to prove that it is not true, or that it was not a doctrine from the beginning of time. 

These principles of the gospel must surely find lodgment in the hearts of the honest wherever they are found and where men are able to study them. I glory in the fact that the Church has never wavered in the least in all its history in doctrine or in organization; that it has constantly grown until it has become the greatest organization in all the world, in its order and system, in the excellence of its social scheme, in the perfection of its doctrines, and in its spiritual power. The^ things must certainly attract the attention of men. They are a warning to the children of men that the Lord has spoken, and the lives of men who testify of these things and live in accordance with these principles must be taken into consideration by those who oppose them and say they are not true. The Lord will undoubtedly call such to an accounting sooner or later. 

I have heard men and women by the hundreds testify that they know the gospel is true; that its principles have been revealed from the Lord; that they know they lived before they came into this world; that they know that God our eternal Father has a body of flesh and bones; that they do know that the power of the Priesthood is among the children of men and that the Lord has revealed, and does reveal and will constantly reveal his mind unto his servants here in mortality. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

They have testified unto me that they know they have heen born again; that the doctrines which they had heen taught previously were false; namely, that the Father through his Son had done all that there was to do, and left nothing for them to do but to acknowledge Christ and be saved. They have testified that they have found that there was something for them to do; that they must needs be baptized and receive the laying on of hands through the authority of the Priesthood on the earth. As a result they were baptized by fire and born again into a newness of life; they were thereby able to comprehend that the Father and his Son were personal beings; they were able to comprehend that they lived before they came into the world; they were able to understand the need of baptism for the dead, as well as for the living; they were able to see the eternity of the marriage covenant; they were able to see the great plan of our Father and to realize that this life is just a part of the existence of a human being. This knowledge made them in reality new individuals, they were thenceforth different in their lives. 

Not long ago I had a conversation with a sister eighty-two years of age who had just been baptized into the Church. She told me that she had been so bitter all her life that she would not even talk about the gospel of Jesus Christ according to the "Mormon" idea of it, and while visiting with a friend who belonged to this Church she had made the request that religion be not discussed at all. The good sister, who was a very dear friend of hers, said, "All right, we will not discuss religion." But she left the Book of Mormon open where this other sister could find it. She also left some tracts which she had purchased where they might be read by her friend if she so desired. The sister told me that she was so prejudiced when she saw that book open that she turned around and backed up to it and closed it for fear she might see something she would believe. However, at length, she read a pamphlet, and then another. She finally read the Book of Mormon, and was baptized. She told me that she had reared a good family, which she had loved as only a mother can love. She said she thought she had been as happy as a person could be when she was rearing her little children,) and when they grew to manhood and womanhood she had the privilege of living with them. She was still near them but now they were so enraged at her joining the Church that they would hardly let her visit them. Notwithstanding this she had never been so happy in all her life as she has been since she joined the Church. She had foundnothing else to compare with the happiness she has found through the revelations of the Lord to Joseph 'Smith the Prophet in this day. In the hours of the night when she awakens she finds herself never alone; she has much to think about, much to read, and much to do. She said to me, "I have been born again. I know that I lived before I came into this world, and I know that my Father has a body of flesh and bones, and I know that the Lord has spoken in these the last days and has revealed unto Joseph Smith the truth. I am born again." And she said also, 'T could no more go back to my old way of thinking and my old way of worshiping the Lord than I could go back to yesterday." 

Truly these testimonies written and spoken, distributed in all parts  the earth where Christians reside, must awaken in the hearts of the honest of the earth a desire to love the Lord. 

My testimony unto you, my brethren and sisters, is that I know there has been no change in the doctrines of the Church. I have read the writings of the early elders of this Church in the days of the Prophet Joseph and those who were with him — Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, Wilford Woodruff, and all those mighty men. I have read many of their sermons recorded in the Journal of Discourses, and in the other histories that were kept and are now in existence. I have made it a matter of investigation for many years, and I have never found any change. The same spirit which prompted those men prompts the men and women of today, and it is the greatest testimony to the children of men, or ought to be, that there is one guiding hand which directs and governs the destinies of this Church. 

I know my brethren and sisters, that God lives and that Joseph Smith was his prophet and is his prophet, and that the power of his priesthood and his prophetic appointment was delivered to Brigham Young, who followed him, and that it is here in the earth today, with President Heber J. Grant. I know there is no other organization under the shining sun that holds the Priesthood and the power of God to administer in the ordinances of the gospel on this earth. I know that the history of this Church must be recognized and reckoned with. 1 know men who say there is no such thing as revelation in our day, yet the Book of Mormon has never been proved to be untrue by any man who has written or spoken about it. I know, my brethren and sisters, that the judgments of God are just, and that his rewards are certain and sure. I take great pleasure in bearing this testimony unto you. 

I take great pleasure and happiness in my work in the mission field, where I have been for a long time, and where I have traveled among the children of men in the six states of the Central States mission — fifteen millions of people. There is a great body of men and women there who bear testimony constantly that this is the work of God. The work of God our eternal Father is greater today than it has ever been before and more surely established in the hearts of the children of men, for witnesses such as this fine old sister I have referred to are found in almost all of the counties of the states where I preside. And what is true of that woman is true of others, whom the Lord God our eternal Father has raised up as witnesses in all parts of the world; their testimonies are the same. 

My brethren and sisters, we ought to be happy in a knowledge that this is the work of God, and that he has reserved us to come forth in this day and generation of time when the fulness of his gospel is in the earth. I pray that we may be able to keep the commandments of God and walk in his paths and sustain him through his priesthood, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 


