Morning
06 04 1927

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I sense the responsibility, my brethren and sisters and friends, v of occupying this position. I desire that I may have your faith, that I may be inspired to say those things that shall be profitable to all of us, I rejoice greatly in the testimonies and the instructions that have been given to us during this conference. I am sure they are calculated for the welfare, growth and development of the Latter-day Saints. 

When the Lord Jesus Christ was upon the earth, and was teaching men the principles of life and truth, there were some who followed him, as we have heard, from among whom he selected his Twelve Apostles. But a time came when the question was asked whether or not they would continue to follow him, and Peter responded : ""Whither shall we go, Lord, if we leave thee?" Where could they go to find anything to compare with that which he had presented unto them? I am reminded of the remark made by the Savior to some other followers of his. I would like to read a few words : 

"Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him. If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed : 

"And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. 

"They answered him, We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free? 

"Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin." 

At a later time, when Jesus was about to be crucified, he was before Pilate, the Roman Governor, and Pilate asked him some questions, and, besides others, if he were a king. Jesus said : 

"Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that lis of the truth heareth my voice." 

Pilate said to him, "What is truth?" 

In the year 1837, when Heber C. Kimball and others of the apostles and elders were sent to England for the opening of the door of the gospel in that land, after arriving in Liverpool they traveled on to 135 

Preston, as 1 remember it, and as they alighted from the coach, or the stage, at that place, they saw a banner before them, erected as a part of the celebration in honor of Queen Victoria, and on that banner the words, "Truth Will Prevail." These brethren were encouraged by the words on that banner. They proceeded diligently and faithfully in the prosecution of the work that they were called to perform; and the harvest which was reaped through the power and influence of the holy Spirit as a result of their labors was wonderful. 

What is truth? We are told that it is the knowledge of things that have been, that are. and that are to be. The Latter-day Saints have accepted this gospel which we understand to be the truth. When the missionaries go out into the world to preach the gospel, they present these things which they declare have come from the Lord; and those to whom the message comes are invited to investigate carefully, to compare these things with those which were declared by Jesus and by his apostles, and with those things that are contained in the scriptures from the very beginning. 

In every instance those who have accepted this message, after careful comparison and investigation, have become convinced that these principles are true, that the ordinances of the gospel conform exactly to those which were taught by the Savior and his apostles .in the previous dispensations, and that the restoration of the gospel, as declared by the Latter-day Saints, is true. So we have come to accept these principles as being the truth, the everlasting truth. In other words, the gospel is "the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth." The Latterday Saints have been taught and have appreciated the fact that whereever truth is to be found it is a part of the gospel. It is for our welfare, our blessing, and our development. 

In the world today there are many things that are in the nature of theories. The scientific method of investigation is to experiment, to establish a hypothesis or a theory and then to endeavor to prove whether or not that theory is correct. There are many theories in the world that some people accept as truth, and yet they are in a status of uncertainty. But things that are definitely and positively proved to be true are and should be accepted and lived up to. There are divine truths which are for the eternal welfare of men, and those divine truths are included and comprehended in the gospel of Jesus Christ. If men and women accept the truth, that is, the true gospel of Jesus Christ, then they shall be made free, — free from sin, from transgression, from superstition, and from all of those things that hinder men's progress. 

I believe, that the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored in this latter day, in its purity and fulness, could not have been established and carried forward as it has been done in any other land than in this land of liberty. I am sure that the Lord had in his purposes the establishment of this land of liberty that the gospel might be restored here and go forth to all other lands, that men might hear it and, so far as they love truth, accept it. But even in this land there has been, and is to some extent today — fortunately not nearly so much as there was GENERAL CONFERENCE  — a spirit of prejudice, of superstition and sometimes even of persecution against those who have accepted the truth. 

When the Latter-day Saints received the message which came through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and undertook to live it, they were persecuted in those early days. I was recently reading a report of the Rochester Historical Society of New York, telling of the beginnings of "Mormonism;" and in that story, even today, they rehash old fables and falsehoods that were told against the Prophet Joseph Smith and other leaders of the Church in those early days. Even now they are continuing to spread misrepresentation by repeating those things which were used in a prejudicial way against the early Church leaders. Well, the Church, organized in New York state, moved westward, because the destiny of this work was westward. They established themselves at Kirtland, and they had difficulty there because of persecution and objection to the truth. 

The Latter-day Saints have always undertaken to maintain a spirit of kindness and patience, endeavoring to promulgate the truth because they love it, and because they recognize it as a pearl of great price. Yet many people who ought to be willing to accept the gospel and receive the benefits and blessings which come from it, have opposed it and have undertaken to persecute those who? have accepted it. The result was that in Kirtland there came a time when there were very dark days for the Church. There were those who, because of persecution, could not stand, nor retain their love of the truth. They were affected more by the persecution of men, and they fell away from the truth. This did not change or alter the truth itself, but it did affect their standing and blessings which they would have been entitled to receive if they had retained their courage and faith in the gospel. 

So the people moved again westward to Missouri — -the place that the Lord had designated as the center stake — and there they undertook to live the gospel. It is true that they had some failings and weaknesses, but nothing to compare with the men who persecuted them. It was because they were a strange people — -a peculiar people — who undertook to carry the gospel of Jesus Christ, the truth, into their every-day lives that they were persecuted and driven. There came a time when conditions in the Church apparently were in a very desperate status, because of the terrible persecutions. Joseph Smith and other leaders of the Church were imprisoned, and their very lives were in danger. The people were driven and persecuted in every way and some were massacred. Brigham Young and others who were not imprisoned were doing everything in their power to remove the Saints from Missouri, and to find a resting place for them. There were those among them who could not retain the truth, whereby they could be free, and endure persecution and trial and trouble. 

Finally the Saints were established in Illinois, and there they built a beautiful city — the finest city in the state of Illinois. They established a wonderful community. Then again persecution followed, and those who ought to have been able to acknowledge and understand the truth of the gospel were the ones who were bitterly persecuting and 137  this work. So, after all that effort, the leaders of the Church, Joseph and Hyrum Smith, were cruelly martyred, and others of the authorities of the Church were in danger of their lives, and the people themselves were finally driven out again and had to find another resting place. 

So they came westward to this land. There were those, even then, who could not retain the truth, who could not continue in faith, who could not appreciate the fact that this gospel is the means whereby they could be free and overcome the bondage of sin, transgression, superstition and those other things which are the result of the error that is abroad in the world. The Latter-day Saints who still retained and lived the truth came to this land, established themselves and began anew to built a community, where they could live in faith, unity and love, and promulgate the gospel abroad. Notwithstanding these different crises that have occurred, the work has gone steadily forward. After they had become established here these opposed to the truth were not satisfied. Because of the fact that they were growing, that the truth was becoming established and was prevailing, persecution began again later on and continued for a time. 

There have been, therefore, at various periods in the history of this people the various tests that have come to the Latter-day Saints to prove their devotion to the truth, and their willingness to maintain it. The gospel of Jesus Christ remains the truth. It is, as stated, the whole truth, it is divine truth, it is the will of the Lord. When the Lord speaks to man, through his prophets, as he has done, as recorded in the scripture, it becomes his word and his will; it becomes scripture; it becomes the truth to mankind. While social and political conditions may vary at different periods of the world's history, the fundamental truths of the gospel remain. Those precepts that are essential to man's salvation endure. So these necessary principles of the gospel, restored in these days, remain as fundamental truths. They are unchangeable and invariable. 

The Latter-day Saints who have been loyal have accepted and retained these principles, and they will always retain them, for they are true. There may be those who will fall away from the truth, whether it be as a result of persecution or whether it be because of the pleasures of the world. Whether it be the luxuries or the wealth that comes to men, there are those who cannot endure the conditions necessary to observe the plain, simple, divine truths which make for salvation and for the blessing of' mankind. But their failure does not alter the truth, nor stay its progress. 

Fortunately, at the present time, there is very little persecution of the Latter-day Saints anywhere; but there are influences of the world among us in this community, and, in fact, influences in the world everywhere, that tend to draw men and women away from the truths of the gospel of Christ. We recognize the fact that while the Latter-day Saints claim to possess the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, and are endeavoring to live in accordance therewith, there are many other people in the world who are living in accordance with principles of truth that GENERAL CONFERENCE  a part of the gospel. These are essential for the welfare, growth and development of mankind, in the promotion of ideals and the practices that shall enahle them to accomplish the greatest good in life, and at the same time prepare themselves for eternity. 

There are, however, efforts and influences abroad in the <world which tend to draw people away from the truth, and from these principles which make for growth and development. Such influences are at work among us here. There is a growing" tendency toward a spirit of vulgarity, of profanity, and of obscenity, that is most disgusting in its nature. If we go, for instance, to the theatres today, we find the use of profanity, — the taking of the name of the Lord in vain — a most common and offensive practice. It is also noticeable in many of the magazines that are widely circulated. Also, the jokes, stories and actions on the stage, and in magazines, are, in too many instances, so vulgar and even obscene as to be revolting, to say the least. They are having their influence upon many people, particularly the young people. So, these deceptive efforts are abroad, and their purpose undeniably is to draw boys and girls, and men and women, away from the truth. 

My brethren and sisters, and especially my brethren who bear the Priesthood, who carry responsibility as presidencies of stakes, as bishoprics of wards, and all who have received this Priesthood, our responsibility and our opportunity — and also primarily the responsibility of fathers and mothers — is to endeavor to teach our children to restrain themselves in those thoughts, practices or habits that will tend to degenerate them, or tend to reduce their will-power, or their mastery of themselves. It is our business to train them, and forewarn them that if such habits are cultivated, or if they are allowed to grow in their minds, or any other habits of like character, they will tend to lead them away from this everlasting truth. 

I pray that the Lord may bless every one of us, that we may recognize these signs and these dangers. We realize that there are influences abroad that are just as insidious, just as dangerous for the maintenance of the standing and the faith of the Latter-day Saints as there were in the days when persecution prevailed. At the same time, we as a people should recognize the great heritage that has come to us from, our fathers through their stability, of faith, devotion, and love of the truth; and measure up to that responsibility by training our children and those under our care, through example and good counsel, to resist these habits and tendencies that will lead them away from the truth and into error, and cause them sadness and sorrow. The gospel is a great ideal, a great set of principles, that makes for growth and development, for happiness and peace. It will prevail and triumph, whether or not any of us, individually, shall be able to endure in faith. 

May the Lord help and bless us that we may measure up to these opportunities and responsibilities, that we may be able to stem this tide and these influences that are abroad, to maintain those plain and simple standards of truth and of righteousness that shall make for happiness, peace, joy, and finally for salvation, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 139 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Canadian Mission 

As announced in this conference, I have been called to preside over the Canadian mission. The call came to me at the close of a busy day on February 3, and on February 14 I was on my journey to that historic field, opened nearly ninety-five years ago by Joseph Young, the father of our late and beloved Seymour B. Young. I thought it was an appropriate thing to have a Seventy called to that field, opened by the man who was the first Seventy and the first president of Seventy in this dispensation. He was accompanied by Phinehas H. Young, Elial Strong and Eleazer Miller. In six weeks' time they had raised up a branch of the Church at Ernesttown, Ontario. 

The Reverend Harry Emerson Fosdick, who has been referred to in this conference, has just issued a book bearing date August, 1926, called Adventurous Religion. By that he means the same spirit and zeal and adventurous living that characterized the introduction of the gospel in the days of the Savior. He characterizes the incidents connected with Paul's ministry as "the most influential uprush of spiritual power in human history;" that "Christianity began in a great adventure" and that "the life to which Jesus summoned men required insight and bravery to undertake, and fortitude to continue." If the Reverend Fosdick would know of adventurous religion in this age, he need only consult the history of the Canadian mission. 

Elder Brigham Young made his way to Canada, in December, 1832, wading through deep snow and crossing the lake when the ice was so thin that it bent under the weight of him and his companion, who could not walk together, the water above the ice wetting their shoes. He and his brother Joseph Young raised up a branch in West Loughborough, after baptizing forty-five souls. Elder Brigham Young, in July, 1833, returned to Kirtland, Ohio, accompanied by some twenty or thiry new converts. That was followed by the labors of Elder Orson Pratt. In fact, Elder Pratt thought he was the first in this dispensation to preach the gospel in Canada. He was followed by Elder Parley P. Pratt, in 1836, and what wonderful fruits these men had in the ministry. John Taylor was providentially found in the city of Toronto, and afterwards, as you know, he became president of the Church. I am a little ahead of my story, chronologically. I should record the fact that Presidents Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon preached in this historic -field. Old father Nickerson and his wife, of Mount Pleasant, Ontario, drove to Kirtland and brought the Prophet Joseph and Sidney Rigdon to Mount Pleasant. There is a graphic account of this visit, by Lydia Knight (whose maiden name was Lydia Bailey) in her History, on pages 14 to 23. Lawyers abbreviate by using exhibits. May we refer to these pages as an exhibit to be read as an example of "adventurous religion." 

Someone has suggested that Canada is really entitled to much credit in opening up the British mission, because four of the converts GENERAL CONFERENCE  Canada accompanied Elders Heber C. Kimball, Willard'Richards and Orson Hyde to the British mission, referred to today. One of those persons was Joseph Fielding, the brother of Mary and Mercy Fielding. 

From this early work we can get some insight into what the Lord no doubt meant in telling Joseph Smith to "be not weary in well doing;" that "from things that are small proceedeth that which is great;" that souls are precious in the sight of God, and if it be that' "one spends all his days in bringing save it be one soul into the fold, how great shall be his joy with him in the kingdom of my Father." Mary Fielding now stands at the head of a posterity numbering several hundred, representing, as it were, a great cone of righteous humanity with the apex pointing to Mary Fielding Smith, the wife of the Patriarch, and with a base ever widening as the years come and go. 

I had a glorious experience in this mission, in "swinging around the circuit," touching the great cities of Hamilton, London, Toronto, headquarters of the mission; Ottawa, where the Dominion Parliament was in session, the great city of Montreal; Halifax, in Nova Scotia; the old city of St. John, New Brunswick; and the cities of Bangor and Portland, Maine, and back again to headquarters. 

While at Toronto a friend entertaining us for dinner, with evident pride, showed me a copy of the new Catholic Encyclopedia. He himself had studied for the Catholic ministry, but was still connected with a protestant church. He explained to me that this edition of the Catholic Encyclopedia had been sponsored by the Knights of Columbus. He called my attention to an article under the heading of "Mormons." Hastily glancing through it, I was agreeably surprised at the fair treatment of the subject throughout, with the exception of two or three sentences. One sentence is very closely connected with the important event of the erection and dedication the other day of a monument to the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon. In the edition of the Encyclopedia mentioned there is a statement that the Three Witnesses, whom we honor now by a beautiful little monument upon these grounds, had denied their testimony. I did not take a copy of the exact words of the later edition, but the earlier edition, the one copyrighted in 1911, uses this language: 

"In renouncing 'Mormonism' subsequently, Cowdery, Whitmer and Harris, the three principal witnesses, declared this testimony false." 

I am sure that the Knights of Columbus, if responsible for this error, will be pleased to correct it when their attention is called to it. because the statement is contrary to the facts. My father, James H. Hart, interviewed David Whitmer, in 1883. The interview was reduced to the form of verse, afterwards read and approved by David Whitmer. It was published in the October, 1883, number of the Contributor, vol. 5, pages 9 and 10, to which I again make a reference for the sake of brevity. 

David Whitmer said: 

"My written statement I have ne'er denied. I saw the angel, and I heard his voice And wondrous things, that made my heart rejoice." 141 

After giving an account of the visitation to him of the angel, he said : 

"If this be not the truth, there is no truth, And I have been mistaken from my youth; If I'm mistaken, you may know from thence, That there's no God, no law, no life, no sense. 

"I know there is a God — I've heard his voice, And in his power and truth do still rejoice; Though fools may ridicule and laugh today, They shall know the truth of what I say." 

"I've suffered persecution at the hands Of hireling preachers, and their Christian bands; I've braved their hatred, and have them withstood While thirsting for the youthful Prophet's blood. 

"They came, four hundred strong, with visage bold And said, 'Deny this story you have told; And by our sacred honor, we'll engage To save you from the mob's infuriate rage.' 

"A mighty power came on me, and I spake In words that made the guilty mobbers quake; And trembling seized the surging crowd, and fear; But left unharmed, I felt that God was near." 

Had he been disposed to deny his testimony, a good time would have been when the mob came. 

I would also like to refer to an affidavit dictated by Charles M. Nielsen, formerly a city judge of this city, of a court room testimony of Oliver Cowdery. Again, I shall refer to this as an exhibit, to be read by you later when the same may be published. It is a court scene in Michigan, with Oliver Cowdery prosecuting a murder case. The attorney for the defense said in a very sarcastic manner : 

"I hope, Mr. Cowdery, that when you are going to reply to my argument to the jury that you will tell us something about the angel who came down in his night clothes while you and Joe Smith were digging golden plates out of the Cumorah hill, by which you have deluded so many thousands of our countrymen, by deceiving them in regard to the coming forth of a certain book callied the Book of Mormon." 

The narrative continues: 

"Finally Oliver Cowdery's turn came to reply. I shall never forget how his face looked, no matter how long I shall live. He was as calm as a summer morning. There was no anger in his face or in his words. In addressing the court and the jury he said: ' 

" 'Oh, I do wish that I could escape replying to the challenge of my brother attorney representing the defendant in this case, but I can not. I dare not. The angel that appeared to us was not a dream. It was not in the night time. It was in the day time while the sun was shining brightly on a clear beautiful day. We were praying in turn as we were kneeling on the ground and while in the attitude of prayer, a brilliant light surrounded us, the glory of which I can not describe. It even surpassed the brilliancy of the sun. A beautiful personage stood before us, about two feet from the ground, and he told us that his nam.' was Moroni, and he declared to us that the Book of Mormon had been translated 

142 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

by the gift and power of God, and he commanded us to bear witness of the fact, and he said, 'If you ever deny what you have seen and heard here from me today, there is no forgiveness for you in this life nor in the life to come.' " 

There are other interesting matters contained in this affidavit that you may read at your leisure; also, another affidavit now being- prepared at my suggestion by Elder William H. Homer, who interviewed Martin Harris in the Kirtland Temple and heard his dying declaration, and that is the point that I am coming to — the force of a dying declara.tion. 

As President Joseph Quinney, Jr., and I passed through the town of Bellville, Ontario, there was on trial before Judge Logie a murder case in which the prosecuting attorney presented an ante-mortem statement, a dying declaration, by one Charles St. Charles, a court bailiff who had been shot down. The principal testimony for the Crown was a dying declaration of Mr. St. Charles. The jury, after hearing the evidence, and being instructed by the court as to the weight that should be attached to a dying declaration, brought in a verdict of not guilty, and then a very unusual thing occurred. The judge evidently thought that the jury had disregarded the instructions of the court or the argument of counsel for the Crown as to the weight of a dying declaration, and rebuked the jury by telling the defendant that he might as easily have been convicted as acquitted upon the testimony taken, and that the court was not satisfied with the verdict and would report the case further. The English press in its conservative way criticized the judge for his invasion of the rights of the jury, but it indicated the weight he thought was attached very properly to a dying declaration under British law, a rule so strong in the law that judges in the states follow this rule, notwithstanding the sixth amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which guarantees to every man the right to be confronted by the witnesses against him. The force of a dying statement was understood in the time of Shakespeare, as indicated in his play of "King John," where one Melum, on his death bed, gives evidence of the contemplated treachery of Louis, a French lord. When not believed Melum exclaims : 

"Have I not hideous death before my view, Retaining but a quantity of life, Which bleeds away even as a form of wax Resolveth from the figure 'gainst the fire? What in the world should make me now deceive, Since I must lose the use of .all deceit? Why should I then be false, Since it is true that I must die here, And live hence by truth?" 

The underlying strength of a dying declaration is given by jurists of the Supreme Court of one of our American states as follows : 

'When dissolution is approaching and the dying man has lost all hope of life, and the shadows of the grave are gathering in around him' and his mind is impressed with the full sense of his condition, the solemnity of the season and hour gives to his statement a sanctity of truth more impressive and potential than the formalities of an oath," etc. 143 

I might say that the testimony of each of these three men had the weight of a dying declaration, as you may plainly know from the documents outstanding on that question. David Whitmer, in a dying declaration, as well as these other men, affirmed the truth of those statements; so that it is not true that they denied the testimony that is attributed to them in the Book of Mormon, and which is now perpetuated, not only in the hearts of the people, but in bronze upon this monument. I rejoice that our brethren were led to erect a monument to that very important fact in the history of the Church. 

While at Toronto, I had an opportunity of going forward with a little commission that President Joseph F. Smith laid upon me, sometime before his death, of following up a discovery in that neighborhood — the discovery of what is called a "Stone Cist," somewhat like the one in which the sacred plates were found by Joseph Smith. The following is from the Records of the Past, the March and April numbers, 1909, pp. 75 and 76. 

Discovery of stone Cist in Ontario : On the farm of T. M. Edmundson, near Streetsville, in Peel county, (about 22 miles west of Toronto) in the fall of 1906. It had slabs of stone for sides and ends, a clay floor and no cap stones, but these may have been removed in cultivation years ago, without discovering the side slabs which were on level with the ground: 7 feet x 1 ft. x 4 x / 2 feet deep. Stone cists have been found in Tennessee, Illinois, at points on the Delaware river and in northern New Mexico."' 

1 found some people by that name but have not yet found Mr. T. M. Edmundson, but I hope to do so. 

We had a joyful time in meeting with the seventy-five fine young brethren and sisters who are missionaries in that field. I did not put in my application, as there are some points connected with a mission presidency that I am not versed in to begin with, but I would like to put in my application now for at least one stake president in each one of the eight districts, so that they may be inclined to follow the example of President Chipman of Alpine stake in having a score of their stake ' workers join them, and then we will be pretty well equipped. We would also like to have a powerful broadcasting station somewhere within the radius of our mission field, and also a moving picture equipment. It is really a slow process to hunt for men in the mission where you have to persuade them to come to our meetings and then have so few of them there. We had good meetings throughout, but light attendance. 

I rejoice in this labor, my brethren and sisters. These young men and young women are going forward with zeal in this work of an "adventurous religion." If time permitted we might tell of examples from the experiences formerly and today in this mission, matching those in the ministry in the days of Paul. The Canadian missionaries have all pledged their loyalty and support to this cause. They are going forward in response to the commission given, as recorded in the 1st section of the Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Hearken. O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on GENERAL CONFERENCE , and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken, ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. * * * 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days. 

"And they shall go forth and none shall stay them." 

And in that same section is a dignified presentation of the view of ^he Lord in reference to this Church, and it may well be read in contrast with the indictment published in the Atlantic Monthly for March, 1927, and referred to in the Literary Digest heretofore mentioned in this conference. Read that scathing indictment, which probably cannot be maintained upon all counts in connection with the dignified statement of the Lord through the Prophet Joseph, in section one, verse 30 upon which we can, and do, and must stand : 

"And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have power to lay the foundation of this Church, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness, the only true and living Church upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well pleased, speaking unto the Church collectively and not individually" — a distinction which should always be observed upon our part and the part of others. 

Now if I may conclude in the language of that same section : "For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spirit beareth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever;" and that is my testimony in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER HENRY H. ROLAPP 

President of the Eastern States Mission 

My brethren and sisters: I believe this is the third time in my life that I have occupied a position of this kind in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. I have been on the General Board of the Sunday school for nearly twenty years, and twice I have spoken in the Tabernacle on behalf of that organization. This is the first time that I have been called upon to speak in. general conference. I know, of course, that it is because I have been called to preside over the Eastern States mission that the President has been kind enough to give me this privilege. 

I rejoice in the opportunity of preaching the gospel of Christ. I was converted in the old country, fifty years ago, next December. As a young man I felt very enthusiastic about the gospel of Christ. I can't remember the time, since then, when I have not had a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have been called into many different positions, civil, political, and otherwise, but I have always been blessed by the Lord with a knowledge that the gospel of Christ, as it was restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is true, and is that which ought to be preached to the world. 145 

To the extent of my small ability, I shall go into the world and tell the story of "Mbrmonism." I shall keep on telling it until someone will believe it and join the Church. 

As I think of the Church that Christ himself established, at the age that we have attained, ninety-seven years, and remember that the apostles were not even permitted to preach the gospel as we have the right to preach it, I am glad of the change in conditions. When a person in those days opened his mputh about the gospel that the Master had proclaimed, he took his life into his hands. As I have sat here and listened to all these men, these leaders of the Church, telling us of the principles of the gospel, and giving us encouragement in going on with the work, I have recognized how much greater is our opportunity for securing salvation, for securing a knowledge of the principles of the gospel, than was given unto those who lived in the days of the Master. Rome was the big city when that privilege finally came, three hundred or more years after the birth of Christ. It was Rome, a city that was amongst the Gentiles; it was Rome that was regarded as the big Christian center. Today the Church of Christ, the big center of the Church of Christ, is here in Salt Lake City, among those who have builded this community. 

It is true, as Brother Charles H. Hart has just been telling us, that people are beginning more patiently to listen to the gospel. There isn't the same opposition to the elders that there was twenty or twentyfive years ago. We can go out and proclaim the fact that we belong to the "Mormon" Church. Twenty or twenty-five years ago that was a challenge for a discussion. Today it is accepted; it is taken for granted. The other fellow may not believe it, but he will stand and listen to you. I have experienced it in my little life. I have been acquainted with more non-"Mormons" probably than I have with persons among the Latter-day Saints. Everyone knows that I am a Latter-day Saint, that I am a "Mormon," and 'they accept it, pay no particular attention to it, but they accept it as a fact. That is going to be a great help. I trust that we in the Eastern States mission will take advantage of that situation; that we will go forward; that we will preach the gospel by day and we will preach it by night. We will keep' on going. After all, that is the great thing — to get the knowledge or the belief into the hearts of men, and to get them into the Church, and get them so that we can lift them up. When you and I first entered we did not have much of an understanding of the gospel. It came to us by inspiration from God above, but as we came along and you helped and everybody helped to give us more instruction, we began to see the grandeur of it and we appreciated it. 

I feel glad that I am going on a mission. Though it is late in life, probably, I shall do my best. I know that I have to follow a great man, a great orator, but I shall do my best, so long as the Lord shall keep me in that country, to convert the people to the fact that here in Utah and surrounding states are the Saints of God, those whom he has selected, as a small number, to bring out the truth in the world. I pray God that he will bless us all in doing that which we can do, at home or GENERAL CONFERENCE , preaching the gospel of Christ, so that we may bring men into this communion, all of which I ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER FRED J. TADJE 

Former President of the Swiss-German Mission 

My brethren and sisters : I am very grateful to my heavenly Father for the opportunity that I have had of fulfiling a mission ampng the German-speaking people. I am also very happy to have this privilege of being home again and enjoying the association of my brethren and sisters here in Zion. My spirit has responded to the treatment received during this conference. I feel that we have had a spiritual feast, for which I have longed, a number of years. I mean by that, I have longed for the opportunity of meeting again with the brethren and sisters in general conference assembled. 

I should like to state, briefly this morning, just what we have been doing in the mission field during the last four years. It is now just a little over four years since I left, with my family, on this mission, i Elder Charles S. Hyde, who was called to preside over the Netherlands mission, and a group of elders, went with us. We left Salt Lake City on March 16, 1923. On the evening of our departure from this city it was raining, and by morning we were in the midst of a very cold and violent snow storm, which made our train eighteen hours late by the time we arrived in Chicago. I became ill with grippe the first night out of Salt Lake City, and I believe because of the cold train and lack of hospital accommodations, this cold brought on a very severe case of inflammatory rheumatism with which I suffered very severely on the whole trip, and a month after my arrival in the mission field. By the time we reached Liverpool I could hardly walk. Only with the greatest of difficulty was I able to move about, and when we. arrived in Cologne, which is about two-thirds of the way from Liverpool to Basel, I was rendered so weak that it was impossible for me to go on. We remained there five days. During all that time I was confined to a bed which was furnished by a family of Saints. In fact, they gave us the best accommodations possible. They turned over to us several rooms, which we appreciated very much. When I arrived in Basel I was almost a physical wreck, but I soon found a place to rest and expected to be well again in a few days. In this, however, I was very m,uch disappointed, as I was bedridden for nearly a month. I did not have the privilege when I arrived in the mission field of visiting in all the branches and conferences with elder Serge Ballif, who was presiding over that mission, and whom I was to succeed, for within an hour of my arrival in the mission field, in Basel. I was confined to my bed. When I had recovered sufficiently to leave my bedroom, conferences were arranged for all of the sixteen districts in the mission. About two weeks before I was to start on my trip I suffered a relapse and was forced to return 147  bed. My condition became almost hopeless, and I began to wonder how long it was going to last. Discouragement had not set in yet. for I knew positively that the Lord's purpose in calling me on this mission was not that I should spend my days in bed sick. That faith and assurance had been given me before I left this city, thanks to the Lord, but I became very anxious to meet the elders and the Saints. I began pleading with my heavenly Father to render me physically fit, and to enable me to accomplish the desires of my heart. While I lay there so helpless, the second time, I gave every consideration to the advisability of calling off these conferences. I consulted with our mission secretary. Elder Kasteler, and we both were agreed that I would not be able to fill these conference appointments. So he was asked to give the conference presidents notice of the postponement. As he was leaving my bedroom — he was not entirely out of my sight — the Spirit of the Lord enlightened me, my brethren and sisters, and reminded me of an experience which I had had two or three days before. I asked Brother Kasteler to return, and I said to him : "It will not be necessary for you to write the conference presidents, for I am going to be well in time to attend those conferences." 

What do you think happened? The Spirit of the Lord gave me to understand that if I really wanted to I should be able to fill those appointments. Elder Kasteler marvelled about it, and in spite of my pains, I felt like shouting hosannas to the Lord for his goodness unto me. Did I really want to be out in the field? Yes, in very deed. I knew positively that I was going to be well, for I wanted to be among those elders and Saints; and so it came true! The Lord heard my prayers and granted me the desire of my heart. I hope I shall never be found ungrateful to the Lord by forgetting this incident and a number -of others of a similar character which I experienced during this last mission. 

The physician warned me not to leave on this trip. It was the rainy season. It had rained almost incessantly. He felt I was going out too soon after such a siege of illness. He turned to me and said: "Mr. Tadje, if I had complete control over you, you would not go away, but you would remain right here and take baths and other treatments; because a recurrence of that rheumatism through the same cause might incapacitate you for life." He was in earnest, but I smiled and assured him that nothing like that was going to take place, and it did not, for I never had another .sick day on my mission. My health improved from day to day, and it appeared that traveling during the inclement season did me good instead of harm. When I returned from my first trip, which lasted approximately three months, I had completely recovered. 

The mission made progress by leaps and bounds. The Spirit of the Lord touched the hearts of the honest seekers for the truth. No man living can rightfully claim credit for the success the mission enjoyed. During the last four years over five thousand^ souls were baptized in the Church in those countries. It> was a joy to GENERAL CONFERENCE  conferences because of the host of people who would attend. Frequently there were a thousand and more people in attendance, at which four hundred, five hundred, or six hundred, were friends eager to hear our message. It was a common occurrence during the years of 11923 and 1924 to have a good-sized baptism after each conference. We baptized possibly from twenty or thirty to forty within a week or two weeks after this conference. We held these conferences every Sunday. 

It might interest you to know that we have splendidly organized Sunday schools in the mission, also Relief Societies, Mutual Improvement associations of the Young Men and Young Ladies, and before we were released the - Primary organizations were already functioning in a few of the larger branches, but they were not known by that name. This work was done in connection with the Sunday schools. Also a very remarkable work is done in the mission by our choirs. Organizations of one hundred voices, or more, would furnish the music at our special meeting's and conferences. Our local members in the mission are very diligent in spreading the gospel. I have in mind a widow in the city of Chemjnitz, who used to bring over twenty children to Sunday school each Sunday morning. These were children of her neigh bors. Several rows of chairs were reserved for her each Sunday morning by the superintendency, and a similar work was done by these brethren and sisters throughout the whole mission. 

Due to the phenomenal success in the mission, as to making converts, it became apparent that more efficient wor,k could be done and many new members could be taught the principles of the gospel more efficiently, and the priesthood and auxiliary organizations could be looked after better, if the mission were divided. The presiding brethren saw fit to do this, so the division was effected in 1925. President Hugh J. Cannon was appointed to preside over the western part of the former Swiss and German mission,, and I was transferred to preside over the eastern part of the mission with headquarters at Dresden. 

Many new fields have been opened up during the last year, and I am sure that thousands will yet accept the gospel in that country, provided the conditions remain as favorable as they are at the present time. Germany is in very deed a fruitful field. Our missionaries are enjoying perfect freedom; and let me assure you they are doing a good work. Some of them will even do a better work if no opportunity is given them by our good parents here at home to spend money lavishly, comparatively speaking. Some elders get along with less than fifteen dollars a month in the mission, others spend twenty-five and a number of them, possibly the average, thirty dollars a month. I think the parents should not send more than about thirty dollars a month unless these elders are assigned to labor in new fields. Remember high expenditures lessen the spirituality of the elders. The German people are very hospitable, and the members of the Church even more so. They give food. 149 , clothes and money to the Lord's servants. You have read what the revelation says about such people. We read in Section 84 of the Doctrine and Covenants as follows : 

"And whoso receiveth you, there I will be also, for I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up. 

"Whoso receiveth you receiveth me; and the same will feed you, and clothe you, and give you money. 

"And he who feeds you, or clothes you, or gives you money, shall in nowise lose his reward. 

"And he that doeth not these things is not my disciple; by this you may know my disciples." 

I feel that there are many disciples in the Swiss and German and the German-Austrian missions, for they do feed the elders of the Church, they give our elders money, and they look upon them, as real servants of the Almighty. The Saints do more than this; they observe the law of tithing in a most remarkable manner, and they fail not to donate liberally to the fast offering account. The mission ranks very high in these activities. I should like to show you just by one or two incidents, for I haven't time for more, how the attitude of the people toward the Church and its members has changed in Germany. Professor Thomas A. Beal, of the University of Utah, was invited to deliver a lecture on Utah and the "Morm(ons; ." at the University of Berlin, on the night of December 15, 1925. There were from three hundred to four hundred people in attendance, and the address was well received. Before 1914 this would have been an impossibility. Also Elders David O. McKay and James E. Talmage, myself and many other elders have had the opportunity of preaching the gospel in the school halls of Prussia and in the City Hall of Berlin. This would have been simply impossible prior to the time of the Great War. 

I could relate other incidents to show you how the local members are respected now in the mission, whereas formerly they were despised by city officials. I may possibly be permitted to relate an incident that took place at the unveiling of the memorial tablet in honor of Karl G. Maeser, so that it will go into the record. The present owner of the property where Karl G. Maeser was born did not object to our erecting a tablet in his honor. I made a number of visits to the place, and each visit resulted in a religious conversation. He was always glad to see me and welcomed me in his home, but of all things in the world religion interested him, the least. He said : "Mr. Tadje, I simply cannot believe in the existence of a God. I have heard and seen too much of ministers who are insincere; therefore, the churches do not interest me. I cannot and will not trouble my mind about God and religion." I would hear that story every time that I conversed with him. At the close of the dedicatorial services I noticed that his little garden, in front of the house, had been trampled on by our people, and it did not look very good. I told him how sorry I was that we had ruined his GENERAL CONFERENCE  garden, but he said to me in all sincerity: "Mr. Tadje, our kind,, heavenly Father will let it grow again, I am sure." He added : "You may be surprised at hearing me talk that way, but, Mr. Tadje, I tell you my heart is full, my feelings almost overwhelm! me; because, what I have seen and heard, today, convinces me that there is a just God in heaven." So impressive, my brethren and sisters, were the services incident to the unveiling of this memorial tablet. 

In conclusion, I wish to bear my testimony that I know positively that the gospel is true; I know positively that the supernatural elements, to which our esteemed President referred in his opening remarks, exist in the Church today. The Lord has been with us, and may he continue to bless us; m,ay we abide in the faith continually by observing his commandments, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

1 noticed, by an editorial in the paper this morning, that a monument is!to be erected in ,honor of the pioneer mothers of this great country of ours. I was thrilled when 1 read the account, and happy when I was informed a;few weeks ago that the monument designed in sculpture, by a Utah son, Mahonri Young, would possibly be accepted by the judges in the contest. As I see before me a number of pioneer mothers, I wish to say, on this occasion, that I am very grateful to God that the wonderful work of the pioneer mothers, who blazed the trails into the wilds of America, is to be recognized. For, if there ever lived fine womanhood, women who loved God and gave to the work of God all that was best, it was the pioneer mothers of this country and this great state. 

Ten years ago, this morning, President Woodrow iWilson, before the Congress of the United States, proclaimed war against Germany, and the United States entered that great contest. You pioneer mothers sent forth your sons and your grandsons. They fought in the war, they fell in battle, but they honored you in maintaining the finer ideals of civilization. The war was ended a few years ago, but there are some things greatly needed by all peoples of the world. The world today needs a higher morality, and to attain such it must recognize the existence of a divine Will and Personality, more than ever before. The idea that good can be disassociated from the idea of God is wrong. The world since the war needs a finer system, not only of religion, but of effort for a larger righteousness. This will be the greatest preventive of war. Nations must have a deeper consciousness of the personal relationship between God and the individual, and a broader philosophy of history which attempts to unfold the divine purpose in the rise and progress of nations. What the world needs, therefore, is character, the kind of character that you pioneer mothers taught your 151  and your daughters; and it is the gospel of Jesus Christ which brings out the idea of a belief in God, a God who is righteous and loving — a person. This must lie at the root of character, and today the Latter-day Saints realize more than ever that it is revelation that gives a new impulse to the spiritual advance of humanity. 

My brethren and sisters, life is a spiritual gift and a spiritual opportunity. Salvation means the recovery of life. It was the Apostle Peter who wrote and said: "His divine purpose has granted to us all things that pertain to life and to godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and virtue." 

There has been ushered into the world a new force in history, and this was accomplished a hundred years ago by a barefoot boy, a child, who hardly had enough to eat, but who had linked his life with God's. His name was Joseph Smith. He was the "Mormon" prophet, the prophet of this new dispensation, and was born at the beginning of the nineteenth century. It was a new age of the world's history. The government of the United States had been organized. The common man had come into his own. The government under which we live had acclaimed for the first time in all history that man is endowed with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The constitution of the United States had written large : "We, the people"! It was the common man who was speaking, the. man upon whose shoulders rested the great work of the new age. So this new prophet came at an opportune time, for a new age had come; a new age for the extending of the message of Christ Jesus our Lord was to be ushered in. To the world this Joseph Smith announced the word of God direct from heaven. The Priesthood of God was restored with all its rights, powers and blessings. The Church of Christ was reestablished and the knowledge of man's divine relationship to God was reaffirmed. The world was given a new faith. Michelet, the French historian, said at the beginning of that century: "If there is anything in the world that is needed, it is a new faith in Christ our Lord." This, the religion of Jesus Christ, asserted with a clearer vision, a deeper knowledge, the kingdom of God and its establishment upon the earth. It teaches the truth of God the Father and the infinite value of the human soul. It restores the higher righteousness and the commandment of love. It summons all men to Christ and says to them : "Rise up and be God's children." All must labor and put their hands, hearts and minds to the work of progress. Eternal progression and the immortality of the soul give, us the key to the higher life beyond. So through the work of this prophet a new day has dawned with a new sky over our heads. For in religion as in other things men are not owned any more but are guided. This religion of Christ, our Lord, claims today that men of truth are living more than ever in all history. This man Joseph Smith, therefore, was not a Calvin nor a Luther nor a Zwingli. He was far more than they were; he was a prophet of fire, with a moral intensity, believing and teaching that. the Kingdom of Heaven is near at hand. He believed and taught that wrong and injustice, GENERAL CONFERENCE  and sin, could not. stand before the oncoming of the kingdom of righteousness. The hearts of men are to be turned to usher in ithe kingdom and the glory of God. Prophet and seer, he was the great interpreter of the Spirit of Christ to the new thought of the new world. He did not arrive at truth by a logical process. He perceived it. Truth was spiritually discerned. So today, for a nation to enter into this great program of peace that we are dreaming and thinking about, that nation must discern truth and light direct from God. 

Christ today is acclaimed anew. There is a superb explanation of mind and thought and peace. Men of God are entering on the scene of action as never before. So lift up your eyes, O people of the world! The supreme drama is enacting. My brethren and sisters, may we go forth from this conference with a greater testimony burning in our hearts; may our love for humanity increase; may our faith in God deepen. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

President Charles H. Hart's remarks about the Catholic Encyclopedia have brought the following memorandum from Brother Orson F. Whitney: 

"President Grant: "l wrote the article on 'Mormons' for the new Catholic Encyclopedia, by request of President Joseph F. Smith, and at the solicitation of Dean Harris. He signed it, and sent it to New York, where it was changed, things being written into it that the article, as it left my hands, did not contain. The assertion that the Three Witnesses denied their Testimony was one of these interpolations. I protested to the Dean, and he invited me to correct the misstatement, which I did. Whether they published my second article in the Encyclopedia (as promised) I know not. (Signed) Orson F. Whitney." 

Apparently they did not. 

The congregation sang, "Do what is right." 

The closing prayer was offered by Elder Joseph E. Cordon. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 


