Afternoon
04 04 1927


ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

In the few minutes that are mine to occupy, I would like to say something for the especial benefit of the stranger within our gates — something that may help him or her to a better understanding than possibly they now possess of what the world terms "Mormonism." It may also serve as a reminder to the Latter-day Saints, especially to the younger or less experienced members of the Church. 

A COMMON ERROR 

The commonest error in relation to "Mormonism" is the notion that it is a new religion, and that it originated with Joseph Smith in the Nineteenth Century. Those who hold this view, and allow it to limit their vision of the subject, will never understand "Mormonism" aright. 

For this reason : They are considering only a part of it — a very important part, it is true, but still only a part; and their comprehension o^f that is necessarily imperfect, since some knowledge of the subject in its entirety is essential to a thorough understanding of any part thereof. 

THE TRUE TITLE 

The only new thing about "Mormonism" is the nickname that it now bears. Its true title is "The Everlasting Gospel" (Rev. 14:6), the gospel of Jesus Christ. It did not originate with Joseph Smith, nor with any other man. It is not a product of human wisdom. It is of divine origin. It was instituted in the heavens before the earth was formed, as the means of uplift and promotion for "the lesser intelligences," in the midst of whom the Great Creator found himself at the beginning, and who became his sons and daughters, first in the spirit and afterwards in the flesh. 

THE GOSPEL'S ANTIQUITY 

It is the gospel of Christ, but it did not make its first appearance upon this planet at the time of Christ's crucifixion. While it seemed new to that generation, who were "astonished at his doctrine," in reality it was older than all the ages, older than Earth itself, and had been ' given to man again and again before any preaching of it by the ancient 

Apostles. It was a restored gospel then, as it is a restored gospel now, and had been revealed from God out of Eternity at the very beginning of Time. 

THE MACHINERY AND THE POWER 

The gospel is more than a code of laws and ordinances, an embodiment of eternal principles, obedience to which must precede entrance into the Church and Kingdom of God. The machinery is one thing; the power that moves the machinery is another. God is the author and giver of both. Divine authority, the authority of the Priesthood, comes with the gospel, to make operative for man its laws and ordinances and the eternal principles of which it is composed. The gifts of the Holy Spirit are also necessary — imperatively so, in order to render effective the great plan of salvation, exaltation and eternal glory. Faith, repentance, baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost are indispensable parts of the celestial machinery; but of what avail, if the power were not turned on? 

The fall of man and man's redemption from the fall, are basic principles of the divine plan — the very foundations upon which it rests. If Adam had not fallen, had not become mortal and subject unto death, he and his descendants would not have been in a position to avail themselves of the gospel's uplifting powers. In other words, the spirit would have had no body, and consequently would have been incapable of exaltation. And if Christ had not died to redeem mankind, the machinery for human uplift would have stood still and death would have been perpetvfal. All that went before would have been in vain. Adam fell to give us mortal life. Christ died to give us life eternal. 

THE DISPENSATIONS 

There is only one gospel, but there are many gospel dispensations — as those periods are termed when God has spoken to man and revealed these saving principles, these exalting powers. ''Mormonism," as commonly understood, stands for the restoration of the gospel in this Latter-day Dispensation. But that is not all. It stands for the gospel itself in all the dispensations, ancient and modern. 

How many dispensations there are, I know not. But this I know : Whatever their number or the names by which they may bje properly known, they are all inter-related, are links of one great chain, parts of one vast whole; and each, from the beginning, has prepared the way for its successor, the dispensation that was to follow. Before I finish, 1 hope to point out snme of those relationships. 

The relative importance of these dispensations is not to be gauged by the brief accounts given of them in the Bible. That sacred record was intended to emphasize the history and mission of the House of Israel, through which was to come the Savior of Jhe World. Other things of vital importance are only glanced at. The Bible merely hints at the existence of the Land of Zion, the visit of the Savior to the Nephrites, and the great events that were to take place upon this chosen ground. JOSEPH THE PROPHET 

Speaking of Joseph Smith. There are those who think that we worship him. We do not. We love him and revere his memory. He was God's prophet — that is our testimony concerning him; and he stands at the head of this last and greatest of the gospel dispensations — that is his proper place. He never claimed anything beyond it. Why should we claim it for him? 

It is sometimes charged that we give him a standing next to Jesus Christ. I know of no warrant for such an assertion, nor for such a belief; and I am fairly well acquainted with the Church's history, doctrines, and divine revelations. Joseph, himself, testifies that Adam stands next to Christ, and Noah next to Adam, in the Priesthood. 

adam's presidency 

Joseph Smith also declares that Adam presides over all the gospel dispensations, including this, the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. Each has its own immediate presiding authority; but the great head of the human family, the prince and patriarch of our race, presides over them all. 

Is an illustration desired ? We have one right at hand. President Heber J. Grant, the now visible head of the Church, by virtue of his general presidency presides over all the stakes of Zion, over all our outside missions, over every organization and institution in the Church; and yet each one of these has, under him and those associated with' him, its local head, its immediate presiding authority. In like manner Father Adam presides over all the gospel dispensations. 

THE PRIESTHOOD 

Joseph Smith, in a great discourse on Priesthood, says : 

"The Priesthood was first given to Adam; he obtained the First Presidency, and held the keys of it from generation to generation. * * * The Priesthood is an everlasting principle. * * * The keys have to be brought from heaven whenever the Gospel is sent. When they are revealed from heaven, it is by Adam's authority." {History of the Church, vol. 3, pp. 385-386.) 

Adam was the first on earth to receive the gospel and to exercise the powers of the Priesthood. By means of it he was redeemed from endless death; and he taught his children these truths and transmitted them to posterity. 

It was decreed by the Almighty, in Adam's day, that the gospel "should be in the world until the end thereof." How can this be harmonized with the idea and the need of gospel restorations? In this way : The gospel, because of the world's unworthiness, has been withdrawn at times, leaving but a partial illumination to guide mankind. But those withdrawals have been only temporary. Whenever conditions have become favorable, and the Lord's purposes have demanded it, the fulness of the Truth has been restored — brought back again; —  by these repeated restorations, forming a continuous chain of dispensations, the Almighty has made good his decree, that the gospel ''should be in the world until the end thereof." 

ANCIENT OF DAYS 

Says Joseph Smith: "I saw Adam in the Valley of Adam-ondiAhman. He called together his children and blessed them with a patriarchal blessing." This vision was, of course, retrospective, having reference to the time when Adam dwelt upon the earth. In another place the Prophet refers to the same incident in these words : 

"Three years previous to the death of Adam, he called Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch and Methusaleh, who were all high priests, with the residue of his posterity who were righteous, into the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and there bestowed upon them his last blessing. * * * And Adam stood up in the midst of the congregation, and notwithstanding he was bowed down with age, being full of the Holy Ghost, predicted what should befall his posterity to the latest generation." (History of the Church, Vol. 3, p. 388; Doctrine land Covenants 107:53-56.) 

This alone indicates a relationship between Adam's dispensation and ours. But there is more to the same effect. The world has not seen the last of Father Adam. He is coming again — coming as the Ancient of Days, to fulfill the prophecy of Daniel concerning him. And he will come to the very place where, bowed with the weight of his nine centuries (men kept the Word of Wisdom in those days), he blessed his posterity before the close of his earthly career. In the Valley of Adamondi-Ahman, now in Western Missouri, almost within hailing distance of the ancient site of the Garden of Eden, where the New Jerusalem is to rise, will sit the Ancient of Days, counseling his worthy children and preparing them for the second coming of the Son of God. 

A CLOSE RELATIONSHIP 

Adam's mighty blessing upon his posterity, forecasting the history of the human race — the mightiest patriarchal blessing ever given — taken in connection with his prospective return into the midst of his righteous descendants, upon the precise spot where he bestowed his farewell benediction and uttered his wonderful, all-telling prophecy, shows a very close relationship between the first and the final dispensations of the gospel. 

ENOCH AND ZION 

And what of other gospel dispensations? What of Enoch, the seventh from Adam in the patriarchal succession? What of him and his period? Was it not prophetic of our day — symbolical of the building up of Zion in this dispensation? What is said of Enoch and his city, sanctified by the Law of Consecration, without which there can be no Zion, and consequently no coming of the Christ? Moses says : "And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness, and there was no poor among them." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Such a condition will be again, and the Lord will come again, as he has promised : 

"As I live, even so will I come in the last days, in the days of wickedness and vengeance. * * * And righteousness will I send down out of heaven, and truth will I send forth out of the earth, to bear testimony of mine Only Begotten; and righteousness and truth will I cause to sweep the earth as with a flood, to gather out mine elect from the four quarters of the earth, unto a place which I shall prepare, an Holy City, that my people may gird up their loins, and be looking forth for the time of my coming; for there shall be my tabernacle, and it shall be called Zion, a New Jerusalem. 

"'And the Lord said unto Enoch : Then shalt thou and all thy city meet them there, and we will receive them into our bosom, and they shall see us; and we will fall upon their necks, and they shall fall upon our necks, and we will kiss each other. And there shall be mine abode, and it shall be Zion, which shall come forth out of all the creations which I have made; and for the space of a thousand years the earth shall rest." (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:60-64.) 

In other words, the Zion of Enoch foreshadowed the Zion of the Last Days, with which it is destined to blend. And not only Enoch, but all the patriarchs, prophets, and apostles who have lived on Earth since Time began, will come with Christ "when the Lord brings again Zion." 

AS IT WAS SO IT SHALL BE 

Noah, whose other name is Gabriel, the Angel of the Resurrection — how could we do without him ? He holds the keys to bring us forth from the grave. He is one of our ancestors. His three sons repeopled the earth after the Flood; Shem peopling Asia; Ham, Africa; and Japheth, Europe. We are from Shem, through Abraham and the House of Israel, though mixed with the children of Japheth, the Gentiles. 

In Noah's day "a veil of darkness" covered the. earth; and according to revelation a like condition is to characterize the Last Day, thus foretokened. The spiritual part of that prophecy is even now fulfilling. What could be darker in a spiritual way than "the gross darkness" that covers the modern world in relation to the things of God? Floundering — floundering — like blind men among breakers, not knowing how to swim, nor in which direction lies the shore! Such is the plight of even the wisest among them. 

Of Noah's day, it is written: "As the days of Noe were, so shal also the coming of the son of man be." And it was the Son of Man though I prefer to call him the Son of God — who said it. Baptized with water in the days of Noah, the earth will yet be baptized with fire and with the Holy Ghost. 

ABRAHAM AND THE COVENANT 

Our relationship with Abraham, I have already touched upon. W are among his descendants, and are actually taking part in the fulfil ment of the promise made to him by Jehovah, that in his seed should all the nations of the earth be blessed. Are we not blessing the nations by carrying to them the gospel, and by administering its sacred or101  for the living and the dead? The great fulfilment of that covenant is in Jehovah himself, who came through the lineage of Abraham, to be the Savior of the world. But a part fulfilment is in the world-dispersion of the children of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the blood of Israel, the blood that believes, supplemented by the present-day gathering of Israel, whose right it is to prepare the way before the God of Israel who is coming to reign. 

MISSION OF THE CHRIST 

Christ redeemed all mankind, "treading the wine press alone;" but the House of Israel prepared the way for his coming, and continued the work that he began. This is especially true of the prophets who foretold his advent, and the apostles who preached his gospel to Jew and gentile. Nor let the modern apostles, seventies and elders be overlooked, who are now preaching the gospel to the Gentiles, and ere long will carry it to the Jews. 

Nobody, I hope, connects the Savior's mighty mission only with the age in which he was crucified. That was- but a part of it. The death, on Calvary was no more the ending of that divine career, than the birth at Bethlehem was its beginning. The Savior's mission is universal, extending from eternity into time and back again into eternity. All the ages of the past, all the gospel dispensations, from Adam to Joseph Smith, are parts of the all-embracing mission of the world's Redeemer. It is all Christ's work, from the hour of his election in the Eternal Councils, down to the Millennial Reign, during which he will sanctify the earth and prepare it for celestial glory. 

The Mosaic-Judaic Dispensation was but preparatory to the Christian Dispensation; and the Christian Dispensation was a forerunner to the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. They are linked together, and are no more to be considered independently and apart, than are the histories of the United States, Great Britain, the Roman Empire, and the parent nations that preceded them. They are all parts of one stupendous whole. 

The first and second comings of the Savior complement each other. As Lamb then; as Lion now; not again to be sacrificed, but to ascend the Throne of David and reign over the House of Israel forever. It was to prepare the way before the glorious advent of the King of kings, that God's prophet, revelator and seer, Joseph Smith, was raised up, or rather sent down, to play his noble part in the winding up scene of the great Drama of the Ages. 

And this is "Mormonism," the everlasting gospel, the bond that unites the present and the past, the children and the fathers; that binds together all the gospel dispensations, all things that are Christ's both in heaven and on earth. It is not an earthly growth. It is not of human planting. Its roots are grounded in eternity, and its branches have borne fruit through all the centuries of time. 

Well might Brother Nibley say, as he said yesterday, "What has the world to offer in the place of it ?" GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

An editorial in a local paper, last Sunday morning, referring to this great assembling of Latter-day Saints, contained the following comment : 

A PEOPLE OF STRONG CONVICTIONS 

"Those who attend this conference will see a host of sincere believers — indeed, they more than believe, they 'know' as many of them will assert. Naturally it took a people of strong convictions to stick it out in this valley when the pioneers came here in 1847. Quite as naturally a strong community would grow out of this beginning." 

It is true, the Latter-day Saints are a people of strong convictions; and convictions — convictions of the truth — are the strongest, most potent factors in the world. It has been truly said that no historic event is so important as the advent of a conviction of a new truth. "The power of such conviction in the human soul is to build up institutions, to change the course of events, and to alter the tendencies of human affairs; and among all convictions there are none so strong, permanent, and unconquerable as religious convictions." "Ideas," says Paxton, "go booming through the world louder than cannon. Thoughts are mightier than armies." 

TWO POTENT CONVICTIONS 

If I were to couch in definite terms two of the most potent convictions in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, I would name: First, an abiding assurance that the gospel, as taught by tlic Redeemer zvhen \ he lived among men and which was later modified, changed and corrupted by men, has been restored by the Redeemer in its purity and fulness; and second, following naturally the first, a conviction in the heart of every member of this Church that the responsibility rests upon the membership of the Church to preach the restored gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. It is this second conviction of which I wish to speak this afternoon. 

A DESIRE TO MAKE ALL PEOPLE CHRISTIANS 

Springing out of this sense of responsibility to bear witness to all people, is the desire to Christianize the world. Some Protestant ministers do not like to .consider "Mormons" Christians. Be that as it may, the fact remains that the paramount desire in every Latter-day Saint's heart is to make all people Christians, and that is a conviction second only in power and urgency to the testimony that God has spoken in this dispensation. "Go ye and teach all nations," said the Savior to his disciples. "This promise is unto you and to your children and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call," said Peter on the day of Pentecost. "Proclaim these things to the world," said the Prophet Joseph, through inspiration in this age. "that faith might be increased in the world, that mine everlasting covenant might be established." 103 

WHAT THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS ARE DOING TO PREACH THE GOSPEL 

I know of no other religious conviction that has affected the daily life of a people more potently than this desire to have every nation hear the message of this latter-day gospel of peace. Very few indeed are the homes in the Church that have not been influenced by it. At the present time the people are supporting over 2,000 of their sons and daughters in various parts of the world at a monetary sacrifice of approximately $1,800,000 a year. To know just how keenly this responsibility is felt and how willingly discharged, I will ask you to recall individual cases : A young man was called from this city to go on a mission to the Pacific Islands. He responded and gave his message to the world as best he could. A few weeks ago he came into my office and said : "I have been home a year, and I have succeeded during that year in paying all but $100 of the $600 debt I had when I returned. In another two months I will have it all paid, and my tithing in full besides." "Well, was it worth it?" said I. "Twice as much," he promptly replied. "I would not have missed that experience for anything." I met a young man when I was coming home from the Eastern States mission who had spent all his earnings in that mission, and also several hundred dollars besides, which a banker in his home town had furnished him, merely upon the young man's promissory note. He has paid his note since coming home, and although he has been in il> health part of the time, he rejoices in his missionary service. I met a mother on the train whose son was then in the mission field. She said she was having a difficult time to pay the taxes and other expenses and to keep her son in the field, and sympathetically I suggested that perhaps he might better be released. She turned in her seat suddenly and said : "Brother McKay, I would rather work these fingers to the bone than to have my boy come home before his duty is performed." These illustrations show that this conviction to preach to the world is one which moves to action. It is truly powerful, permanent and we hope unconquerable. 

I have said two thousand missionaries are now in the field. President Grant reported in his opening remarks that there have been approximately between 35,000 and 40,000 missionaries sent into service since 1837. One of the Presiding Bishopric, informed me the other day that if we include local missionaries the number will approximate 70,000. Suppose that we consider just for illustration, that there have been 35,000 foreign missionaries out. Crediting each missionary with an earning capacity of $100 per month and his average expense in the mission field at $40 a month, and assuming that each missionary has averaged two years in the field, this desire to Christianize the world has cost the members of the Church $117,600,000. That is not including the amount of money spent by the Church for the return fares of the elders, nor the amount of money spent on chapels and halls in the mission fields. If you add merely the sum expended by the Church to that spent by the people during that time you will find that there has been expended by this Church for missionary purposes alone, approximately $121,500,000, over three-fifths of the assessed valuation of Salt Lake City during 1926, and nearly one-sixth the total assessed valuation of GENERAL CONFERENCE  State of Utah. In other words, the people have given in value, three-fifths of the city's assessed valuation in an expression of a desire to make the world believe in Christianity. I use that term in its proper sense — belief in 'Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world. Evidently there is a force behind this conviction that the world needs Christianizing. 

WHY THE WORLD NEEDS CHRISTIANIZING 

But does the world need Christianizing? Our Protestant brethren say, "Why don't you send your elders out to the heathen, why go to Christian nations?" As I have said, our mission is to the whole world. We believe so-called Christian nations need the message as well as the so-called heathen lands, and Christian ministers by their own statements confirm this belief. For example : Recently in the Literary Digest under a glaring heading, "The crack of doom has sounded for Protestantism," one Reverend Herbert Parrish says that it is his conviction that "the sooner Protestantism disappears from American life the better. Its narrow sectarian spirit, fostering division, incapable of a large synthesis of values, of unity, unfits it to represent our national religious life. * * * As a moral guide it is superficial, depending on the exterior force of state legislation to effect the redemption of the race. As a mystical experience it is sentimental, without intelligence, and with narrow vision. As a teaching force it is vague, negative and uncertain. As an organization it is illogical and chaotic." That I consider a very severe arraignment of Protestantism by a Protestant pastor. I do not know him, nor do I know by what authority he speaks. But having this in mind yesterday, as I listened to President Grant quote a minister's prognostication as printed in the Anaconda Standard, I thought, well, here is another Pastor proving that minister's prognostication correct. 

Probably a more trustworthy and authentic authority is Henry Emerson Fosdick, one of the leading thinkers in our nation today, who commenting on the need of modern religious leadership writes : 

"No society ever has been healthy whose religious life was unhealthy. Even those who are impatient of contemporary formulations of faith, those who are outside the churches, and alienated from their denominational loyalty, should still be deeply concerned about the fortunes of religion. A society which, providing for the future, builds great factories, immense railroad systems, and even innumerable schools, but does not care whether the future has a wholesome religious life, is playing a fatally short-sighted game. 

"In view of this fact the situation which we face is serious. Much of our contemporary Christianity is not making people better, but worse. It accentuates bitterness, brings out meanness, sanctions ignorance and bigotry, divides those ivho might otherwise be brotherly, and lapses from its high possibilities into a force for spiritual deterioration and decay:" 

Are not these statements and others that might be given, sufficient answer regarding the need of working for the Christianizing of the world ? 

ARE THE SO-CALLED "MORMONS" CHRISTIANS ? 

However, a more important question for us today is this : "Are the so-called 'Mormons' true Christians and does the Church of Jestis Christ 105  Latter-day Saints contain the elements ot a world-wide Christian religion?" It is my sincere belief and testimony that the Latter-day Saints commonly called "Mormons,'' are Christians in the truest and fullest sense of the term, and that this Church is world-wide in its comprehensiveness, in organization, and in its blessing and salvation of the human family. As true Christianity should and as it did in the days of the Savior, "Mormonism" combines the essential elements in the teachings of Israel's prophets, priests and sages; and in accepting the Jehovah of the Old Testament as the Savior of mankind, it fulfils the noblest aspirations of the Hebrew race, thereby indicating a worldwide scope so far as Israel's people and Israel's God are concerned. 

All that is "virtuous, lovely, of good report, or praiseworthy" in the teachings of all the great religious teachers of mankind — teachings that today are influencing hundreds of millions of God's children, are comprehended in the ethical teachings of the Church of Jesus Christ. What Charles Foster Kent says of the effect of true Christianity, is equally true of "Mormonism:" 

"It simply and satisfactorily unites religion and ethics by emphasizing religion and by giving to ethics the inspiration of a strong personal faith. It appeals to the individual will through both the reason and the emotions. Thereby it touches and completely commands the whole man : his intellect, his feelings, his faith and his acts. It sets before men a worthy goal; in the present life true happiness, won through self-denial and service, and preserved by faith that frees men from the harrassing fears and worries of life. For the future it holds out the sure promise of individual peace and joy and growth, since the object of its faith is the God of the living, whose beneficent rule is revealed in every phase of human experience." 

"Mormonism" is an authoritative religion, yet at the same time the most thoroughly democratic Church on earth — a combination that is well worthy of serious thought. It emphasizes the universal bonds of human brotherhood. It seeks by training the individual conscience and will to establish a closely knit, world-wide fraternity. It glorifies humanity and all normal human relations. It is a spiritual force emanating from God himself. 

At one time it grieved me to know that this Church was not numbered among Protestant churches. But now I realize that the Church of Christ is more than a protest against the errors and evils of Catholicism. This Church was established in the only way in which the Church of Christ can be established, by direct authority from God. Thus founded it invites the whole world to come to a Church recognized by God himself, and which offers every advantage that the human mind, the emotions and desires may contemplate in the ful filing of the individual mission on this earth. "It is an ever-broadening wave of direct personal influence, destined ultimately to touch and transform all men, so that they like Jesus shall become Godlike." "Mormonism," as true Christianity, "subdues selfishness, regulates the passions, subordinates the appetites, quickens the intellect, exalts the affections. It promotes industry, honesty, truth, purity, kindness. It humbles the proud, exalts the lowly, upholds the law, favors liberty, is essential to it, and would unite men in one great brotherhood." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

THE WORLD OUR FIELD OF ACTIVITY 

Most earnestly do I hope that we shall never lose the great conviction that the world is our field of activity. Can you think of anything more potent in moving a people to action ? 

THIS ENTAILS GREAT RESPONSIBILITY ON US AT HOME 

But what a responsibility this entails of leading good men and good women all over this world to know God, and to know what their mission is on earth! Fathers and mothers, fellow workers, do you fully realize today what it means to assume the responsibility of carrying the message of peace and good will to all men? The base of our operations must be here at home. Neglect your duty here and all you undertake abroad will be compromised, because people can rightfully ask : What do you do at home? What life are you living at home? "What you are," says Emerson, "sounds so loud in my ears I cannot hear what you say." Every elder therefore who goes abroad to preach this gospel must first live the gospel to the best of his ability, and have a conviction in his heart that he is preaching the truth. True, at first this testimony may be somewhat indefinite; but all our children have it to some extent. They breathe it as they breathe the mountain air, but they often neglect to define it, to express it in the plane of consciousness. It is the duty of presidents of stakes, bishops of wards, to make definite in the minds of missionaries this testimony of the truth. Through study, service, humility and prayer, this testimony will increase. 

QUALIFICATIONS OF MISSIONARIES AND THE HOME 

Another qualification is this : Every elder should be a Christian gentleman always. A gentleman — who is he? "Whoever is open" — nothing to hide, no downcast look because of the consciousness of guilt; "whoever is loyal" — loyal to the truth, to virtue, to the Word of Wisdom — "true, of humane and affable demeanor, honorable himself and in his judgment of others, faithful to his word as to law, and faithful alike to God and to man — such a man is a true gentleman," and such a man the elder of this Church should be who goes out to Christianize the world. 

Brethren, it is a wonderful school to which we send our young men and women — the best in all the world. I weigh that sentence carefully — the best school in all the world! But it must never be considered a reform school for those who are the instructors therein. Keep young men who need reforming at home until they attain that degree of leadership which this Church requires. 

In conclusion, then, with the abiding assurance in our hearts that God has restored the true gospel of Christ; with the unshakable conviction that he desires all mankind to hear this gospel, and^that upon the Church rests the responsibility of proclaiming it to the world; let us first conform our own lives to gospel standards, first set in order our own homes, our own states, and then continue to Christianize the world; for 107 

"Now the whole world hears. Or shall hear,— surely shall hear at the last, 

Though men delay, and doubt, and faint and fall, 

That promise faithful :— 'Fear not, little flock! It is your Father's will and joy to give To you the Kingdom!' " 

Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I feel very keenly the responsibility that is upon me this moment, and yet I am glad to add a few words to those already spoken. We have assembled here to be instructed, and I suppose it is true in the case of each of the other speakers, as I know it is with me, that it is impossible to express all the thoughts that arise in the mind as we listen to these services. 

PURPOSE OF THE CONFERENCE 

I take it for granted that the purpose of these conferences is that we who assemble here may hear instruction. Moreover that the instruction may be as seed planted in our souls, taking root and growing, causing reflections in our minds. No doubt when we return to our homes we enlarge upon the things we have heard, and through faith and study gain greater knowledge, and thus draw nearer to our heavenly Father in the truth. If we do not, then we are not obtaining the full benefit of the meetings and the instructions given by the brethren. It is our privilege and duty, therefore, to study and enlarge upon the things that here are spoken. 

THE FAITH OF YOUNG LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

, Reference has been made by some of the speakers to sentiments uttered by those not of our faith, and who are not kindly disposed towards the Church and its members, to the effect that the youth of "Mormonism" — and I place that word in quotation marks — are not walking in the footsteps of their fathers, and, that in time the children will depart from the faith and accept the teachings of the so-called "Christian" sects of the world. As one of the fifth generation in the Church I testify that I know this is not true, and that there is faith in Israel among the young people. 

The gospel is, as the Savior said, like a net cast in the sea, which gathers of all kinds, and naturally there will be some that will have to be cast out because they are not good. Without a doubt there are those who come into the Church with ulterior motives, and some who are always weak in the faith. These latter may become discouraged and depart from the Church because they have not understood the truth. Again, we know it to be a fact that the unrepentant transgressor will deny the faith and turn away in a spirit of bitterness. However, I am assured, and I have that assurance in my heart through the teachings I have received from the Spirit of the Lord and from the inspiration GENHR. I L C VNFE RENCE  has come to me from the revelations of the Lord through his servants, that the majority of this people will always remain true. 

SIGNIFICANT QUOTATION FROM DANIEL 

Elder Whitney this afternoon referred to the prophesying of Daniel concerning the restored gospel and the Priesthood. Let me present a verse that Daniel uttered which to us, and to all the world, if they will receive it, is very significant : 

"And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom  which shall never he destroyed; and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever. 

"Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it break in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the great God hath made it known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter; and the dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure." 

That is the statement of an ancient prophet concerning this latter day work — this gospel of the kingdom which has now been restored, and the organization the Lord has established, in other words, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It will never be destroyed. It shall not be given to other people. While many will come into the Church, and some will go out of it, the great majority of its members will remain true and faithful to the truth, and the Kingdom is bound to grow until jt shall fill the earth. 

WORLDLY RELIGIOUS SYSTEMS 

I think that the Protestant ministers, to whom Elder McKay referred — Mr. Parrish and Mr. Fosdick — have spoken better than they knew in their arraignment of the Protestant world. Not only do their remarks apply to Protestantism, but to all creeds, sects and parties that are not recognized of the Lord, for he has decreed that in this dispensation of the fulness of times he would break in pieces and bring to naught every work that js not of him. He declared, through Paul, that it was "according to his good pleasure, which he hath purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth; even in him." And as he has decreed, so he will fulfil. All things that pertain to the salvation of man have been restored in this dispensation preparatory to the coming of Christ and the setting up of his kingdom with absolute authority over all the earth. When that time comes, and Christ reigns, all that now exists contrary to that Kingdom and in conflict with it must come to an end. If people are engaged in works which are not approved of the Lord, the earlier they come to an understanding of the truth and come out of them and learn to serve the Lord, the better it is for them. It is far better to know the truth and forsake error than to remain in the systems of the world which are not approved by the Lord and therefore in due time must cease tc exist. That day is near at hand, and because of it the Lord has sent forth his servants in the world proclaiming his gospel and crying re109 , that all who will may hear and escape. It is within the reach of all who are willing to forsake error, to know the truth and the established work of the Lord. 

THE ENEMY SHALL NOT OVERCOME 

When the Priesthood was restored to Joseph Smith by John the Baptist (I speak now of the Aaronic Priesthood) the promise was made that it should remain on the earth and should not be taken away. So we look for the Church with all its power to grow and develop until all the righteous are gathered into the kingdom of God. For it is the will of our Father that all who are willing to serve him and seek light and truth shall have the opportunity. In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, January 2, 1831, before the Church was one year old, the Lord said : 

"Wherefore, gird up your loins, and be prepared. Behold, the kingdom is yours, and the enemy shall not overcome." 

I have faith in that. He has given to us the kingdom. He has made us the promise that the enemy of the kingdom shall not overcome. We may have trouble. We have had trouble. We may meet with opposition, but that opposition shall fail in its endeavor to destroy the work of God. 

Now the Lord has said something more in the verses which follow the one I have given you, and these are very significant and very timely : 

"Verily I say unto you, ye are clean, but not all; and there is none else with whom I am well pleased." 

THERE ARE SOME TARES IN THE CHURCH 

The Lord could not say he was well pleased with all the members of the Church. For, even then, as now, there were some in the Church who were not clean. Nevertheless he did declare this Church was the only one with which he was well pleased. He could not say that of the systems and organizations extant which will not hearken to his word and obey his commandments, but set up doctrines of their own, contrary to his laws and ordinances. It is only natural, since he did establish his Church, to speak of it in the terms which he did and while expressing satisfaction with the organization as a whole yet point out forcibly the fact that there were in the Church some tares guilty of sin. After making this statement he further says: 

"For all flesh is corrupted before me; and the powers of darkness prevail upon the earth, among the children of men, in the presence of all the hosts of heaven — 

"Which causeth silence to reign, and all eternity is pained, and the angels are waiting the great command to reap down the earth, to gather the tares that they may be burned; and, behold, the enemy is combined." 

GREAT THINGS TO TAKE PLACE IN THIS AGE 

So the Lord points out the fact that great things are to take place GENERAL CONFERENCE  the earth in this day. The gospel has been restored, and the kingdom given to his Saints according to the prophecy of Daniel. It is not again to be removed, destroyed, or given to other people, and in his own way and time he is going to break down all other systems, that his kingdom may prevail and that he may come and reign as Lord of lords and King of kings upon the face of the whole earth. 

THE RESTORED CHURCH NOT TO BE REMOVED 

Again in reference to this same matter, which is in harmony with that which we have heard this afternoon from the other speakers, the Lord said : 

"And verily I say unto you, the rest of my servants, go ye forth as your circumstances shall permit, in your several callings, unto the great and notable cities and villages, reproving the world in righteousness of all their unrighteous and ungodly deeds, setting forth clearly and understandingly the desolation of abomination in the last days. 

"For, with you saith the Lord Almighty, I will rend their kingdoms; I will not only shake the earth, but the starry heavens shall tremble. 

"For I, the Lord, have put forth my hand to exert the powers of heaven; ye cannot see it now, yet a little while and ye shall see it, and know that T am, and that I will come and reign with my people. 

"I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. Amen." 

So again in these modern scriptures the Lord has called attention to the fact that he is going to destroy systems and organizations and combinations that are false. And how is he going to do it? By giving their members the truth, if they will receive it; by giving them the privilege of coming out of those organizations to receive the truth and have every opportunity to come into his kingdom, for his hand is outstretched ready to greet them. If they will not come; if they will not receive his message, then of course they must fall with their systems. Truth will prevail; truth will stand when all else is removed, and it is destined to cover the face of the earth. 

FALSE SYSTEMS TO BE DESTROYED 

In one of these scriptures I have presented, the Lord said the angels are waiting to reap down the earth. I heard President Wilford Woodruff make the statement, in this very spot where I now stand, at a conference of the Church, that these angels had been sent forth on their mission to reap down the earth, to tie in bundles the tares for the burning and to gather the Saints of God. I heard him make this statement on several occasions. Moreover he said from that time forth, and that was about the year 1894, earthquakes, pestilence, war, famine, plague, and other commotions among both men and the elements would increase and continue until the coming of Christ. 

In the revelation known to us as the "revelation on war," the Lord declared that he had decreed the overthrow of nations, "until the consumption decreed hath made a full end of all nations." In that day, when this shall come to pass, the nation set up by the Lord must reign supreme and all other powers, kingdoms, organizations and societies shall pass away, for so it is decreed. 111 

ADVICE AND ADMONITION TO THE SAINTS 

Now, just a word or two in conclusion, as advice and admonition to the Latter-day Saints. We are living in perilous times. I do not feel that we ought to sit down and take things easy, to partake of all the sins and follies of the world and their systems and do just as they do in all respects. We should strictly observe the Sabbath day. We should keep the Word of Wisdom. We cannot afford to discard the doctrine of prayer. If we turn away from these principles which mean so much to us, we cannot be approved of the Lord. The world is turning from these fundamental principles. They do not mean to the ordinary individual in the world what they used to mean. Many professed ministers of Christ are making light of these sacred things; not all of them, for there are yet some who are devout and sincere in the things they are teaching. However, a great many professed teachers of the gospel have discarded the fundamental truth upon which salvation is based. We should not pin our faith in men, or in their philosophies and their worldly teachings. The world is full of doctrines and vain philosophy diametrically opposed to the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I say to you, my brethren and sisters, we ought to follow the admonition the Lord has given us to stand in holy places and be not moved, and be just a little more firm in the keeping of his commandments. We should make a more careful search of the Scriptures and the revelations of the Lord. 

We have no business violating the Sabbath day. In the Priesthood conferences, which have been held in the stakes of Zion during the past three months, we have put a great deal of stress upon this principle. We have been teaching the people the necessity of observing the Sabbath day and keeping it holy. I regret very much that, even in communities of Latter-day Saints, this doctrine is not looked upon as it ought to be by some; that we have those among us who seem to feel that it is perfectly right to follow the custom of the world in this regard. They are partakers of the ideas and notions of the world in violation of the commandments of the Lord. But if we do this the Lord will hold us accountable, and we cannot violate his word and receive the blessings of the faithful. 

We cannot afford to discard the doctrine of prayer. We should be teaching our children in our homes to pray; we should pray in secret, and in our hearts, and'before our families. Without the spirit of prayer we cannot please the Lord; we cannot stand before him in favor if we are not willing to acknowledge his hand in all things and keep his commandments. These are the words he has given us by revelation. 

NECESSARY TO WALK IN THE FULL LIGHT OF TRUTH 

We cannot afford not to pay our tithing, nor can we afford to turn away from any. other principles of the gospel. I fully endorse the remark made by one of the speakers here yesterday, that it is necessary for us to walk in the full light of the truth, not in part of the truth only. I haven't the privilege of discarding some of the principles of the gosGENER. IL CONFERENCE  and believing others, and then feel that 1 am entitled to the full blessings of salvation and exaltation in the kingdom of God. Jf we want exaltation,, if we want the place which the Lord has prepared for those who are just and true, then we must be willing to walk in the full light of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and keep all the commandments. We cannot say that some of them are small and insignificant and therefore the Lord will not care if we violate them. We are commanded to live by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. "Why call ye me Lord, Lord," he says, "and do not the things that I say?" So he spoke to his disciples when he was with them, and he has also spoken to us in this day in a similar way, saying: "If ye love me, keep my commandments." 

I pray that we may all walk in the light of the truth as it has been revealed to us, observing to do all things required by the Lord, which, through our faithfulness and perseverence, will insure our exaltation in the Kingdom of God. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

INTRODUCING STAKE PRESIDENTS \ 

I have been calling, from time to time, for brief remarks, not to exceed five or six minutes, from some of the stake presidents. All of the stake presidents, with the exception of one, who happened to be absent, have had the privilege of either opening or closing our meetings by prayer. But there have been so many changes made of late in stake presidencies, that there are about thirty-six of them at present who have not had the opportunity of speaking. We will now call on some of those who have been longest in office, asking them to occupy five or six minutes. 

ELDER C. ALVIN ORME 

President of the Tooele Stoke of Zion 

My brethren and sisters: As I approach this position there is a scriptural saying which comes to my mind, to the effect that, "The place whereon thou standest is holy ground." 

I rejoice in the testimonies that we have heard during this conference. As I came into the building yesterday morning, President Grant was delivering his opening address, and I rejoiced in the testimony which he had in his heart of the divinity of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the necessity of obedience unto that which has been revealed by the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith — the sacred ordinances of the House of the Lord, in the temple marriages and other ceremonies, and in the testimonies of the healing power that has been in the Church since its organization. That power which characterized the ancient Church, and the power and authority given unto the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ during his ministry, to heal the 113 , to open the eyes of the blind, and cause the lame to walk, is in this Church. I add my testimony, to those which have been given during this conference, that those principles and powers and gifts are with the Church, and that we enjoy them. As men and women in Israel who have had these precious truths and gifts given to us, may we treasure them, prize them highly, and live by the revelations which God our Father has given for our salvation. May we walk in his paths and attain the degree of glory and eternal life that he has promised unto the faithful, which all who have been baptized by immersion for the remission of sins, and who have had hands laid on them for the gift of the Holy Ghost, being born of the water and of the Spirit, shall have by living according to that which God has revealed. I bear testimony tc these things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BYRON O. COLTON 

President of the Roosevelt Stake of Zion 

My (tear brethren and sisters: This is certainly a surprise to me, and I assure you that I am in need of your sympathy and faith, that the time I may occupy may be for our mutual benefit and blessing. 

I have rejoiced in all the testimonies which have been borne during this conference. The inspiration of the Lord has been with those who have spoken, and 1 am sure that the Saints who have been gathered together here have found joy in listening to them. 

From my youth I have been taught the principles of the gospel. In my early youth my father paid little attention- to the Church and its organization, but during all that period of some seventeen years, I have heard my mother repeatedly say she never ceased to pray that he might yield obedience to the principles of the gospel, and accept the same of his own volition. Though he was born of Latter-day Saint parents, as was the case with many "Mormon" youths at that time, he went into neighboring states and places, and for a time seemed to lose the faith, but later accepted it and has been true to it ever since. 

I am grateful to my heavenly Father that I was born of goodly parents, that through them a testimony of the truth has come to me. I do not hesitate to think that perhaps it would have been difficult for me to accept the gospel, had I been found in the world as many people have been. I rejoice in the opportunities that have come to me, in the responsibilities that have been given to me, because out of them I have found joy and satisfaction, and I have seen in my brethren a desire for the benefit and blessing of the people about them. In the councils of my brethren, into which I have had the privilege of being called, and in joining with them, I have never seen aught, nor heard aught that was not good, never any manifestation or desire, or intent to injure any, but always the spirit of service and consideration, that those who make up the Church and those not of the Church should be benefited and blessed. Nothing but good has ever been evidenced in their intent and their purposes. To these testimonies also have come the testimonies of the Spirit, and in trial and in responsibilities that I have borne I have seen GENERAL CONFERENCE  of the truth of this work. I do not doubt it. I have never had any doubt as to the integrity of the men who have been called of the Lord to lead this work. 

I see in the scriptures, in the standard works of the Church, in the writings of those whose minds have been drawn out to write of the things of the Lord, and teach the people, that which is for our good. I rejoice in the Book of Mormon. To me it is an indisputable testimony of the truth of this work. Its very existence demonstrates to me, together with a knowledge of its coming forth, that it is of the Lord. So also with the Pearl of Great Price. The thought came to me while some of the brethren were speaking this morning that it is a strange thing that the records which were found seemingly so mysteriously, that made up part of the Pearl of Great Price, should find their way into the hands of the Prophet Joseph, and yet, if the Lord had a servant on earth, if he had a prophet in existence, isn't it only natural that it should find its way into his hands, and should be published to the world? 

I bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that the peace of the gospel has come into my soul, and I am satisfied without any doubt whatever of its truth. I see in its principles a philosophy that would serve the human race, principles that will mean our salvation temporally and spiritually; and I feel, my brethren and sisters, that the little service that I can render, the little value that I may be to my brethren and sisters, and to myself, in all the things that I may be able to do, and that the Lord may help me to do, is of little consequence unless the Lord helps me and helps others to understand me and my endeavors to keep his commandments and to serve in this work. It seems to me that the frailties of human kind, the weaknesses of human nature, and the littleness of men, particularly of myself, grow upon me from time to time, and I recognize how much I need the blessing and Spirit of the Lord and his help to uphold me and guide me in the work that I am called upon to do. 

I pray the Lord to bless us with satisfaction and with joy, and with a continued testimony of his goodness unto us. I thank him for these things that have come into my life, for the privileges and blessings that have come to me through the gospel, and I do it, and bear my testimony unto you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WAYNE H. REDD 

President of the San Juan Stake of Zion 

The thought of standing before this vast audience and speaking to the Saints, and to those who may be listening in over the radio, almost overawes me. But I am happy in the thought that I am associated with this class of people. I feel that the greatest knowledge in this world is a knowledge of God, for the Savior said to know Jesus Christ is life eternal; and I feel the greatest thing that anyone can do in this world is to conquer himself and to bring himself into line with the gospel of Jesus Christ. 115 

The Lord in his goodness and mercy to me gave me a testimony, while yet in my teens, and as I have labored in the Church from that day to this, it has grown brighter, until I feel that I know that the gospel is true, whether I know anything else in the world or not. 

I have a great many things for which to be thankful, as one who comes from the land of magnificent distances and the home of the noble red men. I feel that the thing that we have most to be thankful for, that has happened in our neighborhood in recent years, is the fact that the Indians who have harrassed the people in that section since the settlement of that country a few years ago, are rounded up, and the government has come there and taken charge of them and settled them, and has chosen one of our people to teach them how to live better. One of our returned elders is the man who is looking after them. The government is now putting their children in school and they are fed and clothed, and it is not necessary for them to pillage the settlers and to harrass the women and children. 

The Lord is good to his people, in every section where they turn unto him and serve him. The greatest desire of my life is that I may be worthy of the confidence that my brethren have imposed in me. I have every confidence in those who preside over me. Never in my life have I seen anything in their conduct that would cause me to lose confidence in them. I know that the Church of Christ is growing, and that those who are seeking after the Lord may find him. I have said a great many times that I think it is about the easiest thing in the world to know that the Lord lives, if men will be honest, truthful, virtuous, attend to their prayers, and live a Christ-like life. I want to say to the Latter-day Saints, that if our boys and girls will but function in the organizations of the Church, take part therein, and live clean lives, they will know that the Lord lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that the resurrection is a reality, the most wonderful knowledge in all the world. 

May we all be true to the covenants we have made with one another, and to the testimony of Jesus Christ which is implanted within our hearts; and be obedient in all things, that we may be saved in his kingdom, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

President Grant announced that the general priesthood meeting would be held Monday evening at 7 o'clock. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Redeemer of Israel." 

Benediction was offered by Elder Geo. W. Green, former counselor in the presidency of the Lethbridge stake of Zion. 


