2
Morning
04 10 1940
President David O. McKay
18
2-5

None

None

Second Counselor in the First Presidency  
  
The following changes in Church Officers, Stake, Ward, and Branch Organizations have occurred since last April Conference:  
  
CHANGES IN CHURCH OFFICERS, STAKE WARD AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST APRIL CONFERENCE   
  
Special Appointments  
  
Thomas E. McKay, former President of the Swiss and East German Missions, has been appointed to take charge of affairs in the European Missions.  
  
Franklin J. Murdock has been appointed Church Mission Secretary and Transportation Agent to succeed Harold G. Reynolds, deceased.  
  
John D. Giles, field secretary for the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, appointed special National Field Scout Commissioner, his jurisdiction covering all units of the Boy Scouts of America affiliated with the Church.  
  
Lee A. Palmer appointed Associate Field Supervisor of Aaronic Priesthood and Y. M. M. I. A. youth program activities.  
  
New Mission Presidents  
  
Eugene M. Cannon appointed to preside over the Tahitian Mission to succeed President Kenneth R. Stevens.  
  
Wilford W. Emery appointed to preside over Samoan Mission to succeed President Gilbert R. Tingey.  
  
William P. Whitaker appointed to preside over Southern States Mission to succeed President Merrill D. Clayson.  
  
David F. Haymore appointed to preside over Spanish American Mission to succeed President Orlando C. Williams.  
  
James P. Jensen appointed to preside over the East Central States Mission to succeed President William Thomas Tew, Jr.  
  
Jay C. Jensen appointed to preside over Japanese Mission to succeed President Hilton A. Robertson.  
  
Nicholas G. Smith appointed to preside over Northwestern States Mission to succeed President Preston Nibley.  
  
George F. Richards, Jr., appointed to preside over North Central States Mission to succeed President David A. Broadbent.  
  
Gustave A. Iverson appointed to preside over the Eastern States Mission to succeed President Frank Evans.  
  
New Temple Presidency  
  
Mark Austin appointed to succeed Nicholas G. Smith as First Counselor to President Stephen L. Chipman of the Salt Lake Temple, and David A. Broadbent appointed to succeed George F. Richards, Jr., as Second Counselor.  
  
Charles V. Pugh appointed to preside over the Arizona Temple, to succeed President Charles R. Jones.  
  
New Stakes Organized  
  
The Washington Stake was organized June 30th from branches in the Eastern States Mission, and consists of the Arlington, Chevy Chase, Fairview, and Washington Wards, and the Baltimore and Greenbelt Branches.  
  
The Denver Stake was organized June 30th from branches in the Western States Mission and consists of the Cheyenne, Denver First, Denver Second, Englewood, Laramie, and Pueblo Wards, and the Barnum and Ft. Collins Branches.  
  
Stake Presidents Sustained  
  
John M. Homer chosen President of the Idaho Falls Stake to succeed President Leonard G. Ball.  
  
Thomas J. Brough chosen President of the Lyman Stake to succeed President H. Melvin Rollins.  
  
Willis A. Oldroyd chosen President of the Wayne Stake to succeed President William F. Webster.  
  
Robert O. Hatch chosen President of the Burley Stake to succeed President David R. Langlois.  
  
Douglas M. Todd chosen President of the newly organized Denver Stake.  
  
Ezra T. Benson chosen President of the newly organized Washington Stake.  
  
Leo O. Hansen chosen President of the Portneuf Stake to succeed President George T. Hyde.  
  
New Wards Organized  
  
Mesa Fifth Ward, Maricopa Stake, created by a division of Mesa Second Ward.  
  
Centinela Ward, Inglewood Stake, created by a division of the Inglewood Ward.  
  
Tooele Fifth Ward, Tooele Stake, created by a division of the Tooele 2nd Ward, and a small section of the Tooele First Ward.  
  
Center Ward, St. George Stake, created by a division of the three St. George Wards,  
  
Arlington Ward, Chevy Chase Ward, Fairview Ward, and Washington Ward, Washington Stake, were created from branches in the Eastern States Mission.  
  
East Glendale Ward and West Glendale Ward, San Fernando Stake, created by a division of the Glendale Ward.  
  
Cheyenne Ward, Denver First Ward, Denver Second Ward, Englewood Ward, Laramie Ward, and Pueblo Ward, Denver Stake, were created from branches in the Western States Mission.  
  
Independent Branch Made Ward  
  
Guff Ward, Summit Stake, formerly an Independent Branch.  
  
New Independent Branches  
  
Downey Branch, South Los Angeles Stake. Fruitland Branch, Duchesne Stake. Payette Branch, Weiser Stake. Durango Branch, Young Stake.  
  
Baltimore Branch and Greenbelt Branch, Washington Stake, were formerly branches in the Eastern States Mission. Oceanside Branch, New York Stake. Sun Valley Branch, Blaine Stake.  
  
Barnum Branch and Ft. Collins Branch, Denver Stake, were formerly branches in the Western States Mission.  
  
Wards Made Independent Branches  
 
Strawberry Branch, Duchesne Stake, formerly Ward of same Stake. Cluff Branch, Summit Stake, formerly Ward of same Stake.  
  
Independent Branch Disorganized  
  
El Segundo Branch, Inglewood Stake, discontinued and annexed to Inglewood Ward.  
  
Those Who Have Passed Away  
  
Frank L. Ostler, First Counselor in the Granite Stake Presidency, and a former member of the Sunday School General Board.  
  
Orson P. Satterthwaite, Patriarch of the Logan Stake.  
  
James Ashton, Presiding Elder of the Burdett Branch, Lethbridge Stake.  
  
John B. Fairbanks, widely known Utah artist, whose murals adorn the interior of the Salt Lake, St. George, and Mesa Temples.  
  
Mrs. Manomas Lovina Gibson Andrus, Pioneer of 1847, died at the age of 98. Only one 1847 Pioneer survives her.  
  
Mrs. Delia I. Winters Booth, widow of Judge John E. Booth, well known Pioneer artist and leader of industry.  
  
Bishop John Hair, Jr., of the Vernal 2nd Ward, Uintah Stake.  
  
Sarah Ann Jenkins Cannon, widow of the late Apostle Abraham Hoagland Cannon.  
  
Arthur Winter, Chief Clerk in the office of the First Presidency since 1907; Secretary-Treasurer of the Church Board of Education since 1902.  
  
Eli Holton, Ogden Stake Clerk.  
  
James H. Wallis, patriarch of Emigration Stake and well known Church journalist, publisher and musician.  
  
Almon Thomas Butterfield, member West Jordan Stake Presidency, and Stake President until 1937.  
  
Lydia Kimball, a daughter of Edward Partridge, First Presiding Bishop of the Church.  
  
Samuel W. Hendricks, Benson Stake Clerk for 35 years.  
  
Alvin A. Beesley, member of Ensign Stake High Council, and one of the West's prominent musicians.  
  
Mary Rebecca Moyle Booth, widow of the late President Joseph W. Booth of the Palestine-Syrian Mission. An active church worker.  
  
Mrs. Jane Knowlton Kimball, widow of the late President J. Golden Kimball of the First Council of the Seventy.  