22
Morning
05 10 1940
Elder Joseph Jacobs
254
71-72

None

None

Former President of the Palestine-Syrian Mission  
  
My dear brothers and sisters, I bring you greetings from the Saints in the Palestine-Syrian Mission. It was my privilege and blessing to be called to preside over that historic and interesting Mission in 1937. Although in numbers the Saints in that Mission are relatively few, yet in faith and works they are a great people. While there and since returning home, their reports show that over ninety per cent of those who should pay tithing, do so. In the payment of Fast offerings, in the attendance of their meetings, and other Church activities they compare favorably with the highest group in the Church.  
  
About three weeks ago I received a report from that Mission field about the condition of the Saints. The report states that they are all firm in the faith, are continuing their meetings, tithing is being paid regularly, and an entire family has applied for baptism.  
  
Incidentally, the report was mailed the latter part of May but just arrived here.  
  
Being literally located at the cross-roads of the world, from time immemorial wars have been numerous in that part of the world. And because of its geographical position it is dangerous to remain in that land whenever war breaks out in any of the nearby nations. Because of these conditions, that Mission has been closed four times since it opened in 1890. Intervals of closing range from two to thirteen years. But every time the Mission opened, the new Mission president has been able to find many of the Saints and has discovered to his surprise that they were still in the faith and carrying on.  
  
I rejoice in the privilege and opportunity that has come to me to proclaim the Gospel in that land — in the land where the Savior of the world did His missionary work while He was on the earth. Over twenty-five years ago a Patriarch promised me that it would be my privilege and blessing to preach the Gospel to them that are of the House of Judah. That promise has been fulfilled.  
  
The Lord was with us in our labors. He blessed us so that our way was always open. None in Our family nor any of our missionaries was seriously ill. We were not persecuted as the former missionaries were in the past in that land. Our efforts were blessed with some baptisms and many friends.  
  
That you may appreciate our difficulties I shall just mention one item. We used five different and distinct languages in our mission field, each with its own alphabet, grammar and syntax.  
  
Once I was giving an illustrated lecture to a group of professors from the University of Beirut. When I showed the Pioneer Trails film and praised the achievements of the pioneers and how they made the desert blossom as the rose, it sounded to them like I was over-rating the accomplishments of the pioneers and the beauties of Utah. At the end of the lecture one doctor stood up and asked to say a few words. He said he wanted to substantiate what I said. "Not only that, but," said he. "Rev. Jacobs did not state half of the beauty of Utah. I have been in Utah. Every city and village I passed through was clean and well arranged. I went through the Tabernacle grounds and want to witness to you that every word that Rev. Jacobs said is true and more so."  
  
One day I was explaining our beliefs to a minister. I read to him our first Article of Faith. When I got through reading it, he said, "Well that is nothing new — I believe in all of that. Why" he said, "I have made a special study of God, I know all about Him. In fact I wrote my thesis on God when I obtained my degree from college." When I mentioned that our God is a personal God, as we believe the Bible teaches, we disagreed. "We do not need a God in this day and age," he said, "we are too civilized to believe in such fancies." How thankful I was that God had blessed us in our day with a living prophet to reveal eternal truths!  
  
I want to thank my Heavenly Father for the privilege of living in this land of promise — in this land which is choice above all other lands — in this land of Zion. And above all I want to thank Him for my membership in this Church.  
  
May our Heavenly Father bless the leaders of this nation that we may be kept in the paths of peace. May he bless our Prophet and President and his associates that they may lead, guide, and direct this Church to its glorious destiny. And above all. may He bless us all with the spirit of humility and obedience so that we may follow our leaders and so live as to be worthy of all the blessings He has seen fit to grant us and may yet bestow upon us, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 