3
Morning
04 10 1940
President David O. McKay
18
5-7

None

None

Second Counselor in the First Presidency  
  
It is now my privilege to read a Statement by the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
STATEMENT BY THE FIRST PRESIDENCY  
  
The meeting of the Saints in this General Conference finds the world still war-torn. Millions of the Lord's children are suffering and mourning. All the woes and misery that attend armed conflict are spending their force upon them.  
  
From these afflicted peoples comes the prediction that the approaching winter will bring famine. If famine shall come, the history of the past shows it will likely bring plagues with it.  
  
Our brethren and sisters are found on both sides of this terrible struggle. On each side they are bound to their country by all the ties of blood, relationship, and patriotism.  
  
As always happens in such cases, each side claims to believe it is in the right. Each claims to feel it is fighting for its very existence. As the war progresses in its cruelty and horror, each may come to aim at the complete subjugation or extermination of the other.  
  
THE LORD'S WAY  
  
This would be an inhuman and unrighteous purpose. God's way requires that nations shall live in peace and amity, one with another. The Master's command was :  
  
Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you, Bless them that curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you. (Luke 6:27-28)  
  
The Saints on either side have no course open to them but to support that government to which they owe allegiance. But their prayers should go up day and night that God will turn the hearts of their leaders towards peace, that the curse of war may end.  
  
God is not pleased either with war, or with the wickedness which always heralds it. When He uses war, it is to wipe out sin and unrighteousness.  
  
The hearts of all the Saints are torn with grief over the sufferings of their brethren and sisters who are taking part in this struggle. So, for the Saints this is a fratricidal conflict. They so mourn over it. Their prayers ascend to our Heavenly Father that the war may come to a speedy end.  
  
To those Saints who are stricken by this great tragedy, we say live righteously, pray constantly, and the Lord will answer as your faith and works and His all-wise purposes allow Him.  
  
To those whose wickedness has brought this strife and turmoil, we say repent lest the Lord shall smite you in His wrath. He will not hold you guiltless of the innocent blood of your fellowmen.  
  
To all the nations, we say adjust your differences by peaceful means. This is the Lord's way.  
  
AMERICA'S OPPORTUNITY TO BE PEACEMAKER 
 
To our nation we repeat the Master's admonition:  
  
Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God. (Matt. 5:9)  
  
How infinitely greater it is to lead nations to peace, than to subdue a nation to chains. Let America put her house in order, forsake selfishness, greed, and avarice, abolish unrighteousness, wipe hate from her heart, hold in loyal friendship the good and upright of all nations and peoples. Then to her shall come the high destiny of the peacemaker.  
  
PRAYER FOR PEACE  
  
We humbly pray our Heavenly Father, that He will send to the earth His messengers of peace, that this terrible war shall afflict no more nations and spread no farther over the face of the land, that fear and frenzy shall be driven out from their place among the peoples, that hate shall be banished from the souls of men, for where hate abides, there righteousness cannot live; that sanity shall again assert its sway, and that love shall fill the hearts of men even to overflowing.  