36
Morning
06 10 1940
Elder Antoine R. Ivins
132
97-99

None

None

Of the First Council of the Seventy  
  
I am delighted, brethren and sisters, with this opportunity of standing before you for just a few short minutes this morning. The gathering of men who were here in this building last night, and the gatherings of men and women who have been here during this Conference, give new testimony to the fact that there is in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints still a fervent faith in God, our heavenly Father.  
  
PESSIMISM AND OPTIMISM  
  
There are people in the Church who have the temerity to say that our condition is such as to justify, perhaps, God our heavenly Father in taking the Gospel from us. I have had at least one man cite to me the sixteenth chapter of Third Nephi, tenth and eleventh verses, in which God says that when certain conditions shall prevail within the Church, He will take the Gospel from us, citing as justification the fact that we are now in such a condition that we might lose it — a pessimistic view, indeed, I take it.  
  
I insist on feeling, brethren and sisters, that I am an optimist. As I move about among you people I have many opportunities to see how you feel, to realize your trust in God our heavenly Father, and I believe that there is in the Church today still the same faith that characterized our grandfathers and grandmothers when this Church was re-established in our dispensation.  
  
If you will permit, I would like to cite you just one or two instances which make me feel this way.  
  
One time when I was in the Mexican Mission I passed through a little town in Arizona, and asked a man how he felt regarding the depression. He said: "We feel just as we always do, Brother Ivins. It is always depression in this section." I happened to know that that man had a family of six or eight, and that every boy and girl that he had, who was of age, had performed a mission for the Church, one of them at that very time serving in the Mission over which I had the privilege of presiding.  
  
Not very many weeks ago a man came into my office with his son. He said: "Brother Ivins, I am presenting this son for a mission." The few questions that I directed to him brought out the fact that this was the ninth child of his to fulfil a mission for the Church; that in addition to those nine, he had supported his brother on a mission, and was at that very time supporting a man, who was not of his family, in the New England States Mission.  
  
One time when I was interviewing a young man in Idaho, his father having brought him in, said: "Brother Ivins, we recommend this boy for a short-term mission. If, however, the leaders of the Church feel that he should serve a full term, they are welcome to his services, but in that event my wife and I will be forced to sacrifice our home, which represents the savings of our lifetime. We are willing to do it if the Church requires it."  
  
Those things indicate to me that in those instances, at least, there is a fine degree of faith within the Church. As we move around we interview prospective missionaries who are to be called to go out into the world, and we ask them some very pertinent and sometimes very delicate questions, to find out just what their attitude is, and how they have lived. I find, to my utter pleasure and satisfaction, that almost without exception those young men and young women are able to tell me, and look me honestly in the eye when they do it, that in preparation for this great event in their lives they have lived clean and pure lives.  
  
Now, when that type of faith exists within the Church I am not particularly worried as to the future. I feel that God is going to be justified in honoring the Priesthood which He has here in the Church at this time, and that He will not feel like taking the Gospel from us.  
 
LOVE OF NEIGHBOR EXHIBITED IN WELFARE WORK 
 
We had portrayed the accomplishments of the Church Welfare work, the other day, in the program of one of these meetings. Nobody can look at those things and tell me that there is not faith still in the Church. I think we are meeting those problems with a wonderful display faith. It gives me an unbounded satisfaction to realize that men are willing to devote their time and their talents, not only without compensation, but at their expense, for the welfare of their fellows.  
  
The injunction of Christ was that we should love God, our heavenly Father, first, and our neighbor second; and this is indication to me that we do, most of us at least, love our neighbors, for we are willing to work for them, and work for them for nothing, help them over their pitfalls and out of their troubles, and to a higher state of living.  
  
Now, why should we be terribly pessimistic over this outlook, when we realize that those conditions prevail? We do recognize the fact, however, that there are conditions within the Church which need rectifying. There are too few of us who are living fully and completely up to our opportunities.  
  
MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD PERCENTAGES  
  
I have had the privilege of checking, this year, the relationship between the number of families in the Church and the number of members in the Melchizedek Priesthood. I find that in some of the Stakes the proportion between families in the Stake and members of the Melchizedek Priesthood is as low as fifty-five. In other places it runs up to eighty-eight or ninety. In Colonia Juarez, the other day, I checked that very item, and I found those people down there having representatives in the Melchisedek Priesthood to the extent of eighty-eight per cent of their families, I believe; but just recently another Stake checked as low as fifty-five.  
  
What does this mean? It means, to me, that too few of us are taking advantage of the sealing ordinances in the temple. Things like that, and other things, need rectifying, to be sure, but I insist, and I leave it to you as my testimony, that there is within this Church an honest, true faith in God our heavenly Father, and I think the manifestations of these Conference meetings bear me out in that testimony.  
  
I pray that God will help us to keep it bright within our hearts, that we may never falter in His service, and that He will be pleased to honor us and bless us in our operations. God bless you all, Amen. 