37
Morning
06 10 1940
Tabernacle Choir And Organ Broadcast 
57
99-101

None

None

During the period from 10:30 to 11:00 a. m., the regular weekly National Broadcast of choral and organ music and brief spoken comment was included as part of the Conference proceedings. This program, now in its twelfth year of continuous nationwide broadcasting was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, and broadcast through the courtesy and facilities of the Columbia Broadcasting syste
m network, throughout the United States and Canada, and by short-wave transmission to many foreign lands. This broadcast originated with Radio Station KSL, Salt Lake City, and, exclusive of routine introductory and closing announcements, was as follows: Third Day  
  
"Crucifixus" — Bach  
  
"Ella Entering the Cathedral" — Wagner.  
  
Announcer, Richard L. Evans: "And Jesus made as though he would have gone . . . But they constrained Him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent." (Luke 24 :28-29) And blessed are they who abide His coming, as the gathering storm and the growing darkness of our times bring with them those events that move us on toward another eventide of which the prophets of all generations have spoken. And there is that about the record of prophecy which, even though it may not be pleasant to our ears, strikes conviction to our souls. For "all things must come to pass in their time." (Doctrine and Covenants 64:32) Time and the relentless march of events brought by its passing have been portrayed in musical symbol by the composer Vierne, and we now hear "Westminster Chimes" moving with the sweep of the hours and the march of the years — but "the day or the hour no man knoweth; but it shall surely come." (Doctrine and Covenants 39:21).  
  
"Westminster Chimes" — Vierne Organ  
  
Announcer, Richard L. Evans: And then Stephen said unto them: "As your fathers did, so do ye. Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted?" This accusing question could be asked of any generation, for men have always persecuted those who have seen ahead of their own time — whose vision has been enlarged and whose understanding has been quickened by that Spirit which giveth light to every man that cometh into the world (Doc. and Cov. 84:46) — in all fields of thought and knowledge, pertaining both to things here and things hereafter. The Isaiahs, the Galileos, the Noahs and the Columbuses, the Peters and the Pauls, have never been popular in their own day — but they have been so right in spite of the unwillingness of their own generation to believe them. And it would not seem to be popular to say now in our day that the unprincipled chaos in which we find our world was foreseen by the prophets of God and will find no cure and no lasting peace until men turn to Him and pattern their lives in accordance with His ways. Mere lip service will not be acceptable, and the temporary repentance that is forced by immediate fear and present stress will not be mistaken for obedience and a contrite heart. Let the cynic enjoy his brief day; let the man without faith deny it, and let the unbelieving take such hope as they can find. But the unchangeable facts remain, and there rise to meet the dissenting chorus, the words of Stephen: "Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? And when they heard these things, they were cut to the heart . . . And they stoned Stephen." (Acts 7:51-59) "And he kneeled down and cried: To thee O Lord I yield my spirit." This event of New Testament record was given musical setting by Mendelssohn in the St. Paul from which Richard Condie and the Tabernacle choir now sing.  
  
"And They Stoned Him" and "To thee O Lord"— St. Paul  
  
— Mendelessohn Choir  
  
"O My Father" (Tune "Harwell")— Lowell Mason Organ 
 
"Beautiful Savior" Choir  
  
The singing of the Choir was conducted by J. Spencer Cornwall.  
  
Alexander Schreiner was at the organ. The spoken word was by Richard L. Evans.

CHURCH OF THE AIR  
  
Immediately following the conclusion of the Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast, the following nationwide Church of the Air program was presented by the Columbia Broadcasting system, as a part of the proceedings of the Conference:  
  
The Tabernacle Choir and the congregation sang two verses of the hymn, "For the Strength of the Hills We Bless Thee."  