41
Morning
06 10 1940
Elder Thomas E. McKay 
19
110-112

None

None

Acting President, European Missions 

My brethren and sisters, I am very pleased and thankful to report that in spite of the unsettled and rapidly changing conditions in Europe, our Missions are functioning almost as usual, in the hands of local people. All headquarters, with the exception of one, are maintained. That one exception is the French Mission. The headquarters at Paris have been closed temporarily, but Brother Gaston Chappuis, who has just returned from Paris with his wife, received permission just before leaving to visit Belgium, and he reports that the work there in that part of the French Mission is well organized; and before we left Switzerland this spring, the other part of the French Mission in Switzerland was placed in the hands of a very capable brother, and the French-Swiss district is also progessing nicely.  
  
As I stated, all other Missions are well organized. We receive letters quite regularly. We have asked for at least a letter a month. These letters, of course, are censored, and the brethren cannot report about other than Church affairs — nothing political. On all the mail from continental Europe we find stamped upon the envelope the word "Geoffnet," or "Gepruft," the German word for censored; and the letters coming from Great Britain are stamped in large letters, "Opened."  
  
All the Missions report that Sunday Schools, Relief Societies, sacrament and Priesthood meetings, as well as branch and district conferences are being held as usual; and nearly all of the Missions report baptisms. In a letter received last week from one of the Missions, they reported fifty-five baptisms for the first eight months of this year. Three of the Missions have reported an increase in tithing and Fast offerings, as compared with the same period last year.  
  
We are very happy, too, and thankful to report that in those countries that have been invaded not one of our members, whether a soldier or lay member, has lost his life or been injured. In Norway, and also in Holland and Belgium, a number of our members lost their homes and everything of an earthly nature that they had, but their lives were spared. One brother is reported missing in the British Mission, but it is hoped that he is in Switzerland.  
  
In a letter just received from our brother in charge of the French-Swiss district, in expressing his appreciation for a few extra Eras that we had sent him — he was very honest — said: "I am receiving the Era already from Brother Ursenbach," (a former Mission President), "but I am very glad to get these extra numbers, President McKay, because we send them out to the Tommies who are interned here." Until that time we had not realized that some of our British soldiers were interned in Switzerland. Once in a while a little political news creeps through.  
  
We are pleased also to report that in Great Britain all members of our Church holding the Medchizedek Priesthood have been excused from army service, so as to take care of their Church work. The following is a copy of a letter to Brother Andre K. Anastasiou, acting President of the British Mission regarding this matter:  
  
Sir:  
  
I am directed by the Minister of Labour and National Service to refer to your recent meeting with an officer of this department and your letter of 22nd July regarding the position under the National Service (Armed Forces) Acts of men in Holy Orders in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
In reply, I am to state that it has now been decided that men in the major Orders may be regarded as covered by the provisions of Section 11 (1) (e) of the National Service (Armed Forces) Act, 193.9. Such men are not, therefore, liable to be called up for service under that Act and they are not required to register when other men of their age class are called upon to do so.  
  
As regards the list which you submitted with your letter of 22nd July, I am to state that all the men referred to therein will be regarded as covered by the statutory exception conferred upon men in Holy Orders except the two Priests named.  
  
I am, Sir,  
 
Your obedient Servant  
 
(Signed) R. A. Luce.  
  
A. K. Anastasiou, Esq.  
 
149 Nightingale Lane  
 
London, S. W. 12  
  
Now brethren and sisters, in conclusion may I express my heartfelt appreciation for the opportunity that has been given to me to continue, although rather remotely, in contact with these brethren and sisters in war-torn Europe. For nine years I had the privilege of associating with those people, and, brethren and sisters, they are good people. They love the Gospel; they are finding in very deed that the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation. It is a great comfort to them. They write: "We are all right; we have the Gospel."  
  
May I commend to you, brethren and sisters, in concluding, the beautiful remarks of President Grant at the opening of this session, permeated with tolerance and love; also the message of the First Presidency read at the opening of the first session of our Conference. Read that, and re-read it. Tolerance and love permeated every sentence.  
  
Who seeks for heaven alone to save his soul May keep the path, but will not find the goal; While he who walks in love may wander far, But God will bring him where the righteous are.  
  
God help us to walk in love, to keep His commandments, that we may enjoy true happiness here in this life, as well as in the life to come, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 