45
Afternoon
06 10 1940
Elder Charles A. Callis 
3
117-119

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles  
 
The blessed Savior said:  
  
Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in me. John 14:1.  
  
Again  
  
For I will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand.  
  
(Doctrine & Covenants Section 29 :11.)  
  
BLESSINGS TO FOLLOW JUDGMENTS  
  
The earth, in spite of these dark, gloomy days, is moving forward to a glorious ideal. The good that seems imprisoned is working toward deliverance and triumph. "We believe that Christ will reign personally upon the earth, and that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisaical glory."  
  
The judgments that are raging in the earth are testimonies to the Latter-day Saints that God's blessings will follow, for He loves mercy more than judgment.  
  
STRENUOUS WORK NEEDED  
  
If Paul were to return to the earth now would he say to the American people what he said to the people of his day?  
  
The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play.  
  
I think that America stands in need of the gospel of strenuous work. We are becoming a soft people; we like our nights of pleasure and our days of loafing. There would not be nearly so much sin in the world today if men and women would work more and play less. It is becoming a practice to talk much of our rights. These rights of course are sacred; they are God-given, but if we neglect to use them they become a curse, as it were, and God will take them away.  
  
Why not talk more about obligations to man, to country, and to God? We are under deep obligation to care for our fellow-creatures. Think of this wonderful truth in the Book of Mormon:  
  
When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God.  
  
GOD'S PURPOSES TO BE FULFILLED 
  
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the mother of men because it has given so much. This heaven-inspired Church Welfare Plan creates in us a fine desire to be sympathetic and to work, and to help others to work. The joy that we gain from service to men is not easily measured.  
  
Wars may come, and they will go. I do not believe the Millennium is imminent; this Church is consecrated to the task of preaching the Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. We have scarcely scratched the surface. Where we are baptizing one today, in the not distant future we are going to baptize fifty, aye, a hundred, for God's purposes are sure to be fulfillled. He does not delight in the death of the wicked. He loves His children and through His servants, He is pleading with them to come to the light, which results in obedience to Him.  
  
ETERNAL RICHES REMAIN  
  
The days are dark; we suffer temptation, we suffer hardships of various kinds, but there is one thing that depression and war cannot take from us. I refer to the gift of eternal life. We should put more trust in the spiritual values of existence. The things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal. Wars may rage, famine may come, earthquakes and the like, and depressions, but these things cannot take away the eternal riches of Jesus Christ. Some of these riches are the glorous atonement, salvation for the dead, the second coming of the Son of God, the glorious resurrection and the eternity of the marriage covenant by which we are united in marriage on earth and in heaven by the power of the holy Priesthood. Thieves and misfortune cannot take these things from us, for they are immortal, God-given, and shall survive death and destruction. The Apostle Paul sings this glorious refrain of gratitude:  
  
It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us.  
  
THE LOVE OF THE SAVIOR  
  
What a wonderful thing it is to have a mediator, the Lord Jesus, who intercedes for his brethren. And Paul continues:  
  
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine or nakedness, or peril, or sword?  
  
* * * *  
  
Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us.  
  
For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,  
  
Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ our Lord. (Romans 8:34-39).  
  
For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. (Romans 8:18).  
  
Ere long the skies will rend and Jesus Christ shall descend in glory with all his holy angels. Then will begin the long foretold Millennium, for which women have wept and for which men have prayed. Christ shall reign upon the earth in glory and in power from the rivers to the end of the earth. In that glorious Millennium we shall have good government, freedom from corruption; we shall rejoice in the divine reign of Him who is Prince of Peace and King of Kings.  
  
When He comes  
  
He will rule the world with truth and grace,  
 
And make the nations prove  
 
The glories of His righteousness  
 
And wonders of His love.  
  
Even so, blessed Lord Jesus, come quickly. Amen. 