46
Afternoon
06 10 1940
Elder Samuel O. Bennion 
2
119-121

None

None

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I am delighted, my brethren and sisters and friends, to greet you upon this occasion, and to feel the impressions of the holy Spirit of God that have been manifest all through this great Conference. It is always an inspiration to see the large congregations of the Church gathered together as we see them during the periods of our Annual and Semi-Annual Conferences — people who have come from great distances, people who have in their hearts the testimony of Jesus, who are led to do the things they know are right, and who desire to walk in the path of God.  
  
EVIDENCES OF A MARVELOUS WORK IN THE EARTH  
  
This is an evidence of the marvelous work and wonder that our Eternal Father is performing in the earth. He has gathered out from among the nations the progenitors of those who are here in the Church at the present time; and those who are here have accomplished the things that He intended. But the power of the adversary has been so violent that it has curtailed free agency among the children of men. I say unto you, my dear brethren and sisters, that the free agency of men is limited; there are not many peoples in the earth today who enjoy such freedom as can be enjoyed in a great democracy like this. Our Eternal Father has established this country for the work that He has designated to take place in these latter days.  
  
MESSAGE TO BE TAKEN FROM PRIESTHOOD MEETINGS  
  
When I looked upon the congregation of men last night in the Priesthood meeting I was deeply impressed. I saw in the faces of those men a firm determination, a resolution to carry out the plan of God. It will be but a few hours before they go back into their fields of labor in all the Stakes of Zion, and there they will teach the Gospel to the children of men, and testify to those who belong to the Church that this was and is the Church of Christ our Lord. They will admonish them that the time has come for men to measure up. They will encourage them to gather out from among the communities where they live those who might receive the truth. How many of us know our neighbors How many of us think about the men or the women who may be living near us, who are not members of the Church? I take it that this great body of Priesthood is concerned about these, our brothers and sisters, and that their desire is to carry to them the Gospel message.  
  
OUR DUTY TO THOSE WHO COME HERE TO LIVE  
  
There are many people who come into the Stakes of Zion who do not really know why they come here, take up their abode and live among us. But we may well believe that they have been directed here for the purpose of baptism, for the purpose of hearing the voice of their Redeemer. We pray constantly for our missionaries who go abroad, that they may search out the honest in heart, but we little think about those in our midst who have been moved upon by the spirit and power of God to come into this land where they may receive the blessings that are theirs by right. For in the great plan of our Eternal Father, established before the foundations of this earth were laid, all men who would believe, all who would be valiant for the testimony of Jesus, were given the opportunity to hear the truth. It was ordained that they should be made partakers of these great blessings — the blessings that were to be theirs here and in eternity. Of such are the congregations of the Latter-day Saints composed.  
  
But there are thousands of men yet to hear the Gospel, there are thousands of women who might be turned into the channels of real service for which there is such an abundance of opportunity, under the leadership of the women's organizations of the Church. There is a great work for us to do, and there is no time for us to wait, for this is the work of God, this is the great day which our Eternal Father declared through His holy prophets, centuries ago, He would establish in the last days. This Church is never more to be thrown down or given to another people. This is the day of salvation. We invite the children of men everywhere to investigate the doctrines we believe. I invite my friends who may be listening in to take time to read the doctrines of the Church, to read the things that the Lord has revealed, and become acquainted with them. Let me repeat that there are many fine men and women in this world, many of whom live within our gates, who might become members of the Church, if they could be made to see the great plan of our Redeemer. It is our responsibility and privilege to carry this message to them.  
  
A TESTIMONY OF THE TRUTH  
  
Now, my brethren and sisters, I know that this is the work of God. There is no doubt in my mind that the Lord lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, that Joseph Smith was the prophet whom the Lord selected before the foundations of this earth were laid, to bring about His righteous purposes in your day and mine. That great plan of God shall continue as long as the earth shall stand. And it will be carried to the children of men through the guiding leadership of the Holy Ghost.  
  
A great miracle has taken place among us. Our Father's prophet, our leader, the man that we love, has been partially restored to health and is able to be here and speak with power and influence. May we sustain him, may we sustain each other, sustain the things the Lord has revealed to us, that His work may become stronger, and that His plans may be carried out as He would desire them to be, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 