49
Afternoon
06 10 1940
Elder Albert E. Bowen
225
124-130

None

None

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles  
 
There is much concern today about the cause of liberty in the world. People are anxiously asking, "What is going to be the outcome of this war, and what will happen to the world if the dictators win?" I do not know the answers to these questions. It is not necessary that I should know, nor that you should know.  
 
GOD'S PLAN WILL TRIUMPH 
  
It is important, however, that we do not permit ourselves to be unduly distracted when the hidden purposes of events and their end are not immediately clear to our perception. The lifetime of an individual is but a short span when reckoned against the stretch of history. Whatever the present may forebode, or the immediate future may bring we shall be better able to maintain our composure if we are fortified by an abiding "faith and confidence in God and in the triumph of His work" if, in the phrase of Bancroft we can say, "Eternal wisdom marshals the great procession of the nations, working in patient continuity through the ages, never halting and never abrupt, encompassing all events in its oversight, and ever effecting its will . . . . "  
  
MAN'S POWER FADES 
  
Alexander conquered the world but the great general was scarcely dead when his vast empire crumbled and soon was no more. Cromwell made himself a mighty ruler but his power passed away with him. Napoleon startled the world by the brilliancy of his achievements, but he was so unfortunate as to live to see the mighty empire he had welded fall apart before his eyes.  
  
Those who now are turning the world upside down will also die. The mischiefs they have wrought will then, if not sooner, by degrees be undone. The peoples of conquered nations, and of the conquering nations, too, for that matter, are not going to be content perpetually to submit to the stifling oppression under which they now suffer nor to the smothering of their instincts of freedom. It has always been the case that when tyranny becomes oppressive enough people revolt against it and shake it off.  
  
CALMNESS COMMENDED  
  
But all this does not mean that nations or peoples should resign themselves to the fate of being subdued. The struggle back out of the thraldom of tyranny is always waged through blood and sacrifice and heart-breaking rigors and disciplines. Bitter suffering must be endured before the will is steeled to the endeavor.  
  
It is infinitely wiser and safer to preserve the good one has than to suffer its annihilation and then have to go over the toilsome, grueling and thorny way of getting it back again. But the process of preservation is not facilitated by hysteria. The hysterical mind does not conceive rationally, nor plan coherently nor execute effectively. Let us try in these difficult times to sift the truth out of the welter of confusion, to view it calmly and to decide with sobriety.  
  
LIBERTY A PRINCIPLE OF LIFE  
  
Of this we can be sure: Liberty is a thing of the spirit. A man must nourish it and cherish it in his heart as he does love for his wife and children. Except for its manifestation as a quality in human life it has no existence. Governments cannot confer it; they can only protect the individual in the enjoyment of it. Navies and armies cannot bestow it; they can only defend its exercise. No people can possess it unless they make themselves worthy of it.  
  
The lessons of Europe are fruitful for us if we will but read them. We are amazed at the ease with which some heretofore great nations have been subdued. The superficial explanation is lack of proper military armament. The true reason lies deeper and is the cause for the lack of preparation.  
  
Whether their undoing came from disloyalty, treachery, sedition, resulting in betrayal, or whether it came from taking into their family bosoms designing aliens and falling prey to their seductive propaganda, or from the indolence and love of ease, and craving for the flesh pots which made them unwilling to subject themselves to the necessary exertion and discipline and self-denial to protect their heritage does not much matter as it all comes to the same end anyway.  
  
The question forced upon us is, why should the people of a great nation become disloyal and seditious, why should they be beguiled by seductive portrayal of alien ideologies, why so flabby and soft and indolent and comfort-loving as to be unequal to the exertion of protecting their birthright?  
  
CAUSES OF DOWNFALL OF NATIONS  
  
A building does not crash when the first termite begins to bore into its supporting beams. But when these have been allowed to multiply and continue their burrowing and tunneling and eating there comes a day when the fiber of the wood is so thoroughly destroyed that under the impact of some shock or addition of weight the support gives way and the structure comes tumbling down. It would be absurd to say that the new weight or the shock caused the structure to fall. We sometimes are bewildered at the sudden collapse of a man's character which theretofore had been rated high. It will generally be found that the degenerating process had been working in him a long time before the crash came.  
  
Strong nations, commanding great resources, do not fall in the days of their strength before an invading enemy. They first disintegrate from within. When their vital internal structure has been eaten away then the hollow shell collapses before the first onslaught of a virile foe.  
  
What we have been witnessing in Europe is not so much the conquering might of an organized power, great as that is, as the mere pushing over, with some minor and notable exceptions, of the hollow frameworks of governments whose sustaining spiritual integrity had already gone into decay.  
  
CONDITIONS IN AMERICA  
  
Now what of ourselves? We know that we harbor here large numbers, alien as well as native born, who openly advocate the superiority of alien principles of government over our own. Others there are who devote themselves to coddling the sowers of seeds of sedition and disloyalty. And with a discouraging universality we see the evidences of calculating self-interest, greed, indifference — a materialistic, grabbing, senseless scramble for the things which it is so mistakenly supposed will give a sense of security or satisfy the restlessness that is our very plague.  
  
We are saying that we face a great crisis, that the very existence of our nation is at stake. And yet one class of people is being told and is telling itself that it will not give up one whit of certain alleged gains it has made. It is willing to prepare for the emergency provided that it is not called upon to sacrifice anything. Another class is demanding assurance against loss, and still another as a matter of self interest and expediency is willing to let vital things wait. By sections and communities we are joining in the mad scramble. I read that the defense commission is being harassed and hampered by the clamors of localities, chambers of commerce, pressure groups, and politicians for the location of this or that industry in this or that place without regard for military requirement or efficiency of the whole program. We want to save our country if we can conveniently, but if it goes down we want to be able to say that our congressman got us a liberal part of the public funds and be sure that we hand ourselves over to the conquerer with plenty of public works on hand and our local vanity satisfied.  
  
Concerted action is required but jealousies and envy divide us. Our appraisals of value are inconstant and bewilderingly shifting. While in truth the interests of all classes are inseparably bound up together we have driven great wedges separating the industrialists from the laborers, and the agriculturists from both and the consumer from all the others. For a long time we have been stigmatizing large industries and denouncing them as baleful. Now we are frantically urging them to grow bigger and are offering capital for that purpose. What we have heedlessly decried as evils we now recognize as being our only hope for a speedy and large armament. One of our largest industrialists was within the year denounced as a national menace. Now we are dependent upon him in an inordinate degree to make us the defensive implements we need, all of which shows the folly of our periodic surges and revulsions of feeling toward the integrated elements of our nation.  
  
SPIRITUAL STRENGTH NEEDED  
  
This is all contrary to the spirit of universal brotherhood taught by the Savior of the world, and is our most alarming portent of danger, far more alarming than the power of any foreign foe. In recent years we have heard much over our country about economic security and about various notions for material betterment. Greater ease, more comfort, less toil have been flashed before us as symbolizing the highest ideals of human attainment. But we have heard almost nothing about spiritual strengthening, tightening of moral disciplines, subordination of personal desires or the development of the wholesome spirit of give and take which make for a greater national unity and a more healthy and trustful and confidence-begetting relationship. Here is a task for the Church.  
  
I have noted with keen interest for a number of years now that from this pulpit in these Conferences, with growing emphasis there have been voiced persistent and reiterated pleas for a greater devotion to and cultivation of the spiritual values of life which ought to flow from our belief in and acceptance of the divine mission of the Savior of the world. The people have been begged to discipline themselves to the virtues of kindliness, unselfishness, self-denial, humility, reverence and justice; to be abstemious, industrious, thrifty and self-reliant. Apparently thoughtful men among the laity are being shocked by world events into a realization of the perils which lurk in neglect of these bulwarks of strength.  
  
About two years ago some observant British leaders sent out the warning to the people of the realm that the great issue which divides the world is at bottom a spiritual conflict in which good and evil spirits are working through mankind. "When the evil spirits conquer," said they, "the collapse of private and public morals sets in, the spirit of discipline and sacrifice dies," and they warned that Britain must make its choice between spiritual restoration and annihilation. How prophetic those words were stands now revealed. It might have been better for England if she had given earlier heed to them.  
  
WINSTON CHURCHILL'S NOTABLE WORDS 
  
I am sure every listener must have thrilled to the appeal of Winston Churchill when upon his assumption of the premiership he warned his countrymen that he could promise them nothing but blood and tears and toil and sweat. That was, at the time of his speaking, a new note in the utterance of a modern public man, strange to our ears. And how magnificently Britons responded to the rallying call of their great leader who dared to tell them the naked unpleasant truth!  
  
INDOLENCE SAPPING STRENGTH OF THE NATION  
  
I wish every man and woman in America might read and ponder an article by Dr. Alexis Carrel appearing in the September issue of the Reader's Digest. "Amusement" said he "has been our national cry; 'a good time' our chief concern. The perfect life, as viewed by the average youth or adult is a round of ease or entertainment, of motion pictures, radio programs, parties, alcoholic and sexual excesses.  
  
"This indolent and undisciplined way of life has sapped our individual vigor, imperiled our democratic form of government. Our race pitifully needs new supplies of discipline, morality and intelligence. Strange to say democracies have made no consistent effort to inculcate these qualities in their citizens. Although vast social betterment schemes have been projected, we have forgotten that these ultimately depend for their vitality upon the individual citizen. 'You cannot carve rotten wood,' says the Chinese proverb. Nor can you carve decayed character into the durable underpinnings of a better race."  
  
Forty men of prominence recently warned the people of America that "The democratic way of life, must be based ultimately on the religious principle of the Fatherhood of God, and the worth and dignity of man when regarded as a child of God. It must uncompromisingly oppose any effort at the deification of the State or the suppression of individual liberty and sense of moral responsibility."  
  
A FORCE FIGHTING AGAINST GOD  
  
So long as armed aggression is rampant in the world proceeding upon the principle that the only deterrent to the gratification of every rapacious desire is the limit of brute force, peaceably inclined peoples must prepare themselves to repel that force. But, cautions the warning manifesto, unless a spiritual and moral resuscitation is worked and respect for religious values built up we shall arm in vain.  
  
We have used our freedom to renounce all discipline, and in the marvelous achievements of this industrial and scientific age we have grown arrogant and have discarded our ancient faith. The iconoclasts have been at work. — Those egotists who cannot rest happy so long as an unsullied name, eclipsing their own, Is allowed to stand untarnished, have been busy with their smear pots. They are called by the very ugly but very appropriate name de-bunkers. Nothing so much needs de-bunking as they themselves. Because they cannot dissect God and examine His parts they have denied that He is; they have scoffed at the divinity of Jesus and because His benignity and purity and unselfishness and allembracing compassion so far transcend their cynical powers of comprehension, they have characterized Him a pretender and notoriety-seeking rabble rouser. The Ten Commandments are ridiculed as a defenseless and untrue imposition upon a primitive, uncultured and migrant people. Washington and Lincoln and the other great characters of history they have with profane hands dragged down from their high pedestals and have dissected bit by bit, searched out and with malicious glee thrown upon the screen the distorted and magnified image of their every foible and blemish. The founders of our government, the framers of our Constitution are converted into self-seeking aristocrats bent only on preserving their advantages of station, while that great instrument itself is made the embodiment of palpably absurd and now outmoded eighteenth century philosophy. They are determined that nothing shall remain sacred or be revered. They have suceeded only too well. To maintain itself strong in the present a people must be sustained by the consciousness of a noble past and the hope of a glorious future. Too much of the nobility of the past and the hope for the future has gone into eclipse.  
  
PRINCIPLES THAT LEAD DOWNWARD  
  
The gifts of this industrial age are mechanisms, gadgets, ease, luxury, diversions. These we have set up as principles by which we live in the place of faith in the nobility of man, reverence for his Maker and the discipline of our bodies, minds and spirits to the divine law. Our substituted principles we find not to be principles at all but merely incidentals. Put to the test of realism they come tumbling down about us and men stand bewildered by their own impotence and futility. They have lost the sustaining power of great convictions. As for our government they are not convinced it is better than some others; they do not really believe in our freedom, nor that it is in peril both from within and without, nor that its loss would be calamitous. They are not sure why they live in the earth at all, what life's purpose is nor what it is they want to do.  
  
TEACHING THE TRUTH NOT AN EASY TASK  
  
There must be a new cementing of shattered convictions, a re-establishment of wavering faith, a calling back to basic principles. This again is a task for the Church. It is a work for you Presidents of Stakes, and Bishops of Wards and other leaders. In its fulfilment you will have large need for moral courage because your leadership will involve your telling people unpleasant truths, things they would rather not hear. It will require you to lead them in hard ways.  
  
As I read the history of the ancient prophets they were more often than not the bearers of unpleasant messages. It fell to them to tell kings, judges, rulers and people that the courses they were following portended disaster and to admonish them against persistence in such courses. It was not an easy nor an inviting labor. It did not make them popular, but frequently jeopardized their lives and drove them into hiding.  
  
Jesus himself passed through the same experience. The next day after He had miraculously fed the multitude the crowds sought Him on the opposite side of the lake whither He had gone in the night time. As they pressed upon Him He said to them, "Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves and were filled." Then He proceeded to unfold His doctrine which imposed high requirements upon any who would be His followers, stressing the preeminence of spiritual values over material satisfactions.  
  
"It is," said He, "the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing; the words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life." His listeners complained that His sayings were hard, and began melting away. Sorrowfully and pathetically the chronicler records: "From that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him." So long as they were the recipients of gratuitous benefits they were eager followers, but their ardor turned cold when they found that the price of discipleship was renunciation and reformation. But that alone was then and is now the way of salvation.  