54
Afternoon
06 10 1940
None
57
145-146

None

None
  
Book Headquarters 
  
The Deseret Book Company is headquarters for all L. D. S. publications, as well as for general books of every kind. We especially call your attention to the following books, on sale here:  
  
Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, by John A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid)  
  
Unto the Hills (The Spoken Word)  
  
by Richard L. Evans $1.50 (postpaid)  
  
A Rational Theology  
  
by J. A. Widtsoe $1.00 (postpaid)  
  
Priesthood and Church Government  
  
by John A. Widtsoe $1.75  
  
Prepared as the text book for the members of the Church holding the Higher Priesthood. This book will be used during the year 1941 as the official text book.  
  
Special price to Priesthood members — $1.50 or $1.35 if cash accompanies the order.  
  
A Century of Mormonism in Great Britain,  
 
by Richard L. Evans $1.25 (postpaid)  
  
Romance of the Book of Mormon,  
  
by Josiah E. Hickman. $2.50 (postpaid)  
  
Progress of Man,  
  
by Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 (postpaid)  
  
Whatever your book needs, consult us first. We have the most comprehensive stock of books in the intermountain region, and we specialize in books about the Mormons and the West. We invite your inquiries.  
  
Prompt Service by Mail.  
  
DESERET BOOK COMPANY  
  
44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah  
  
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith  
  
Taken from his sermons and writings as they are found in the Documentary History and other publications of the Church and written or published in the days of the Prophet's ministry  
  
Selected and arranged by the Historian, Joseph Fielding Smith, and his Assistants in the Historian's Office of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.  
  
Many of these discourses and writings appear in the Documentary History of the Church, but others have not been included in these volumes, but are scattered through the early publications of the Church. It has been difficult even for the student to obtain these because the old publications are not accessible for general use.  
  
SPECIALLY PRICED AT $2.00  
  
Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns  
  
(Their Authors and Composers)  
  
GEORGE D. PYPER  
  
"The Latter-day Saints have always been a singing people. Some of their greatest sermons and messages have come through the avenue of song."  
  
So writes the author, George D. Pyper, in this fascinating story of an essential feature in the lives of a culture loving people.  
  
Well illustrated throughout, this work will take a high place in literary circles, and will win a permanent spot in the hearts of all lovers of great and good music.  
  
PRICE— $2.00  
  
VISUAL AIDS  
  
To be visually prepared is one of the greatest of assets to a teacher.  
  
For particulars and descriptive literature we invite you to communicate with us.  
  
We are prepared to give demonstrations in all types of equipment and to offer our Three S plan: SURVEY, SUGGESTIONS, SERVICE.  
  
DESERET BOOK COMPANY  
  
44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah  