6
Morning
04 10 1940
Elder Joseph L. Wirthlin 
245
22-27

None

None

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I might enjoy the inspiration of the Lord's Spirit the moment or two I stand before you.  
  
It seems that the minds of some of us run in parallel channels. Brother Smoot has addressed you on the subject I had in mind.  
  
BLESSINGS ENUMERATED  
  
I am very grateful for membership in the Church; I am grateful for my forbears who made it possible, by accepting the Gospel in Europe and coming to the Promised Land, for me and mine to enjoy peace and plenty. I am particularly grateful for the Priesthood of God which has been restored in these the last days, through the instrumentality of a prophet. I have only gratitude in my heart for the leadership in this Church, who have and are continuously advising and counseling people as to their spiritual and temporal needs. This advice and counsel is motivated and inspired from divine sources.  
  
As parents a wonderful opportunity is ours, particularly in that everyone of our sons can hold the Priesthood of the Lord and receive all the blessings attached thereto. The Priesthood is a shield against temptation; it motivates and inspires young men to the highest and noblest of deeds, and every young man, whether he holds the office of Deacon, Teacher or Priest, is a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. In accepting the Priesthood, young men, in all reality, enter into a contract with Christ whereby they will serve him faithfully and loyally when called upon to do so by those who are in authority, and the Redeemer will bless them, magnify them, and sustain them in their Priesthood work. All of these young men perform the various functions of their offices not in and of themselves as individuals, but, as I have said, as servants of the Lord Jesus Christ each one of them being commissioned to perform the duties of his particular office.  
  
It is a wonderful thing to contemplate that John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Redeemer who held the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood in the days of the Lord Jesus Christ, returned to earth, bestowing this divine gift of authority upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, giving them the right to preach the Gospel of repentance, to baptize for the remission of sins, and to enjoy the ministering of angels.  
  
OPPORTUNITIES FOR BOYS IN PRIESTHOOD  
  
Elbert Hubbard declared, "Be patient with boys. You are dealing with soul stuff; destiny awaits just around the corner." I am not hesitant in declaring there are no boys the world over where destiny is awaiting around the corner as it awaits with glorious opportunities for the young men who hold the Priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Among them will be found the leaders of tomorrow: Bishops, Stake Presidents and General Authorities. With this future lying ahead of our young men, every parent must realize his and her responsibility in the task of guiding and directing these boys in thought and deed and qualification, in order that they shall be worthy and fully prepared to assume the duties and obligations of tomorrow.  
  
May I say to those of our brethren who have the honor and privilege of associating with these boys in their Priesthood work, there is no work that can bring a higher degree of pleasure and satisfaction. Only a little time is required to get the confidence of a boy, and there is no confidence that is more implicit, and no friendship more loyal and devoted than that of a boy.  
  
STORY OF A BISHOP'S SUCCESS  
  
There was once a Bishop who had the high honor of ordaining 26 young men to the office of Deacon. The experience of ordaining so many young men made a deep impression on his mind, and he asked himself the question, "What obligations have I assumed now as the Bishop of this Ward in bestowing this Priesthood upon these young men?" And after careful and prayerful thought he arrived at the conclusion, there rested upon him and his two associates in the Bishopric, the responsibility of so guiding and directing the activities of these Deacons that when the time should arrive for advancement each and every one of them would be worthy and fully qualified to receive the office of a Teacher.  
  
The first step in this program was to get the confidence of these young men. They were encouraged to present their problems to the Bishopric; problems of work, school problems, and the multiplicity of problems that boys of this age generally have. The boys responded, and these three magnificent men were always willing and prepared to render counsel and advice. Social activities were encouraged, the homes of the Bishopric, were frequented by the boys. Eventually these young men were ordained Teachers, and later the office of Priest was bestowed upon them. Eventually the day arrived when the young men reached the age of prospective missionaries. All of them were called; twenty-five responded, the other one having a physical ailment which prevented him from accepting a call. These young men were ordained Elders, went out in the world, and with the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ, preached His plan of salvation with vigor and force. These young men were honorably released, returned home, and all of them are now married and rearing fine Latter-day Saint families. In addition to this they are considered among the outstanding citizens of their communities. I am sure you will agree with me that this is an outstanding achievement. And why? Simply because three men took a little interest in some boys. The achievement of these good brethren can be the blessing and accomplishment of any one man or group of men that will manifest interest in the young men of the Church.  
  
A BOY'S PRAYER ANSWERED 
  
I was deeply impressed by Brother Smoot's address on prayer. May I say there was never a time in all history when the habit of praying should be encouraged as now. Young men who hold the Priesthood of God are more inclined to call upon Him for assistance than the young men who have failed to receive the glorious blessings of the Priesthood. I recall an instance that occurred during the darkest days of the depression.  
  
There was a poor widow and her family struggling against great odds to sustain and maintain themselves. In this family group the oldest child was an 18 year old son who was deeply touched because of the family situation and the terrific struggle his Mother was having in solving their economic problems. One day he declared to her, "Mother, if you will permit me to go to California I can secure employment and at least render some small assistance to you." The mother replied and said, "Son, permit me to think this over for a day or two." After two or three days she called her son to her side and said, "I give you my consent; you may go to California upon one condition, and the condition is that you will always pray as you know we have prayed in this home morning and night, and although we have had our problems, the Lord has blessed us and assisted us in many ways."  
  
With his mother's permission, this young man gathered his few clothes in a bundle, took some food and water, and went on his way. He had planned to secure a ride across the barren wastes of the American desert from some passing motorist, but during these dark days of the depression very few people were traveling, and consequently he trudged for two days over the desert, at the end of which time an inventory of his food and water indicated that unless someone picked him up he would soon find himself in a very precarious situation, and in addition his shoes were about worn out.  
  
As he analyzed his condition there came back to him with a flash the advice of his mother — to pray regardless of where he might be. Looking up he saw in the distance a building, which proved to be a deserted service station. Standing by it was a dilapidated bill board. Arriving at the old building he went around to the rear of the billboard, knelt down and poured out his soul to the Lord, telling Him that unless someone came to deliver him, the possibilities were that he would perish.  
  
That day a friend of mine was traveling across the desert, his destination a large city in California where a convention of his company was to be held. As he sped across the desert he was cognizant of the fact that he had passed an old deserted service station. Going on for some distance the impression came to him which seemed to convey the message that he should turn around and go back. At first he thought little of it, but the impression came the second time stronger than before. Finally he turned to his wife and said, "Mother, I have had two rather peculiar experiences. Something tells me we should turn around. Do you know of any reason why we should?" She replied, "No, but if you have had an impression I suggest that you turn around." He turned his car around in the middle of the desert, and upon approaching the old deserted service station and the dilapidated billboard, was hailed by the boy. The good man stopped and the boy asked if he might have a ride. Of course the reply was "yes."  
  
The man, his wife and the boy again started on their way toward California. Naturally the boy and the man became very friendly, the boy declared to the man, "You are an answer to my prayer. I had neither water nor food, my shoes are worn out, and I knew that in and of myself I could do nothing, and so I went back of the billboard and asked the Lord that someone be sent to deliver me." The full significance of the impressions that the man had experienced now dawned upon him, and with a tear in his eye he said, "Yes, son, I know that I am an answer to your prayers."  
  
Brethren and sisters, in this great Church many of our boys and girls could well afford to follow the example of this young man in being prayerful, and without doubt the Lord will hear and answer their prayers. We should teach them to pray; teach them to be loyal to the leadership of this Church and particularly to follow the admonitions of the men who have been selected and appointed by the Lord to guide and direct the destiny of this people. I challenge anyone to point out one instance where the President or his counselors or the Quorum of the Twelve have ever given any advice but what it was for the good and benefit of the people.  
  
THE AUTHORITY TO BAPTIZE  
  
As parents we should impress upon our young people that as servants of God they act in their Priesthood capacities because the authority they hold has been restored to earth from a divine source. Teach them that the Priesthood is the divine right bestowed upon men whereby they act as His servants and agents in performing the ordinances of the Gospel and in building up the kingdom. This thought was impressively demonstrated to me while laboring as a missionary in the State of Missouri. A lady presented herself to my companion and I, applying for baptism. The time appointed was a Sunday afternoon on the banks of the Spring River, outside of Carthage, Missouri. Upon arriving at the appointed place we discovered that another minister and his group had preceded us, and the ordinance of baptism was being performed.  
  
We listened with a good deal of attention and interest to the baptismal prayer uttered by the minister. These were his words: "Under the great commission I baptize you in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, Amen. The term "Under the Great Commission" stimulated some thought on my part. Returning to our room we opened our Bibles to see if we could discover what the minister presumed to call "The Great Commission." We found in the last few verses of the last chapter of the book of Matthew what is commonly known as "the Great Commission." As you will recall, the Savior was bidding farewell to his disciples for the last time, admonishing them in the following words, "Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world."  
  
These verses the Lord spoke but to eleven men, commissioning them to go into the world preaching the Gospel of repentance and performing the ordinance of baptism for the remission of sins. Consequently he did not designate anyone who might have the desire to preach or baptize, which brings forcibly to mind the words of the Apostle Paul when he declared, "And no man taketh this honor unto himself but he that is called of God as was Aaron."  
  
What a glorious thought it is to contemplate that the Priests of the restored Church of the Lord Jesus Christ have been called as Aaron to perform the ordinance of baptism or any other Aaronic Priesthood duty because of divine light. The young men who perform the ordinance of baptism under no condition or consideration ever have to beg the question of authority, using such terms as "Under the Great Commission." But they declare emphatically and with full knowledge, "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen." And may I add they are the only group in the world who have the right to declare "having been commissioned of Jesus Christ."  
  
SERVICE BRINGS ITS REWARD  
  
I humbly pray that the Lord of Israel will bless, guide and direct us in our responsibilities of leading the youth of Zion in paths of righteousness. When the day of responsibility comes, they will be willing, qualified and worthy to serve in any capacity. Such service will bring to them the greatest of heavenly rewards, a reward that cannot be stayed by the hand of man or the evil one, a reward predicated on obedience to the Lord, for He always keeps His promises and rewards them that serve Him.  
  
The Prophet Joseph Smith declared, "For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two Priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying of their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies.  
  
"They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the Church and Kingdom, and the elect of God."  
  
May I earnestly suggest to you, there is nothing in this world that is of greater value than to achieve a place in the Celestial kingdom, wherein your sons and daughters may become the very elect of God, which I pray will be the blessing of everyone of them, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.  