Afternoon
05 04 1913

Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. 

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah, Lead us to the promised land, 

We are weak, but Thou art able — Hold us with Thy powerful hand. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Wm. T. Jack. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The latter-day glory begins to come forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, 

And angels are coming to visit the earth. 

ELDER MILTON H. WELLING. 

(President of Bear River Stake.) 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, some great men have said that one-third of an individual's character is formed before he comes into the world; that the prenatal influences which have gone into the building up of his personality have predisposed him to certain lines of thought and activity, after he has been born among the children of men. It is said, also, that one-third of one's character is due to his own self-effort; the things that he accomplishes, or strives to accomplish, go into the making of his character; and that one-third of his being is made up from the environment with which he is associated during his sojourn here upon the earth; that men with whom he associates and whom he meets from day to day, have some influence in the  of his character. If that doctrine is true, I ought to be at least one-third good, because I have grown up under the teachings, the testimony and the influence of men and women of God. As I have listened to the testimony and the teachings of the servants of God, during this conference, I felt that every young man in Israel ought to feel as I did, that we ought to be partly good at any rate, by reason of the testimony and teachings that come to us from the servants of the living God. 

I can never remember the time in my life when there was not taught to me, at my mother's knee, and later on in all of the organizations of this Church, to reverence and revere the priesthood of the living God. I am glad that I can say to you that my parents were members of this Church; that my grandparents were associate with the organization of this Church in the very beginning; that they walked and talked and labored with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and with his associates, in the beginning of the organization of this Church. I cannot remember the day when I have ever heard one of these progenitors of mine speak a disrespectful word of one of the leaders of Israel : and so I want to say that my training predisposes me to accept the testimony and the teachings of my brethren who teach us the word of the Lord from day to day, the general authorities of the Church who come into our stakes occasionallv to give us the word of the Lord, and those who preach to us from this pulpit during the general conference of the Church. 

I have heard it said many times, by men who are older than I am, that we young men of Israel today are living in an especially favored dispensation; that we have been blessed above our fathers and mothers who came here, who sought out this land and who established this empire in the Rocky Mountains. I sometimes have doubts in my own mind whether or not we are so especially favored as they would have us believe that we are. My father, my grandfather, and my grand-mother walked and talked with the Prophet Joseph Smith; they received his testimony and his teachings; and I don't believe that there, was any power in the world that could have persuaded them to turn against the truths of the gospel. It is true that we have more of book learning, and have greater opportunities to study the sciences and the arts. It is quite true that young men in Israel today are surrounded by opportunities for intellectual growth and advancement which our parents did not receive; but I want to call attention to the fact, this afternoon, that the Prophet of the Lord, seventy and eighty years ago was teaching to the Latter-day Saints, some of the greatest truths that have ever been revealed to the world, before they had ever been dreamed of by the men who are writing the books of science of the present day. I am not so certain but that those men and women who received those divine truths direct from the testimony and teachings of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, were in a much better position intellectually, as well as in all other ways, than are the boys and girls who seek to learn those same truths today from books that have been written. I know of one thing, that the testimony of the truth was just as strongly in the hearts of our parents as we can hope to have it  our hearts today. I hope and pray that the lives of Latter-day Saints today, the lives of young men in the Church today, could as nearly conform to the teachings of the servants of God as did the life and character and testimony and teaching of our fathers and mothers, who have preceded us. 

I find that there is a spirit, occasionally, in the hearts of young people in the Church today, to treat lightly some of the things that ought to be held very sacred by them. I find, occasionally, not frequently, because I believe I come from a section of this Church where', men are living their religion quite as faithfully and quite as well as the average Latter-day Saints; but I find a disposition among some of our boys and girls to speak lightly of some of the doctrines of the Church, to speak lightly of an appointment to perform a special mission or a special duty in the Church. I find in their hearts occasionally, as I minister among them, a disposition to treat lightly a call to perform a special service for the Church among the Latter-day Saints today. Now, as I recall the history of this Church in the past, it was not so when the Prophet of the Lord spoke. I remember an instance in the history of the Church where the Prophet declared that the quorum of the Twelve Apostles should depart for foreign lands to open up missions and to preach the gospel, and where it appeared to be a physical impossibility, on account of the sickness of those men, to accomplish that which the Prophet had declared should be accomplished; and the enemies of this people were gloating over the fact that the time had come to prove that Joseph Smith was not a proph of the living God. But the time arrived, and when it did arrive, these men of God of a former generation had gotten up from their beds, had left their wives and families, some of them in very great distress, had assembled themselves together upon the site of the temple, had prayed to the Lord and had gone forth in the accomplishment of that which the Lord had required of them. I wonder some times if there is the same spirit of determination, the same desire to serve our Father in heaven, the same desire to go forth in the accomplishment of those things which He has for men to accomplish today, in the hearts of our boys and girls, as there was in that day. I very sincerely hope that it is true. I very sincerely believe also that when the young men of this Church are put to the test, that they will prove faithful and true. 

I know that God has established this work in the hearts of the children of men. I know that it is true, and I know that that same testimony is lying, sometimes a little dormant, but always in the hearts of the men and women and young people in this Church who are striving to live their religion. I believe that this Church is a Church of service; that no men can hope to succeed, that no woman can hope to succeed, that no individual in the world will be happy or contented in the Church unless they are devoting themselves to the building up and strengthening of the Church. That is the way it is in our stake of Zion. Those individuals that are busy, those who are attending to their duties, are the individuals who are happy, who are contented, who have no fault to find with their bishop, who haven't  fault to find with the presidency of the stake, or the general authorities of the Church who come into our midst to instruct us. They have no fault to find with their ward teachers; and I am very grateful for the fact that I believe there is a revival of the feeling that there is a necessity for the work of teaching among the Latter-day Saints. We find that it is so in our stake; and those wards of our stake of Zion where one hundred per cent of the people are visited each month are the wards that have no trouble in them, where the people are united, and where the Latter-day Saints are working together unitedly, helpfully, and successfully for the accomplishment of the work of God as I believe they ever did in the history of this Church. But if I find an individual who is indifferent, an individual who is lukewarm, I soon discover that he is not attending his sacrament meetings, and not attending to the duty that the Bishop has asked him to perform in the Church. 

Now, I very greatly rejoice in a testimony of the truth of this gospel. It is more priceless to me than all the wealth of the world possibly could be, and I pray that it may be so in the hearts of my brethren and sisters; that we may, during the sessions of this conference, receive the testimony of these men of God who have been called here to act as prophets and apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. When we go to our homes in the different stakes in Zion, I trust we may take home their teachings, and let us talk about it around the firesides, as our parents used to talk about it in the generation that is past. I very well remember in my boyhood days that there was not a subject of more engrossing interest, not a subject that would bring together the family of my father any more interestedly than one in which we met together to discuss and talk over the teachings of the servants of the living God. 

May God help us to be faithful and true, as young men in Israel, and to accomplish the full purpose and destiny of our mission here upon the earth, is my prayer for each one in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER WILLIAM A- HYDE(President of Pocatello Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters, whether or not I shall be able to rise to the height of this occasion. I feel that the people of my stake are honored in the opportunity that is offered me this afternoon of representing them. I have had great pleasure in the proceedings of the conference thus far. and feel that I have had distinct benefit personally; that in the remarks that have been made there has come to me strength and satisfaction that I have needed, and I would feel well repaid even if at this moment the conference were discontinued. T am looking now into the faces of several thousand people with intellects diversified, no two individuals perhaps thinking along the same lines upon ordinary themes, but assembled with the one purpose in heart, united in one desire to serve the Lord and to keep His commandments, and representing, as I believe, the strength, purpose, and power of latter-day Israel. 

I think that if there is any one thing needed to be remembered by the Latter-day Saints it is the in contained in a passage that is to be found in the revelations of the Lord, that contains, I believe, more than any other statement of its length, a key to the lives of the Latter-day Saints : "Seek diligently, pray always, and be believing, and all things shall work together for your good, if ye walk uprightly and remember the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another." In my opinion that contains an epitome of wise instruction to the Latter-day Saints. We know with full assurance that it is our duty to seek diligently; that the Lord does not give to him who does not seek; that to every man who seeks, the way shall be open; to him who knocks there will come a ready answer. The lives of Latter-day Saints, the philosophy that they have acquired, or have received, has made them feel that everything they receive is a result of efforts that they put forth. It is important that irien should pray always, that hearts should be constantly uplifting to God for His guidance and direction, and that in all we do, we should seek for the inspiration of His Holy Spirit. But, of the three injunctions, I think this to be not the least, that we should be believing. Throughout all the generations of men. as far as my observation goes, I have noticed that one of the great stumbling blocks or faults in the way of mankind, is lack of ability to believe. I am daily in the midst of men who come in constant contact with the same truths that appeal to me, who have had laid before them the truths that have convinced me. I meet men who are honest, as far as I am able to judge, in all their dealings and acts with mankind, yet they do not always see as I see, or think as I think, or believe as I be. Nevertheless, I know in my ' soul that the things I look upon as being- the ideals of life, are things that will lead me to salvation, and that if others would believe them they also would be led unto salvation; but it seems impossible for them to understand them or to esteem them as I do. 

I wonder if among the Latter-day Saints there are those who, possibly, receive and accept, unthinkingly, the principles that are laid down before us, and the precepts that are given for our guidance day by day. That passive reception of these things is not evidence of full and entire belief. There should be no "doubting Thomases" among us. It is better to believe without seeing; better to believe by the evidences of the word that come to us from time to time in the pages of history. In histories that have been given of the lives of prophets and patriarchs of old there have been great events recorded that are not believed by many of the advanced minds of the present time. Robert G. Ingersoll wrote a book upon the mistakes of Moses; and the doings of Moses have been made a by-word in the mouths of scientific men. Great things that are recorded of the miracles performed during the early history of the world are looked upon as being mere figments of the imaginations of men, attempts to play upon the credulity of their fellowmen. We read of the miraculous journey of the children of Israel across the wilderness, their pathway preceded by a pillar of fire by night and a cloud by day. We read of the striking of the rock, and the emerging therefrom of the hidden waters. We read of Joshua commanding the sun to stand still. All these things are accepted in the  of some as true, and in the minds of others as being unbelievable. Today, in the history of the world, and of the Church, with which we are directly or indirectly associated, there have been -miracles quite as great. There have been marvelous happenings in the lives of the Latter-day Saints that should elevate our minds to a knowledge of the fact that God is as near today as He has ever been in the history of the world. It is His purpose, day by day, to speak to us in one way or another, either by history or by the things that are now being fulfilled, of past prophecy or some other evidence that calls to us from the great Author of our being, with the endeavor to lead us into the way of righteousness. ' Those who believe, whose minds are open to receive the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, are the ones who are in the line of safety; while those whose minds are inclined to skepticism, who think that it is necessary to prove by actual demonstration, as one would prove the principles of geometry, are the ones who will not . receive the reward of the believer. 

There are many problems confronting the Latter-day Saints at the present time. Never in the history of the Church, in modern times or in ancient days, have there been greater problems. The discoveries of the day, the inventions of mankind, the political problems, all unite to form complications so great, so difficult of understanding; that they operate upon the minds of individuals and turn them from a contemplation of the most important things in life. In the midst of all these things we become distracted, our thoughts are drawn from the ideals of our religion, not centered upon the promises of God to us. There is yet to be revealed things that will test the faith of the Latter-day Saints, and require that their belief be given readily and as cheerfully as if accompanied by tangible evidence. Therefore, in my opinion, the key that was given by the Prophet Joseph Smith is a very valuable one; the Latter-day Saints ought to study, with all due purpose of heart, the progress of the work, and endeavor to comprehend, under the influence of the Holy Spirit, the ground upon which they stand. Our minds ought to be open to the influences derived from such meetings as these. When inspired men speak to us we should accept the truth or divinity of the word that we hear, not lay it aside . as being of no further use, but make it a part of our mental and spiritual possessions. In this way these conferences become of great value to us, uniting the many individuals who come together from the far borders of the Church, with their varied problems; fusing us, as it were, into a perfect body, making of us the strong and powerful organization which it is necessary for us to be in order to fulfil the purposes of God. 

I bear my testimony to the truth of this work. I feel that if the spirit of my father were so he could see me now he would be proud that I have been honored with this position. I am glad to honor his name. It was said of him, by one of the Church authorities, who is present upon this stand today, that, like Nathaniel of old, he was a man without guile. His son may not reach that distinction, but I endeavor to follow in his footsteps, and heed the injunctions of those who have been the Church leaders in this day and dispensation in which God has restored His gospel  the earth. May the Lord add His blessing to us and continue with an increased portion of His Spirit during the remainder of this conference, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER FRANK Y. TAYLOR. 

(President of Granite Stake.) 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that the same good spirit that has accompanied the former speakers may abide with me this afternoon in the few remarks that I shall make unto you. I rejoiced in the testimonies that have been borne. Particularly was I well pleased yesterday morning, in the splendid testimony and word of counsel pertaining to the callings of the priesthood and the organizations in the Church, that was presented to us by our President. I have also enjoyed the thoughts that many of the presidents of stakes have given unto us. relative to their thankfulness in belonging to this Church, and for the parenthood that has given them birth. I also am grateful for the gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe in it, and if I have any virtue in me I think I owe it to my faith in this great and glorious work. It is part of my being; and I have faith and hope that, if I can only be true to the end, I will be acceptable in my Heavenly Father's sight. 

I am very grateful for my splendid parents. When I look back upon the truth, the dignity, the grace, and the grandeur of my father, I feel that I would at least be very recreant if I did not amount to something, and attempt in my feeble way to carry on the splendid work that he devoted his life to. I feel that I owe it to him that I shall  to magnify righteousness in the earth and do that which is good. When I think of my splendid mother her devotion to the work, to the cause, and her solicitude in my behalf, I feel that I could not hold up my head and look womankind in the face unless I led a pure and righteous life. I am grateful that I have had this care over me in my youth and that I have had a good example and good teachings to guide and direct me in the ways of righteousness and truth. I feel that I owe them a great debt of gratitude. 

Like one of the other speakers who addressed us this morning, I admire and have respect for and love the authorities in this Church. I have known them all, from President Brigham Young down; and I have never listened to teachings from their lips but what were elevating and would bless me, and tend to make me a better man, if I would only follow their admonitions. Their lives, so far as I have known them, have been an inspiration to me, and have been a guide post to me during my life to lead me in the way of that which is good and virtuous. I hope that I will be able to conduct my life in that kind of a way that I also shall be an example to future generations; that I also shall have that power and influence by which I can control my children, and that they shall be a credit and an honor to this Church, and bring no reproach upon it or upon the work of the Lord. 

I want to say, in connection with this thought, that I believe that we parents owe something to this Church, that we may carry on the splendid work that our fathers and our mothers have set out so well, and laid such a splendid foundation  us to build upon. I think we owe it to this Church, we owe it to our boys and girls, to give evidence by our lives that the man who holds any position in the priesthood of Almighty God is a worthy example to future generations, that he conducts his life in a manner that is sweet, clean and wholesome, and that every boy and every girl who sees anyone who holds the priesthood walking along the streets of our cities or through our valleys, may look upon that man and behold a righteous person in whose footsteps they will delight to follow. I think we should order our homes in that manner by which our example will teach our boys and girls the right way of living. 

I wish that we as Latter-day Saints, especially we fathers, would devote more attention to our own, to our children. Never mind quite so much about having barns that are filled, and flocks upon a thousand hills, and a credit that cannot be impeached. These things are all good in their place; but I want to tell you, that which will bring credit, pleasure and happiness to you, all the days of your life, is a righteous son and a virtuous and beautiful daughter; it is through them that we are going to be exalted and blest, and have pleasure in our Heavenly Father's kingdom. It seems to me that they should have our best thought, our best attention, and our best time — the loved ones that the Lord our God has given us. Whenever I saw my father walk anywhere, I recognized his righteousness, his example, his truth and devotion to this work, I rejoiced all over, and I had pleasure in witnessing that which he did. All the days of my life I have tried, with all the strength and power that I have had, to tread in his footsteps, and I want my children to try to emulate that kind of an example. I helieve that we should start at home in the teaching of our boys and girls. We have splendid auxiliary organizations. Who can estimate the good that our Sabbath Schools are doing, which take hold of our children when they are little ones, and nurture them, and guide them along until they become strong and vigorous in the work of the Lord? Who can estimate the value of the Primaries, and the Religion Class organization, and our Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement organizations that are working for the building up of our people ? But, I sometimes think that many of our parents leave entirely too much to these organizations to educate their boys and girls in the fear of the Lord, and it does not seem that it is right. I don't feel that the responsibility of my boys' and girls' education depends upon these organizations, as much good as they are doing. I recognize that when I go back to my Heavenly Father's presence He will inquire of me — not the Sunday School superintendent — what I have been doing for my boys and girls. I believe we should gather our children around us. more often, around the fireside; that we should be a better companion with our boy, get up close to him, know him, become acquainted with him, and have him know us; and get so close to our girls that there is never a secret between them and us so that they cannot come to us. I believe that we would have greater rejoicing, and that there would be less sorrow among people, less of our children go wrong, if we would only spend  a little more time with them ourselves; get up close to them, look them in the eye, be a companion with the loved ones that the Lord our God has given us. I believe, generally speaking, that if the people in the Church would follow that example a splendid result would accrue therefrom. 

I remember, a few days ago, in listening to the testimony of some brethren in a high-priests' meeting, and they were generally speaking of the blessings of the Lord to them in a temporal way. Many of the brethren stated they had received some wonderful blessings from our Heavenly Father along temporal lines. Some of them told of this prominent position that their boy occupied, and how their girls shone socially in some place, and so forth, and how the Lord had blest them with the good things of the earth, so that they were rich and had no need to want. Then another man, a splendid character, that I know well, got up and bore his testimony, he said: "I haven't a big bank account; I am a poor man. I haven't a son that occupies a prominent position in the world, as far as the world goes, and I haven't a girl that shines much socially in the world; but I have a little cottage, and I have a large family that I am proud of. Every night I know where every one of my boys and girls are, and there is perfect harmony. We love one another; we are united; there are no secrets apart from one another; and we are bound together by the fellowship of love. Every one of my boys has a good education, so have my girls; every one of them has a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ; and every one of them are clean, sweet  honorable, and they are a credit to the Church of Christ." I thought in my soul how rich is that man who can put his hand upon his boys and girls at all times of the day and night, and know that they are safe and that they love the work of the Lord. I feel, my brethren and sisters, that we owe to this Church, as far as it is possible, that we see to it that our boys and girls do that which is just right, and wherever they go, let us not loose our hold on them, but, if need be, let us go after them, if they be in the desert or in the mountains, or wherever they may be; the Lord our God expects us, as fathers and mothers, that we take care and nurture and love our own, and bring them into the fold of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

May the Lord bless us. May His spirit abide with us; and may the youth of Zion, that are growing up today, be just as faithful and true to the work of the Lord as their fathers and mothers have been. I believe they will be; I don't think that we need to fear the second, third, fourth, or fifth generation, because the spirit of truth is in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. I believe our boys and girls are going to keep themselves clean, pure and unspotted from the sins and wickedness of the world, to the end that the light and Spirit of the Lord our God will rest down upon them, and the revelations of the Lord will be with them to lead them in the way of truth; that Zion shall glory in their righteousness and truth, which I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"The plains of Peace," a tenor solo, was rendered by Elder Robert Siddoway. 

ELDER LOUIS W. SHURTLIFF. 

(President of Weber Stake.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters : The President said that he wanted me to bear my testimony for a few moments. 

I rejoice exceedingly in the truths of the gospel. I have enjoyed myself in all of the sessions of this conference. I am pleased to have the privilege of meeting with the Saints of God. and I am thankful that my life has been associated with this Church. I am of the third generation of my family in the Church; my grandfather and my father before me, Newman A. Shurtliff, having joined the Church and gathered in Kirtland and followed the destinies of the Church from then until he came here to Utah, settling in Weber County, remaining there until his death. I am thankful for the associations of my brethren who preside over ns. I have endeavored to be benefited by their instructions and counsels, and to carry them out in my life. I have been honored to know, to be acquainted with, and to labor with and under the direction of all of the presidents from President Brigham Young. I remember full well the first foreign mission on which I was sent, when a number of us were selected, over in the old assembly hall or tabernacle, that stood in the corner in sixty-seven, to go to Europe. Previous to that it was my good fortune to be called to the Salmon River mission, during my early manhood, or boyhood almost. I can say that the inspiration of heaven has followed the counsel of the servants of God, in all the history of this Church as far as I am aware. I know that these men are men of God. I know that the principles of the everlasting gospel, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, are true and will save men and women. I feel grateful that my eyes beheld the Prophet Joseph Smith. Although I was but a child I had opportunities of seeing him, and playing around his house with some of the sons of the prophet and patriarch, and other prominent brethren, early members of the Church. 

I have the honor to preside over the Weber Stake of Zion. It is only a short time ago that the Weber Stake included all of Weber County, but it has been divided into three stakes, and we have all that we can do now. The stake that I preside over has eight thousand people in it, or thereabouts, and the other stakes nearly as many. The union, love and fellowship that exist among the Saints is a joy to not only myself but to those associated with me in the ministry. 

I pray God to bless these our leaders, and fill them with the Holy Ghost and with power to proclaim His word;. and give us who are laboring in the cause, an earnest desire to carry out every counsel and advice given, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

The brethren and sisters will begin to realize that the third generation is considerably in evidence during this conference; for those to whom we have listened, so far, have generally been of the third and fourth generations. I claim to be, one of the fourth generation myselt, and I can produce in the neighborhood of a dozen of the fifth generation who are as good as any others. 

ELDER HEP EE, C- AUSTIN(President of Bingham Stake.) 

I feel that it will not be possible for me to profitably occupy this position, even for a few moments, unless I am aided and assisted by the faith and prayers of the Latter-day Saints. It goes without saying that I am very much surprised to be called upon to speak to you. I delight in the testimonies of the speakers, and in the spirit of this conference, like the other brethren who have spoken to us this afternoon, and in the different sessions of this conference. I have been edified and instructed in the counsels and in the testimonies of my brethren who have spoken to us, and I have learned more concerning my duties by listening to the instructions that have been given to us. I was especially impressed with the words of President Smith, in the opening session of this conference. I was delighted to hear him instruct the brethren as to their duties, and their authority in the callings of the priesthood. There has been, and is now perhaps, a lack of perfect understanding concerning those things; but I think those of us who listened to his remarks will find ourselves set right on these things. 

I hail from a stake in the north, and I have wondered why we had such splendid good people up in that part, until I heard President Murdock, this morning, tell us that the goodness of his people was measured by the altitude that they live in. We, too, have a splendid people, no better I suppose anywhere in the Church; but we have not yet reached perfection. We have those among us who are somewhat indifferent. We have those among us who, perhaps, do not fully appreciate the responsibilities  are resting upon them as Latter-day Saints, and as men holding the priesthood who have been called to labor in the Lord's vineyard, and who have been given authority to officiate in His name, but I feel justified in saying that we have a good lot of people in the north, and I believe the same thing is true of all the stakes of Zion in that section. 

You know we have the brethren of the general authorities visit us from time to time. Every three months we are blessed by having some of the quorum of the twelve, and the council of seventies, and other brethren come to instruct us in our duties; and we profit by their visits and by their instruction. We are laboring unitedly together. There is no contention in the part where I live. We are an industrious people. We are tilling the soil, producing the thine^ that are necessary to sustain lhc, and the Lord is blessing us in our efforts, and we acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all of these things. We are united in our support of the authorities of the Church. I have never heard a man or woman in the Bingham stake of Zion who have found it in their hearts to criticize or find fault with our brethren who preside over us; and for this I am grateful. For this I thank the Lord because I know that these men have been called by the inspiration of the Lord, that they are clothed with authority to officiate in His name, and that they are mouth-pieces of the Lord to us. We are ready and pleased to accept their counsel as they come and bring it to us. We rejoice in mingling together in these conferences. I am of the opinion that it would be impossible for men, no matter if they were wicked, to mingle with a body of men and  like we find in these gatherings of the general conferences, without being strengthened. Our leaders are determined to serve the Lord, let come what will. 

Well, my brethren and sisters, you have now learned that I am not a public speaker; I am an ordinary farmer, I am laboring in the tilling of the soil; but I rejoice in the gospel of Jesus Christ, I know that it is true. I know that these brethren whom we are associated with have been called of the Lord, and I sustain them with all my heart, with all my power, and influence; and so do the people whom I have the honor to preside over. 

I pray that the Lord will bless us and be with us to the end of our days, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER OLEEN N. STOHL. 

(President of Box Elder Stake.) 

My dear brethren and sisters : I am very thankful that I am among the number who have been born of goodly parents, who have taught us the gospel of Jesus Christ in our youth, and that I can say I belong to the third generation. I haven't any fear of the outcome of the third generation, or the other generations, if the parents in the Church will be true and faithful to the gospel and teach it to their children. Neither my parents nor grandparents were acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith; they did not embrace the gospel until some years after his death, but I am glad that they had a burning testimony in their souls that he indeed was a prophet of the living God, and they have taught that to their children. 

I am thankful it is not necessary that one should have seen the Prophet Joseph Smith in order to enjoy this testimony. While I realize it was a pleasure and satisfaction, to those who were acquainted with him, to have seen and mingled with him, and thus learn of his greatness, his goodness and his prophetic powers, I am thankful that the Spirit of God gives to us the testimony that he was indeed a prophet of the Lord. I was impressed this afternoon while the brethren were speaking of the experience of Thomas, who would not believe that the Savior had risen from the grave until he could see Him. When Thomas beheld Him and exclaimed that it was his Lord, Jesus said, "Thomas, thou hast seen and thou believest. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet believe." 

The spirit, the power of God, is in this work; it has been in it from the very beginning. It is in it today; and the same spirit, the same power is directing it and influencing those who preside over the Church today as it has done since its first organization. I was impressed with this thought at the close of President Smith's remarks yesterday morning. I remember the final passages in that great revelation on priesthood in the Book of Covenants. After the duties of the priesthood are severally made known, clearly and explicitly, the Lord says through the prophet : "Now let every man learn his duty and act in the office to which he is appointed, in all diligence;" and I thought that this very beautifully summed up, in connection with that revelation, the remarks of President Smith to us. If we could only carry out that admonition and every man and woman learn his or her (lutY, and act in the office to which  are appointed, in all diligence, then God would bless them and they would be successful in their labors. What a wonderful improvement we could make in our work and in the Church if we would do this. 

Oh how thankful we should be for the gospel. When I read the revelations that were given to the Prophet Joseph, I marvel how well they apply to the Church even in this day, seventy and eighty years and more after they were given. If we could only carry out the suggestions made in the revelations in relation to the training of our children, as were made known to him away back in eighteen thirty-three, we would have the condition existing among us that President Frank Y. Taylor referred to here this afternoon. Our gospel is complete. The instructions, revelations and counsel that have been given to us are perfect. There is sufficient for us to do if we will only strive with all our power and might to carry it out. 

I am glad for the testimony that I have of the divinity of this work. I know that the signs follow the believer in the Church, that they are following the believers today; and that our Father is pouring out His blessings upon His children, in keeping with their faithfulness and obedience to the gospel, as much today as He ever did before. This is my testimony. I know that those who preside over the Church today are our Father's servants, acknowledged of Him to be our leaders, and that they are His mouth-pieces unto us children in this work. Now I pray the blessings of the Lord upon us. 

We have all rejoiced in the spirit of this conference thus far. We  continue to rejoice in it, and I know that the power and the blessings of the Lord will continue with us and bless us, and that we shall go on and accomplish the work that is required of us as His children. May our Father bless us to this end, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The congregation sang the hymn : AUDITOR 

At the general meeting of the Priesthood, on Saturday evening, April 5th, 1913, in the Tabernacle, the following report was read : 

Salt Lake City, Utah, April, 1913. Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: 

Dear Brethren : We, the undersigned, Committee of Auditors, as sustained at the last General Conference, beg leave to report : That we have completed the annual Audit of the books of the Trustee-inTrust, and also those of the Presiding Bishop's office, which are auxiliary thereto, and beg leave to say : that we found the books and accounts in both of these departments in excellent condition. The accounts are accurately, concisely and intelligently kept, and from a bookkeeper's standpoint, they leave but little, if anything, to be desired. When your committee was first appointed, some years ago, we then found the books of these departments in good shape, but from year to year we note improvements which add to their conciseness and make them more easy of audit. We think it proper to also state that the statistical department of the Presiding Bishop's Office is also kept in a very intelligent manner. These statisThere is beauty all around, 

When there's love at home. There is joy in every sound, When there's love at home, Peace and plenty there abide, Smiling sweet on every side, Time doth softly, sweetly glide, When there's love at home. 

Bendiction was pronounced by Patriarch Hyrum G. Smith. 

Conference adjourned until 10 a. m., Sunday, April 6th, 1913. 

S REPORT. 

tics are voluminous and yet the future will demonstrate they are of great value, for they demonstrate by comparison of one year with another, the growth and prosperity of the Church. 

After careful and thorough examination of all the books of the Trustee-in-Trust and Presiding Bishop's Offices, showing all receipts and disbursements of the funds of the Church, your committee unhesitatingly report that all expenditures of the Church funds have been made for legitimate Church purposes. 

We beg to acknowledge the very efficient services rendered us by Brother Arthur Winter, of the Trustee-in-Trust's Office, and of the brethren in the Presiding Bishop's Office, in throwing open to us every avenue for onr inspection, which enabled us to get a clear and comprehensive view of all the matters that came within our purview. We are, very respectfully. Your brethren, W. W. Riter. John C. Cutler, Joseph S. Wells, Heber Scowcroft, H. H. Rolapp. On motion, the foregoing report was received and approved, by unanimous vote of the Priesthood assembled. Conference was resumed in the Tabernacle, at 10 a. m., Sunday, April 6th; President Joseph F. Smith presiding. 
