Barrat Hall
06 04 1913

The afternoon sessions of the Conference, in the Tabernacle and Assembly Hall, were overcrowded, hundreds of persons were unable to obtain admission to either of those GENERAL CONFERENCE. , and another meeting was 

held, for their benefit, in the Barratt Hall of the L. D. S. University, on the adjoining block, at 2 p. m. 

The services were under direction of President Seymour B. Young, and the musical exercises were conducted by Prof. Charles Kent, Mrs. Kent acting as accompanist. 

The congregation sang the hymn : 

Come, all ye sons of Zion And let us praise the Lord; 

His ransomed are returning, According to His word. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Lewis Anderson. The congregation sang the hymn : 

Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, But with joy wend your way; Though hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day. 

Elder Seymour B. Young presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church; each and all were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

Prof. Charles Kent rendered, as a solo, the hymn entitled, "Let us oft speak kind words to each other." 

ELDER JOSEPH ECKERSLEY. 

(President of Wayne Stake.) 

I have rejoiced exceedingly in the inspiration of the Lord that has been manifest in all the sessions of the conference that it has been my privilege to attend. 

The beautiful thoughts of the song that we have just listened to have been emphasized in the talks that have b^en made during our conference. There have been no criticisms whatever made of the faith  beliefs of professed Christian people. Reference has been made, occasionally, by way of comparison, but there has been nothing said to which any professing consistent Christian could take exception. The gospel preached to the people during this conference has been the Gospel of Love. The principles of saving grace as enunciated by the Master have been very forcibly proclaimed. 

If I have been impressed with one truth more than another during this conference, that is of great importance to the Latter-day Saints, it is the necessity for tho"se who have entered into covenant with God in these last days to give heed to the living oracles. Very frequently, the Church of which we are members is criticised unfairly because of the unity that obtains among them with regard to sustaining the Church officials, the authorities of the Church, the implicit confidence we have in their word, and our willingness to obey their counsels. We are living in a day when much emphasis is placed upon the subject of individual liberty, and it is often intimated, bv those who do not know us as well as they should, that we are a priest-ridden people. My experience in traveling in the world i> yerv onnosite. If there is anv religious oeoole upon the arth who are free from domination, who are free from oriest-craft, it is the Latter-day Saints. The Gospel that we have espoused, if we are living its orinciples, makes us free indeed. 

The order, discipline, and nnre oriesthood of God was verv plainlv and beautifully explained bv President Smith in the opening discourse of the Conference, and I am sure that the instructions imparted, and the testimotiv bom*» regarding the order of the priesthood, as laid 101  by our President, found an echo in the heart of every Latterday Saint. 

The very necessary and timely counsel imparted by President Lund, that the fathers and mothers of the Latter-day Saints should use diligence to see that their children are properly instructed in the ways of the Lord, in the principles and doctrines of the Church, was counsel well worth the close attention of the Latter-day Saints. It will profit us very little, my brethren and sisters, the years of sacrifice and toil and earnest endeavor that has been spent by the fathers and mothers in this work, if we do not succeed in rearing our children in the way that we have tried to go. I feel that these keynotes that were sounded at the commencement of our conference have been ringing in our ears ever since, in the remarks and the testimonies of our brethren. 

I have been reminded that while we do perhaps give closer attention and more implicit obedience, because of the confidence that we have in our leaders, than do people generally of other churches, that yet we are not wanting in our reverence for the prophets of old; we are not wanting in reverence for the Word of God that has come down to us through the ages. It is a mistaken idea that we do not reverence as we should the ancient worthies, do not place enough importance upon the testimony of the ancient apostles. The fact is, that we believe all that God has revealed in the past, that was written and spoken anciently and that was necessary in the day in which it was given, for the edification and blessing and consolation of the people, though we go further than that. We believe in present  revelation —we believe all that God is now revealing, and we believe that in the future He will continue to reveal to His people as occasion may require, those things that are necessary for their edification, and for their perfection and glory. 

A careful perusal of the Scriptures and of history reveals the fact that great and good men have seldom been fully appreciated for their worth in the day in which they lived. This is true of men and women who have been reformers in various spheres as well as it is true of the ministers of the gospel of the Redeemer. The people in the ages and times when men have spoken as they were inspired by the gift of the Holy Ghost have not generally received the message, people in general have turned a deaf ear to the testimony of the living prophets, while professing that they were willing to be guided by the words of those who had passed away. Such was the condition when John the Baptist came to the people as the fore-runner of Jesus the Redeemer of men. Such was the condition as Jesus followed in the mighty work that He was called to do. The people said they were willing to have Abraham for their father, were willing to believe in him, willing to accept the testimony of the prophets who had preceded the Messiah, but were unwilling to accept Him and believe in His testimony and in His doctrine. 

You will remember the beautiful story that is told of Lazarus and the rich man. You remember how anxious, after he had left this life and was reaping the reward of his life's work, the rich man was when he lifted up his eyes and saw Lazarus among the redeemed and blessed. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

He was tormented in his spirit. His mind went back to mother earth, and he was anxious for his brother, he was anxious for his relatives who were living upon the earth. He desired that they might escape the condition that he found himself in, and so he asked that one might be sent to warn his living relatives that they might peradventure repent, and not reach the condition that he found himself in. The answer came to him that though one should be sent from the dead, yet they would not believe. They had living prophets and they should give heed to their testimony and to their doctrine, and if they were not willing to do this, they would not receive the testimony of one that might be sent to them from the spirit life. 

And so it is to-day. The voice of the servants of God proclaiming the truth appeal to the hearts of those who are seeking for light and knowledge, and for purity of life. "My sheep;" said the Master, "hear my voice, and a stranger they will not follow." And wherever the blood of Israel is scattered in the nations, and comes in contact with the humble Elders that are sent forth to declare the gospel of truth, the words appeal to them as the words of God. 

Now, I think that as a people we believe all that God has revealed in the Scriptures. We believe in the testimony as proclaimed in the Gospel of John when he said that God so loved the world that he gave His only begotten Son, that whomsoever believed in Him should not perish but have everlasting life. We believe that to have faith in Jesus Christ means to believe not only that He lived and died for the sins of the world, but we believe in the Church that He organized, and in  doctrines of salvation that He promulgated, and we believe in living, actual faith, that produces a godly repentance from sin, a sorrow that leads me and women to humility and to contrition of heart, and leads them to observance of the ordinances of baptism for the remission of sins, that, being cleansed by the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, they are worthy to receive, by the imposition of hands, the gift of the Holy Ghost. It is a faith in Jesus Christ that implies that we believe in all that He taught, in all that He did for the salvation of the human race. If the people in the day when Jesus ministered among them had believed in the living oracles. If they would have accepted His living testimony, instead of the written word of the ancients, or better, in addition to the written word of the ancients, then they might have been redeemed from their sins and have enjoyed the testimony of the righteous. 

Now, I thank the Lord with all my heart for the restored gospel of the Redeemer. 1 thank the Lord that it is my privilege to live in the day and time when God has again spoken from the heavens, when He has again ministered by holy angels, when He has revealed and restored the fullness of the priesthood. 

I know there is saving power in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that every individual who will obey the injunction of Jesus of Nazareth, the Redeemer of the world, that everv man and every one who will do the will of God, who will obey the doctrines that He taught, shall know assuredly for themselves concerning the truth of the principles that have been revealed for the salvation of the human race. 103 

I know that the mission of the Latter-day Saints is to teach kindness, long-suffering, patience, mercy, and endurance, to bless and not to revile. I know that it is not only our mission, but it is the actual work that is being done by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I " i nv, my brethren and sisters, that the spirit of repentance may always dwell in our hearts, that we may always be in a condition to receive the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, that we may always be able, in our life's work, to know the voice of the true Shepherd, and that we may be willing to follow its promptings to our salvation and ultimate glory. I pray that as a result of the conference meetings that the Latter-day Saints who have assembled may go to their homes with renewed determination to serve the Lord in spirit and in truth, in every action of their lives, that they may proclaim by their daily walk and conversation that they have indeed drank of the fountain of truth, that they have experienced the new birth referred to in the chapter that I previously referred to. 

I pray that light and truth may continue to spread in the earth, that the influence and power of this work may extend until the kingdoms of this world shall become the kingdom of our God and His Christ. I pray that the words of the poet may be exemplified in our lives, 

"Be it my only wisdom here 

To serve the Lord with filial fear. 

With loving gratitude, superior sense may I display 

By shunning every evil way and walking in the good." 

May the Lord incline our hearts to all that is good and pure and true, and may we follow in the way that is marked out for us from time to . May we give heed to the counsels of those who are placed to guide us, that we may find continually the abiding testimony of Jesus in our hearts, which in the end shall make us wise unto salvation, I humbly pray through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID H. CANNON. 

.(President of St. George Temple.) 

. 1 P ra y that while I occupy a portion of your time that 1 may say something that will be of benefit I consider it a very important position to stand before the Saints in conference assembled, to feed them the bread of life. 

This gospel with which vou and 1 have become identified" is the power of God unto salvation, to every man and woman who will render strict obedience to its requirements. There is no position in which mankind may be found but what the gospel is applicable to that condition. Hence we gather ourselves together from the places where the gospel sound greets our ears to the places the Lord has appointed for the gathering of His people. The prime object in this assembling and gathering is that we may be taught in the ways of the Lord, that we may walk in His paths and become intelligent followers of the meek and lowly Jesus. When we get through with mortality, the only thing we can take with us is our intelligence. That which we have done which has been praiseworthy before the Lord and that meets with His approval will be to our credit upon the other side of the vail; but as to our earthly possessions, and those things that w r e esteem to be things of great value in this world, we cannot take GENERAL CONFERENCE.  with us when we are called to lay this earthly tenement down. The elders of the' Church go forth to the nations of the earth, calling upon mankind everywhere to repent of their sins, have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and go down into the waters and be baptized by one having authority, for the remission of sins, and receive the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. And the elders of the Church, no matter where they travel or go, say to the people everywhere when calling upon them to repent. If you will do the will of the Father, you shall know of the doctrine : it is the privilege of every individual who is obedient to this gospel, and is endeavoring to carry out its requirements, to know of the doctrine. 

It is not a person who says "Lord, Lord," or who is baptized and stops at that, or who receives a portion of priesthood and stops at that, that is going to be saved with a fulness of glory, but he who knoweth the will of the Father and then goes forth diligently to carry it out in his life. In all conditions of life men are called upon, without exception, to conform to these requirements. The promises, the blessings, are to follow those that believe and obey the gospel. It is not confined to those that are living, or who were living at the time that the Savior and His apostles were upon the earth. The Savior told the apostles to preach the gospel to every creature — not just a few — and he that believed and was baptized should be saved and he that believed not should be damned. And the signs were to follow them that believed. That proclamation is still binding upon the people, and the elders go forth and call upon people everywhere to repent of their sins. It is  greet the ears of every individual, no matter whether he lived in the ages past or at the present time, it is his duty to repent and be baptized for the remission of his sins, and if he does render himself obedient to these ordinances, the signs will follow him. 

The question often arises, what are we going to do with those that have died during the dark ages, during the time that the gospel was not upon the earth ? We have the answer exemplified in what is being done today in the midst of the people. We find that not only people who have become identified with the Church, but the people of the world, especially of this American nation, are diligently looking for information concerning their progenitors. Men are searching after their genealogical records, becoming familiar with pedigrees pertaining to their ancestors, who do not ask the question, What is it that prompts me to act thus, to spend my money, and time to gather together what constitutes my family tree? But when they become familiar with the gospel of the Son of God. they learn the reason. They are doing it because by this gospel, in its earliest inception, the hearts of the fathers were turned to the children and the hearts of the children turned to the fathers, as prophesied by Malachi. At the time of this turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers, there was not a genealogical society upon the face of the earth. But men who became familiar with the Church afterwards, have said that they were moved upon about that time to search for their ancestors. My father said that soon after the organization of the Church, he had began gathering genealogical data, 105  what he could not tell, but as soon as the gospel came to him he knew the reason why he had been doing this. 

Another thing that came upon the people at the same time was the spirit of gathering. Think of what this work has come to the earth to accomplish : how could its members have accomplished it in a scattered condition? As soon as the gospel began to be preached, that moment the spirit of gathering took possession of the people. I remember hearing about President John Taylor, when he was in England on his mission, about 1838 or 1840. A sist Q r said to him one morning, "I dreamed last night that the Saints were going down into ships, and singing the songs of Zion. What does it mean?" "It means," said he, "that the spirit of gathering has taken possession of you. The time will come when the Saints will have the privilege of gathering to the places that God has appointed, that they may go into holy places to receive those blessings that pertain to them and to their kindred dead." The spirit of gathering was coming upon the people at the earliest period of the Church's history. Since then the Saints have spent their money and time in the erection of temples, that they may go in and do the work for the dead, and the world has been paving the way for them to do that sacred work. We had a temple in Kirtland, and we had one in Nauvoo. I did not see the Kirtland Temple, but the Nauvoo Temple I remember very well; and I observed the anxiety of the people, and the willingness with which they gave up their substance for the completion of that building. The object that the Saints had in view was to go into the Temple  do the work necessary for the redemption of their dead, because of the spirit having manifested to them that they without their dead could not be made perfect. They went into the font of the temple and were baptized for thousands of their progenitors, but before they had the privilege of doing much of the other work for the dead for which the Temple was built, they were driven from their homes. 

When we first came here, President Young marked the place where there would be a temple, before they had thought much about a city, schoolhouses, meetinghouses, or other things. The Saints felt they could not be saved without their dead, nor the dead be saved without this people, and temples have been erected. While there has been comparatively little work done in the temples for the redemption of the dead, yet a good beginning has been made. Thousands have gone into the temples and have received blessings in their own behalf, and performed baptisms and other ordinances that pertain to the salvation of their dead. 

But it is not temple work alone that this gospel comprehends in its vastness; the gospel is applicable to all mankind, and to each individual in every condition. We are required to conform strictly to every law of God. It is not just the redemption of the dead, it is not just to be baptized and receive the imposition of hands of the servants of God for the gift of the Holy Ghost, it is not sufficient for us to receive the holy priesthood and then magnify it to a limited extent. It is required of us to live by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God, no matter what it pertains to, the education of the children of GENERAL CONFERENCE.  Latter-day Saints, the gathering from the nations of the earth, the building of meetinghouses and temples, or anything else that is necessary. These things are parts of the gospel of Jesus, and must be conformed to, if we would know of the doctrine. 

There are other things in connection with this. People say to me, "How is it that you dwell so much upon the law of tithing? You hardly ever speak to the people but you say something about tithing, it looks as though you were always thinking about money matters, or that the Church is wanting money." Why do I dwell upon it? It is another of the laws that the Lord has required His people to observe. Is it because the Church is in such a condition that it has to have the tithes of the people in order to conduct the work? Not essentially, because the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof. He could turn everything to yield to the accomplishment of His purposes. But He has given the law of tithing to the people, as a school-master to prepare us for the future that is before us; and there is a promise connected with the observance of this law, that it shall be as a mark upon the doorpost. You know, at the time when the children of Israel were about to flee from Egypt, they marked the door-post with blood, that when the destroying angel came he should pass by, and that house should be spared. It is promised that those who render strict conformity to the law of tithing, at the time destruction comes upon the earth, will be soared and preserved; at the time of the burning they shall not be burned, but shall be orotected. Another thing, when they hear of any good thing that has been accomplished in  Church, or that is to be accomplished, they feel that they are identified with that purpose, because they rendered assistance to its accomplishment by paying their tithing. 

Then there are free-will offerings. We hear some people say, "Well, what I am going to give, if it is for charitable purposes, I prefer to give myself, and then I know to whom it is given, and for what purpose it is used." But I feel, and the gospel has taught me that if I would be blessed of the Lord, I must conform to this law that we shall observe a day of fast, and place in the hands of the bishop the value of what we would have eatsn on that day, for the poor. This help is not given to the poor to make them feel that they are paupers, or dependent upon the charity of the people; they should be made to feel that they are entitled to this assistance, because of their fidelity to the work of God. Having paid their tithing, and done the things that God has required of them, and being now poor, and not able to toil and labor for their sustenance, God has established a principle by which they shall be provided for, that the bishop, the father of the ward, will look after them and see that their needs are supplied. 

When we have lived until our hair is white, and are ready to lay our body down in the grave, we feel in our hearts that time has been too short to accomplish all that God has designed. In order to know the doctrine, we must do the will of the Father, and in order to do the will of the Father, we must conform to every law that God has revealed for the redemption of His people. When we. kneel down at night, as I trust all who are Saints do, and pour out 107  hearts in gratitude to our Father, in whose image we are created, we ask him among other things to grant that we may be eternally exalted in His presence with a fulness of glory. That is the burden of our prayer, that we may have the privilege of returning to the Father. Though we offer our prayers in that faith that brooks no denial, yet our lives do not always conform to the requirements of the gospel. But, my brethren and sisters, if you will put yourselves in such condition that God will see your sincerity not by your words alone, but by your life, walk, and conversation before Him, you need have no fear about being exalted in His presence with a fulness of glory, for it is sure to come to you. How are you to know that it is coming to you, and that you are approved of God? Not simply sitting down and being inactive in regard to these matters. The way to know is to live so that the hope of eternal life that was implanted at the time the servants of God impressed you with its importance grows brighter every day in your hearts; and as you do, you will be better satisfied with your life's labors. A person begins to doubt when he neglects his life's duties, and spends his time criticizing his brethren and sisters. If you will devote your time to the service of God, and keep bright within your heart the feeling that brings you in fellowship with the Spirit of God, it will be as a well of knowledge springing up into eternal life. That is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters. 

You know there are many people connected with this Church that spirituallv died in the days of Joseph Smith. T remember one time com across a man of that kind who had nothing remaining of the spirit or genius of the gospel in his disposition or makeup, and yet he was expecting, because of Joseph Smith's promises to him, to reap eternal life and celestial glory in the presence of the Father — and he was back in the states waiting for something to turn up, waiting for the people to go, he said, out west and then back, in the form of a horseshoe. But there was something connected with that promise, that he should be saved in the presence of the Father, that you know, you people in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The promise was predicted on condition of his faithfulness. Did you ever receive the promise of a blessing in your life that you did not think was predicated upon your faithfulness ? You have heard among other things being said to people being married, "All these blessings, together with all the blessings pertaining to the new and everlasting covenant, I seal upon you by virtue of the holy priesthood, through your faithfulness." A man who has been promised by the Prophet Joseph, or the other prophets, Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, or Joseph F. Smith — any of these worthy servants of God — has had the blessing conferred upon condition of his faithfulness. 

What made Abraham what he was? How came Abraham to be considered the father of the faithful? God said that He knew that Abraham would teach his seed after him to keep His commandments. What caused Abraham to have this blessing? The Lord had tried him to the very utmost, and found him worthy of eternal life. That was GENERAL CONFERENCE.  caused Abraham to become the friend of God, a man upon whom God could rely. Abraham had been told that his seed would be like the sands upon the seashore, or the stars, as they are innumerable so would his posterity be. Abraham knew that his hands must not be imbued with the blood of his fellows. Yet, when the Lord said to Abraham, "Take your son and offer him as a sacrifice," Abraham took him, nothing doubting - . When they got to the foot of the hill and commenced its ascent, the boy said, "Here is the wood, but where is the sacrifice?" And that father turned to that son, through whom the blessings had been promised, in whom the hope of the future was concentrated, and he said, "My son, thou art the offering." What a terrible thing for a father to tell a son! Yet it was in obedience to the requirements of God. When the time came and the knife was finally raised to strike the fatal blow, Abraham was told, "Hold, look in yonder thicket, and find a ram." And Abraham, because of his fidelity to that which God had revealed, came to be the Father of the faithful, and the friend of God. 

May His blessings be upon you. May we, in contemplating the future, remember that it is necessary for us to do the will of the Father before we will know of the doctrine, then will it be truly accomplished through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT SEYMOUR B. YOUNG 

(President First Council of Seventy.) 

The spirit of this conference has, I believe, fastened upon our minds the necessity of receiving every nrincinle of the gospel and living the same, practicing in our daily lives all that belongs to it. 

When the Prophet Joseph Smith received the visitation of the Father and Son, he was under the power of the Holy Spirit to that degree that he could endure the presence of these heavenly beings. After they had commissioned him, and instructed him by embassadors sent from time to time, he was entrusted with a very great work, that of translating an ancient record, the history of the races that were found upon this continent when it was discovered by Christopher Columbus. The prophet states that, while translating this sacred record, he and his fellow -worker, Oliver Cowdery, were impressed with a passage of scripture, found in III Nephi, relating to the ordinance of baptism, and they retired to a secret place and prayed to the Lord for light in regard to this ordinance. In answer to their prayer, the Lord sent to them John the Baptist, the forerunner of our Lord, and he revealed unto Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the meaning of the ordinance of baptism, and the way in which it should be administered, at the same time conferring upon them the Aaronic Priesthood, and promising them that they should receive the Melchizedek Priesthood in the due time of the Lord. 

When our Savior was upon the earth, in the meridian of time, He came in fulfillment of the predictions of ancient prophets, and according to the promise of the Father that He would send a Redeemer into the world, His only begotten Son, that was to save the people from the condition caused through the fall of their first parents, subject to eternal death, banished from the presence of Godjesus came and brought life and immortality to light, yet, though He was the Son 109  God, the Redeemer of the world, He subjected Himself to receive the sacred ordinance of baptism. We are told that He came unto John, who was baptizing repentant Jews in the River Jordan, and requested that He be baptized; and John said, "I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?" But Jesus answered, "It becometh us to fulfill all righteousness;" and then John suffered him. When Jesus came up out of the water, the Father manifested His approval of the ordinance by proclaiming, "This is my beloved Son in Whom I am well pleased." Then the Holy Ghost, in the sign of a beautiful dove, came and res.ted upon the Savior as an evidence to the people of the fulfillment of the prophetic words John the Baptist had uttered sometime previous when he said, "Upon whom you see the Holy Ghost descending, know you indeed that this is He." 

Afterward, when Jesus was ministering among the people, John was taken and thrown into prison, and he sent to the Savior two faithful mesengers who asked : "Are you indeed the promised Messiah ? or do we look for another?" And Jesus sent this answer to John, "Behold the gospel is preached to the poor, the dead are raised, the deaf are made to hear, the blind have their eyes opened" — leaving John to judge by these words whether He was indeed the promised Redeemer or not. We are not informed as to what the effect was upon John when he received this message from our Lord, but this we do know, that when the Savior arose from the dead He sought to impress upon the minds of His disciples that He was indeed a resurrected being. He said to one who was doubting, 

Come and handle me and see: behold the prints of the nails in my hands: behold the wound of the Roman spear in my side, and no longer doubt, but believe, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have. Later, He said to His apostles, "As my Father has commissioned me, so I commission you." He declared that all power was given unto Him in heaven and in earth, and then said, "Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost * * * * and lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world." 

We find, my brethren and sisters, that there were many, in the early history of this work, who when they heard the gospel, said to the elders, "Why, I was baptized into the Baptist church," or "I was baptized, when an infant, into the Methodist church," or "I have received that ordinance in other churches." But the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph, All persons that desire to be received in the Church of Christ in this dispensation must repent of their sins, and receive baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, that they may receive the Holy Ghost, and this ordinance must be administered by one having authority; for no man taketh this honor to himself but he that is called of God as was Aaron. Aaron, as we know, was called by the Lord through the Prophet Moses. The Lord said, lay your hands upon your brother Aaron and call him to be your spokesman, that he may take some of' the burden from your shoulders. 

Many have said, "If I must be deprived of the comforts of life that I so much enjoy, in the way of GENERAL CONFERENCE.  tobacco, or wine, or tea, or coffee, I do not want to join the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. I would rather have my enjoyment of these luxuries than belong to the church whose doctrines you have introduced to me." Others have refrained from embracing the work, fearful that they would be deprived of some pleasures that they have heretofore enjoyed. Some refused to embrace the gospel because, as I have stated, they did not think it necessary to be baptized again. Others hold back for fear that they might meet with censure from their neighbors and fellow-churchmen. Many a person has held himself aloof from this work of the Lord because he was afraid of public opinion. You know very well, my friends, that the Saints have not always been spoken well of. In fact, I am reminded of one of old, who said, This people are spoken evil of everywhere : and yet they seem to prosper : they love each other: and they grow in strength, in power and in numbers. One said concerning the Apostles of Jesus, Let these people alone and, if their doctrine is of man, they will be scattered and. come to naught; but if their doctrine be of God, let them alone, lest perchance you be found fighting against God; a very wise and correct admonition. 

You know Paul said, in relating his experience to some who were listening to him to condemn him, I was indeed a Pharisee of the straightest kind. I went from city to city to prosecute the followers of the Nazarene. I was journeying to Damascus with letters of apprehension in my hand and that I might find people there who were proclaiming the gospel of the Nazarene. And as I journeyed to Damas, a great light came upon me and I fell to the earth, and I heard a voice saying, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" and I said, "Who art thou Lord?" and the voice said, "I am Jesus whom thou persecuteth." Then Saul asked what he should do, and he was told to arise, and someone should lead him into Damascus, and one Ananias would tell him what to do to be saved. Paul declared, I rose up from the dust and one took me by the hand and led me to the city of Damascus, and there I prayed to the Lord, and the Lord revealed to me that there was a man in that city who was also praying to the Lord to know what his duty was, and the angel came to this other man who was praying, and said to him, Arise, and go to such and such a place in the city, and find one Saul, for behold he prayeth. This servant of the Lord obeyed the voice and found Saul and said to him, "Brother Saul, receive thy sight," and Paul says, I immediately felt my sight restored as of scales falling from my eyes. And then this good man who was sent to him, who was called Ananias, said to him, "Brother Saul, why tarriest thou? Arise now and be baotized and wash away your sins, calling upon the name of the Lord." And so, Paul declares, I was brought to a newness of life by being buried in the liquid grave. And not only were my eyes opened, my physical vision restored, but the eyes of my spirit and understanding were onened as well. Then Paul knew he had been persecuting Saints of God. who were indeed the followers of the meek and lowly Nazarene, who was indeed the Son of God. 

My brethren and sisters, we have listened to the doctrines of the gosIll  from a number of speakers during this great conference, and I must say, in the experience that I have had in attending conferences, I never have attended one in the last sixty years that I have been any better satisfied with than this which is now about to close. 

May the Lord bless the people, comfort everyone. Those who could not come to this conference, may they receive from their friends the message of good will and kindliness that came from the lips of our prophet, and leader, and from the lips of his brethren who have spoken during this conference. May health and peace continue to abound in the homes of the Latter-day Saints, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The hymn commencing, "I know that my Redeemer lives," was sung by Prof. Charles Kent. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder George E: Bench. 


