Second Overflow
06 04 1913

Another meeting of the Conference was held in the Assembly Hall, at 2 p. m., at which Elder Joseph F. Smith Jr., presided. 

The Thirty-first ward choir again furnished the musical exercises. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Star of descending night." 

Prayer was ottered by Elder Moroni Snow. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Grant us peace, O Lord." 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy. 

The short time that I shall occupy I trust that what I shall say I can crystalize, and make clear and comprehensive. Of course the great question is as to whether I have a message to deliver to you. This call has come somewhat unexpected, although I try in my labors in the ministry to always think about something and then try to tell it. Now, if there is any one thing that I am normal in, it is frankness. Whenever the time , in my ministerial labors, that I cannot be frank and honest with the people I will feel that my usefulness has come to an end. I cannot talk if I have not freedom, and if I ever feel that I have not the spirit of the people I will be unable to talk. There has been a great deal said, during this conference, about the third generation, and the fourth generation. Now, I am not going to speak on that subject, because God is the Father of all, and Jesus Christ is the Redeemer and helper of all. But there is a great responsibility rests upon us who are fathers, and upon the mothers, and I do not think there has ever been a time in my life when I have felt the responsibility to be so weighty and great upon me in all my labors in the Church as it is at the present time with my own family. They are not many in number, but there are enough, and about all I can handle. 

I think you will find somewhere in the Old Testament, that "the fathers have eaten a sour grape and the children's teeth are set on edge." I have to confess to you that I have eaten some sour grapes in my day, and there is a problem regarding by children; and while I am interested in my children and family, I have similar interest for your children and families. I will read some other scripture that I thought of today. I have heard it many times; it is found in Matthew, 8th chapter and 11 and 12th verses : 

"And I say unto you, That many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out intc °uter dark: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." 

I am very proud of my parentage. I do not think any one appreciates their parentage more than I do. But, I want to say to the Latter-day Saints, pride in parentage won't save you. If we get salvation, we must keep the commandments, and serve the Lord. Knowledge pertaining to the gospel of Jesus Christ does not come through ordination, nor by appointment, nor by lineage, nor through father and mother, though they are helpful. But no matter who my father and mother were, or how devoted and faithful they have been; no matter how much work they have accomplished, and how much gospel they have preached to the children of men, I tell you if Heber C. Kimball's children are saved in the kingdom they must keep the commandments of God, or they won't be saved. If they don't accomplish it here, I am glad to know they will have another chance. 

I don't want to be radical, but I think we are in great danger; I think it is wrong for us to sit down quietly and feel satisfied that "All is well in Zion," that our children and children's children are not in constant danger. There was a time in the peaceful valleys of these mountains when we were as one great partiarchal family, when it seemed practically safe for our children to run hither and thither. When it was just as safe in this great city of Salt Lake as it is in your distant country places to leave your doors open. I was born right up here on the hill, and have known this city all my life : it is not safe any more. 

There is no people, I think, in the known world where there is as much laxity and freedom given to  children as there is among the Latter-day Saints. I want to warn the people that there is great danger on every hand. I would just as soon think of putting my daughters in a den of lions as to send them to Salt Lake without some one to look after them. When I say that, I am not saying anything against the people of Salt Lake. I am not saying there is not as good a class of people in Salt Lake, as good Latter-day Saints, and as pure a lot of people as can be found in the world. But, I tell you there is no longer safety for your children, if you don't look after them, I don't care who you are, Apostle, or Prophet, Evangelist, Pastor, or Teacher. The responsibility rests upon us to look after our children, and I appreciate the responsibility. 

My heart has not been broken yet over my children, but I realize the danger; and whenever one of my boys goes away I am concerned; I am full of anxiety, I have little peace or rest of body. All in the world I can do with my boy, my oldest boy, who is away now at work, because I cannot get him work here — and that is a responsibility resting upon us, to provide employment here for our boys and girls, so that we won't have to send them away off; we should regard that as a part of our religion; — all in the world I can do for my boy is to teach him good principles. I do a sfreat deal of writing, and I just put a little good counsel in here and there, and hope he will catch it, and f-et his feet anchored, and realize the danger that menaces him on everv side. 

I believe in public worship; it is part of our religion; it is part of the revelation to this people that they shall attend to their public worship; but I don't believe that public worshihp is the only worship acceptable to our heavenly Father. It is along" that line I would like to talk to you a few more moments, that is, about private worship. I have given the matter a good deal of thought, as far as I am individually concerned, but I will not be able to impart to you all my thoughts. I have found it a very difficult thing to do. We all have different viewpoints, and perhaps there is not one man in Israel that will look at a thing in just the same way, from just the same view point I look at it. If I do look at it from a different viewpoint from you, I want to ask the question, Am I wrong? And I answer, Not unless I preach false doctrine. Now I am going to ask a few questions, and then I am going to answer a few of them. 

Jesus lays great stress on private devotion. "When thou prayest," says our Master, "enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret." The reason this thought has come to me is because of my own household. It is not because I am intending to criticise your home, or render judgment as to the way in which you manage your household, but because I have a household of my own. The question is as to private devotion. Now, Isaac's closet was a field, David's closet was his bed chamber, the Lord's closet was the mountain, Peter's closet was the house-top. Now, the question is, can God be nearer to us while we are praying in solitude than when praying in congregations ? Do we need to go to church to find God. Some say, why is prayer necessary, since God. presumably, knows, without being told the wishes of all men? God assuredly does know the wishes in the hearts of all men. Is not the im to pray a natural one, springing from love for the Lord? And is that impulse given to all of God's children ? Yes, if the person loves the Lord he will have a great desire to communicate with Him. But if this love is lacking, is it not almost useless to force it? Now, there is the question. I am trying to get my children to pray. When I was a boy, my father did most of the praying in the home, and when I got to manhood I did not know how to pray; I did not know just how nor what to pray for. In fact. I did not know very much about the Lord, because my father died when I was fifteen years old, but I can remember how he prayed, and I have been sorry, many times, that I can't pray like my father did, for he seemed on those occasions to be in personal communication with God. There seemed to be a friendliness between my father and God, and when you heard him pray you would actually think the Lord was right there, and that father was talking to Him. Can you pray that way? Are you on such friendly terms with the Lord ? I don't mean that we should get too friendly and take advantage of it, like children with parents, but that we should manifest reverence and love for the Lord, ask only for what we need, and not for what we want. I think if you will just ask the Lord for what you need each day, and you will believe that the Lord is near and can answer your prayers, then there may be friendship between you and God. Well, then, learn to love the Lord. 

(I am going to read this to get my statement before you.) But, how is this love to be cultivated? Now, there is the question, can we sit down and teach our children ? How are von going to cultivate love for  Lord? In other words, how is this love to be obtained ? There are surely thousands of the Lord's children who admit the existence of Deity, but without feeling any emotion or desire to pray. They acknowledge that is a duty; everything gives evidence of it, but they have no desire, no emotion. They perhaps have not been taught to pray, consequently, they do not pray. Just like children : you who have children know what your anxiety is, and you know what fathers and mothers do for children, especially mothers. I have learned one lesson with children that I never knew before; there is nothing on this earth grieves and hurts me worse, outside of sin and wickedness and rebellion, than, when I do everything I can for a child that he deserves, there is no evidence given of gratefulness, no gratitude, no thankfulness, but it is regarded as a debt the father owes to the child. Have you ever had a child say to you, "Well, you owe it to me?" I never had any of them do that but once, and it made me feel as if I could have eaten them up. That I owed him! T don't owe my children anything but love, protection, a home and shelter, and an education. I owe that to them, and the law requires it. But outside of that, shall they be grateful? Now, if we feel sad, and the mother so broken down after she has gone and worked her fingers' nails off to do something for a child, and then they don't appreciate it because they see something on the outside that is greater, see some one make a better present! Did you ever make a Christmas present to a child, and when they got it they were disappointed, and your Christmas was ruined, and you were made to feel almost broken-hearted, when you had af expended every dollar you had, and because other people's children had presents much better, the whole day was spoiled to them and to you, too? Ingratitude is a sin in the sight of God. 

Now, then, we have to learn to love our fathers and mothers, and unless you learn to love your fathers and mothers and appreciate what they have done for you, then you are not grateful. If you cannot understand what God has done for you, and you cannot learn to love God, then you cannot pray to Him. I may be wrong in stating that you can't pray. You might practice until you can, but you don't feel satisfied after you have got through praying, and you don't feel like vour pravers have ascended to the Father, because your prayers are not built on love and gratitude. Now, how are you going to cultivate love for God? You don't know much about Him, He has not communicated much to you. Perhaps some of our children have never had a prayer answered. We must study, think, reason, try to comprehend the goodness and the wisdom of God, and the knowledge you obtain will help you to appreciate what God has done. You cannot then fail to love Him, if you can only get impressed with what God has done for you. 

I love God for one thing, if nothing" else, that He gives to every one of His children, black or white, bond or free, an equal chance. I like equalitv of opportunity, and whenever parents make a favorite of a child, I feel sorry for the favorite. If you want to destroy your familv show favoritism, and do not give every child an equal chance. We parents have got to learn that lesson. Not to favor the child because you love it, but favor each and every child alike, that is a sacred obligation. God does that with all of His children, and if there is any disadvantage or any wrong, we do it against each other, God does not. 

Prayer can be made in a simple, humble manner, without using a multitude of words. A person does not love the Lord just because He created him, or because He has given him health or wealth; it is not for outward manifestations. Your love may become weakened when illness and sorrow come to you. I hear people pray, "I thank thee, Lord, for health." They ought to be thankful; it is the greatest blessing we can have. But what do you do when you are sick ? Do you forget God ? What do you do when you accumulate a little means ? I haven't been in poverty all of my life, and I haven't been raised with a silver spoon in my mouth. I went out and fought my battles in the north country. I know what it costs to earn your bread by the sweat of your brow. I was mighty grateful for what I acquired, because I worked for it, I never grafted men for it, but I lost it. Now, have I forgotten God, because I lost it? Is my love and gratitude to God on so small a foundation that, just as soon as I lose my health, I will forget my Maker? I have had a little experience along that line, when I went into the South and got poisoned from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet with malaria. I have now got appendicitis on both sides. Am I going to forget God. Am I going to say that God has not been good to me ? Why, no; I feel that I have been favored above the whole Kimball race; I have got oportunities and privileges some of them have never had. Am I going to forsake  God? No, I have learned to love Him — not as well as my father loved Him, perhaps, but I am learning to love Him. 

Now, what do you love the Lord for ? We should love the Lord for His justice, for His perfection and mercy, because He manifests His love by giving his children an equal chance in life's labor. We should ask for what we need, and find pleasure and spiritual enjoyment in it. 

Now I am going to read to you what Alma says about prayer : 

"Begin to call upon his holy name [Just begin — just make a start]. Yea, cry unto him for mercy, for he is mighty to save. * * * Yea, cry unto him when ye are in your fields, yea, over all your flocks. Cry unto him in your houses, yea, over all your household, both morning, midday and evening. Yea, cry unto him against the power of your enemies. Yea, cry unto him against the devil, who is an enemy to all righteousness. Cry unto him over the crops of your fields, that ye may prosper in them. Cry over the flocks of your fields, that they may increase. But this is not all. Ye must pour out your souls in vour closets, and your secret places, and in your wilderness. * * * Do not suppose that that is all, for after ye have done all these things, if ye turn away the needy and the naked, and visit not the afflicted and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need — I say unto you, if ye do not these things, behold your prayer is vain and availeth you nothing, and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith. If ye do not remember to be charitable, ye are as dross which the refiners do cast out, it being of no worth, and is trodden under foot of men." 

Let us awake from indifference and carelessness, and bring forth fruit unto repentance. The test is in that, and another test the Master directed His disciples to say is, 

"By their fruits ye shall know them." I acknowledge that I am imperfect, and no one is more sorry than I am. I have made mistakes, blunders, but I have faith in God, and I know God will forgive a man who repents. I know that we have got to teach our children to pray. I remember an incident that happened upon the fated Titanic. Those people were in distress on that great ocean — I have never seen the ocean, but I have always been afraid of it — I read about a group that climbed on to a raft, some of them rich and wealthy, many of them as good people as ever lived, and they wanted to pray. The band was playing, and the end was about to close upon them. They wanted to offer the Lord's prayer, but they did not know it, and some one had to lead them, and they followed in saying the Lord's prayer. They did not know how or what to ask for. They were so frightened, perhaps, and so unaccustomed to prayer that they could only repeat the Lord's prayer, and some one had to lead them. Now, I would like to learn how to pray before I get in such an emergency. I think we ought to teach all of our people how to pray. I am going to ask you a question, and I am going to let you answer it, and I am not going to criticise you. I know what your difficulties are, because they are just like mine. I ask the Latter-day Saint husbands if you have wives that look at everything just like you do? I would not give a snap of my finger for a woman that did not fight for her rights. I am thankful that my wife happens to be one of that kind; she has her own personality, her own individuality, and we don't always see things just alike. 

Now I am going to ask you another question. I am not going to  you what kind of a wife you have, but I could bet they don't all look at things just like you, if you do hold the priesthood; they don't look at things just like we do when it comes to handling the children. I want to ask you Latter-day Saints if you can have private devotion in the borne unless you are agreed and unless you have everything in order ? Do you ever try to pray in the morning when the children have only fifteen minutes to get to school? I thank the Lord there is one place where my children are always on time; whether they get their breakfast or not, they get to school. Did you ever know children to lose their breakfast to get to prayers ? The father almost needs the patience of Job to get a family together for morning prayer. That is pretty plain talk, but you seem to understand what I mean. I guess you have tried it. 

Now, brethren and sisters, some find a great deal of fault with the Church. I have been associated with men that found fault. I don't mean my companions in the ministry, but I have happened to be with others that have found fault with the Church, and with the authorities. I want to tell you there is no fault in the organization of the Church, it is perfect. There is no fault in the gospel of Christ if lived up to it makes you better; it makes you good in your home; it makes you good to your wife, and good to your children. It makes you good on the streets; it makes you honest; it makes you kind and generous. I know that, nobody knows it better than I do. That is what the religion of Christ does. The Church is all right. I have got no ax to grind, I am not one of the men that worship men, I worship God. I do not put my trust in the arm of flesh, but I honor the priesthood that men hold. I have this to say concerning the authorities of the Church, I have labored with these men for twenty years, and the men that work the hardest of any men I have ever lived with in my life are the men who are in authority in the Church of Christ. I know what I am talking about. Now, where is the fault? I invite every one of you to go home and find it, and I promise that if you find any big fault anywhere it will be right in your own home. If you can handle you own home, and mind your own business, you will have no time for fault-finding. 

Now I pray the Lord to bless you. You go right home now. I know where my trouble is, and I am trying to cure it. I am learning this lesson, that there is no use of my trying to govern a family until I govern myself. 

Don't forget private devotion; learn to pray in your home and get in communication with God, as my father did, right up there on Gordon avenue, in that little bit of room there my father communicated with God, and God answeerd him. I have got it in writing. I am a living witness that it has been fulfilled. 

T will tell you a story, and then I will quit. Father had men working for him for a good many years, and he had one he called Col. Smith. It was in the days of hardships and poverty, and men had great difficulty. They employed a great many people, the brethren did, that was a part of their religion. He employed the colonel, who had been a soldier in Great Britain, and on one occasion he went to father for a pair of shoes, and I guess father felt prettv cross, and answered him a little abruptly, perhaps. So the 

Colonel went home feeling badly, and when he prayed that night, he made a complaint to God against father, saying that "Thy servant Heber" was not treating him right. When he came past that little place on Gordon avenue, next morning, father came out and said, "Robert, what did you complain against me for? You come in and get your shoes, and don't do it again?" Now, how did he know that Col. Robert Smith, who lived away down in the Nineteenth ward, had filed a complaint against him? Don't you think that we can get on friendly terms with God? Not on familiar terms, but friendly terms. I tell you, God will answer your prayers. If there was any one thing I knew better than another, when I was traveling in the South, it was that God answers prayers, and softens the hearts of people towards you. May the Lord bless you. Amen. 

ELDER RTJLON S. WELLS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

During the meetings of this conference we have heard a great deal about the organization of the Church and the authority of the Holy Priesthood, and those of us who had the privilege of listening to President Smith, yesterday morning, were deeply impressed with the magnitude of this work and with the perfection of its organization. 

Provision has been made in the organization of this Church to carry the gospel to the nations of the earth, and also to carry it to the homes of the people, who have been gathered from the farthest parts of the earth. If we will read the New Testament we will find that when the Lord organized His Church in that day, that He "Set in His; first apostles, secondarily prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers, for the work of the ministry." Every one was given a duty to perform. And so it is in the day and age in which we live, God has again set up His Church, and has placed in the church, first the apostles, secondarily prophets, pastors and teachers, high priests, seventies, and evangelists, for the work of the ministry, and this ministry is broad enough to accomplish all the purposes of the Lord, for He operates through this organization, and through this priesthood to whom He has delegated divine power and authority. In the operations of this ministry, every need is provided for. It is for the "edifying of the body of Christ," as well as bringing: strangers to the knowledge of the truth. 

In the exercise of that divine authority the gospel is proclaimed to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. The message of salvation is being taken to all of our Father's children in every part of the world. Through this splendid organization, those who have been converted and brought up hither into these valleys of the mountains to cast their lots and identify their interests amongst the people of God, every one of them may be reached, for it is not only for the purpose of proclaiming the gospel to the world, but it is for the "edifying of the body of Christ," or the Church and Kingdom of God. It is for the "perfecting of the Saints." There are none of us so perfect that do not need the ministry to labor with us — that do not feel the need of this organization. We need the teachers to come and visit us, and to labor with us and with those that are wayward, seeing that there is no iniquity in the , putting their arms around the wayward boys and bringing them to the fold of Christ, to the sacrament meeting, and seeing that they worthily partake of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. We need the priests to visit the homes of the people, to impart spiritual food unto them in their homes. We need the bishop, who is the presiding priest in every ward, the president of the Aaronic priesthood. The bishop is a priest after the order of Aaron by reason of his bishopric. Sometimes I think that our bishops forget that, and imagine that they belong to the High Priests' quorum. Not so, they belong to the Priests' quorum, the bishops do, but by reason of being ordained high priests they also belong to the High Priests' quorum. 

In the wards in which we live we need the ministry of our bishops for the perfecting of our own character, and the ministry which they perform in other directions in the wards where they live. We need the elders, the standing ministers in the stakes of Zion where they are called to labor in the exercise of the functions of their priesthood, to minister in the work of God, to labor for the salvation of souls, to perfect the Saints, to "edify the body of Christ." We need the seventies to proclaim the gospel to the nations of the earth. We need them to carry the gospel message to our Father's children even to the furthermost parts of this earth. We need the Apostles, who are able to bear testimony of the divinity of the mission of Jesus Christ, and to set in order all the affairs of the Church, both at home and abroad. As a people, we need the Prophet and mouthpiece of God, and we ought to honor, reverence and yield obedience to his counsels, for he speaks as the representative of God upon the earth, to tell unto the people the mind and will of the Father. We need this "for the work of the ministry," the "edifying of the body of Christ," for the "perfecting of the Saints." Not only do the wayward need them, not only do those who sit in darkness and have not heard the sound of the gospel need this ministry, not only them, but also those of us who have accepted the truth, for we need to be perfected, to be developed and to grow in the knowledge of God and in good works. 

These are some of the purposes for which this great organization was established, and some have said in regard to it that it was the most wonderful in all the world, excepting perhaps the German army. I recollect hearing one of the brethren make the remark, that they might just as well have said, when they were looking up in the canopy of heaven, that the sun is the most splendid orb in the universe, excepting perhaps the moon. Indeed this organization is of divine origin, and it has no parallel in all the world, even the Germany army does not compare with it. 

Now then, brethren and sisters, this work is for the "perfecting of the Saints." It is for the "edifying of the body of Christ." Wherein do you need this ministry? It becomes an individual affair with each and every one of us. Wlierein do we need the ministry of the servants of God? Wherein can we benefit by submitting and receiving their administrations to us ? It is not enough that we should be what is ordinarily termed a good citizen. It is not enough that we should be honest in our desires. It is not enough that  should refrain from taking the lives of our fellow men, or from the stealing of their property. All these things are necessary, that we should refrain from doing those things that are wrong and that we should take on us the Christian virtues and make them a part of our own characters. Remember the case of the young man who came to the Savior and said to him, "Lord, what good thing shall I do that I may obtain eternal life?" and the Savior's reply, "Keep the commandments." A very necessary thing to do, a very essential thing, "keep the cammandments." "Which commandments?" said the young man. "Well, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not kill," and he went on enumerating a number of the ten commandments. "Why," said the young man, "these have I done from my youth up. What lack I yet?" The Savior said, "If thou wouldst indeed be perfect, sell that which thou hast, give to the poor and come and follow me." It was not enough that he should merely be complying with the moral code. 

There is something else for the development, for the perfecting of the Saints. It is necessary that our hearts should be loyal to God, that we should render obedience to Him, that we should put ourselves in complete harmony with the Divine mind and will. There is no one thing that you can say or do that will comply with this requirement. It is not enough that we should observe this commandment or that one, but we must devote all to the service of God, and be willing to obey His Divine mind and will and yield obedience thereto. That is the thing that is required of us, and there is not any one thing. If it be required, sell that which thou hast, and give  the poor; and that is not enough either, "but come and follow me." That means that we shall "not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God," if we want to go on to perfection; and this ministry which God has instituted in His Church is for the purpose of "perfecting the Saints," until they shall place themselves in complete harmony with the divine mind and will. Let us, therefore, struggle on in that direction, until we can overcome our faults, weaknesses and imperfections. If the call should come to any young man, to leave his home and go out in the mission field, to proclaim the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, what should he do? Can he think he has done enough, because he has kept these commandments or those ? Why no. What should he do? There is but one thing, go, go in obedience to the will of God and proclaim the gospel in that country where your services are needed. If it should be necessary that we give up all that we have, give it up, and remember that God requires it. That is the doctrine, and until men and women are willing to lay their all upon the altar they will not have attained perfection. 

While none of us are perfect in our lives by any means, there are a great many weaknesses which we can and should overcome. Draw nigh unto God and He will draw nigh unto us. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. Seek to obtain the companionship of God's Holy Spirit, even the Comforter that will lead us unto all truth, and then we are on our road to salvation. But none are saved, onlv those who shall endure unto the end. And may God help us all to do it, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 

A male quartet sang the hymn, "I think when I read that sweet story of old." 

ELDER JOSEPH W. M'MUREIN. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

At the close of one of the meetings of this conference, President Joseph F. Smith made a number of announcements. Among other notices that were given out by him, was one to the effect that there had been established a Correspondence Missionary Course, in connection with the Church school system, you my friends know that is the form of education that has accomplished so much good among the young people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The thought came into my mind, brethren and sisters, that this new step in connection with our Church school activities was one well worthy of more attention than it is receiving at the hands of many of those who are men of influence in the Church. 

In the early history of the Church the Lord gave revelations to the people, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, bearing upon the great subject of education. In one of those revelations we read the following. 

"Therefore, verily I say unto you, my friends, call your solemn assembly, as I have commanded you. And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even by study, and also by faith." 

As I have said, this instruction was given of the Lord at a very early period in the history of the Church, and even at an earlier date, than the date of this revelation from which I have just read, there had come the voice of the Lord to His people of the Latter dispensation concerning' the great importance of selecting and writing books, that such education might be imparted to the people as would be pleasing to the Lord. That injunction has been upon the people from that date to the present, and you my brethren and sisters, know that very great efforts have been made by the proper authorities of the Church, to give to the young people of Zion every possible educational advantage. The statement was made in a meeting last night which many of the brethren attended, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, appropriated last year about the same amount of money for the higher education of the children of the Latter-day Saints in Church acadamies as was appropriated by the Legislature in the State of L'tah for higher education. Notwithstanding this, we are oftentimes spoken of by those who are either misinformed, or who are wilfully wicked, as people who are opposed to education. 

I would like, if possible, to impress upon the minds of fathers and mothers, and upon the minds also of the young men and women who are in this congregation, the great advantage that is offered them by this Missionary Correspondence School. I happened just yesterday in going through some papers at my home to run across this important communication, which is addressed to the Bishopric of the Church. I will read a part of the letter. It is over the signature of President Joseph F. Smith and relates to the splendid opportunity of obtaining a theological training by means of this missionary correspondence school. He first calls at to the fact that some of our young men go into the missionary field not very well prepared for the responsibility that comes to them as advocates of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. He says : 

"In this respect they do not represent our people fairly, nor do they accomplish as much good as they would if they were better informed. In some instances it requires the first year of their mission to prepare them for their calling. This is a great loss to themselves, their parents, and the cause they represent. 

"To remedy this condition, classes for missionaries have been maintained in all of our larger Church schools for many years, and while they have done much good, they do not satisfy all the needs of the missionaries. To quit work and go to a church school for one or two years, and follow that with a mission of two or three years, is a greater sacrifice than many feel they can make. For all such as need the work and cannot take a regular course in a church school, a correspondence course has been provided. This course includes thorough instruction in the principles of the gospel, the leading facts in our Church history, a practical course in English, and some statistical and other information that every missionary should possess. All the work in this course can be done by the students at home, without interfering with their earning capacity. Utilizing evenings that otherwise might be wasted, and thereby establishing good habits to displace poorer ones. 

"The services of Bishop Edwin S. Sheets have been secured to conduct the course. He is a practical teacher and an experienced mission. The text books used during the first part of the course are : 'A Young Folks' History of the Church,' by Nephi Anderson. 'The Gospel,' by B. H. Roberts. 'Mormon Doctrine,' by Charles W. Penrose; and a good text on English. The cost of these books is $2.50. The books used in the second part of the course are : 'Articles of Faith,' by James E. Talmage; 'Ecclesiastical History,' by B. H. Roberts; 'Restoration of the Gospel,' by Osborne J. P. Widtsoe; together with a brief outline of statistics and other general information pertaining to the Church, and also to our state. The cost of the books for the second part of the course is $3.00. Those who already have the above named books will have no other expenses than $10.00 tuition fee, which is payable in advance. 

"Students may enroll at any time. The length of time required to complete the course will depend largely upon the ability of the student and the time he can devote to the work. The course not only prepares brothers and sisters for the mission field, but also for a life of usefulness at home, in the quorums and in the auxiliary organizations." 

I have taken the liberty of reading the larger part of this communication, to bring to your attention the views of the President of the Church in relation to the importance of this movement, and I hope these views will be very strongly impressed upon the minds of the young people, and upon the minds of the fathers and mothers and presiding authorities who are in this congregation. This course provides an opportunity for the young men and women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to gain a most desirable training in rela to the doctrines of the gospel, even while they remain at home, and continue to give attention to the daily affairs of life. Some may feel that there is not a very good chance to accomplish much by a system of education by correspondence. I will read a few words in regard to the judgment of some of the bright intellects of this modern age, who have discovered the very great opportunity that exists for the advancement of one and all, who will give the proper attention, and who will undertake to educate themselves. I might say in passing, that we need only look to some of the presiding authorities of the Church, and we will make the discovery, if we are not already aware of it, that there are some men of a very scholarly character numbered among those authorities, who have never had an opportunity for gaining scholastic information to any great extent through going to school or college, but they have obtained the wonderful fund of knowledge of which they are possessed very largely by utilizing spare moments in the reading of good books and seeking to educate themselves very much after the manner that is intended bv the presiding authorities of the Church in establishing this correspondence school for missionaries. One writer has said : 

"Oh, what wonders have been performed in one hour a day. One hour a day withdrawn from frivolous pursuits, and profitably employed, would enable any man of ordinary capacity,"— and I would like you to mark this statement, young men and maidens — ''any man of ordinary capacity, to master a complete science. One hour a day would make an ignorant man a wellinformed man in ten years. One hour a day would earn enough to pay for two daily and two weekly papers, two leading magazines and a dozen good books. In an hour a day any boy or girl could read twenty pages thoughtfully — over seven thousand pages, or eighteen large volumes, in a year. An hour a day might make all the difference between bare existence and useful, happy living. An hour a day might make, nay, has made an unknown man a famous one, a useless man, a benefactor to his race." Young people, such a warning as this, from an intelligent writer should be as a trumpet call for an hour a day, or for some period of time earnestly devoted to the acquirement of gospel knowledge and other useful information. 

There is no young man or young maiden in our community that is not able, if they so determine, to give an hour a day or even a less amount of time in such a laudable effort. The great educator, Dr. Chas. W. Eliot, who was recently offered the honorable post of embassador from the United States of America at the court of St. James, and who for years stood at the head of Harvard College, in preparing the set of books known as the Harvard Classics, says on this subject: "I believe that the faithful and considerate reading of these books, with such re-readings and memorizings as individual taste may prescribe, will give any man the essentials of a liberal education, even if he can devote to them but fifteen minutes a day." The faithful reading of any other set of equally good books will accomplish the same thing. 

Young people should give attention to the opportunities that abound around them on every hand, and be determined to stand fully abreast of  time. There ought not to be any young men who have come to, say, twenty-five years of age, who do not have an understanding concerning the gospel. 

We have the revelations of the Almighty as contained in the Holy Bible, and in the revealed word of God as given in our own time, and other good books without number, that can be had for a few pence each; every young man and every young woman should be so concerned about the birthright that has been spoken of so much during this conference and the responsibilities that are sure to come as time advances, that they would be determined, even though they might not have the opportunity to go into the school room, and obtain the advantages that are given to those who have such privileges, that at home, by means of this correspondence course and by giving attention to proper reading, they would fill their minds with good information and become equipped for the great responsibilities that are awaiting them. Be careful, young people, of your companionship and where and how you spend your time, I will again read a few words that I commend to you most earnestly, for I believe them to be very precious and worthy of serious consideration. 

"No one is anxious about a youngman while he is busy in useful work. But where does he eat his lunch at noon? Where does he go when he leaves his boarding house at night? What does he do after supper? Where does he spend his Sundays and holidays? The great majority of youths, who go to the bad, are ruined after supper. Most of those who climb upward to honor and fame devote their evenings to study, or work, or the society of the wise  good. For the right use of these leisure hours, what we have called the waste of life, the odd moments usually thrown away, the author would plead with every youth." 

That is what the teachers of the correspondence school pleads for — the odd moments. They are pleading with the youth of Zion that they take advantage of them, for they can be made more precious than rubies. Fathers, and mothers, bishops and presidents, ought to give attention, and encourage not only the two hundred and forty young men and maidens who are thus engaged today, but there ought to be easily, at the very least, one thousand students in this correspondence school. Those who are engaged in the correspondence school work are sending in testimonials of the highest character telling of the great good and advantage the course has been to them. One of the students says : 

"I consider the institution of the missionary correspondence school one of the most useful and practical means that the Church has yet adopted to bring an allaround, up-to-date, civil and ecclesiastical education to every one that will avail himself. However poor financially or remote in distance one might be, this method will meet every circumstance and remove the last excuse of educational unpreparedness to meet any call at home or abroad. Its systematic teaching has made the matter of study a pleasure to me and has inspired me with new life and vigor to reach oui for more, and still more knowledge." 

I commend these various statements and this new line of work to this congregation, and feel that there will be a blessing come to every one who will give attention. God bless you, my brethren and sisters in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN L. HERRICK. 

(President of Western States Mission.) 

This very interesting meeting, thus far, is being conducted by a member of the Council of Twelve. I have tried to induce him to use the time that he desires I should use, because, I think, he has not spoken at any other meeting of this conference; but he has seen fit to decide otherwise. I beg the liberty to ask you who are here, unless you have some very urgent matters, that you remain until the close of this meeting, if not to hear me, at least to listen to the voice of Brother Joseph F. Smith, Jr. Arrangements have been made, I believe, with all railroads that visitors can remain until the close of meeting, without fear of missing trains; and we may fairly assume, I think, that the Tabernacle services will not conclude for, perhaps, a half hour yet. 

In that splendid work entitled, "Joseph Smith the Prophet-Teacher," by Brother B. H. Roberts, reference is made to the last public speech of that great statesman, Daniel Webster, delivered, I believe, in the year 1852. I should like to read a few of the words he uttered at that time, which seem applicable to a matter that I should like to discuss : 

"Let me say, that if any of our posterity shall be true to the Christian religion, if we and they shall live always in the fear of God and shall respect His commandments, if we and they shall maintain just moral sentiments and such conscientious convictions of duty as shall control the heart and life, we may have the highest hopes of the future of our country. But if we and our posterity reject religious instructions and authority, violate the rules of eternal justice, trifle with the injunctions of morality or recklessly destroy politicial instruction which hold's us together, then no man knows when a sudden catastrophe may overwhelm us." 

I believe there are many men and women in America today who discredit the Bible, who are seeking for the opportunity to prove, if they can, that the Bible is not authoritative. They are seeking, in various ways, to win the hearts and minds of people from a belief in its fundamental teachings. There are many, who do not believe the New Testament, and say that it is only a myth, or a story concocted by men. I saw yesterday, or day before, a dispatch purported to be from the greatest city of the old world, that Londoners have given up reading the Bible, and are fast becoming Pagan. In the light of these conditions it is well for us to stand close and fast by the teachings that have come down to us in that sacred book. The Bible is a revelation of God to man and it reveals men unto themselves. It plays no favorites. If there were those who were wicked, the Bible tells us so unqualifiedly. When the great KingDavid fell, the Bible writer did not shield his faults, nor magnify his virtues. No. He was given a just rebuke, and his history was written just as that of the humblest man of his time might have been. 

After all, my brothers and sisters, if we believe in that book, we shall consider ourselves to be free and independent creatures. We are accountable to our Father and God, and should recognize the authority that He has established in this world. If we believe the teachings of those who wrote in the time of Christ — not necessarily all there is in the New Testament — we may also look to other writings contemporaneous with that time, and we will  ample proof and assurance that those conditions that the Testament relates were true and authoritative 

Where shall we find a parallel for that work, that great battle to win human hearts, participated in by humble men in the days of Christ? There is no parallel in this world excepting in this Latter-day Church that was founded by Joseph Smith under God's direction, and who followed by humble, though strong and brave men, some of whom still remain to fight similar battles, battles for the human heart. A belief and faith in God and his Son, Jesus Christ, a belief in divine revelation a belief which if lived up to will save and exalt the human race characterizes everyone that is honest in religious convictions. 

It has been said during this conference that the test of this Chruch will come in the third and fourth generations. I am one of the third generation of our family that have joined the Church, and even though imperfectelv I have endeavored to live my religion. If I can maintain the standard set by my father and mother I shall be deeply grateful. If my children of the fourth generation, emulate the attitude of my father, their grandfather, in supporting and advancing this glorious work. I shall praise God. His name receives praise in my heart today, that I have been privileged to devote a part of my life in the service of the Master. God grant that our lives, our thoughts and actions may be given to it in so much that all that we have and are, if need be, may be devoted to advancement of this great Latter-dav work I humblv pray in the name of Jesu= Amen. 

Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., pre the names of the General Authorities of the Church; each and all were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the congregation. 

ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JE. 

Descendants of righteous men admonished to be faithful. — Saints should diligently obey God's laws. 

I appreciate the kindness of my brother, Elder Herrick, in proffering me the time that was alloted to him. I have enjoyed all the meetings of the conference, listening to the remarks of the brethren. I feel that it would not be wise for me to occupy much time and keep you here longer this afternoon; but I desire to say that I am grateful for the testimonies and instructions that have been borne during this conference, and am proud to be a descendant of Latter-day Saint parentage, of the fifth generation. I am also proud to be a grandson of one of the original members of the Church, a man who was faithful to the end, and laid down his life for the truth; and I am glad to know that so many of his descendants are actively engaged in the cause, and are also faithful in the truth. 

I trust that the sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints will walk in the footsteps of their fathers in righteousness, and be true to the Church. I hope they will remember their covenants, honor the Priesthood, and the parents who gave them birth and made it possible for them to receive the many blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Through faithfulness we shall overcome all things and receive an exaltation in our Father's Kingdom. I trust that the people will go from  conference with the determination in their hearts to serve the Lord, be true to his laws and the covenants they have made with Him, and keep the commandments better than they have done in the past, from this time henceforth. 

We should labor diligently for the salvation of the souls of men, the living and the dead, that Zion may prosper, the truth spread in the earth and righteousness cover the face thereof. The time is coming when wickedness shall cease. This is inevitable; and it is plain to see that a people who will observe the laws of the Lord and keep themselves pure and free from the sins that curse the world, will be the people of wisdom possessed of the knowledge of the things of God, and eventually will have power and dominion in the earth. It does not require the spirit of revelation to understand these things, God's purposes shall not fail. It behooves us, therefore, to be obedient to the will of our Heavenly Father, and receive all principles of truth as they have been revealed from on high, and not partake of the sins of the world that lead to destruction. 

I pray that we may all be faithful and true in the discharge of every duty as Latter-day Saints, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Edna Evans, and choir, sang the anthem, "Inflammatus." 

Benediction was pronounced by President Hugh J. Cannon. 


