Afternoon
06 04 1913

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. 

President Smith made announcements, including a notice of overflow meetings of the Conference in the Assembly Hall, and Barratt Hall, being held at this hour. 

The Tabernacle choir sang the anthem, "Arise, shine for thy light is come." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Serge F. Ballif. 

The choir sang Professor Evan Stephens' anthem, "Awake My Soul;" the duet passages were ren by Margaret Summerhays and Thomas Ashworth. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Inspiration in the hymns of Zion. — Respect and friendship of neighbors desirable. — Testimony lost by failure to live Gospel principles. — Children honor parents by being true to the faith. — Godliness and loyalty characteristics of Church leaders. 

I rejoice exceedingly in the spirit of the meetings of this conference. I endorse most heartily all that I have heard during the conference, and bear testimony to the inspiration of the Lord in those who have spoken; and I humbly and earnestly pray that the time I occupy, this afternoon, that the same good spirit and inspiration which have been given to those who have already spoken may be given to me. I have no desire today, in standing before you, and I have never had when occupying this position or a similar one, except to say only those things which might be beneficial to those who listen as well as to myself. I have been blessed upon more than one occasion, while speaking to the Saints, and have felt truly grateful to the Lord for the encouragement that has come to me. because of the rich outpouring of His Holy Spirit. 

I have been particularly impressed during this conference, with the many old-time and inspiring hymns which have been sung by the choir and the congregation. I never hear, "Come, come ye Saints," "Though Deepening Trials throng your way," and other inspirational songs which the Lord has given to the "men and women of this community, by the inspiration of His Spirit, that I do not reioice as I listen to them. I feel that this very GEXERAL CONFERENCE.  hymn, "Though Deepening Trials throng your way," could be read by every one within the sound of my voice, at the close of the meeting today, and they would be profited thereby; and the same would be true with reference to the others that we have listened to. 

I rejoice in the unity existing among the Latter-day Saints. As you know, it falls to my lot, in connection with my associates in the Council of the Twelve, to visit the different Stakes of Zion; and wherever I have visited in any of the Stakes I have always found love and devotion to the work of the Lord, on the part of the stake officers, and of the ward officers, and all those who are connected as officers with the auxiliary associations in the Church. I was delighted with the report made here by Brother Murdock, that they had Religion Classes after their school exercises, throughout the entire Wasatch Stake. There are some of our people that have stood up so straight, where they were school trustees, that in my judgment they have leaned over backwards, in objecting to religious training after the school sessions. I hope that the very splendid example of liberality that has been exhibited in the Wasatch Stake of Zion may spread all over the stakes of Zion. I rejoice in hearing that those not of our faith in that stake of Zion had good fellowship and good will for the Latter-day Saints. That is as it ought to be. As I understand the gospel of Jesus Christ, it enjoins upon u« to live lives of virtue, of charity, of uprightness, of fair and honorable dealing, so that all men seeing our good deeds shall glorify God and shall be led to investigate the gospel of Jesus Christ as proclaimed by the  in the Church, at home and abroad. 

I can indorse the statement made by President Hinckley, that I do not know any person who has once had a testimony of this gospel who has ever lost that testimony unless he first failed to do his duty and to keep the commandments of God. The writings of James, wherein he says that faith without works is dead, that it is like the body without the spirit, have always appealed to me. I have discovered that dead faith, among professed Latter-day Saints, comes from the failure to be honest with the Lord in the payment of our tithes and offerings, the failure to observe what is known as the Word of Wisdom, the failure to attend to secret and family prayers, and the failure to live a life of pure religion as James puts it down, which is to visit the widow and the orphan and to relieve the distress of those that are needy. It is this class and this class only, so far as I have ever seen, and the class who commit sin, who lose their faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I rejoice beyond my power to tell, that as men grow in good deeds, as they grow in love for their fellows, as they grow in absolute honesty in their dealings with their fellow men, as their lives are shown to be worthy of the imitation of all men. that those who so live grow and increase in a burning testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged, and that there are no doubts or dubieties which cross their minds as to the inspiration of the Lord to His servants who stand at the head of this work. 

We have heard gratitude expressed by many of the speakers because they, like Nephi of old, have been born of goodly parents. I feel 113  I would be unworthy the wonderful teachings and the magnificent and splendid example of a widowed mother who reared me, if I too did not lift my voice here today and thank God for a mother who loved Him, who loved the religion of Jesus Christ, whose life was an example above reproach, than whom I knew no more loyal, patriotic and true woman among the Latter-day Saints. I thank the Lord for my father, although I never knew him. I have had love lavished upon me by the leaders of this Church and by influential men from one end of this country to the other, because of the love and respect which they felt for my father. Particularly was this the case with the late President John R. Winder, who often told me that the first encouraging word and helping hand, and the first loyal friend that he found in Utah was my father; and he certainly paid and repaid this love four fold, by love and kindness and encouragement and blessing to me and other members of my father's family. It is indeed a wonderful and a splendid thing to be born of goodly parents; and it is one of the saddest of all sad things where the sons and the daughters of goodly parents are recreant to the faith of their parents, when they are careless and indifferent, where they fail to honor their fathers and their mothers, and thereby fail to honor their God, where they follow after the things of this world, and allow the ideas of men to blind them. 

I particularly enjoyed the remarks of President Smith. Many of them came home to me; and with the help of the Lord I propose to practice his teachings and to see to it that they shall not be to me as a "dead faith." They particularly  me when I realized that upon very many occasions I had been guilty of referring to the faults and the failings of people, instead of magnifying their good deeds. With the help of the Lord I propose to try and learn to sing the favorite song of my counselor in the Tooele Stake of Zion, and my successor, the late Hugh S. Gowans, "Nay speak no ill, a kindly word can never leave a sting behind," etc. 

I thank the Lord for my intimate association, from a little child, with President Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, and with President Joseph F. Smith. I thank the Lord that I have never known anything but good in all my association for fifty years with these men. I remember very distinctly, when a child six years of age, a conversation with President Brigham Young; and for fifty years I have never heard in public or in private anything fall from the lips of the servants of God, who have been chosen to stand at the head of this work, but what was for the uplift and the betterment of the people of God. I know, as I know that I live, that those men who have passed away were in very deed God's representatives upon the earth, and that Joseph F. Smith is the Lord's anointed today. I know that each and every one of us who are loyal, who are true, who are patriotic, who learn the lesson that "obedience is better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of rams," will be blessed of God, that He will magnify us, and that as we sustain His representative He will sustain us. God bless all Israel, and help us all to be loyal and true, and to serve Him with full purpose of heart. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

ELDER HYRTJM M. SMITH. 

Honor to parentage a general characteristic of faithful Saints. — Marriage advocated as a moral safeguard. — Righteous life an important qualification for Marriage. — Trouble and sorrow lessened, happiness increased, where true love prevails. — Immorality of divorce. — Unfortunate results of Marriage outside the Covenant. 

I believe that all who have been fortunate enough to be in attendance upon this conference have rejoiced in the spirit of it. . I believe that God has looked down upon us in our assemblies in approbation, and that He has poured out upon us a very rich portion of His Holy Spirit; and I believe that the angels have rejoiced with us. I believe also that the faithful fathers, of whom witness has been borne by faithful sons, have also been filled with joy in seeing the integrity, faithfulness and devotion of their sons and grandsons. 

I could have wished that the spirit might have directed that others of our brethren of the presidencies of stakes might have been called to address the Saints. Those who have spoken have spoken under the divine inspiration of the Lord; and it has given the Latter-day Saints an opportunity to judge of the character, the caliber, and the quality of the men whom the Lord has sought out and chosen to preside over the various stakes of Zion and mission fields. There are between fifty and sixty other presidents of stakes, who are the peers of the brethren who have spoken; and I rejoice in the strength and in the integrity of these servants of the Lord. If time would permit there are many of the bishops who could also give a splendid account of themselves, if called upon to do so. This power of the  is not only enjoyed and exercised by the general authorities of the Church, but the same power is held and the same authority is wisely exercised by presidents of stakes, and bishops of wards. I may say, further, that there are hundreds and thousands of men who do not hold these responsible positions of presidency, but who do hold the priesthood and are exercising the authority of it in honor and righteousness among the Latter-day Saints. 

Underlying the remarks of many of the brethren can be found that great law of God, that commandment which He recorded with His own finger upon the tables of stone, namely, "Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be long in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." We have seen exemplified, in the lives of the brethren who have been called upon to address the conference, a complete and full obedience to this law and commandment. They have spoken in praise and thanksgiving of their fathers, and of the faith of their fathers, and have testified that they likewise have the same testimony of the truth and the same determination to stand firm, steadfast and true to the covenants and obligations of the gospel. I rejoice in this fact, and I may testify that this is not confined to those who are termed authorities in the Church, but it is general among the Latterday Saints. There is always in the heart of the faithful Latter-day Saint gratitude to God, if he or she were born of parents who were faithful in the Church; and there is always great joy and happiness in being conscious of the fact that we ourselves love the truth and desire to be faithful and true. It is not 115  much that we honor our fathers and our mothers that, individually, our days may be long in the land. This is a great principle of heaven and a great law unto the people of God, and pertains to the congregation or to the whole Church as well as individuals; and when we all are faithful to the parents whom God has given us, then it goes without saying that the lives of the people, and the perpetuity of the Church, will be extended and prolonged in the land that the Lord has given unto His people. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, while upon general principles it is a wise thing to see the fruits of righteousness and of goodness and of faith and obedience in our brethren and sisters, nevertheless there are conditions that prevail among the children of men that are dangerous to their peace and happiness. Against these evils that threaten our happiness and salvation we cannot always be justified in closing our eyes or remaining silent. The moral condition of the world is very bad indeed, so bad that it is causing grave concern among others than the ministers of the gospel. Statesmen, governors and other state officials are concerned about these things, and are investigating these matters with the view of determining the causes thereof, with the hope of finding a remedy. Immorality of various kinds is rife in the world. While I am thankful to say these things are not so prevalent among the Latter-day Saints, yet there "is danger in them, and occasionally they come very close home to some of us. 

I would like to say just a word or two upon the principle of marriage. It is being advocated by some as the remedy for the immoral condition  prevalent among men, that churches should take up the doctrine of marriage and preach it more often and extensively, to encourage men and women to marry, and to be faithful in the marriage relation. That is timely, it is a good doctrine; it has been forgotten altogether too long, and needs attention on the part of both the clergy and the civil authorities, and of the people themselves. It is a great principle in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; as practiced outside the Church it is a principle that is not altogether a remedy for immorality in the world, as may be illustrated in the boast of one of our neighboring states, and published under great leaded headlines, that that state had the record in divorces, that out of every seven marriages there was one divorce. Now, I would like to say to my brethren and sisters of the Latter-day Saints, we ought to have respect and regard for that great and vital principle and doctrine of marriage. We should advocate it among our young people in the spirit of righteousness and- sacredness, and never speak of it in the spirit of levity or funmaking, or do that which would discourage young people from entering into the marriage relation, or that would discredit that relation. There are far too many of our young people of marriageable age unmarried. I do not know the reasons why they remain unmarried. Many young men fear that they are unable to support a wife, build a home and care for a family. Many young women have the same fear, that the young man will not be able to support them in the manner that they are accustomed to; losing sight of the great fact that their fathers and mothers, perhaps, have come up GENERAL CONFERENCE.  the beginning, even in poverty, starting very low indeed in the scale of possession of this world's goods, but by frugality, sacrifice and skimping themselves, practicing rigid economy, they have eventually achieved success in life and reached a reasonable degree of prosperity. Young men ought to be willing, with the help of God, to undertake this great responsibility, if they have health of body and a willingness to work and earn a living; and young women, who can find honorable and virtuous young men so de- s termined, ought to be willing to accept them and help them, be helpmeets to them, and not seek to marry only that they may have someone to earn money for them that they can spend in pleasure and extravagance. I would like to read, in this connection, just a paragraph from a discourse delivered by one of the early apostles in this dispensation, upon this subject. I read it because I feel that the doctrine and the principle could hardly be expounded more beautifully. I recommend this paragraph to our young men and young women, and to their fathers and mothers, and advise the latter to commence early teaching their children to prepare themselves for the duties and responsibilities of life, rather than for merely enjoying those foolish and worldly pastimes and pleasures after which so many seek. 

"Let that man who intends to become a husband seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness, and learn to govern himself according to the law of God, for he that cannot govern himself cannot govern others. Let him dedicate his property, his talents, his time and even his life, to the service of God, holding all things at his disposal to do with the same according as He shall direct through the counsel He has ordained. In selecting a companion let him not  wholly at the beauty of the countenance, or the splendor of the - apparel, or the great fortune, or the artful smiles, or the affected modesty of females, for all these without the genuine virtues are like the dew drops which glitter for a moment in the sun and dazzle the eye but soon vanish away; but let him look for a kind, amiable disposition, for unaffected modesty, for industrious habits, for sterling virtue, for honesty, integrity and truthfulness; for cleanliness in person, in apparel, in cooking, and in every kind of domestic labor, for cheerfulness, patience, and stability of character, and above all for genuine religion to control and govern her every thought and deed." 

That is the doctrine of the gospel of Christ, that I would like to present for the consideration of the young men and women; that young men contemplating marriage should contemplate it in a spirit of prayer and devotion to God and to service of the Lord, and that young women should prepare themselves to be such as described by Brother Orson Pratt in his discourse from which I have selected this paragraph. I would say to young men and women that they should honor their fathers and mothers, and should seek the counsel and advice of their parents in such important steps as marriage. It is one of the most vital and important moves that young men and women can make in life. Upon it depends more of joy, more of happiness, more of peace and genuine satisfaction than can be found in almost any other thing in the world, where the union is entered into in the spirit of truth and righteousness, and a determination to fulfil the laws of God and of nature. On the -other hand it is a step fraught with trouble, sorrow, misery, and nnhappiness when it is not entered into in this spirit and for this purpose. Young men and women must determine that they are willing, with the help of God, to endure whatso117  experiences come to them in life. The responsibilities of marriage are great, but where love abounds, there will be happiness and joy unspeakable. So, likewise, in that relationship, they will be called upon, in all probability, to undergo very sorrowful experiences, that will bring sadness to their souls and try them severely; yet all these things can be endured if the love that should exist does exist in the hearts of those who have plighted their faith to each other. 

"My house is a house of order, saith the Lord, and not a house of confusion." Brother Penrose read that passage this morning. That relates not so much to the little ordinary noise, and disturbance, and confusion that we may find sometimes in homes, or in communities. It may cover that point, but it has a more deep and a much wider meaning than that. That home where the furniture may at times be deranged and the children may create din with their lusty shouts, that is not confusion, that can easily be remedied. That home wherein a son rises up in rebellion against his father, and against the order, rules and regulation of the home, there is confusion. That community where one man lifts himself up in opposition against his brother in the priesthood, and opposes its authority, creates confusion; but this passage of scripture was given, more particularly, in connection with the revelation that the Lord gave upon the great subject of marriage. There is no thing in the world that can bring about such great confusion as promiscuous marriage and divorce; the woman being married a half dozen times, and being divorced a half dozen times, bearing children with each; that, I say, brings about confusion; and the same it is with the man who marries and is divorced, time and time again. It is a most immoral condition; and the issue therefrom are without father or mother, and without name, almost, in this world, and surely will be so in the next. 

Our young men who marry gentile girls create confusion. They marry not according to the law of God. They are not joined together by the holy spirit of promise, they are joined together for only a little time, to be severed and separated after this life. They have no more claim upon one another; and the children that may have been born find themselves likewise without father or mother, or relationship in the world to come, and this is confusion. It is as it were the forging of a chain of unwelded links, that is easily broken and scattered, and is not in accordance with the law of God. No young man can marry outside of the Church,' except he dishonor his father and mother, and the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the command of God as given in the revelations of the latter-day. The same it is with a young woman who marries out of the Church. She marries unhappiness and misery, separation and disintegration, loss of husband and children in the world to come, and loses happiness and peace of mind and heart here; and it is unfortunate. I would like to call attention to this great principle and plead with our fathers and mothers to more thoughtfully and thoroughly teach these doctrines to their sons and daughters; that such dishonor to the latter, to their parents, to the Church of God, and the principles of righteousness may not be shown, and that the incident misery and unhappiness may not be or have to be endured. Let our young men and young women marry in the Church, and in the holy places that God has set apart where that ceremony may be performed. Let them marry as the performance of a part of their sacred religion, because it is a religious rite, and marriage without religion will never be a success but must spell failure sooner or later, both in time and eternity. 

Now, if you would have your children rise up, in a later day, and. take the stand toward you that our brethren, the presidents of stakes who have addressed us, have taken towards their parents, you will honor your fathers and mothers, and the gospel to which they have been true all their lives here. I thought myself, what a terrible thing it would be for a man to be born of parents so unequally yoked together as one to be a "Mormon" and one a Gentile. He would have to say : My father was a Gentile; my mother was a Latter-day Saint; or, My mother was a Gentile, and my father was a Latter-day Saint. I was born without the covenant; my parents were not sealed by the holy spirit of promise and by the authority of God. I have no father and no mother in the hereafter, except, through the blessings of the gospel, my mother may be given, and I with her, to some good man, by the holy priesthood for eternity. That, to me, would be a terrible condition. 

My brethren and sisters, I want to say and can say, as my brethren have said, I love, honor and revere my parents, and I trust that my children after me can say the same thing, and God be pleased that their children after them, to the latest , can rise up and declare their fathers blessed. 

May God bless the Latter-day Saints; may they look into the doctrines of the Church and the holy principles of righteousness, the principles of heaven, of truth, as they have been revealed, and practice them in their lives, revere them, honor them, and live by them, that they may be blest of God and exalted in the land which God has given us, and exalted too, in due time, in the presence of the Father with the redeemed and sanctified, in a saved and a glorified condition. I ask this blessing for the Latter-day Saints, each and every one of us, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

If it may not be considered intrusion, I would like to supplement, in a few words, the remarks that have just been made. The house of the Lord is a house of order and not a house of confusion; and that means, that the man is not without the woman in the Lord, neither is the woman without the man in the Lord; and that no man can be saved and exalted in the kingdom of God without the woman, and no woman can reach perfection and exaltation in the kingdom of God, alone. That is what it means. God instituted marriage in the beginning. He made man in His own image and likeness, male and female, and in their creation it was designed that they should be united together in sacred bonds of marriage, and one is not perfect without the other. Furthermore, it means that there is no union for time and eternity that can be consummated outside of the law of God and the order of His house. Men may desire it, they 119  go through the form of it in this life, but it will be of non effect except it be done and sanctioned by divine authority, in the name of the Father and of the Sqn and of the Holy Ghost. 

It is my pleasure to read to the congregation a message that I have received today from Washington, D. C: 

"April 5th, 1913. "President Joseph F. Smith : 

"I have been thinking all day of home and our general conference. I am with you all in spirit, if not in person. May the spirit of unity, of prayer, of charity, of toleration and loyalty prevail. I ask God's blessings upon our nation, upon our state, and our Church, upon you and the brethren, and upon every honest man. "Reed Smoot." 

This is from New York. April 5th, also: 

"President Joseph F. Smith, Salt Lake, Utah : Please accept my most friendly greetings,, loyal regards, and faith and prayers for yourself, the brethren, and all the Saints. 

"John W. Young." 

This is his semi-annual message; and I am glad to receive that much from John W. Young, for he is a son of President Brigham Young; I wish he had the humility, and wisdom, and disposition to come home and live with the Saints. 

"Be thou faithful unto death," a tenor solo, was rendered by Prof. Elihu Call. 

PATRIARCH HYRUM G. SMITH. 

Declaration that the Lord is pleased with His people. — Prayer for continued success of the Lord's work. 

I declare unto this great gathering here that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us in this conference, with those who have spoken, and with those who have listened. The Lord is pleased with those whom He has called to direct His work  the earth in this day. He is pleased with their fidelity, and with their fearlessness to declare His truth that has been revealed, and restored to the earth again. The Lord is pleased with those whom He has called to teach the youth of Zion the principles of righteousness, the principles of truth and education. The Lord is pleased with those who sing His praises, not only here in our choir, that we have heard today, but in the choirs throughout the stakes of Zion. The Lord is pleased with all who are serving Him, who strive to honor His name and perform His work in the earth. 

May the Lord continue to be pleased with us. May we so live that He will continue to bless us, and look down upon us in love and mercy. May we take home with us the counsels, admonitions and teachings that we have received in this conference, both young and old; that we may honor the Lord and His servants in the earth. May He bless you in your homes and in your endeavors to serve Him and keep His commandments, to live clean and unspotted from the sins of the world. May we so live that He will be pleased with us in all of our endeavors to serve Him, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BRIGHAM H. ROBERTS. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

Several times during this conference, while listening to the brethren and contemplating the doctrines which they have presented, I have made this mental comment: How excellent is the wisdom of the Lord. And in the few moments that I am to address you, if I could. I would like GENERAL CONFERENCE.  point out, by demonstration, the truth of my comment. 

The people in some parts of the United States have recently been passing through wonderful experiences, experiences I may say that have been foreshadowed by the inspired utterances of the great prophet of the new dispensation of the gospel; for as early as 1831 the Lord, both by vision and word of mouth, decreed that there should be great destruction upon the waters of the Missouri, the Mississippi and the Ohio valleys; and no one in recent years has noted the annual recurrence of destruction, in various forms, upon those waters, but what has been convinced that the warning word of the Lord, through the Prophet, was being fulfilled. Great distress has come upon the people of the land by reason of storm and tempest and by dangers that have been developed in those regions of country to which reference has been made. The country has been appealed to and is now appealed to for help to relieve the distress that has come upon the people. In this connection I want to say to you that there has been no single act that has so completely met with the approval of my spirit than the fact that the President of the Church, in his capacity as Trusteein-trust, has stretched forth a helping hand to the distressed people of Ohio, and in a small way, has helped those who are in distress. 

Now, what I want to call your attention to is a little of the wisdom of God, which, if followed out by the inhabitants of the earth, would provide a means for meeting emergencies of this kind, a means which we ourselves, it seems to me, do not properly appreciate. It was a way found out in the midst of our own distresses, an institution of the 

Church, born to the Church, out of the midst of the things which our community was called upon to suffer. During the year 1855, the community of Latter-day Saints in these valleys, was. sore distressed by a double calamity of drought and grasshoppers. The crops were well nigh destroyed, and the people had to be put again upon rations, as in the earliest years of their experience in these valleys. Those who had been provident and careful of their means, and were blest with means, had to. share with those who had not. This calamity of drought and grasshoppers was followed by a severe winter in which much of the stock of the people was destroyed; and then, while they were distressed in this way, the responsibilities of the people increased by an unusually large immigration, into these valleys, both of our own people and the passing immigrant companies on their way to California, with whom the Latter-day Saints always shared their pittance. To meet the very great demands of charity upon the Latter-day Saints in those trying years, our fast day came into existence; the servants of the Lord instituted the first Thursday in every month as fast day, with a view of taking what was saved by this sacrifice and minister unto those who otherwise would be in want. This plan of meeting that emergency became an established institution; and in course of time the servants of the Lord changed the fast day from the first Thursday of the month to the "first Sunday of the month. 

I want to call your attention to some very pretty sentiments and some very substantial wisdom connected with that thing. The regulations of the Church were to the effect — and are to the effect : 

"That a fast meeting should be 121  in every ward on the first Sunday of each month, at which time the Saints should remember the poor and donate for their benefit, which should at least equal the amount saved by the person or family so fasting. All such funds shall be applied exclusively for the purpose of assisting the worthy poor, as in the judgment of the bishopric may be necessary. The Latter-day Saints should liberally observe the payment of their donations for the worthy poor, so that the bishop may have funds to assist the destitute and needy." Now, mark you this : "who should always have our sympathy and aid; but whenever a person drawing assistance is able to do something toward his or her support, however small, the bishopric should endeavor to provide such with employment suited to their capacity and their condition." 

I call your attention to the fact, in passing, that the institution of this means for providing for those who may be in want is limited to the worthy poor; because there is no intention, on the part of the Lord, so far as His will is revealed to the Church — there is no intention to create a permanent pauper class, or to permit the vicious and idle to prey upon the industrious and the provident; and hence this wise counsel that these charities are to be extended to the worthy poor. Counsel is given, also, that even these, wherever and whenever it is possible, should have the glorious means or opportunity afforded them to preserve their personal independence by giving something in return, in labor, in service, for the help that is given them. 

The subject, of course, is capable of great expansion. All I can do  and now, and all I desire to do now, is to show by reference to this little thing, how excellent is the wisdom of God! Suppose the Christian people of New York, with her between five and six millions of people, largely of at least nominal Christian profession, suppose that Christian city were to adopt God's method of providing a permanent means of charity for the worthy poor; if they would but take this one little fragment of "Mormonism" and apply it in their charity economics, they would establish a permanent revenue for the charities of that city that would stop the cry of hunger rising up to greet the ears of the God of Sabbaoth. They would have sufficient to feed, to clothe, and to lodge the worthy poor, and what is more, if you mathematicians will take the pains to work it out, and suppose that only one-half of the Christian people of that city were to faithfully observe this little principle, you would have means not only to clothe and feed and lodge the worthy poor, but when emergencies of calamity arose in the city there would be ample means to meet those emergencies. And if a state were to adopt that bit of charity economy, if the nation were to adopt it, if the Christian world were to adopt it, out of that one fragment of God's inspired truth given to His people, there would be ample means to meet all the demands of charity at the hands of the people. How great, how excellent is the wisdom of God, even in small matters. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

[The speaker would also add to the thoughts above expressed, that in the above described fast system established in the Church, all — the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and the poor, the wealthy man of business and the common laborer — would contribute equally to this proposed charity. Not that what would be saved from the fast of the common laborer's family for the fast fund would equal in dollars and cents the amount that would be saved from the fast of the rich man's family; but it would cost one as much as the other, viz., the sacrifice in each case of the meals that would otherwise be eaten; and that which costs the same to each, ought to be equal, and in the sight of God would be equal, in contribution to such a cause. 

Again, another beauty of this charity proposed for universal Christian acceptance, is the fact that it would place those who live always in the enjoyment of an abundance, in sympathetic relations with those who frequently feel the pangs of hunger, and sense the weakness that comes of insufficient food. When the children of the rich feel the lassitude and perhaps the faintness that arises from their voluntary fasting, they can better understand the meaning of insufficient food, and days of enforced fasting that must be endured by the poor, and make them more ready and willing, -not only to deal kindly, but justly, with those who toil for rewards less than sufficient to meet their daily needs. It is for the Latter-day Saints to magnify this regulation of the Church, vindicate its wisdom, and demonstrate for the instruction of the world its wonderful possibilities.] 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

What "Mormonism" Stands For. — Gathering and Unity. — Things of God only to be Comprhended by the Spirit of God. — How to Obtain and Retain that 

Spirit.— Obedience the Key to all Blessings. 

This great gathering of God's people reminds me of a remark dropped by a reverend gentleman in a conversation between him and myself. It had devolved upon me to correct a public statement made by him, to the effect that the "Mormon" people advocate a social system destructive of the purity of the home. After I had, from this stand, corected that statement, the gentleman called upon me and explained very courteously that he had not intended to impugn the morality of the "Mormon home." He had meant to say merely that "Mormonism," as he viewed it, destroyed the oneness or integrity Of the home. He had used the word purity, he said, in the sense of oneness, and he added : "It seems to me that your system has a tendency to disunite and scatter things." 

I did what I could on that occasion, and have subsequently taken pains, to correct this mistaken notion. If "Mormonism" stands for anything, it stands for the gathering, not the scattering, of things, It is for the unification of all that is good and virtuous and pure and praiseworthy'. This vast congregation is a testimony to the character and results of our religion. These are the days of the gathering of Israel from their long dispersion. This is the dispensation of the fullness of times, when God has set his hand to gather in one all things in Christ, things in the heavens and things upon the earth. For this purpose the Gospel was instituted, and for this purpose it was restored in these latter days. Gathering is the great distinctive feature of the dispensation of the fullness of times. 123 

"Mormonism" does not scatter, does not disintegrate, does not divide; it gathers, unifies, and proposes to bring together all things in Christ. 

But how impossible it is to see the kingdom of God except by the Spirit of God. "Except a man be born again he cannot see" that kingdom. It does not matter how intelligent he may be, how learned, how educated, how well trained; if he have not the gift of the Holy Ghost he cannot comprehend the things of God. 

I have often marveled why those great men who came in contact with the Prophet Joseph Smith, men like Stephen A. Douglas and Abraham Lincoln, men of intelligence, men of character, men whose motives were pure and worthy for the most part — why they were not converted to the Gospel — the religion that Joseph Smith preached and represented. I have often wondered why such men as Hoarce Greeley, who came here in early days and had long interviews, with President Brigham Young — why he was not converted. Greeley, like Lincoln, was a good man, a great man, whose word at that time was more influential than that of the President of the. United States; he was probbably the greatest editor that ever lived. He came here, saw President Young, conversed with him, investigated "Mormonism," and went away and wrote a book in which he recorded his impressions of Utah and her people. -He wrote in praise of the people, but he was not converted to their religion. He did not see in "Mormonism" what you and I see in it. Why? It was not because he lacked intelligence, or education, or learning, the wisdom of the world. Schuyler Colfax  some years later; he was then Speaker of the House of Representatives; and he came again when he was Vice-President of the Nation. He also had interviews with President Young; he heard him preach in the "Old Bowery" then on this Block, and spoke there himself on the character and principles of Abraham Lincoln. But Colfax was far from converted to "Mormonism." He .wrote against it, used his powerful influence against it; utterly unable to see in it what you and I recognize. 

And so with this reverend gentleman to whom I have referred. He is right here among us; has studied our sacred .books; has heard our preachers; has made a diligent study of our system and faith; and yet he has formed the misconception that "Mormonism," whose. very sign-manual is gathering and unity, stands for and has a tendency toward division and distintegration. 

The explanation is simple, after all. Spiritual things are only to be comprehended by the Spirit. "Eye hath not seen, ear hath not heard, nor hath it entered into the heart of man to conceive of the great things that God has reserved for those who wait for Him. But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit, for the spirit searcheth all things, yea the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save by the spirit, of man that is in him? Even so, the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God." And the Spirit has been given to every man, woman, and child who has embraced the Gospel. All who have had faith in God, who have repented of their sins, have had their sins remitted by baptism, and have received the laying on of hands for GENERAL CONFERENCE.  gift of the Holy Ghost, are entitled to the possession of that Spirit, and it enables them to see what is hidden from the wisdom of the world. 

What a precious possession! Can we afford to part with it? How and why did we become possessed of it? It was because of our obedience. Every blessing comes from God upon that principle. There is "a law irrevocably decreed in the heavens," governing tfie distribution of all things, spiritual and temporal; and when we receive anything from Him who is the giver of every good and perfect gift, it is because of our obedience to the principle or law upon which that blessing was predicated. Men may sit upon thrones, may preside over nations, may issue edicts or enact laws; they may go through college may become eminent; may possess all human wisdom and all worldly wealth, by virtue of their obedience to the laws governing such things; but if they ever receive the kingdom of God and the testimony of the truth, it will be because they obey the laws pertaining to these higher blessings. They can be obtained in no other way — neither obtained nor retained. Obedience is the key to it all. This is why our Savior exhorted the hearers of the word to be doers of it too, thus building upon the rock, and not upon the sand. There is no safety in any other course. We cannot receive a testimony that this is God's work, without obedience to Him, without the Spirit that rewards obedience. Neither can we retain that testimony, only by keeping God's commandments and having the Holy Spirit ever burning brightly upon the altar of our hearts. 

May the Lord help us to profit,  obedience, by all the good things that we have heard during this Conference. May he enable us to maintain ourselves firmly upon the rock where He has planted our feet, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows: 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles : Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Claw son, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage. 

Hyrum G. Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies : Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors. 125 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August W. Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young. 

Auditing committee : William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Jos. S. Wells. 

Tabernacle choir: Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, librarian; and all the members. 

Duncan M. McAllister as clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions des, by unanimous vote of the Conference. .. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

There is only time for one thing more, and that is an expression from this vast conrgegation as to their feeling relative to our conference. I move that it be the sense of this vast assembly that this has been one of the best conferences that we have ever had in the Church. (Motion seconded.) All in favor will signify it. Contrary bythe same sign. I see no contrary vote, it is unanimous. 

Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward, and the choir, sang the anthem, "When Thou comest to the judgment" ("Inflamatus"). 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder James W. Paxman. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens, assisted by Horace S. Ensign, conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the Conference meetings in the Tabernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom. Frederick E. Barker, Fred G. Barker, and Clarence Cramer. 

Duncan M. McAllister, Clerk of Conference. 

THREE IMPORTANT 

NEW BOOKS 

THE RESTORATION OF THE GOSPEL 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE, A. M., Principal of the Latter-day Saints' High School. With an introduction by Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the Twelve. 

Adopted by L. D. S. Correspondence School for Missionaries. 

Bound in cloth, 75c postpaid. 

THE REIGN OF ANTICHRIST 

The series of articles on The Apostasy, by J. M. SJODAHL, which appeared some time ago in The Deseret News, are now offered the public in a booklet entitled, "The Reign of Antichrist." Numerous requests have been received that the articles referred to be preserved in a more convenient form than that of a series of contributions to a daily newspaper, and the book now appears in response to such requests. Cloth binding, 50c, postpaid. Paper binding, 25c, postpaid. 

JOSEPH SMITH'S TEACHINGS 

This book contains the Prophet's sermons and religious doctrinal writings, gathered from the six volumes of the authorized "History of the Church, of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and arranged according to subject in alphabetical order. Price, postpaid, 75c. 

Deseret News Book Store 

6 MAIN STREET, - SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







