Afternoon
03 10 1941

Conference reconvened at 2 o'clock p. m., Friday, October 3. 

President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, conducted the services. 

The combined choruses of the Relief Society Singing Mothers of Bonneville, Cottonwood, Emigration, Ensign, Highland, and Wells Stakes furnished the music for this session. Brother Frank W. Asper was at the organ. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

President Grant thought it advisable for him to rest this afternoon. His two Counselors are present, all the Twelve Apostles, five Assistants to the Twelve, six of the First Council of the Seventy, and all of the Presiding Bishopric. 

The combined choruses and the congregation sang the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel" — Words by Phelps. 

Elder Henry C. Jacobs, President of the North Sanpete Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The combined choruses of the Relief Society Singing Mothers sang "America, the Beautiful" — Ward. Director: Ila Wheelright of the Ensign Stake. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The lawyer said : 

Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 Birst Dag 

commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. (Matthew 22:36:39) 

The world's greatest need in this its most tragic and its most terrible hour is spiritual regeneration and applied religion. And it is concerning this need that I desire to speak today. I appeal to you for serious consideration of those great fundamental religious ideals, those basic laws of God which from the beginning all good people have had a desire and an ambition to obey. Those who appreciate and really understand modern Christian civilization believe in being honest, they believe in being true, and they believe in doing good to all men. 

LOVE YOUR ENEMIES 

Anciently it was said : 

An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. 

Only the beast-like, those not endowed with that gift of reason and feeling with which man is endowed can practice such a revengeful and selfish teaching. The words of the Savior are : 

But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you. 

And he adds : 

Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. (Matthew S :38-48) 

This is real religion. Measured by this perfect standard which the Savior laid down and in accordance with which He Himself lived, where will you and where will I be classified ? 

Again Paul says : 

Remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. (Acts 20:35) 

And the Psalmist records : Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile. (Psalms 34:13.) 

This again is real religion. Measured by such a standard where would a fair classification put you and me ? Again : 

If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, that man's religion is vain. Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this: To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. (James 1:26-27.) 

In this most tragic and terrible hour, will all good people not agree that this is real religion? And judged by these high and perfect standards let me ask again, where would a calm and a fair judgment put you and me? 

NO CHILD HUNGRY OR COLD 

While the Gospel plan is perfect and we mortals may not be able to live that plan perfectly, we can make an effort in that direction, and the greater the effort, the more nearly perfect will be the result. What a glorious condition would prevail in the world if we could practice in high degree these teachings of real religion, the love of God, and the brotherhood of man. What a glorious condition would prevail if no child anywhere were hungry, barefooted, or poorly clothed; if every child had a well-balanced diet, and a comfortable home in which to live, with ample health and educational opportunities; if all who are able-bodied could secure work so as to make it possible for them, by the sweat of the brow, to earn their living; if those who are unable to work and earn could, with genuine willingness and love, be cared for in real comfort, then truly the conditions prevailing would be glorious. And let us remember and realize that real practical, unselfish, applied religion can bring about this greatly desired condition. 

We all need that genuine Christian spirit which not only acts so effectively as a spur to promote human happiness, comfort and welfare, but which reacts upon ourselves, stimulates our growth and development and encourages in us a general community spirit of cooperation and well doing. Man thus actuated will not only lead a better individual life but he will help to build a stronger and a better nation. 

MAN TO HAVE DOMINION 

Man was made to be free, to rule and to have dominion. And this does not mean a dominion to be gained by military power or by brute force but by the power of love, unselfishness and understanding. 

It is because some of the leaders of men today lack spirituality and proper adherence to religious ideals and standards that the whole world is filled with war and cries of war. Men may call out peace, peace, but there is no peace. The whole world, every nation therein, is preparing for war, or for so-called defense, at a rate and at a cost unknown and unheard of before even in man's wildest imagination. And all this has come about because of the selfishness, greed, envy, hate, ambition and the tyranny of some of the leaders of mankind. Nothing but spiritual regeneration, and a return to the religion of justice, fairness and love can remove from the world the causes of this mighty, this unparalleled conflict. 

RIDING DRUNKENLY TO A FALL 

Let me ask you if the training given to our young people these days is providing a solution to the great problems with which our beloved country and all other nations are confronted ? Was Agnes Bryson right when she said : 

Crime is increasing, poverty is increasing, indecency is flaunting itself, dishonesty in private life and in public life in these days oftentimes causes but little comment. 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 Firs* Day 

And she concludes : 

We are riding drunkenly to a fall. 

You know that those moral and religious standards which civilized people have looked upon throughout the ages as well founded and as controlling principles are, in some quarters today, treated with disdain and with contempt. In many places cruel and merciless brute force has replaced reason and a feeling of fair dealing. The ruling agency of some leaders is violent and irrational emotion. One civilized and free nation after another has been conquered by the use of force as devoid of reason as is that force the tiger uses when he devours a lamb. We are seeing in these days how it may be possible for force unguided by religion, morals or honor to conquer the world: 

POWERFUL BEAST, HELPLESS PREY 

What some are calling a "New Order" follows the oldest order known. It is not unlike the practice of the powerful beast devouring its helpless prey. It is an order whose motives are prompted by envy, hatred and malice. It is an order that takes from man his freedom and makes it impossible for the individual, however righteous, trustworthy, talented, ambitious or competent, to work effectively, to rise and to make his contribution to the good of mankind by rendering the highest human service of which he is capable. This so-called new order is distinctly, yes, violently against the progress and welfare of the masses of the people. It would destroy the very foundations of free government. This plan displaces the rule of moral principle with that of selfishness, force and greed. 

PEACE THAT PASSETH UNDERSTANDING 

Compare such a condition with the spirit of real religion expressed in the scriptures as "The love of Christ which passeth knowledge" (Eph. 3:19) "and the peace of God which passeth all understanding." (Phil. 4:7) 

APPALLING ATTACK ON INNOCENTS 

As an illustration of what has come into the world for lack of justice, honor and religion, we need only remember that it is but thirteen years since in the City of Paris the governments of nearly all the nations of the world united with their fellow governments in a pledge, covenant and treaty to renounce war and to proceed to the settlement of international differences and disputes by means of peaceful discussion and arbitration. The leaders of some nations, contrary to these their solemn and sacred pledges, began at once extensive preparations for war. The democratic nations, taking it for granted that the other powers were honest and would keep faith, did little in the way of making military preparations and thus brought about the unfortunate situation which has led to the downfall of France and to the appalling attack that is now being made on Great Britain and its people. 

HOLDING PISTOL AT NEIGHBOR'S HEAD 

Is using force the wise way of proceeding to get even that which may be fairly and justly due? All truly civilized peoples around the world will unitedly answer, "No." Babson is probably right when he says: 

Anything gained today by holding a pistol at your neighbor's head will surely be lost tomorrow. 

We must in our country do away with those activities which are carried on for selfish and for personal interests with little or no regard for human personality or for the good and welfare of the people or of the nation. Pressure methods, mob rule, whatever its form, must be overcome if we are to preserve our form of government. It was internal dissension, lack of unity, yes, it was the lack of the spiritual values of which I am speaking that brought ruin to that once great, powerful and glorious French Republic. 

PLEDGES FLAGRANTLY DISHONORED 

What a sorry condition our world is in when in it there are nations whose promises and pledges are flagrantly and openly dishonored! Such actions lead only to the making of new agreements whose terms contain provisions of ever-increasing severity and harshness. There appears to be no limit to the demands which some government officials make of their victims. Conditions today in many conquered countries are bad, but it appears they will continue to grow worse. The rights promised to the conquered people may, at any moment, be taken away because of the lack of integrity on the part of the conquerors. The plan seems to be to so lower the morale of these unfortunate ones as to make them positively helpless. 

FUNDAMENTALS OF FREEDOM 

Our national defense program sets forth the idea of our giving assistance to those who are struggling to secure a world order built on such moral foundations of justice, cooperation, freedom and unselfishness that war will be impossible and will be done away with forever; that the light of liberty shall not be extinguished, that the blessings of peace and freedom shall be preserved, and that all people shall have the privilege of living together as equals. We are struggling to maintain our five great fundamental individual liberties, namely, freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, and freedom to petition the government for redress of grievances. 

NATURAL ABILITY RICHLY REWARDED 

Our country has had an unparalleled development and growth because here in this land of freedom men and women who exhibit exceptional ability and capacity for achievement are given an opportunity to rise quickly to positions and opportunities of ever-increasing importance. 

30 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 3 First Dap 

President Nicholas Murray Butler says that of the chief administrative officers of twelve of the greatest railway companies in our country, five began their services as clerks, two as office boys, one as fireman, one as locomotive engineer, one as a track laborer, one as a stenographer, one as a telegraph operator, and one as a rodman in a surveying party. This indicates how in a free country opportunities and positions of the highest order are open to those who possess exceptional native ability. 

LEADERS COMPETENT AND RIGHTEOUS 

The right to work, to earn and to save, and the right by the use of savings to increase productive power and thus to provide the everincreasing number of human needs is a fundamental of our form of government which we must preserve. The liberty of which I speak and the Christian ideals which are its foundation will carry civilization forward swiftly generation after generation if we can but have the leadership of those who as leaders are the most competent and the most righteous. Progress and development depend upon the ability, the capability for achievement and the high moral and religious standards of those who lead. 

WHICH ? FIGHT OR ARBITRATE 

Need I ask you or people generally which is right and righteous, which is wise, which conforms to the methods of modern education and civilization, — to fight or to arbitrate? One is the method of force, the other the method of intelligence and reason; one the method of the brainless beast, the other the method of man who is created in the image of God. 

LEAST MAY BE GREATEST 

Our own Church is a well-nigh perfect example of true democracy. Our Bishops, our Stake Presidents, other Ward and Stake officials, the General Authorities of the Church, and our missionaries may come from any or all of the various walks of life. No one in the Church occupies a place so humble that he cannot find ample opportunity somewhere in this organization to exercise his leadership if he has a good character and if by nature he has been blessed with unusual ability to lead. 

IN UNITY THERE IS STRENGTH 

And it is not only the right but the duty of the officials in the Church to use the ability and intelligence the Creator has given them. These leaders are expected when matters are being discussed to express their own personal views fully and completely. But when a majority of any Church group has reached a decision, that decision becomes the decision of the whole group and all are expected to sustain that decision whether or not it agrees with their original views. Our Church people realize that in unity there is strength and that a house divided against itself cannot stand. 

FREEDOM AND JUSTICE FOR ALL 

Let us therefore forever unite in our prayers and in our efforts to preserve that great principle of "freedom and justice for all" for which our forefathers so nobly fought, so freely bled and in many cases gave their lives so gloriously on the field of honor. Let us stand for and practice that dependability which Dr. Thomas Nixon Carver calls the greatest modern saving device. Let us be honest, let us be true, let us try to be unselfish and struggle always to do good to all men. According to the standard set for the Boy Scouts, let us do our daily good turn, let us help other people at all times and may we by thus practicing the teachings of real religion acquire truly a genuine spiritual regeneration and know and feel in our hearts that love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that peace of God which passeth all understanding, I humbly pray. 

ELDER SAMUEL O. BENNION 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

Thanks to President McKay for the few moments of warning. It is said that to be forewarned is to be forearmed, but I am a little doubtful about it now. 

APPRECIATION OF PRESIDENT GRANT 

I was very much impressed this morning with that rich testimony that came to us from President Heber J. Grant. I do not know how many of us regard his testimony as we should do — the testimony of a prophet of God. As I looked at him I thought of the prophets of old. They occupied no greater position than does he, if as great, for in these the latter days many, many wonderful things have been revealed and inaugurated that were not heard of in the ancient order of the Church, in the centuries that are past. To me his message was most impressive, and I marveled at his strength. 

I believe if there ever was a time when men and women should hold to the principles of truth and be absolutely genuine in their endeavors and in their appeals to the Lord, it is now. And it gives us all renewed faith and courage to behold a man like President Grant, whose many years of righteous living have made him so valuable to the children of men, not only in this Church, but out of the Church; all men must be profited by listening to him. 

PREPARATION FOR COMING EVENTS STRESSED 

I was greatly impressed by those words of President Clark that we should prepare for the great things that are coming. There are organizations that are formed now, that, it is claimed, will serve as a cushion when the fall comes, and it will come, for there cannot be a continuation of conditions as they now exist, there never can be a government of peace under the present propaganda. It is the thing that has rocked the old world and put it in the war, and, unless a change takes place, it will throw 

32 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Dag 

this country into conflict just as surely as we are here. Nothing but the supreme power of God can withstand the blow that is to come, and I take it He will very likely allow men to carry on as they will. But here in this Church we know the truth. Here we sit in council and in conference. Here we are well informed, and we do not need to do any guessing about it. We know that just as surely as the world is at war, just so surely will this country be thrown into conflict, unless the power of right prevails. Only those who are prepared will be able to stand. 

This Church must be held as a unit of the great commonwealth of the country. Men and women must stand by the principles and ideals of this Church, and they must know the things whereof they speak. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that nothing but pure knowledge will save a man, and that means there is a great deal of knowledge in this world that is not pure or good or genuine. But the wise use of pure knowledge will save men. 

THE GOSPEL RESTORED IN POWER 

The plan of salvation .has been outlined carefully for us. There is not a man or a woman who holds membership in this Church but who knows in his heart, with all the surety that can be crowded into a mind and heart, that the Lord appeared to Joseph Smith; that that boy received the revelations that he said he did, and the visitation of the Father and the Son; and that he was so filled with the power of God that he carried with him that influence so long as he lived in the earth. He left his testimony, he left the written word, he gave to the children of men so much doctrine that as long as the earth stands they will not be able to consume or understand it all, for those principles were pertaining to eternal life, as well as here. This is the preparatory state. 

QUOTATIONS FROM PRESIDENTS OF THE CFIURCH 

I want to read something that President Joseph F. Smith said from this stand some years ago: 

"Men and women should become settled in the truth and founded in a knowledge of the Gospel, depending upon no person for borrowed light, but trusting only upon the Holy Spirit, who is ever the same, shining forth and forever testifying to the endurance of the Priesthood, who live in harmony with the laws of the Gospel, of the glory and will of the Father. They will then have light everlasting which cannot be obscured. By its shining in their lives they will cause others to glorify God, and by their well-doing put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, and show forth the praises of Him who hath called them out of darkness into His marvelous light." 

President Heber J. Grant said not long ago : 

"No people upon the face of the earth have ever been blessed as have been the Latter-day Saints. No other people have ever had the manifestations of kindness and mercy and long-suffering of God, that have been bestowed upon us, and we, above all men and women upon the earth, should live God-like and upright lives. STUDY OF THE WORD OF GOD URGED 

Now, brethren and sisters, these principles of salvation which the Lord has revealed, and which He renews constantly unto us, through the voices of His prophets, are the word of God unto us. I am wondering if this group of people known as the Latter-day Saints read the doctrines of Christ as they ought to read them. I am wondering if we put in as much time studying and re-reading as we should. 

Jesus said: 

I am the way, the truth and the light. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. 

And He also said : 

Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me. 

I wonder how many of us read the Book ,0/ Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and the revelations of God that come to us by way of speech and sermon and in song. 

KNOWLEDGE OF CHURCH HISTORY IMPORTANT 

I think we are facing today a crisis that the Church has never faced before. There are so many things in this world that lead men and women astray, that lead the youth of Zion away from us — propaganda and vicious habits, things that have not had such sway in the world before as they do at the present time. I wonder if men with families have provided themselves with enough reading matter so that their sons and daughters may be informed as to the conditions of things that have happened and that will happen, according to the revelations of God. How many of us have the History of the Church in our homes, the documentary evidence of the Church. In that history we shall find a record of the hand dealing of God with this people, from the days of the appearance of the Father and the Son, until the time of Brigham Young; the foundation principles that brought into existence the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, the organization of the Church, the trials of the members of the Church in Nauvoo and in Missouri, and their trips back and forth into Kirtland. 

Many boys and girls there are who are attending the schools of our country, who pay no attention at all to these wonderful references. The history of the Church, which records the manifestations of God and the revelations which He has given, should be where young people can read it, and where men and women can review it. 

In their reading they should seek the Holy Spirit, it is the power of God; it is the thing that gives unto the children of men knowledge. "No man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed; and no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost." 

The Holy Ghost ministers unto the children of men, and it will bear testimony to any boy or girl who will read the doctrines of the Church and the scriptures, and who will do it soberly, with a desire to 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Day 

know. It will give unto them a testimony, even though they be young. And to those who are old, it will enlarge their circle of understanding. It will establish faith in our hearts, and by that faith we will prepare for the future that awaits us in this life, and will be made strong to meet the trials ahead. It will be the thing that will help each and every one of us to say, I listen and I obey the leadership of this Church. I will do my very best to sustain and establish the cause of Christ. 

Out of this knowledge comes power, and when men have knowledge and they want to use that power that comes from it, they can do it in their homes, in their fields, in places of business, and in places where they are thrown together among men who do not believe as we do. We will have the power of truth and cannot be swerved. 

A TESTIMONY AS TO THE LEADERS OF THE CHURCH 

Brothers and sisters, my time, I am sure, is gone. I am happy to be here. I know that this is the work of God. I know that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I know that Heber J. Grant stands at the head of the Church as the anointed one of our Eternal Father, to give and to lead and to guide; and associated with him are his Counselors and the Twelve, and all who are assisting in the leadership of the Church. If we stand by them we will carry out the plan of our eternal Father, and I pray that we may do it, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

It is a great source of joy, my brethren and sisters, to be with you today and enjoy the spirit of the Conference. I pray that the power of the Holy Spirit may attend me in what I shall say, that I may say those things that are in harmony with the principles of the Gospel which we have espoused. I rejoice greatly in this conference. It is a great pleasure to be with you today, and to hear the fine testimonies that have been borne, the wonderful instructions that have been given by those who have spoken. 

I have been greatly impressed, especially by the testimony of President Heber J. Grant, a very remarkable testimony, it seems to me, that he has given to us today, and the work that he has accomplished. He is indeed a servant of the Lord, and has declared unto us the principles of truth which we have had occasion to espouse, and which we are attempting to carry out to the very best of our ability. I rejoice in all the things that have been said and done. 

EXPRESSES DESIRE TO LIVE THE GOSPEL 

I am with you, my brethren and sisters, in the observance of every principle of the Gospel, to the very best of my ability, in harmony with the purposes of the Lord. I desire, as far as it is in my power, to do my part for the advancement of this work. I  with you today. I have a great desire to live the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in its fulness, to the very best of my ability. I realize the fact that the Lord has given instructions so that we may understand and carry out in our lives these principles. I am heartily in accord with everything that has been said, every instruction that has been given to us. 

I endeavor, to the very best of my understanding and power, to live up to every commandment, every principle of the Gospel. I have great faith and testimony in every revelation the Lord has given to us. I appreciate the fact that the law of tithing is indeed a principle of promise and blessing, a principle that should bp fully espoused and carried out by the Latter-day Saints. My desire is to live the Gospel in every respect, to be careful and faithful in the observance of the principle of Fast offering, and everything that the Lord has made plain to us, because I am sure that every principle of the Gospel that the Lord has given is so easy to live, if we but have a desire and willingness to conform to it. We have no occasion to be backward or careless in the observance of these principles. 

TESTIMONY AS TO THE OBSERVANCE OF THE LAW OF TITHING 

I can state that the law of tithing is a very" easy principle, in my opinion. I have never had any difficulty in observing that principle, because I know it is true. I know the blessings of the Lord accompany the observance of the principle of tithing. The Lord gives great blessings to every one who observes it, and I am sure that we, as a people, can appreciate the benefits and blessings that come to us by the observance of this principle and every other principle that the Lord has given, because they are intended for our welfare. 

OBSERVANCE OF THE LAWS OF THE GOSPEL BRINGS BLESSINGS 

I have never had the least difficulty in observing the Word of Wisdom. I realize that there are great blessings attached to the observance of that principle. The Lord desires us so to live that we may have His blessings continually, to walk in His paths, to live His laws. To live these principles is so easy, comparatively, and yet so important and so vital to our welfare and progress. Every member of the Church should be willing to observe these things readily, promptly and faithfully, and realize the blessings that follow the observance of these things. 

Now I desire to say to you again that in the matter of every other principle the Lord has given, I am desirous of living each principle. I have never had difficulty in observing them. I am trying to do that which the Lord has asked of us, as fully as possible, as faithfully as possible. I realize that these blessings are to be given to every Latter-day Saint and his family, and I have endeavored, to the very best of my ability, with my family, to live in harmony with the observance of all these principles. 

36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Day 

I have experienced great joy and satisfaction through the observance of these things to the very best of my ability. To Sister Cannon it has been a very easy thing to observe the principle of tithing, to fully observe it and carry it out, and she has had great blessings in doing it, also our children, every one of the family, who tries to do these things. We have endeavored to teach all of our children so they will realize the great blessings that will come to them through these things. Inasmuch as they will do right, the blessings of the Lord will attend them. These are eternal principles. They are divine, and are intended for our welfare and progress. 

RESTORATION OF THE AARONIC PRIESTHOOD 

I would like to read to you a few words from section thirteen of the Doctrine and Covenants. In the beginning of the work which the Prophet Joseph Smith did, under instructions from the Lord, he was given the opportunity to receive the Aaronic Priesthood. We read, in the introduction to Section 13, of the ordination of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery to the Aaronic Priesthood, in Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, May 15th, 1829, under the hands of an angel, who announced himself as John, the same that is called John the Baptist in the New Testament. The angelic visitant averred that he was acting under the direction of Peter, James and John, the ancient Apostles who held the keys of the Higher Priesthood, which was called the Priesthood of Melchizedek. 

The promise was given to Joseph and Oliver that in due time the Priesthood of Melchizedek would be conferred upon them. John the Baptist conferred the authority of the Aaronic Priesthood upon these men in the following words : 

Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness. 

That great blessing was given to them at that time, and was followed by the restoration of the Melchizedek Priesthood. 

THE CHURCH ORGANIZED BY DIVINE INSTRUCTION 

In the twentieth section of the Doctrine and Covenants the following revelation was given to the brethren : 

"Revelation on Church Government, given through Joseph the Prophet, in April, 1830." 

Preceding the giving of this revelation the Prophet wrote : 

We obtained of Him (Jesus Christ) the following, by the spirit of prophecy and revelation, which not only gave us much information, but also pointed out to us the precise day upon which, according 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 37 

to His will and commandment, we should proceed to organize His Church once more here upon the earth. 

The Lord again attested the genuineness of the Book of Mormon. He gives commandments respecting baptism. We find descriptions of duties of the special officers of the Priesthood, the mode of baptism, the keeping of records of the Church. The revelation begins with the following words: 

The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one , thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April — 

Which commandments were given to Joseph Smith, Junior, who was called of God, and ordained an apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the first Elder of this Church; 

And to Oliver Cowdery, who was also called of God, an Apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the second Elder of this Church, and ordained under his hand; 

And this according to the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to whom be all glory, both now and forever. Amen. 

After it was truly manifested unto this first Elder that he had received a remission of his sins, he was entangled again in the vanities of the world; 

But after repenting, and humbling himself sincerely, through faith, God ministered unto him by an holy angel, whose countenance was as lightning, and whose garments were pure and white above all other whiteness; 

And gave unto him commandments which inspired him; 

And gave him power from on high, by the means which were before prepared, to translate the Book of Mormon, 

Which contains a record of a fallen people, and the fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to the Jews also, 

Which was given by inspiration, and is confirmed to others by the ministering of angels, and is declared unto the world by them — 

Proving to the world that the Holy Scriptures are true, and that God does inspire men and call them to his holy work in this age and generation, as well as in generations of old, 

Thereby showing that he is the same God yesterday, today and forever. Amen. 

Therefore, having so great witnesses, by them shall the world be judged, even as many as shall hereafter come to a knowledge of this work; 

And those who receive it in faith, and work righteousness, shall receive a crown of eternal life; 

But those who harden their hearts in unbelief, and reject it, it shall turn to their own condemnation — 

For the Lord God has spoken it; and we, the elders of the Church, have heard and bear witness to the words of the glorious Majesty on high, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 

By these things we know that there is a God in heaven, who is infinite and eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God, the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them; 

And that he created man, male and female, after his own image and in his own likeness, created he them, 

And gave unto them commandments that they should love' and First Day  him, the only living and true God, and that he should be the only being' whom they should worship. 

But by the transgression of these holy laws, man became sensual and devilish, and became fallen man. 

Wherefore the Almighty God gave his Only Begotten Son, as it is written in those scriptures which have been given of him. 

He suffered temptations but gave no heed unto them; 

He was crucified, died, and rose again the third day; 

And ascended into heaven, to sit down on the right hand of the Father, to reign with almighty power according to the will of the , Father. 

That as many as would believe and be baptized in his holy name, and endure in faith to the end, should be saved. 

That leads to a revelation given in a section, where some very important instructions are given. 

Brethren and sisters, I would like to read to you from a revelation given by the Lord in the hundred and twenty-first section. It is called "A Prayer and Prophecies, written by Joseph the Seer, while in Liberty Jail, Clay County, Missouri, March 20th, 1839," where he was suffering terrible experiences, and where he had to endure many hardships, many indignities. He was true and faithful through it all, and he received many instructions at that time, which are of great concern to the Latter-day Saints and all those who have in their hearts a love of truth, justice, freedom and righteousness. Let me read you part of that section : 

A Prayer and Prophecies written by Joseph Smith, the prophet, while a prisoner in the jail at Liberty, Missouri, dated March 20th, 1839. 

The Prophet with several companions had been months in prison. Their petitions and appeals directed to the executive officers and the judiciary had failed to bring them relief. Fervent appeals to the Lord in behalf of the suffering Saiints — The curse of the Lord to fall upon those who contend against His will — Men though called may not be chosen — The rights of the Priesthood inseparably connected with the powers of heaveen — Unrighteous exercise of the powers of the Priesthood leads to apostasy — Powers of the Priesthood to be exercised in justice and mercy. 

O God; where art thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth thy hiding place? 

How long shall thy hand be stayed, and thine eye, yea thy pure eye, behold from the eternal heavens the wrongs of thy people, and of thy servants, and thine ear be penetrated with their cries? 

Yea, O Lord, how long shall they suffer these wrongs and unlawful oppressions, before thine heart shall be softened toward them, and thy bowels be moved with compassion toward them? 

O Lord God Almighty, Maker of heaven, earth, and seas, and of all things that in them are, and who controllest and subjectest the devil, and the dark and benighted dominion of Sheol — stretch forth thy hand; let thine eye pierce; let thy pavilion be taken up; let thy hiding place no longer be covered; let thine ear be inclined; let thine heart be softened, and thy bowels moved with compassion toward us; 

Let thine anger be kindled against our enemies; and in the fury of thine heart, with thy sword avenge us of our wrongs. ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Remember thy suffering saints, O our God! and thy servants will rejoice in thy name forever. 

My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; 

And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes; 

Thy friends do stand by thee, and they shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands. 

Thou art not yet as Job; thy friends do not contend against thee, neither charge thee with transgression, as they did Job; 

And they who do charge thee with transgression, their hope shall be blasted, and their prospects shall melt away as the hoar frost melteth before the burning rays of the rising sun; 

And also that God hath set to his hand and seal to change the times and seasons, and to blind their minds, that they may not understand his marvelous workings; that he may prove them also and take them in their own craftiness; 

Also, because their hearts are corrupted, and the things which they are willing to bring upon others, and love to have others suffer, may come upon themselves, to the very uttermost; 

That they may be disappointed also, and their hopes may be cut 

off; 

And not many years hence, that they and their posterity shall be swept from under heaven, saith God, that not one of them is left to stand by the wall. 

Cursed are all those that shall lift up the heel against mine anointed, saith the Lord, and cry they have sinned when they have not sinned before me, saith the Lord, but have done that which was meet in mine eyes, and which 1 command them. 

But those who cry transgression, do it because they are the servants of sin, and are the children of disobedience themselves. 

And those who swear falsely against my servants, that they might bring them into bondage, and death — 

Woe unto them, because they have offended my little ones, they shall be severed from the ordinances of mine house. 

Their basket shall not be full, their houses and their barns shall perish, and they themselves shall be despised by those that flattered them. 

They shall not have right to the Priesthood, nor their posterity after them, from generation to generation. 

It had been better for them that a millstone had been hanged about their necks, and they drowned in the depth of the sea. 

Woe unto all those that discomfort my people, and drive, and murder, and testify against them, saith the Lord of Hosts; a generation of vipers shall not escape the damnation of hell. 

Behold, mine eyes see and know all their works, and I have in reserve a swift judgment in the season thereof, for them all; 

For there is a time appointed for every man, according as his works shall be. 

God shall give unto you (the saints) knowledge, by his Holy Spirit, yea, by the unspeakable gift of the Holy Ghost, that has not been revealed since the world was, until now; 

Which our forefathers have awaited with anxious expectation to be revealed in the last times, which their minds were pointed to, by the angels, as held in reserve for the fulness of their glory. 

A time to come in the which nothing shall be withheld, whether there be one God or many Gods, they shall be manifest. 

All thrones and dominions, principalities and powers, shall be revealed and set forth upon all who have endured valiantly for the gospel of Jesus Christ. 

40 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 3 First Dug 

A number of things more were said in the section. I will read a little further : 

How long can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri River in its decreed course, or to turn it up-stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven, upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints. 

Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? 

Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — 

That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. 

That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood or the authority of that man. 

Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. 

We have learned, by sad experience, that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. 

Hence many are called, but few are chosen. 

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and by love unfeigned; 

By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile. . . . 

Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the Priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. 

The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee for ever and ever. 

My brethren and sisters, I testify to you that the instructions given are of very great concern to us all. Latter-day Saints, they are as important as they were when they were first given. They are of great interest, just as much as they were when the revelation was first given. 

I pray the blessings of the Lord to be with you, and His choice mercy to attend us all, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Relief Society Singing Mothers sang "Songs My Mother Taught Me" — Dvorak. Director: Erma Steffensen of the Highland Stake. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

We should like to hear from Elder Hilton A. Robertson, former President of the Japanese Mission. He was recently in the hospital. We hope he has sufficiently recovered; and if he is in the audience will he please come forward and occupy one of these seats on the platform, near the pulpit. He performed an excellent mission in reopening the Japanese Mission, and we have not heard his report since he returned home. 

ELDER JAMES JUDD 

Former President of the Australian Mission 

I feel very humble, but yet I am grateful for this opportunity of reporting the Australian Mission. Sister Judd and I are thankful to our Father in heaven, and to the Presiding Authorities of this Church, that they saw fit to call us to go into that foreign land as their representatives. 

I am grateful for the young men that were sent there to preach the Gospel, the sacrifices that their parents made, that they might be ambassadors of truth. They were real representatives of their families. They were true disciples of our Father in Heaven, and they took advantage of every opportunity that was given them to deliver their message to those people who were sitting in darkness, or who had been misled by men and women who were not familiar with our teachings. It was surprising to me to see the courage that these young men had. They would meet up with men and women who had had years of experience, who had spent their life in studying the Bible, but yet they would approach them and explain our principles in a very clear and convincing way, and would leave an impression upon the minds of those people. 

I doubt very much whether, since this Church was organized, we have had the publicity in the Australian Mission that we have had the past three years, through the efforts of the Elders, and through the help which we have received from the various organizations here in Salt Lake. The Elders were very active in basketball, and by so doing it afforded them an opportunity to associate with hundreds of young men. The Australian people are very broadminded. They take to every kind of sports, and as basketball was new to them they were anxious to learn the fundamentals of that game. Even the police force of the city of Sydney was anxious that their younger members be taught this game; and the Chief of Police, in addressing about three hundred young men whom the Elders were going to teach the game, said : 

"These young Mormon gentlemen have come from America. They do not smoke; they do not partake of intoxicating drinks; they do not profane; they do not make vulgar statements, and when you are in their presence see that you do likewise." 

Just before I left Australia, when I was completing my necessary papers to leave that foreign land, Chief Connor said to me : 

42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 3 First Day 

"Do you know when your Elders are going to return ? When they do, the police force of Sydney wants to be the first to welcome them back to the shores of Australia" — and the police force is composed of about twenty-two hundred men. 

Our teaching of the Word of Wisdom is having a great effect upon the minds of those people. On one occasion there — it was on Boxing Day, which is the day after Christmas, and one of their most popular holidays, and being summer-time the people go to the ocean shores and the beaches by the thousands — we were on Manly Beach. The water was rough, and the life-guards were very active in saving many that were being drifted out into the current. While a number were being drifted out Sister Judd tried to take a moving picture. Thousands on the shore were watching the scene, and while so doing a young gentleman bumped into her. And he turned around and said : 

"Pardon me! Ah, an American, huh?" (If she had been an Australian she would have said: "I am sorry.") 

She said: "Yes, and there are a number of others standing right over there." 

He came over, thinking that he was going to give us a real treat. He had a package of American cigarettes. He said, "Have a cigarette." 

One of the Elders said : "I never smoke." The man made the same offer to the second, and to the third. The same reply : "I never smoke." He withdrew the package of cigarettes, threw down the one he was smoking, and said : 

"Yes, Latter-day Saints," and he put out his hand and shook the hands of the Elders, and was more pleased to meet them, because they did not smoke, than if they had accepted his cigarettes. This young man had met, on the shores of England, with some of our Mormon Elders. He knew our principles. 

At the time the cablegram was received from the First Presidency of the Church for the evacuation of all the Elders from Australia, — five days after that message was received all but a very few were on their way home. At that time most of the Branches were in charge of the Elders. Due to their departure it left most of our Branches in a disorganized condition, but the local brethren realized the responsibility which was resting upon them. Every Branch was completely organized, and they are at the present time very active in carrying on their duties. We have some of the finest tithe-payers there that there are in the Church. They pay their other offerings; they attend their meetings; they keep the Word of Wisdom. 

The Australian people are a very polite people. They are hospitable and friendly. They are determined, and when they start out to accomplish anything they are going to accomplish it. I think that that has been well proven, due to their wonderful fighting in the World War, and also that which they are doing at the present time. Due to the war we have been robbed of a great many of our Priesthood. At the present time more than -five percent of the Priesthood are in the service of their country, and one who was acting as a member of a Branch presidency at the commencement of the war is at the present time a Major in the Australian Army, and is in active service in Lybia. 

The Mission is under the leadership of President and Sister Elvon Orme and the members there are going to carry on. Sister Judd did a wonderful work in the Relief Society there. She made a great many friends, not only members of our Church, but also outside. One of her very closest friends was a granddaughter of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was not a member of our Church, but she came to our home quite f re- . quently. Sister Judd gave her a book, The Way to Perfection, of which Brother Joseph Fielding Smith is the author, and when she saw the name of the author she said : "Why, that is my cousin." During a number of conversations she said: " I have learned more of the Church through my visits to your home than I ever did before." 

I pray that God will bless us, that we may all be able to accept any position we may be called upon to fill by those who are placed to preside over us. I know that they are men of God. I know that they are inspired to give us the counsel and advice that they are giving us in these meetings. May we accept it in the same spirit in which it is given, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER W. W. SEEGMILLER 

Former President of the Western States Mission 

When Elder Sylvester Cannon talked about a revelation having been received in Liberty Jail, I thought, what a paradoxical name — Liberty Jail! Then I was reminded that it is no more paradoxical than many things we do today in the name of liberty. Again I thought, sin is bondage, and righteousness is liberty, so all who would be free need only obey the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, given by the Prince of Peace and the Author of Liberty. 

When I received a telegram in Denver, notifying me that my successor had been appointed, I confess that I read it with disconsolate feelings. It was not a pleasant thing to contemplate leaving the thousands of friends and hundreds of missionaries in the Western States Mission. I loved my work. I was engrossed in it. I felt that it was my life, and so I confess disappointment. But on more mature consideration I became firmly convinced that the decision of the Brethren that Mission Presidents shall be often rotated, released and exchanged, is the proper order, and I am sure that President Elbert R. Curtis will be a blessing to that Mission, and that the Mission will grow and advance more rapidly because of his coming. 

It was hard to leave Denver. I wondered just how we would go through with it. But I am happy to be here. This is a great privilege. I am happy to be in our humble little cottage. I am happy to be in the Bonneville Ward. When the Bishop asked me what I wanted to do there I said : 'Whatever you want me to do," and he notified me in a few days 



44 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. October 3 First Day 

that I was the Adult Aaronic Priesthood supervisor of that Ward. I had rather have that position than any other position in the Ward, had I felt at liberty to take my choice, because I feel a great opportunity has come to me to continue missionary work. 

When I met with the Priesthood of Bonneville Ward and Bonneville Stake I said to Sister Seegmiller : "Is there a finer body of men in the world? If there is, I don't know where to find it." Could a man be associated with any men, anywhere, that it would be such a privilege? I cannot conceive of a place where they could be. 

The new Bonneville Ward is where I live, and I am happy to be there. I am happy to be here. I know that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is true. Sometimes I wonder, in the varied activities of missionaries, if we forget that our calling is to bear testimony that the Gospel has again been revealed, that it is here, and realize full well that we missionaries are disciples of Jesus Christ, just the same as was Peter, James, and John. 

So, my brethren and sisters, the thing I hope all new missionaries will remember is that they are called to preach the Gospel, that they are called to bear witness. It is a simple thing to preach truth, because truth is simple, truth is convincing. That is all we have to do, as missionaries, is to be faithful and true and diligent and preach the truth. 

I know that the Gospel is true. I hope that I shall always have strength to endure and be active in it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER THOMAS E. McKAY 

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I feel very humble, my brethren and sisters, in standing before you this afternoon. While President Grant was giving his wonderful testimony this morning, I thought how happy our members and friends in the European Missions would be if they could have the privilege that we now have of being in this historic Tabernacle and listening to the Prophet of God. 

PROGRESS BEING MADE IN EUROPEAN MISSIONS 

In reporting for these European Missions I am happy to state that headquarters continue to be maintained in ten of the twelve Missions. The headquarters of the French Mission at Paris has been closed, but we have district headquarters in Belgium and the French part of Switzerland, where more than ninety percent of our French members reside. 

The Palestine-Syrian Mission is also in charge of two district presidents, one at Aleppo, Syria, and the other at Beirut, Lebanon. These district presidents and acting Mission Presidents are all local brethren. They, with their counselors or committees assisting them, are doing an exceptionally fine work. With the exception of a few of the smaller Branches, all meetings are being held as usual. District conferences are held twice a year in addition to an annual gathering. These yearly conferences or conventions generally last two or three days. 

SUCCESSFUL CONFERENCE OF DANISH MISSION 

The one held at Copenhagen, headquarters of the Danish Mission, this year continued throughout the entire week. We quote from the acting President's report: 

We have now completed our tenth annual M. I. A. Convention which this time covered a period of one week. The convention was opened on June 22 with two very well attended meetings at 10 a.m. and 7 p. m. Many Saints and friends had gathered from near and far. In spite of the difficulties the Saints willingly responded to the invitation to attend the convention. The railway fares have been raised 25 per cent, it thus being a rather heavy expense on the young people. 

The program for the various arrangements included very wonderful meetings, music, dance, excursions, a theater evening where the King and Queen honored us with their attendance; this was a great experience for many of the visitors, who had never seen the Sovereigns. 

When our visitors left Copenhagen many of them shed tears for joy, expressing their appreciation for the privilege which had been theirs to attend the best and most spiritual convention in the Danish Mission. I am sure they went home to their Branches filled with this one thought: To do better in the future and labor with greater zeal and interest for the marvelous cause in which they are engaged. 

CONFERENCE AT LIEGE 

The following paragraph is taken from a letter from the French Mission : 

On June 8 we held the semi-annual District Conference in Liege. We held three meetings. After one, a light meal (soup, with meat, vegetables, and potatoes) was offered free of cost to each member and friend, thanks to members' gifts. This little thing is gold now. 

We welcomed eleven new members, who were baptized and confirmed — four men, five women, one boy and one girl — making a total of thirteen baptisms since January. It was a spiritual conference, and we all felt the Holy Spirit among us. 

This little meat that they had at this free meal was as gold to them now. You know, all their letters are censored, so they cannot write all they would like to. Those few words tell volumes. 

These two reports are typical of the encouraging news that comes from all our European Missions. Nearly all of them report baptisms. The amount of tithing and Fast offerings is quite generally maintained and in at least two of the Missions an increase is shown. Considerable missionary work is still being carried on, especially is this true in the British Mission, where, it is reported in a letter just recently received, there are twenty-seven regular missionaries working. Besides, over three hundred home missionaries have been called in the various Branches and are devoting at least one or two evenings each week in tracting, visiting inactive members, selling and obtaining subscriptions to the Star, etc. First Dug In this letter also we are given a report from our members in Ireland, from which we quote the following: 

Have just returned from a visit to north and south Ireland, and was able to hold two separate conferences in Belfast and Dublin. The Dublin Saints are all very fine, and are supporting continually one missionary in the field. 

The Belfast Saints have suffered somewhat badly in a recent air raid. None of them has suffered any injury or death; some of them, however, lost some of their belongings. In one case a complete home was destroyed. Some of our members have had miraculous escapes. Members in England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland are all well. Slight damage was done by enemy action to premises No. 16. 

The district conferences held in the Swiss Mission were, considering the unusual conditions that prevail, especially well attended. At Zurich there were over 600 present; at Berne about 500; and at Basel, 650. The mission publications from the British, Norwegian, Swedish, Danish, Netherlands, and South African Missions are being received quite regularly. We also receive letters, but not quite so often, from the East and West German Missions, Czechoslovakian and Palestine-Syrian Missions. All letters come air mail, via the Clipper, and with the exception of those from the French-Swiss district and the Swiss Mission, all are censored. 

The acting Mission Presidents, the District Presidents, and our brethren and sisters assisting them are all doing exceptionally fine work. We are proud of them. They express appreciation to all, and especially are they grateful to the First Presidency for what they have done and are doing in their behalf. 

They appreciated very much the visit of President Grant. Oh, how grateful I am now that he visited all of those Missions, that our people there had the opportunity, many of them, of meeting him and shaking hands with him, and all of them — including hundreds of friends — of hearing his wonderful testimony! What a comfort and what a strength that is to them now in this time of trial! 

LOVE OF THE GOSPEL IN THE HEARTS OF THE EUROPEAN SAINTS 

I believe sometimes that they even appreciate the Gospel more than we do here at home, the way they attend their meetings, their sacrament meetings, their testimony meetings. No time is wasted there, when they have an opportunity to bear testimony. They love the Gospel and are doing their very best to live it. They not only say : "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men," but they are trying to live those principles in their lives. What a wonderful influence for good in the world it would be if all Latter-day Saints PRESIDENT GRANT'S VISIT could not only say "We believe these things," but could truthfully say, "We are honest; we are true; we are chaste; we are benevolent; we are doing good to all men," if we could in very truth say, "If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things; we are keeping the Word of Wisdom; we are keeping the Sabbath Day holy; we are paying our tithes and our offerings." Such an example would do more good than all the preaching we are now doing. 

Oh, Latter-day Saints, where much is given, it is said, much is required. These principles have been given to us, and if we could only live them; you cannot estimate the good that it would do throughout the world if truthfully it could be said we are living these principles. They are given to us for our happiness here upon this earth. 

A SINCERE TESTIMONY 

God lives, brethren and sisters. He is our Father. We are all His children. He loves us, even as we love our children, only He has a greater capacity for love. Because He loves us He has given us these principles to make us happy here in this life. "Man is that he might have joy," we are told. I want to testify to you brethren and sisters this afternoon that if we lived the Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed in these days we would have joy in this life; we would have a heaven here upon this earth, because all these principles are given to us for our happiness and our joy in this life, and it is not necessary to wait until the life to come. We would have love at home, and "there is beauty all around when there's love at home." 

I testify to you in all sincerity that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that all those who have succeeded him have been prophets of God to His people in this day. How grateful I am for the association of President Grant! No one can estimate the good that he has done, not only here among his people, but throughout the world; the better public relations that have been brought about by his contact with thousands of business men in all capacities, at gatherings of all kinds, conventions, meetings, and banquets given by Chambers of Commerce, where after his talks all have arisen in a body and cheered at length because of his faith-inspiring remarks. I want to tell you, brethren and sisters, that he is appreciated and loved, not only here at home but abroad, and especially by our brethren and sisters in our European Missions. 

May our Father in Heaven continue to bless' him, our people in war-torn Europe, and all of us, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ELRAY L. CHRISTIANSEN 

Former President of the Texas Mission 

To stand in this position before this tremendous audience, subdues one's spirit and one's feelings. I cannot stand here and behold this great building, without thinking of the sacrifice, and the wisdom and the genius that went into it, by that generation which preceded us. It is 



48 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Day 

still a commodious, pleasant, wonderful place to meet. I don't know where we can go and find more spiritual uplift, more inspiration, than we can receive here from time to time in these wonderful Conferences. 

As my wife, Sister Christiansen, and I approached this Block this morning, and saw silhouetted against the sky the form of the Angel Moroni, I said to her: "Think of the significance! Doesn't he look majestic?" My brethren and sisters, if we go away and then return to Zion and participate here we learn to appreciate more deeply the significance of the things upon this Block. I couldn't help but think of what that figure represents, — the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ for the last time, for the benefit of man, for his edification and for his salvation. 

Joseph Smith, a simple, humble boy, was the servant of God in filling this great mission. He was an ordinary young man, with a very ordinary name — Smith — and yet the work that he did was not at all ordinary, for he was an instrument in the hands of God in bringing about one of the greatest episodes that has ever come to the children of men since the time of the Savior — I suppose the greatest since that time. His name is honored and revered. Also his name is talked against. But, my brethren and sisters, we can very well sing : 

Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! 

Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer — Blessed to open the last dispensation; 

Kings shall extol him, and nations revere. 

Some people ask: "If what Joseph Smith did, and what you claim, is divine and of God, why is it that there was so much persecution, and has been so much ridicule in the past ? Why is it that this thing had such a struggle, and has been so despised" ? 

To answer that question all we need to do is to ask another : Why was Wycliffe tormented and driven and persecuted, and why were his books found and burned ? Wycliffe, as you know, translated the Bible into the English language. Why was Tyndale, who also translated it from the Greek language, hunted and persecuted by his enemies ? Why should there be such a tremendous force against the work of these two men ? Surely there was nothing in the Bible that would destroy any one, or their faith or their integrity. Why were the bones of the man I first named, finally dug up and thrown into the river? Why was Tyndale burned at the stake for what he did ? They suffered the martyr's crown for doing the work that God had foreordained them to do. 

So with Joseph Smith and his work in translating the Book of Mormon. He suffered the martyr's crown, as did these great men, and because this happened to him is no reason that the work he did is not of God. If I were on the outside and knew what I know now, I would begin to investigate because of the drivings and the persecutions that this people had in the early days, and because Joseph Smith and his brother were martyred for the cause that they espoused; because wherever there is driving of any extent you might look and find that it is the work of God that is being driven by the adversary of all good. And so it was with the Church, and so it was with the Book of Mormon, which has been so much ridiculed. 

My brethren and sisters, this report that I make at this time is the last official report I shall make as former President of the Texas Mission. I do it in all humility and with thanks to my Heavenly Father for the blessings unnumbered that He has given to me and my wife and my family. I was overwhelmed when the call came, but I have always believed that the Lord would make us- ready for those things which He calls us to do, if we are willing to accept the call. 

We have formed a great and beautiful association of and a friendship with those wonderful people in Texas and Louisiana. I too can say that they love the Gospel most dearly. They will travel miles and miles to hear it and to partake of it and to listen to the word of the Lord spoken by the Elders. We have one branch away out in the west plains of Texas, where we found one family and soon located others, that meets every Sunday. Five of these families travel from thirty-five to sixty miles every Sunday, and return. One of these men used to live in the Stakes of Zion, and he told me the last time I saw him: "It was difficult for us to go about six blocks to Church when I was out there, but I will tell you that we appreciate going sixty miles and return to Fort Stockton now, in order to partake of the sacrament and renew our covenants and hear the word of the Lord." 

In the Rio Grande Valley, those people living in that beautiful paradise there travel at least twenty-five miles every Sunday morning, have their sacrament meeting following Sunday School, and Priesthood meeting previous to Sunday School. Their Relief Society meets also along with the Mutual, on Tuesday evenings. 

The people in the Texas Mission have been diligent in trying to build up their places of meeting. They have succeeded in building eight buildings in which to meet, since we have been down there, in addition to a mission home. Two of these buildings were built and the ground provided, without calling upon the Church for any aid, and I tell you those buildings, modest as they are, are a compliment to the Church. That is the way they love to meet, the way they love to work for the Lord, and cherish that which is of most worth to them. This is manifested also in a steady increase in tithes and offerings and in the number observing these commandments. 

I don't know where one could look for a finer experience, a more sweet experience, than to labor with your sons and your daughters. To hear them bear testimony of the help that the Lord has given them from time to time, manifesting His power and His spirit through them, in the Priesthood which they hold; to have them stand with tears in their eyes and thank their Heavenly Father for their parents, and for the privilege that they have of finding life anew in the work of the Lord, would touch your hearts, as it has mine, deeply, time and time again. I think there is nothing more holy, more sacred, almost, than a young man or a young woman who has been rejuvenated, who has been transformed- after coming in contact with the Lord through prayer and through manifestations such as I have spoken of. 

50 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, October 3 First Day 

My brethren and sisters, there are only a few in the Church who are called to do regular missionary work, but all of us are called to live our religion. I believe that those thousands who come to see the things of interest upon this Block are entitled, when they meet up with us here in the cities and places in Utah and other States where the Mormons predominate, to expect and to find just the same type of devotion to our religion among us as they find invariably among your boys and girls in the mission field. 

I have said it once before, but I have reason to repeat it : I believe that more good can come from having one of these strangers from without our gates come here and find us living the principles of the Gospel that we have espoused; and that Gospel which we send these thousands of young men out to have them accept — than from many eloquent sermons from those who are qualified to speak. I know this, because I have met many men and women who visit here and return. Most of them have been deeply impressed. A few of them have registered some disappointment in some of the things that they have beheld. We can't afford to have that done. I am sure that if we would have the faith and the strength to live our religion, our progress would be doubled, at least, and we would be known the world over, more rapidly than we are now, for good, and for being a people great among the people of the world. We can't afford to be indifferent to the principles of the Gospel that we hold. From 2nd Nephi may I read this verse, where he says : 

Woe unto him that has the law given, yea, that has all the commandments of God, like unto us, and that transgresseth them and that wasteth the days of his probation, for awful is his state. 

Those of us who have received the Gospel are expected to more closely account for our actions and our lives, I believe, than those who have never come in contact with it. Let us live so that we may merit the choice blessings of the Lord. Let us be thankful and grateful that the greatest blessings that He has offered, those of eternal life and exaltation in His kingdom, are not at all dependent upon the business conditions of the world, nor upon man's poor power to direct and govern the affairs of men here upon the earth. They are given to us and are receivable upon obedience to the laws of God. 

I wish here to bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel. I know that Joseph Smith was an instrument in God's hands, and that these men sitting here on the stand are servants of the Lord, endowed with the holy power of the Prieshood to direct this people. I am grateful for the association that I have had with these men, and for the devotion that I see in them, the unselfish motives that they have in the work that they do. I have been edified in their presence when they have come into our mission and into our various meetings here at home. 

May I say this — I have never .said it before, and I know that Sister Christiansen would not approve of it — I hope she doesn't hear me — but, my brethren and sisters, I want to pay tribute to my dear wife for the good that she has done among the members and missionaries in Texas and Louisiana, and for the help that she has given me and my children, 



PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 51 

who I feel filled their mission as they should have done. I thank God for them, and I thank Him for the privilege that I have had. 

Now I am ready to do as I have told our missionaries to do when they get home : Preach the Gospel whenever you talk, and if the Bishop asks you to be janitor, be janitor. Accept any call that is given you, if it comes from those presiding over you. I now stand in the same position; I am ready; I am anxious now to teach the fundamental principles of the Gospel to the hundred and fifty young men and women that I meet every day. I have delighted in it the past month, and 1 find them delighting in learning. Why? This is the work of God. It is the truth! 

May God bless us all, I pray, in His name, Amen. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Will you please keep in mind the Chief of Police's appeal and admonition to keep mentally alert while walking or driving. 

The Relief Society Singing Mothers sang "The Lord Is My Light" — Allitson. Director : Nellie Bennion of the Cottonwood Stake. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

Again I express our gratitude and sincere appreciation of the rich contribution to our services by our Singing Mothers. God bless them. 

Elder Edward J. Wood, President of the Alberta Temple, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until Saturday, October 4, at 10 a. m. 


