Afternoon
04 10 1941

Conference reconvened promptly at 2 p. m., Saturday afternoon, October 4. 

President David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency, conducted the services. 

The music for this session of the Conference was furnished by the Tabernacle Choir, J. Spencer Cornwall, director; Alexander Schreiner, organist. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Praise to the Man" — Phelps. 

Elder Leland E. Anderson, President of the South Sanpete Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang an anthem, "Jesus, Word of God" — Mozart. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

I am pleased to announce that again the Tabernacle is filled to capacity. I can see people standing in the gallery and in the doorways. We welcome you to this the fourth session of this the 112th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My dear brethren and sisters, I rejoice in having again the opportunity of attending one of the great General Conferences of the Church. I pray that I may be directed by the Holy Spirit of God, so that whatever I may say may be acceptable to Him and profitable to you. 

PRESIDENT GRANT'S COVENANTS 

I listened with a great deal of interest to the sermon of the President of the Church yesterday, and ever since I have had in my heart the feeling to say to my assembled brethren and sisters that they would do well to memorize, or at least learn very carefully, the first extract that he read from his sermons, the one in which, when assuming the presidency of the Church, he made as it were a covenant with God and the people as to how his conduct would be. It would be well, I think, if every one of us, in our respective callings and activities, would make just such a covenant with the Lord and with those whom we are called to serve. 

THE CONFERENCE GATHERINGS REMARKABLE 

I am always, on occasions like this, and many other occasions, made to marvel at the vitality and the steady growth of the restored Church of Christ. Two evenings ago I attended the Aaronic Priesthood pageant in this great building. It was filled to overflowing, and thousands were turned away. As announced by President McKay, in the four sessions of this Conference, all held on week days, the Tabernacle has been filled to capacity, with many standing. It is remarkable, an evidence of that which binds together this great kingdom of God on earth. 

Perhaps the most remarkable thing about these great gatherings is that there are so many men here. A friend, not of this State, nor of our faith, who has been visiting some of the meetings of this Conference, told me yesterday of the deep impression made upon him by these gatherings, and emphasized the fact that there were so many men present. It is a unique thing in the history of religion, at least in the history of modern religion. In this Church, at least, it seems that the men are catching up with the women, and that is some accomplishment! 

PROGRESS OF THE CHURCH 

I have been thinking today, as I looked over this vast body of Priesthood, officers of the Church, that if Brigham Young and those associated with him, who laid the foundations of this structure could see, as I believe they do see, this building with its main floor chiefly filled with Bishops and their counselors and Stake Presidents with their counselors, they would and must feel the thrill that we feel. Their dreams are being realized. I really wish that all of you could be on this stand and see the faces of this vast assemblage of Latter-day Saints. Yet I suppose 

76 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Day 

none should be filled with marvel, or wonder, at the growth of the Church. After all, we have something precious to offer the world. Our traffic is in truth; and truth is the strongest cement for holding human organizations together. We offer the world truth; and truth so organized for human needs, and so brought within human understanding, that it becomes the answer to the deep questions which lie in every human heart, in every human soul. We answer these questions. We offer that for which humanity is hungering. I look forward to the time when this Church, because it is founded in truth, shall lead in all matters of righteousness throughout the world, until the very end, when every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is the Lord. 

Now, whenever I think about the progress of the Church I think also about the devoted thousands who make our progress possible. The statement made by President McKay this morning was certainly thrilling to all of us, with respect to the progress of the Church. It has come about because thousands and thousands of Latter-day Saints have devotedly performed their duties, done their work, lived the law as they understood it. Consequently the Church is growing, and I believe is acceptable to our Heavenly Father, even though not all are doing the best they might do in behalf of the Lord's great cause. 

PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY 

That leads me to a principle which I would like to lay before you, — a very simple one, known to all; but sometimes the simplest things are the most important; and sometimes, too, the simplest things are those which are most easily forgotten. Membership in this Church involves personal responsibility. The Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ presents^ the doctrine of individual salvation. There is no mass salvation in the Kingdom of God. One by one we enter into the glory of the Lord. I make my covenants alone. I go into the waters of baptism. No one can do that for me if I live on earth. Faith, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and all the things that pertain to the Gospel; I must accept myself. I cannot place the burden upon any one else. One of the simplest, as I have said, of all the principles of the Gospel, and one of the most important, is that we accept personal responsibility for the work of God's kingdom. 

This is, I think, illustrated nowhere better than in our Temple work. We have thousands of names on our records, but we must do the work for them name by name, name by name; and even then, after that has been done, each one of the dead, having this work done for him here, must, upon his own volition, accept the work done, before it becomes effective. 

We should all try to cultivate the feeling of personal responsibility for the work of these latter days. A church is but a collection of individuals. Any organization, a nation, is but a collection of individuals. The church is no greater than the sum total of the activities of the individuals belonging to it; the nation is no greater. We should accept this personal responsibility : This is my Church, not my Bishop's Church, my 

Stake President's Church, President Grant's Church. In my field of activity, within my calling, I am just as responsible for the welfare of this Church as any one of the brethren who may preside over the different divisions of the Church. Only as we understand that principle and practice it are we going to make, really, this splendid organization into one fully acceptable to our Heavenly Father. 

With respect to this great Conference the same principle applies. Are the instructions given from this stand for me or for my neighbor? There is a temptation, as we sit here and hear the old principles of the Gospel discussed over and over again to say to ourselves, "Why, that is for my neighbor. Brother Jones, just around the corner, needs this instruction. I will pass it on to him when I get home." But the counsel is meant for me. These Conference instructions have no virtue, no value, to me unless I accept them as if they were directed to me, to be built into my life, to be used by me in my daily work. 

No person can accept full responsibility, personal responsibility, as he should, for the welfare of this work, unless he learns the great secret art of self-forgetfulness. We must learn to forget ourselves in a great cause, to submerge ourselves in that great cause, to surrender to that great cause. The soul of man never grows to its full stature if the individual stands up before us while we are thinking : What am I getting out of this thing? Only those who have learned to give themselves to a cause enable their souls to grow to full stature. That also is of important consideration for us here. 

VISIT TO THE CANADIAN MISSION 

I have just returned from the Canadian Mission, a splendid Mission, in good condition, presided over by our colleague and good friend, David A. Smith. I met the missionaries there, and over and over again they said : "This is the happiest time of our lives. We never had as good a time." The reason is, of course, that they were practicing the very art of selfforgetfulness. They were giving themselves to a cause. After we return from our missions if we give ourselves to the great cause of the Lord at home, we shall have equal satisfaction, equal joy. There is no reason why our missionary service should be any happier than any other Church service, if we but learn the great principle of self-forgetfulness, or surrendering to a great cause. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF CITIZENSHIP 

I wonder if I dare to say that if we dig down into the motives of humanity we shall find that the horrors of this day, the war, and all the troubles that surround us at this time, both at home and abroad, are rooted in the failure of men to assume personal responsibility for the organization to which they belong. In democratic governments, at least — and all the European nations now at warfare have a democratic basis, though they have departed from it — if every man in those countries had sensed his personal responsibility for his nation, I doubt whether this 

78 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 4 . Second Day 

warfare, these bloody horrors, would be upon the world as they are at the present time. 

We are too prone, I think, to look for complex causes, for things far away, when in fact the issues strike home into our firesides within the simplicity of life and action. Life is not very complex, after all, if we analyze it thoroughly and well. This is not President Roosevelt's country. It is my country, and I must help to make it what it should be. This is not President Grant's Church. It is mine, and I have to help make it what it should be. That is my message to you here today. 

LOVE FOR THE LORD SHOWN IN KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS 

Now, in the minute or two left for me let us just bring these thoughts together by saying that to be personally responsible for the welfare of this Church we must do what President Grant has told us to do, to keep the commandments, to speak well of the Church, to find no fault, to look for the good, and to perform the duties assigned to us. In our little field of labor, whatever it may be, let us do our work as faithfully as President Grant does it in his field. Then all together we shall be able to build a marvelous institution, one acceptable to our Father in heaven, the Kingdom of God on earth. 

Keeping the commandments has been President Grant's message to this Church from the beginning. I jotted down here, as I thought of this subject, that the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith : "If thou lovest me"- — and this morning we had a marvelous sermon on love as against hate, one that will linger long in our memories — "If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep my commandments." Then we have the promise given through the same latter-day Prophet : 

"He that is faithful, the same shall be kept." — That means a great deal : "He that is faithful, the same shall be kept and blessed with much truth." And then the saying of the ancient prophet comes back to me, that if we do all these things, brethren and sisters, men and women of the Church, accepting our responsibility as individual members of the Church, the promise by the prophet of old will come true : 

One man of you shall chase a thousand, for the Lord your God, he it is that fighteth for you. 

NEPHl's WORDS TO HIS BRETHREN 

I think perhaps I can take one minute more, then I am through. Nephi had his difficulties. His brothers did not support him, did not support their father, Lehi, were in rebillion against the Lord. Then, one day their brother Nephi took them in hand and tried to remedy the situation, to convert them : 

And I said unto them: Have ye inquired of the Lord? 

And they said unto me: We have not; for the Lord maketh no such thing known unto us. 

Behold, I said unto them: How is it that ye do not keep the commandments of the Lord? How is it that ye will perish, because of the hardness of your hearts? 

Do ye not remember the things which the Lord hath said? If ye will not harden your hearts, and ask me in faith, believing that ye shall receive, with diligence in keeping my commandments, surely these things shall be made known unto you. 

This is the simplest of all formulas to win the Lord's favor handed down from ancient days — to reach out to the Lord, to trust Him, to keep His commandments. If we do this, all that we need shall be given us, and all shall be well with us, as individuals and as builders of the Lord's latter-day kingdom. 

God bless us and make us faithful in these things, and help us to understand more fully the meaning of the Gospel, I pray, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RUFUS K. HARDY 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My brethren and sisters, I think I have felt just as you have felt during this Conference, but particularly so during the remarks of President Grant, for I have watched him as long as I have memory, and as he was talking there kept occurring and recurring to me an incident that I want to pass on. 

INCIDENTS FROM PRESIDENT GRANT'S EARLY LIFE 

It has been my privilege, during the last few days, to examine the records of the Thirtieth Quorum of Seventy, and in my examination of this quorum of Seventy I discovered that it is the quorum to which President Grant belonged, and that sixty-six years ago, when he was but nineteen years of age, he joined this quorum of Seventy, and then one of the first things that President Grant said I copied down, and I want to read to you just what he did say. This was on June 16, 1876. 

President Grant stated he was pleased to meet with the brethren; bore an excellent testimony in regard to paying tithing, and felt well in the work of God, and felt to do his duty in the kingdom. 

Then again this statement : March 29th, 1877 — and remember now, President Grant was but twenty years of age. 

He was gratified at being present; realized that the consideration of religion should be uppermost in our minds; desired means and wealth to do good, and not to use in damning himself; wished always to have this spirit with him. 

There are many other things that were said by him that I shall not read, but that, in and of itself, is enough to give to us the real, true insight of this great man. It seems to me that God has continued His method of appointing leaders. You recall how David was called. God seems to have had His desires answered, in putting His fingers on the youth who He knew would go forward with the work in a way that would please Him. 

80 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 4 Second Day 

.A VALIANT SOLDIER 

Now, today I received a letter from the far-off regions of New Zealand, and in that letter I received pome very cheering news to me. Our boys in New Zealand who belong to this Church, who are in the war, were not lost as reported. They have been found, nearly all, or all of them, and taken into prison camps. Brother George Katene, one of the stalwart Elders in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in that land far from his home has been signally honored. He has been marked with the decoration of Great Britain, for his valor — and may I say that he is one of the graduates of our Maori Agricultural College. 

GRATITUDE EXPRESSED FOR BLESSINGS 

I jotted down a few things that I thought I would like to mention here, and if I can get through with them in just a few minutes I will be very, very happy. 

When I read of the sorrow and distress that is abroad upon the earth today I hold as the most precious gift God may give to me my citizenship in these United States, this blessed land of Joseph. My heart is poured out in constant gratitude for this glorious Gospel upon which we are feasting here today. But for it I should not be here, and perhaps should not have had earthly tabernacle. In humble gratitude I thank my Heavenly Father that I was born a generation removed from the terrible onslaught made by Satan to destroy this work in its inception, and that those heroes who preceded me so discouraged the Evil One, by their holy faith and devotion, that there came a lull in the persecution, and in that lull I was born. I think I have in my veins some of the blood of those who suffered and were tempted, so I have obtained my physical persecution in an easy way. But come what will, I hope I may never deny that knowledge which is in my heart today. 

satan's power to tempt Abraham Lincoln is quoted as stating this : 

I believe we are all agents and instruments of Divine Providence. I hold myself in my present position, and with the authority invested in me, as an instrument of Providence. I am conscious every moment that all I am and all I have are subject to the control of a Higher Power, and that Power can use me in any manner and at any time as in His wisdom might be pleasing to Him. 

I believe, however, that one so suave and so cunning as his Satanic Majesty, in order to induce our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ as he did, with his offer if He would bow down and worship him, is capable of bringing to us other temptations and other trials than physical trials, and I rely wholly and solely upon the answer of Christ to Satan. It is a comfort to me : "Thou shalt worship the 

Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve." Thereupon the devil left Him, and angels came and ministered to Him. 

god's power made manifest 

So in this rocky fastness, and in this great desert land of ours, God established this Church. To our forefathers be the glory. I want to say to you that there came to them, if not angelic inferences, help, sustaining power. It was the power, at least, of God, that made them continue on in what they did, until we find ourselves as we are today. So the Lord brought about exactly what the Prophet Isaiah declared would be brought to pass: 

For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden causes the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the Lord God will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations. 

This has been literally fulfilled in my lifetime, so with gratitude in my heart I praise my Heavenly Father. I thank Him for all that has come to me, and all that has come and is coming and will continue to come to this great Church. 

Lincoln's words fulfilled 

God the eternal Father, I thank Thee that we have men, even in these great warring armies, who may go forth with this Gospel of ours in their hearts, because those men will scatter peace, comfort and cheer to all with whom they come in contact. 

Let me again tell you what Lincoln said, and he said this just before Congress convened in 1862 : 

Fellow citizens, we cannot escape history. We of this Congress and of this administration will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No personal significance or insignificance can spare one or the other of us. The fiery trials through which we pass will light us down with honor or dishonor, to the last generation. 

That is true. What was true then is true of this Church today. The history of this up-till-now fearless people, who have made the Church what it is, shows that they have done so on a few fundamental things, some of which are the following: Implicit faith in God; confidence and trust in each other; scrupulous honor and integrity; thrift, and the God-given privilege of industrious labor, and a feeling of repugnance that is akin to disgrace, when any of us must carry the burden of debt. 

These are some of the glorious things for which I am thankful to my Heavenly Father today. 

admonitions of the savior 

These are some of the glorious things that our fathers practiced. That is^why we are here today, enjoying all the blessings of health and strength, wealth and power, but above all these temporal blessings, a spiritual contentment which solaces us from day to day. 

82 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 4 Second Day 

It is also the reason we can draw near to Christ's admonition recorded in St. Matthew, Chapter 5, verses 43-48. 

Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy. 

But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; 

That ye may be the children of your Father which is in Heaven: for He maketh His sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. 

For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? 

And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? Do not even the publicans so? 

Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. 

THE WORK OF STAKE MISSIONARIES 

During the first eight months of 1941, your Stake missionaries disposed of 4,812 Standard Works of the Church and 3,873 other books; performed 1,776 baptisms; and brought into communion with the Church 3,695 inactive members. 

My time is up. I offer a sincere prayer to God that He will not only bless us, but bless every nation and every people and every tribe of people that exists upon the earth, and prepare the backs for the stripes that some shall receive; and to those who receive nothing but plaudits, let them receive them in humility and in all praise to God for His mercies to us, all of which I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The prophet Azariah said to young and old : 

The Lord is with you while ye be with him, and if ye seek him ye will be found of him. But if ye forsake him, he will forsake you. 

THE COST OF TRANSGRESSION 

This is partnership with God. I wish you would consider with me, for a few moments, this question : What does it cost not to serve Jesus Christ ? The figures to me are astronomical. With my poor mathematical mind I cannot soar to their heights. But I can go and look at the wretched inmates of the prison; I can look at men and women who are crushed beneath sin; I can visualize those battlefields over the waters, those valleys that are running red with human blood, — and I ask myself what does it cost not to serve Jesus Christ ? The answer is before me. Beneath the stars of heaven there is no sight so pathetic as the wreck of a human being, and a home covered with shame is a tragedy. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 83 

The Lord said: 

Behold, the world is ripening in iniquity; and it must needs be that the children of men are stirred up unto repentance, both the Gentiles and also the house of Israel. 

Old-fashioned, you will say. Yes, they may seem so. They are not the empty words of philosophy, so called, but they are the true words of God. 

And again : 

And the whole world lieth in sin, and groaneth under darkness and under the bondage of sin. 

Is that true? Are we not under bondage, with these billions of dollars of national debt over us like a dark shadow? The Lord says every man who is in debt is in bondage. Do you not think that the word of the Lord should be heeded, and that we, as individuals, should get out of debt, and then we will have more force with our Government ? But the world is in bondage. The world is ripening in iniquity, and therefore the Lord said : "Say nothing but repentance unto this generation." 

Speaking of our country, I think the business men are largely to blame for these chaotic conditions. The Lord says : "Search out good and wise men" — not of any party; not of any church, but search out these good men and put them in charge of our civil affairs. But if you ask a business man to run for office, he becomes a Pharisee, a political Pharisee. He says : "I don't like to enter into the slime of politics." But who has made it a slime? The men who were unworthy to hold office. Business men say : "We can't be elected." Well, when, in the name of heaven, will you be any stronger? Why not enter the conflict? There ought to be common ground where good and wise men may stand, and their influence will be felt at headquarters in Washington. 

"Isn't repentance," as Carlyle says, "of all acts of men, the most divine?" The reward of repentance is a new man, a new birth. Think of the sweet influence that repentance brings. It changes the heart. It makes us feel that we have no more disposition to do evil, but to do good continually. Our Heavenly Father entreats us to be correct in manner, proper in our conduct, and an example and a light unto all mankind. Oh, the strength, the beauty there is in purity of heart! Emerson said : "My strength is as the strength of ten, because my heart is pure." 

You know the old story of the student who created a monstrous being from materials gathered in the tomb and the dissecting-room. Of course, it is a fable. The monster acquired life. The student was unable to control him. This monstrosity strangled the student, killed his bride and others of his loved ones, and finally found an end in the North Sea. By permitting this intemperance are we not constructing a monstrous being that will prove to be our master; and this monster of adultery — for unchastity is the dominant evil of the age. These great evils will strangle our youth and kill all that we cherish most dear, and yet we are responsible. 

84 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Day 

If we had done our full duty our people in the tops of these mountains would not be afflicted with these beer stands and liquor stores. We had the power — we have the power now to prevent it. Should we not, in the majesty and strength of a free people, rise up and crush this destroyer, before it crushes us ? 

WARNING TO AMERICA 

About our nation Moroni said — and his word is greater than all the statesmen of ancient or modern times — he is speaking of the United States of America : 

And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the decrees of God — that ye may repent, and not continue in your iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the land have hitherto done. 

Then Webster, the great expounder of the Constitution, catches the inspiration of the Nephite prophet, and in his matchless eloquence he adds to this warning : 

But if we and our posterity reject religious instruction and authority, violate the rules of eternal justice, trifle with the injunctions of morality, and recklessly destroy the political Constitution which holds us together, no man can tell how sudden a catastrophe may overwhelm us, that shall bury all our glory in profound obscurity. Should that catastrophe happen, let it have no history! Let the horrible narrative never be written! Let its fate be like that of the lost books of Livy, which no human eye shall ever read; or the missing Pleiad, of which no man can ever know more than that it is lost, and lost forever. 

FAITH EXPRESSED IN THE FUTURE 

If America falls, we will be the ones who have robbed ourselves of our glorious heritage, but I am not afraid that this republic will fall. I believe the Constitution is going to endure until the King of Kings comes in glory. He shall reign over the earth, from the rivers to the ends of the earth. The Book of Mormon is filled with divine prophecies, and divine promises to this American nation. Speaking of it the Lord says : 

And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles. 

And I will fortify this land against all other nations. ^ For he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish, for I, the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king, and I will be a light unto them forever, that hear my words. (II Nephi 10:11, 12, 14.) 

I am not afraid of any dictator coming over and conquering us. I cherish, in the fondest and deepest faith, the belief that the Star Spangled Banner shall reign over this land, and that no alien flag shall ever be permitted to be the "abomination and desolation" in free America. But all that depends upon the people serving Jesus Christ, who is the God of  land. If we serve Him — and here is our glorious opportunity — He will fortify us against all nations, and though the world combine in arms and attempt to invade us, every true American will meet them in battle array and send them back in the confusion of retreat, for when God is with us, who can be against us ? 

And the Star Spangled Banner in triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave, 

if we remember God and seek Him while He may be found. This is my prayer, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir sang an anthem, "My Redeemer Lives" — B. Cecil Gates. Richard P. Condie, soloist. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

You will agree, I am sure, that that is one of the most beautiful musical compositions ever written. The Choir sang it impressively. 

ELDER ALMA SONNE 

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My brethren and sisters : I am conscious at this moment of a tre- ' mendous responsibility. I am full of fear and apprehension, and I confess to you that when the call came to me to serve in a high position in this Church I was full of doubts and misgivings. Yet I pledge to you my best efforts, with the help of God. 

RECOLLECTIONS OF PAST TEACHINGS 

When President Grant spoke yesterday there came out of my boyhood three stimulating memories. One of these was the visit of President Wilford Woodruff to Logan when I was a boy. I remember his testimony. He spoke of Joseph Smith the Prophet, as one of his associates, and he told us that Joseph Smith was a mighty man, full of faith, full of courage, and full of integrity, but he said when Joseph Smith assumed his responsibility as a leader of the people, he was meek and humble as a child. I shall never forget the fervent testimony of President Woodruff. 

The second memory that came to me was President Heber J. Grant's visit to Logan, also when I was a boy. I remember his sermon on temperance and the Word of Wisdom. I shall never forget what he said on that occasion. 

The third memory is a recollection of seeing and hearing that venerable, scholarly and cultured leader, President Lorenzo Snow. He spoke of the law of the tithe, and urged the people to honor that great law, and he said if they would do so the Lord would lift them out of their economic distress. There are many people living in the Church who can remember the admonition of this great leader. 

86 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Day 

QUOTATION FROM "RAYS OF LIVING LIGHT" 

Thirty odd years ago I was a missionary over in England. I remember distributing a tract written by President Charles W. Penrose. That tract was called "Rays of Living Light." To me it has always been a masterpiece, for Brother Penrose explained the Gospel magnificently in that little booklet. I have frequently pondered the last paragraph in this Gospel tract, and I am taking the liberty of reading it to you this afternoon, in view of the many things which we have heard concerning the trouble and gloom of these last days. 

Said President Penrose: 

"This is a day of warning. It will be followed by a time of judgments. The Lord is about to shake terribly the kingdoms of this world. War, pestilence, famine, earthquake, whirlwind, and the devouring fire, with signs in the heavens and on the earth, will immediately precede the great consummation which is close at hand. These are the last days. All that has been foretold by the holy prophets concerning them is about to be literally fulfilled. The everlasting Gospel has been restored to the earth as one of the signs of the latter days. Israel is being gathered. The elect of God are assembling from the four quarters of the earth. The way is opening for the redemption of Judah. Soon all things will be in commotion: 'men's hearts failing them for fear and looking for the things that are coming on the earth.' The places of refuge appointed are in Zion and in Jerusalem. The Lord, even Jesus the Messiah, will come to His holy Temple. He will be glorified in His Saints, but will 'take vengeance on them that know not God and obey not the Gospel.' He will break in pieces the nations as a potter's vessel. He will sweep the earth as with a besom of destruction. He will establish righteousness upon it and give dominion to His people. 'The meek shall inherit the earth and the wicked be cut off forever.' Therefore, repent and turn unto Him, all ye nations, and obey Him, all ye people, for these words are true and faithful and are given by His Spirit! Salvation has come unto you; reject it not lest ye fall and perish. The time is at hand!" 

THE EXAMPLE OF THE PIONEERS 

Brethren and sisters, this great Gospel tract has found place in many homes in this nation and in old England. And so I say we are living in the last days, and when these events are transpiring. There is confusion in the world. We are beset with difficulties, and sometimes I think it is well for us to hark back to the days of the pioneers to get our bearings and to learn the principles upon which they succeeded. Those sturdy people who laid the foundation of all we have and are, were men and women of faith. They were obedient to the commandments of the Lord. They knew that freedom is a priceless treasure. How could they fail? 

In conclusion, I want to say that freedom in the earth must be safeguarded, and it will be safeguarded, brethren and sisters, because Jesus Christ was the great advocate of equal rights, and His precepts will eventually prevail. I firmly believe that Thomas Jefferson received  inspiration to write the Declaration of Independence from the Holy Scriptures, and that he was familiar with the life of Jesus Christ as told in the New Testament. 

May God bless you. May He bless this Church. May He prosper the cause of truth in all the earth, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER MARION G. ROMNEY 

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My dear brethren and sisters : It is a great relief when one's name is announced. The Prophet Joseph Smith once said that "There is no pain so awful as that of suspense." I quoted that to President Clark once and he answered in substance, "Well, you ought to be pretty well purified by now, then." But if being held in suspense will help to purify a person then I do not object to being so held. 

I want to qualify under the teachings of the Apostle John, who — when explaining that when the Lord should appear "we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He is" — said, "And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as He is pure." (1st John 3 :2-3) 

A TESTIMONY BRINGS RESPONSIBILITY 

I am grateful beyond my power to express, for the confidence of the Brethren and the great mercy and blessings of the Lord to me, and I appreciate the opportunity to bear my testimony to you from this stand for I know, with you, that God lives; that Adam fell that man might be; that Jesus Christ was and is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world; that by suffering in a manner beyond our power to understand, He wrought out the great atonement, thereby paying for the sin of Adam unconditionally and for the sins of all men upon condition of their individual repentance; and that by reason thereof all men shall be resurrected and stand before the judgment bar of God to be judged upon their individual records made during their life upon this earth; that when all the excuses, explanations and protestations are made and brushed aside, the final all-important question for every one of us to measure ourselves against will be, "How nearly did I in the living of my life upon the earth conform to the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ." I know, too, that a righteous judgment will be made, and that if through righteous living we have brought ourselves within reach of the great plan of mercy, then we shall, through the atoning blood of the Savior, be washed clean and received into the mansions of our Father. We all know these things and we each have a testimony of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and a knowledge that through him the Lord restored the Gospel in these last days and again organized His Church upon the earth; that the men who now stand at the head of the Church hold the keys of the holy Priesthood and that they have been chosen by the Lord to lead His people and are sustained and upheld by Him in 

88 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Day 

their ministry. It is the knowledge of these things that makes us brothers and sisters. 

THE TRUE MEANING OF BROTHERHOOD 

There are many people who admire the activities and accomplishments of the Church; who, when they see the results obtained through, and by the Church, think that fellowship with such an organization would be desirable, but who have no idea of what binds us together. Even among us, as members of the Church, there are those desiring to be known as members and willing to take some part in our activities, who as yet do not know wherein lies the power which sustains this people. Therefore, they do not care to be known as a peculiar people. They accept and fellowship with the Church so long as their standing in the world is not interfered with. They are our brothers and sisters, in fact all people are, but not in the same peculiar sense as are those who have the testimony and knowledge of which we have spoken. 

alma's EXPERENCE 

Mormon speaks of Alma and the sons of Mosiah as still being "brethren in the Lord" after having been separated for fourteen years. Let us recall for a moment their experience to determine what it was that made them "brethren in the Lord." As young men, they "went about to destroy the Church of God" and "to lead astray the people of the Lord." As they pursued their evil course, an angel of the Lord appeared unto them, his voice shook the earth; he questioned, and instructed Alma about many things. But the last words which Alma heard and the most impressive were, "And now I say unto thee, Alma, go thy way, and seek to destroy the Church no more . . . and this even if thou wilt of thyself be cast off." The angel spoke other words which Alma did not hear because he was overcome with fear. His soul was racked with eternal torment and he wandered through much tribulation. Repenting nigh unto death, he remembered all his sins and of this experience he says: 

So great had been my iniquities, that the very thought of coming into the presence of my God did rack my soul with inexpressible horror. 

Oh, thought I, that I could be banished and become extinct both soul and body, that I might not be brought to stand in the presence of my God, to be judged of my deeds. 

And now, for three days and for three nights was I racked, even with the pains of a damned soul. 

And it came to pass that as I was thus racked with torment, while I was harrowed up by the memory of my many sins, behold, I remembered also to have heard my father prophesy unto the people concerning the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world. 

Now, as my mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried within my heart: O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me, who am in the gall of bitterness, and am encircled about by the everlasting chains of death. (Alma 36:14-18.) 

He was then granted f oregiveness, his pain left and he was harrowed up by the memory of his sins no more. The light of the Gospel broke in upon his vision and joy entered his soul. His statement to those who stood around him was, 

I have repented of my sins, and have been redeemed of the Lord; behold I am born of the spirit. 

And the Lord said unto me: Marvel not that all mankind, yea, men and women, all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, must be born again; yea, born of God, changed from their carnal and fallen state, to a state of righteousness, being redeemed of God, becoming his sons and daughters; 

And thus they become new creatures; and unless they do this, they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God. (Mosiah 27:24, 25, 26.) 

From the time of this experience to the end of their lives Alma and the sons of Mosiah not only refrained from their former evil activities, but never again could they remain passive toward the progress of the truth. 

Alma near the close of his life, recounting this experience to his son Helaman, said, 

But behold, my limbs did receive their strength again, and I stood upon my feet, and did manifest unto the people that I had been born of God. 

Yea, and from that time even until now, I have labored without ceasing, that I might bring souls unto repentance; that I might bring them to taste of the exceeding joy of which I did taste; that they might also be born of God, and be filled with the Holy Ghost. (Alma 36:23-24.) 

It was this being born again, as explained by Alma, which made them "brethren in the Lord." 

The experience of each individual who is really born again is similar to this experience of Alma and the sons of Mosiah, although it may not be so dramatic. The effect upon each person's life is likewise similar. No person whose soul is illuminated by the burning Spirit of God can in this world of sin and dense darkness remain passive. He is driven by an irresistible urge to fit himself to be an active agent of God in furthering righteousness and in freeing the lives and minds of men from the bondage of sin. 

CHANGE WROUGHT ON PETER BY THE HOLY GHOST 

Consider for a moment the experience of Peter. On the night of the Master's trial, he denied thrice that he was one of the disciples of Jesus; and after the crucifixion, he with other disciples returned to his fishing. Then came the day of Pentecost, and Peter was born again. He never thereafter denied being a disciple of Jesus. Henceforth, his whole energy was devoted to the building of the kingdom. The change wrought in his heart is apparent when we contrast his words and actions on the night of the trial with his words and actions shortly thereafter when, through his and John's administration, the lame man had been healed and because 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday. October 4 Second Dag 

of the interest aroused thereby, Peter and John were called before the Jewish High Priests "and commanded . . . not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus." 

But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye. 

For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. (Acts 4:18-20.) 

AN EXPRESSION BY PARLEY P. PRATT 

Parley P. Pratt gives expression to the feelings of those who in our time have really been born again, in these words : 

If I had been set to turn the world over, to dig down a mountain, to go to the ends of the earth, or traverse the deserts of Arabia, it would have been easier than to have undertaken to rest, while the priesthood was upon me. I have received the holy anointing, and I can never rest till the last enemy is conquered, death destroyed, and truth reigns triumphant. 

From the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, it is apparent that every member of the Church should have something of this same spirit, for he said, "Let the Saints remember that great things depend on their individual exertion, and that they are called to be co-workers with us and the Holy Spirit in accomplishing the great work of the last days." 

One of the great tasks before us this day is to bring the unconverted within our ranks to a testimony and knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. For to every individual, whether in the Church or out of the Church, this testimony must come if they are to become brethren and sisters in the Lord; if they are to be "born of God, changed from their carnal and fallen state to a state of righteousness, being redeemed of God, becoming His sons and daughters." 

TRUE CONVERSION COMES THROUGH THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD 

To the accomplishment of this conversion are directed all the activities of the Church. The great Welfare Program has within it the possibilities of reaching multitudes of men and women and of leading them to this rebirth. The spirit of the Welfare Program is to bring both the receiver and the giver to the common ground on which the Spirit of God can meet them. For after all a testimony is received and a rebirth is experienced only by the Spirit. 

Now the way to obtain this rebirth, after all we can do, is to call upon the Father in the name of Jesus. Soon after burying our baby I once talked to a fellow workman on a construction job who had recently lost his wife. He said to me, in substance, "I would wade through the Great Salt Lake on my knees if I could have the assurance of meeting my wife again." That is not the way to obtain a witness from the Lord. Moroni gave the key when he said of the Book of Mormon, 

And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. 

And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. (Moroni 10:4, S.) 

Alma's experience also points the way. Listen to him again : 

And it came to pass that as I was racked with torment, while I was harrowed up by the memory of my many sins, behold, I remembered also to have heard my father prophesy unto the people concerning the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world. 

Now, as my mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried within my heart: O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me, who am in the gall of bitterness, and am encircled about by the everlasting chains of death. (Alma 36:17, 18.) 

The course Alma took, that is, to cry unto the Lord in sincere repentence — is the way for all men. And until this course is followed by men and nations, no rebirth will come to men, nor relief to nations. 

STEADFASTNESS BRINGS GROWTH AND POWER 

Not only must we all have the experience which first makes us brethren and sisters in the Lord, but having obtained this we must continue day by day through the years to maintain, and build upon it, as did Alma and the sons of Mosiah. They did it by studying the scriptures and by prayer and fasting. Of them it is written : 

Now these sons of Mosiah were with Alma at the time the angel first appeared unto him; therefore Alma did rejoice exceedingly to see his brethren; and what added more to his joy, they were still his brethren in the Lord; yea, and they had waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God. 

But this is not all; They had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God. (Alma 17:2, 3) 

God help all honest men to be born again and come to be of sound understanding and to know the word of - God and maintain the spirit thereof by study, fasting, prayer, and work, that we may be blessed with His power and authority, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My dear brethren and sisters, I seek your faith and prayers as I stand here to speak to you, for I desire to say nothing but that which the Spirit of the Lord would lead me to say. I have no set theme. 

The theme of this Conference seems to be obedience. I know of 

92 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4  Second Dag 

nothing that is of greater importance to members of the Church, and if I may be so led I would like to add a few words in regard to this important topic. 

THOSE WHO MAY BE BAPTIZED 

A few months ago, when I was in one of the mission fields, meeting with a group of missionaries, one of them asked me this question : 

Shall we baptize men into this Church when they say they believe that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and they believe that the Lord appeared to him, and that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is indeed the Church of Christ upon the earth, and yet they have not forsaken all of their sins? 

He stated that this question had been discussed among the Elders. Some took one view, some another. Some held that if we accepted a man who so expressed himself, that eventually he would repent of all his sins. I said in answer to him : "I shall read to you what the Lord Himself has said, and we will see if that will not answer your question." I am going to read those words here this afternoon : 

And again, by way of commandment to the Church concerning the manner of baptism. — All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the Church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve Him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into His Church. 

Then I asked if that did not answer the question. The missionaries concluded that it did. But yet this question arose : We keep the man out who has not forsaken all his sins and yet confesses that this is the Church of Christ; but think of the great many who are in the Church, the great number who violate the commandments of the Lord, and yet we do nothing about it. 

CHURCH MEMBERSHIP WILL NOT ESCAPE JUDGMENT 

I answered: "True, unless it is a grievous sin we do not excommunicate people from the Church. We try to teach them their duty. We try to bring them to repentance. We try to make them understand the truth. But after they are in the Church, if they will not do these things and will not hearken to our counsels, you may be assured that they are going to be judged according to their works." 

The fact that they are members of the Church will not save them. Every man and every woman will have to answer for the deeds done in the body. 

Then again an ancient prophet said : 

Wo unto him that has the law given, yea, that has all the commandments of God, like unto us, and that transgresseth them, and that wasteth the days of his probation, for awful is his state. Now, when people come into this Church they should, by all means, subscribe to the regulations which the Lord Himself has laid down by commandment. But does that mean that after we are in the Church, after we have confessed our sins and have forsaken them, that we can return to them after membership has been secured? That would not be consistent. Woe unto all those who are disobedient after they have made the preparation which is expressed in this commandment which I have read to you — woe unto them. Mark you, the Lord says before a man comes into the Church he must have a desire; he must come with a broken heart and a contrite spirit. 

What is a broken heart? One that is humble, one that is touched by the Spirit of the Lord, and which is willing to abide in all the covenants and the obligations which the Gospel entails. 

BAPTISM A COVENANT TO CONTINUE FAITHFUL 

Further we read that he must forsake all of his sins. Does that mean merely until he gets into the Church, and then he may return to them again ? I call your attention to the words of Paul, speaking himself in regard to baptism and membership, and rather rebuking some of the members of the church when he said : 

How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? 

Every baptized person who has fully repented, who comes into the Church with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, has made a covenant to continue with that broken heart, with that contrite spirit, which means a repentant spirit. He makes a covenant that he will do that. 

Then again we read here, in this admonition and commandment, that he is to endure to the end. It is essential that we endure to the end. In the revelation that was given to the Church, this same revelation, at the time the Church was organized, the Lord said this : 

And we know that all men must repent and believe on the name of Jesus Christ, and worship the Father in His name, and endure in faith on His name to the end, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. 

Now, I believe the Lord meant what He said. I think this is true. Baptism is not merely a door into the kingdom, which entitles us to enter, bringing with us a trail of sins unrepented of. It is not that at all. We must not enter that door until our hearts are humble, our spirits contrite, and we give the assurance that we will serve, the Lord in faithfulness and righteousness to the end. 

Again : 

And we know that justification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is just and true; 

That is, if we come into this Church with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, with a determination to forsake all our sins and live faith94 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Saturday, October 4 Second Day 

fully to the end, then we are justified, and the sanctification of the blood of Jesus Christ is efficacious, and we receive the blessings. 

We know also that sanctification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is just and true, to all those who love and serve God with all their mights, minds, and strength. 

Again here we are involved: it is our duty, as members of the Church, to serve the Lord our God with all our mights, with all our minds, with all our strength, and as it is stated in another revelation, with all our hearts. That is our duty, — not to serve Him half-heartedly, not to accept a portion of the commandments only, not to receive only those things which appeal to us, and refuse to accept those principles which do not appeal to us. We should be converted in full to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

"take heed and pray always" 

But there is a possibility that man may fall from grace and depart from the living God; 

Therefore let the Church take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation — 

Not only the Church collectively, but you and me; let us take heed. 

Never in the history of the world, that is, in the history of the Church, have there been so many temptations, so many pitfalls, so many dangers, to lure away the members of the Church from the path of duty and from righteousness, as we find today. Every day of our lives we come in contact with these temptations, these dangers. We should continue in the spirit of prayer and faith, remembering that there is this possibility that we may turn from the grace of the living God, and fall, unless we continue in that humility, in the exercise of faith and obedience to every principle of truth. 

THE WORD OF THE LORD SHOULD BE REVERED 

In another of these revelations the Lord says- — I think I will read it, instead of attempting to quote it : 

And I now give unto you a commandment to beware concerning yourselves, to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life. 

For you shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. 

For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ. 

And the Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every' man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit. 

So we are commanded here to give heed concerning ourselves, each of us individually, as to the words of eternal life, how we hold them. We should hold them sacred. It is just as much my obligation, and yours, after baptism, to be humble, to have that contrite spirit, that broken heart, and the desire to forsake all sin, as it was before we came into this Church through the waters of baptism. 

MORTALITY, THE FOUNDATION FOR PERFECTION 

I often think, and I suppose you do, too, of that great and wonderful discourse — the greatest that was ever preached, so far as we know — which we call the Sermon on the Mount, in which instructions of various kinds were given by our Lord for the benefit of the members of the Church of all ages, by which, if we will only hearken to those teachings, we may come back again into the presence of God, the Father, and His Son Jesus Christ. 

I often think of that which is really a summation : 

Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. 

I have heard many discourses upon that with which I could not agree, not fully, because I believe the Lord meant just what He said, that we should be perfect, as our Father in heaven is perfect. That will not come all at once, but line upon line and precept upon precept, example upon example, and even then not as long as we live in this mortal life, for we will have to go even beyond the grave before we reach that perfection and shall be like God. 

But here we lay the foundation. Here is where we are taught these simple truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, in this probationary state, to prepare us for that perfection. It is my duty, it is yours, to be better today than I was yesterday, and for you to be better today than you were yesterday, and better tomorrow than you were today. Why? Because we are on that road, if we are keeping the commandments of the Lord, we are on that road to perfection, and that can only come through obedience and the desire in our hearts to overcome the world. That is all. 

WEAKNESSES CONQUERED THROUGH CONCENTRATED EFFORT 

There should be no sin in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. No man should attempt to excuse himself because he has this failing or that. If we have a failing, if we have a weakness, there is where we should concentrate, with a desire to overcome, until we master and conquer. If a man feels that it is hard for him to pay his tithing, then that is the thing he should do, until he learns to pay his tithing. If it is the Word of Wisdom, that is what he should do, until he learns to love that commandment. 

May the Lord bless and guide the members of the Church, and protect us from evil. We know that the world is full of evil. It is a wicked world. The Lord has said that. We have come out of it. We don't belong to it, although we are in it. If we are keeping the commandments of the Lord we have no right and we should have no desire to partake of those things which belong to the world, which are contrary to the kingdom of God. 

May the Lord bless us, and guide us in righteousness, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

96 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Sunday. October 5 Third Day 

The Choir sang "How Lovely Are The Messengers" — Mendelssohn. Elder James Brown, Jr., President of the Woodruff Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until Sunday, October 5, at 10 a. m. 


