Morning 
07 04 1923

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

I have rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, in the thrilling and remarkable testimonies that have been borne during this conference. My testimony has been strengthened. I shall go out with food for reflection for the next six months and longer, and feel to rejoice that I had the privilege of hearing the address of our President and the testimonies that have been borne at the two meetings that we have had of our conference. 

HAPPY IN THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE GOSPEL 

I am always happy to bear my testimony, even though it has to be done under the difficult sense of responsibility that rests upon every person who attempts to address the great gathering in this tabernacle on these great occasions. I do know that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ. I bear witness to the truth of the testimonies that have already been borne, and wish to add that there is no greater joy in my life than that which conies to me because of this great and abounding knowledge. 

THE "MORMON" INSTITUTION WORKS 

Many thoughts have gone through my mind, as through yours, during the two previous sessions of our conference. I have been reminded especially of a remark made to me just a week ago today when I happened to be at Jerome. Idaho, in the company of a number of people who were not of our faith. One man, a prominent man in the county, said to me: "The enemies of 'Mormonism' may say many things about your faith, but is seems to me that there is one thing that we can all say in behalf of the 'Mormon' people and the 'Mormon' institution, — that it works; it works successfully in behalf of mankind. It achieves and has achieved that which it sets out to achieve." This remark made me think seriously about a good many things pertaining to the gospel, for it seems to me that there is no higher test of truth than that an organization succeeds in doing that for which men establish it or hold it in honor. In fact, I believe one of the great modern philosophies is based entirely upon I he principle that if a thing works in behalf of its cause, if a system is successful in, achieving the purposes proposed, there must be a large element of truth in that system and in such attempts. So one of the proofs of the truth of "Mormonism'' lies in the fact that during the long period of its existence, approaching a hundred years, it has successfully been able to bring peace, happiness, joy and satisfaction into human lives, into the lives of those who have partaken of its blessings. 

A SURVEY OF OUR EDUCATIONAL CONDITIONS 

This question of "workability" came to my mind yesterday when our President gave a number of statistics pertaining to the present condition of the Church. Most of my time during the last few months has been given over to educational work in connection with the Church school system. When the President gave the figures as to the number of Latter-day Saints attending college, high .school and elementary school I was reminded of the comparative value of those figures as another evidence of how successfully "Mormonism" works in behalf of its people. According to the figures given by President Grant yesterday, we have in this Church 8.6 young people attending college out of every thousand members of the Church; whereas, in the whole United States there are onlv 4.9 per thousand of population attending college. In this Church we have nearly twice as many college students per capita as in the country at large. T was interested also in the high school figures. Accord'ng to the figures given us yesterday, there are 60.6 individuals per thousand attending high school in this Church; whereas, in the United States as a wdiole, there are only 20.8. That is. nearly three times as many young people are attending h' gh school in the Church of Jesus Christ of Patter-day Saints as are attending high school, on the average, in this great land of ours. In the elementary schools, the difference is not so great, for in our Church there are 223.3 students out of each thousand of membership, attending the elemen'ary schools, as against 204 in the country at large. Nevertheless, this is also a substantial increase, though not so great, because of the fact that elementary education is usually required by law in the states of the Union; but as soon as the h; gh school and the college periods are reached, where men's free agency above and beyond the obligations of the law is manifested, then at once this great Church leaps forward far beyond the average of the people of this country. T have no doubt that there may be other communities in the United States with probably nearly as high a college and high school attendance, but I  whether any survey that may he made will show a higher attendance of college and high school students. 

I call your attention to this not merely because of the interest it always awakens in us to find that we are standing high in the desirable activities of the world, but because it shows how "Mormonism" functions in the life of humanity, how thoroughly it works. Education is placed as one of the great and foremost activities of a civilized world; and here a despised, and sometimes more than despised people, makes a survey of its educational conditions and finds that the spirit of education is stronger within this group of people than in any other, perhaps, throughout the country, ar.d stronger than the average within the country as a whole. Another evidence, another test of the truth of "Mormonism." 

CAUSES OF THE VITALITY OF "MORMONISM" 

Many people have asked how it is that "Mormonism'' so functions; how it is able to work in such a fashion in behalf of humanity; because I might take anything else, any other activity, sound and good and designed for the welfare of the human race, and show practically the same cond'tions that apply to the course and the cause of education. One man will declare that the reason why these things are so in "Mormonism" is merely because by some accidental condition, great men have arisen in "Mormondom." Joseph Smith was a tremendously great character: every student, whether of our people or not. will admit the greatness of the man. And so, those who do not understand us will say we had a great man to found our Church and that explains how we are able to show a condition so favorable. Another will say that P>righam Young was such a great man. And so, as I read recently in. a book not long since published, all "Mormon'snY' may be explained because of the great men that "Mormonism" has had. Another book declares that the reason why this test of truth, this test of fitness to human conditions, measures up as well as it does, is because "Mormonism" has been placed under very difficult conditions. It had to fight its way in Missouri. It had to fight its way out here in the desert. It has been opposed by men, and as a consequence it has been able, through opposition, to develop into the great institution that it is today. 

Any such explanation, my brethren and sisters, is insufficient to those of us who have understood the spirit of the remarks that have been made at ibis conference. There are in this Church great fundamental principles, and reflected from those principles are great fundamental practices. The possession of these principles, the use of these practices, lie at the foundation of any explanation of the vitality and the strength and the fitness of "Mormonism" to serve the human race; and that is my testimony to you, as I understand this great gospel of Jesus Christ. SOME GREAT PRACTICES AND PRINCIPLES 

President Grant spoke of some of these great practices, in his address yesterday. He called our attention to the soil, to the home, to the advantage of placing the family unit in the open country, to deal with nature and the problems of the soil, and he laid it down to all of us who care to follow him, as a fundamental practice in the building of this Church. This Church cannot get very far along unless it does adhere to these fundamental principles and practices, such as were outlined to us yesterday. As to the soil and its products and life on the soil and life under the open sky, and the life of contest, not with men so much as with nature, with the soil, with the water we put on the soil, with the air, the sunshine, and with the various conditions of agriculture; out of such contacts and out of such contests comes the great strength that we need in the building of our world. "Mormonism" is full of just such principles and such practices. The safe road is to be trodden by those who understand these practices, who attempt to live them, and to use them in their daily lives as eternal reflections of fundamental principles of the gospel. 

I bear you my testimony that it is easy, if one will but humble himself and keep near to God in prayer and in service, to understand these great fundamental world-shaping principles of' the gospel of Jesus Christ, and almost as easy to practice them. 

A GREAT REBUKE OF DOUBT 

Today and yesterday have seemed to me, in this tabernacle, to be a great rebuke of doubt. I am speaking just now before one of the amplifiers, and if I am speaking into this concave device properly. I imagine that my voice is carried much better than it ordinarily is, into the remote parts of this building, and possibly into the Assembly Hall. It is a tremendous advance, a tremendous rebuke to those of my day, unbelievers in God, who have said to me: "What is the use of praying? God cannot hear. Your voice merely stirs waves in the air, and God is so far away that the waves disappear and cannot reach Divinity. You are wasting your time." Yet today we have these great amplifiers under the stand, that T looked at yesterday, by which these waves are taken out of the air, thrown into some other medium, and carried on again into the air until the voice is spread 'broadcast over the earth, if we so desire. I know, my brethren and sisters, that the main concern of man is to make of himself, by righteous living and by proper attempt, day by day, by doing that which he knows to be right, a great amplifier by which he may understand the whisperings of the Holy Spirit of God. I pray that every one of us may be given such strength, may be given such will and such opportunity as to make ourselves clear instruments for the discovery of the great truth that God has in store for all of us; and I bear you again my testimony that this is the truth, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER WILLIAM H. MENDENHALL 

(President of the Bannock Stake of Zion) 

It seems to me, my brethren and sisters, that the President proceeds on the theory, "If at first you don't succeed, try, try again." It was not my privilege to be present at the conference meetings yesterday. Some of my friends have told me that the first day of conference I was called for twice. 

I rejoice in being present at this conference. I endorse all that has been said. I endorse the remarks, the instructions, and the discourse of the President of the Church yesterday, while I d5,d not have the privilege of hearing them. For twenty years I have been connected with the presiding authorities of this Church, acting in the capacity of one of the presidency of the Bannock stake of Zion, and in those twenty years I have learned that the presiding authorities in this Church are men of God. who are inspired of the Lord to direct its affairs in all the world. And so I have no hesitancy, while I did not hear the brethren, in declaring to you that what they said was the word of the Lord unto this people. 

I represent twenty-five hundred Latter-day Saints in the southeastern part of Idaho known as the Bannock stake of Zion. Ours is a farming and stock-raising community. While during these few years of hard times our people have been severely "strapped" financially, some of them, yet they maintain the faith of the gospel, a desire to serve the Lord and to keep his commandments; and I believe, in the main, the people of our stake have endeavored to carry out the instructions that have come to them from the general authorities of the Church in the years past — to keep out of debt; and therefore, I feel that the people of Bannock stake will eventually survive this financial difficulty and things will be normal again. 

In the beginning of the organization of this Church, Joseph Smith, Sr., the father of the Prophet, accepting the testimony and the mission of Jesus Christ, inquired what he might do to further the work. The Lord, through the instrumentality of the Prophet, gave the revelation contained in the fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with this sentence : "Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." Dr. Widtsoe, in his discourse this morning, has pointed out to us some of the marvels of this great latter-day work as it pertains to education, the training of the youth of Zion, and the establishment of truth and righteousness, information and knowledge in the hearts of the young people of the Church. 

The Lord further says : "O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, (hat ye may stand blameless before God at the last day." 

I believe, my brethren and sisters, that this revelation applies to us. The Lord requires that we shall give our whole soul, our whole effort and our energy, for the development and growth and the spread of this work in the earth among the children of men. "Therefore," lie says, "if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work; 

"For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might the same layeth up in store that he perish not, but bringeth salvation to his soul." 

Then he goes on to enumerate the qualifications that men should possess who are called upon to labor and to minister in this Church : — 

"And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. 

"Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. 

"Ask and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." 

My brethren and sisters, I commend this revelation of the Lord 1o the Latter-day Saints everywhere. Let us read it. Let us study it. Let us become acquainted with it, that we may be equal to the duties and obligations that devolve upon us from time to time in the development and growth and onward progress of this great and marvelous work of the Lord. . 

1 bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that I know the gospel is true. I know that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. I know that the President of tins Church, President Heber J. Grant, has been called by inspiration lo lead this people, and direct the affairs of this work, and that his counselors and the quorum of the apostles and the brethren who constitute the general authorities of the Church are endowed w'th power from on high, and have the ngt t to give to the members of this Church counsel, advice, instruction, revelation and admonition for the upbuilding and the strengthening of the s'akes of Zion and the people everywhere. May the Lord bless us, help us to do our duty and serve him and keep his commandments, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. CARDON 

(President of the Cache Stake of Zion) 

1 rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in the spirit of this conference, and I feel that its influence will be felt throughout all the stakes of Zion. 

This is a glorious work in which we are engaged, and the many opportunities that come to us from time to time should qualify us for the great work that rests upon us as Latter-day Saints. I am often asked, as no doubt many of you are: "What is the best news?" And my answer invariably is: "Zion is grow'ng." I cannot give any better news than this truth; and I believe my statement is verified in the sta which were read yesterday by our President. I believe that this work will continue to grow and increase in the earth until it shall have filled its glorious destiny. I believe that today its influence and power is being felt throughout all the civilized nations of the earth. The Lord is raising up great men and women not of our faith who are doing much in spreading the glad tidings of great joy, by bringing down the prejudice of the peoples of the world; and i am grateful to say that never before in the history of this people was there a better feeling among the children of men than at the present time. I believe that this condition will continue to grow, for the light which came into the world over a hundred years ago has constantly increased and it will do so until its power and its influence shall be felt among the nations of the earth. 

I regret to say, however, that there seems to be a tendency on the part of the Christian believing peoples in the world to discredit the divine and holy mission of our blessed Redeemer, and we should be all the more constantly engaged in bearing our testimonies to the people of his divine and glorious mission. We know that he is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, and that it is his mission to redeem the world from the Fall, and to bring us back into the presence of God, our eternal Father. 

The world sat in darkness prior to the coming of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his testimony to the world has constantly grown until thousands and hundreds of thousands of people can testify, as he testified, that they know that Jesus Christ, is the Redeemer of the world. The Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost, has borne witness to our souls that this is the condition, that this is the truth, and I hope that this truth will never diminish in the; hearts of the Latter-day Saints. It is my desire that we shall continue to bear this testimony unto the peoples of the world until they, too, shall be brought to a knowledge of the truth. This testimony came to this boy prophet when he went and prayed unto the Lord to show him which of all the religious denominations then extant in the world was the right one; and as he went and bowed humbly before his heavenly Father, the glorious vision that we have been so imbued with all our lives was presented unto him, and the Father and the Son appeared unto this young boy; and the One pointing to the Other, said : "This is my beloved Son. _Hear him." And then this young boy carrie i on a conversation with these heavenly Beings, and again there was revealed unto the children of men the divine truth of the existence of the Father and the Son and the divine truth of their personality. As we entered into the waters of baptism and had hands laid upon us for the gift of the Holy Ghbst, in the own due time of the Lord, we also were able to testify unto the world that we know that Cod lives and that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world. We have been given that testimony, not by flesh and blood, notwithstanding the devotion and the faith of our parents, but this truth was given unto us by the revelation of Almighty God through the testimony and witness of the Spirit, who is the witness of the Father and the Son unto the children of men. I am grateful today that 1 can bear to you, my brethren and sisters, this testimony, for I do know: that God lives and that he is overruling for good the destinies of the children of men, and the events that are transpiring in the world today for the consummation of his glorious purposes. I know that Jesus Christ is in very deed the Only Begotten Son of the Father, and that his mission is divine among the children of men; and it is my desire that this testimony may increase in my soul all the days of my life and that the Latter-day Saints will never allow to creep into their hearts the spirit that is being manifested today among some of the peoples of the world that Christ was not a divine character, that his mission is not divine; notwithstanding that, they will testify that he was one of the great characters of the history of the world. 

I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the true and the living God, and that his mission in the world is being felt for good among the children of men. I pray that the spirit of this mission may continue to grow in the world until the people of the world may have a similar testimony to our own. I know that his successors in the presidency of this Church are prophets of the true and the living God, and that they have directed the affairs of this Church as the Lord would have them do; and they have been sustained in their high and holy callings by the masses of the Latter-day Saints; and I believe that today a splendid condition exists among the Latter-day Saints. While there is much room for improvement, yet the people's faith is growing and increasing in the stakes of Zion. I pray that this may continue to grow until we shall be able to accomplish the high and holy callings to which we have been called, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A solo entitled, "The Voice in the Wilderness" was sung by Sister R. G. Clark. 

ELDER ARTHUR W. HORSLEY 

{President of the Carbon Stake of Zion) 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the opportunity I have in attending this conference. I, like many others who have spoken during this conference, have been coming to conference for over thirty years. I was just reflecting upon the past, and I believe I am safe in saying that I have not missed a semi-annual or an annual conference for twenty-five years. I did not expect to enjoy the privilege that I enjoy at the present time, and I believe I can go home and safely say to the people that this has been one of the best conferences that I have ever attended, and when they ask me who spoke, I can say : "I was one of them." 

I am very grateful to my heavenly Father that the gospel was carried to my native land, and that my grandparents and my parents  of it, and that they were among that class which Christ spoke of when he said: "My sheep know my voice, and a stranger they will not follow." I am very grateful that I have a name and standing in this Church, and that I am, thus far, in harmony with the authorities thereof and in tune with the body of the Church. I am grateful for the blessings we enjoy at home and abroad, and I am grateful for the opportunities we have in life. 

I have the honor of presiding over the blackest stake in the Church, the Carbon stake, in which, when the mines are operating, about 15,000 tons of coal per day are produced; and while we are a mixed community, having farmers and miners, and those who do not belong to the Church among us, nevertheless, we have one of the 'best communities that exists in the Church. We have men who go down into the bowels of the earth for a livelihood, giving honest labor for that which they receive, and I notice that their hearts are right and their blood is red. They are serving the Lord and keeping his commandments. 

I rejoiced when I heard the remarks of President Grant yesterday morning, advising the Latter-day Saints to be economical and to be saving and not waste their means. It is very good advice for all of us, no matter where we live. We are traveling fast nowadays in automobiles, and we are living fast, and we purchase things that we could get along without. 

I was very much impressed yesterday when I heard President Croft speak to us, when he spoke of the faith that is among the Latter-day Saints, and how they are healed, even without much medicine. I thought of the days when we had no medicine nor doctors. I thought of the days when the boys and the girls were reared upon the farm and were fed bread and milk, cornmeal mush, and milk gravy and potatoes, and that was about all, save a few chickens and eggs. They were thrifty people, and they were almost appendicitis-proof. I believe that what we need to do is to get back to the first principles and to use more milk, use more butter, more cheese, and a little common sense. I believe that then we will be in tune with the body of the Church and we will be benefited financially. 

While speaking of the men who go down into the bowels of the earth for a livelihood, I might add that we have many of our young men who do this kind of work and save their money. They walk up to the bishop, when they get their check, and pay their tithing on the entire check, whatever it may be, and they are saving the balance of their money to go upon missions and some have done this and are doing it, and they are feeling well and are spending their time and money in the service of the Lord. I tell you, my brethren and sisters, fathers and mothers in Israel — that is one of the greatest blessings that can come to parents, to have their boy in the mission-field preaching the gospel. We heard yesterday the amount of money that it takes to preach the gospel, but I tell you that the dividend is worth living for. In my travels from place to place and visiting in the homes of the Saints and among those who have fathers or sons upon missions, I have the opportunity of reading many of their letters. It seems to me that the boys write more to mother than they do to any one else of the family. And the mother takes delight in bringing out the letter and showing it and having you read it and see what the .boy is doing and what he is saying. 

I was forcibly struck with one letter that I read, wherein the boy was out preaching the gospel wi'hout purse or scrip, down in New Jersey — Campden and Plainfield, in that part of the country. He said they could get no shelter; they had no breakfast; they had no dinner, no supper. They had slept in a little barn. They had been turned away forty times during the day and evening when they were canvassing. The people would telephone from one place to another "The 'Mormons' are in town." He said : "We had nothing to eat. We were getting desperately hungry, and all we had was a Book of Mormon or two to sell and we could not sell them. What could we do?" Said he, "We decided to go to one side and pray to God. We had read in the scriptures where it says 'the laborer is worthy of his hire.' " So they prayed unto the Lord. And the boy said : "After we had got up and prayed that morning, we went a short distance, where we met a little man who could not speak the English language." By the way, he was a German. lie had a little boy by his side, and through the boy he talked, the boy acting as interpreter. This man said to these two young "Mormon" elders: "Come with me; I want to speak to you. Come to my home, I want to feed you and I want to give you a place to rest." So they went and enjoyed the hospitality of the good man. And in the letter the boy said: "Mother, I know God heard our prayers." 

There is the dividend that comes to the Latter-day Saints — when they get a dividend of that kind, when the boy writes home and says : "Mother, I know God heard my prayers." He doesn't get that testimony with a pocket full of money. He doesn't get that testimony working around. No, but when he is so humble that he has to go to God, his eternal Lather and seek relief and depend upon him; then it is that he gets a testimony of the gospel. So, the boys who go upon these missions are not only beneficiar'es to those who are in the world, but they are beneficiaries to themselves and to their posterity; and I know that we cannot spend any money to any better advantage than to spend it for the boys going upon missions, and going to the Church schools, where they can learn and be taught the principles of life and salvation. I do not expect to die a rich man. I would rather spend every dollar I have in giving the boy or the girl a reasonable education and helping them to fulfil missions in the nations of the earth. That is the way I feel about it. 

I am always pleased when I hear the .brethren bearing testimony of the goodness of the Lord to them, and that the power of God is  the earth today, and that the sick are healed. I am glad for these thing's, because I have received the blessings under the hands of the servants of the Lord myself, and I tell you I have faith in the gospel, or I would not be here. I am not ashamed of the gospel, because I know it is the power of God unto salvation. I am satisfied, and I am  satisfied if the Lord will help me, to remain the rest of my days if possible with the body of the Church, that I may be able to listen to the dictations of the Holy Spirit that are given to us from time to time. I want to bear you my testimony that no man can get up and truthfully say that, by taking counsel from the authorities of the Church, he has ever lost anything. I have faith in the authorities of this Church. I have faith in them that when they tell me to plant beets I plant beets, and I do not plant potatoes. I have faith in them (hat when they tell me to go to some place I am willing to go. That is why I went to Price, where I live, because I was told to go there by President Day, who at that time was the President of the Parowan stake of Zion. He said : "Go there and stay and grow with the community." I took his advice and I have never regretted it, and I have never felt as if I wanted to go away from that locality, because I am where the servant of the Lord said for me to go, and that is where we should be. 

My brethren and sisters, we have prophets, seers and revelator.s in the Church today, and I am always willing to listen to the living oracles of God. 

I hear my testimony to you that I know that God lives and hears and answers the prayers of this people. I know that the brethren, down to the last ordained as prophets, seers and revelators, in this Church, are ordained of God. I know that President Grant is the right man in the right place. It was made known to me when he was sustained as the President of this Church. I saw in him when he arose in the pulpit, the likeness of the late Joseph F. Smith, and I wondered and I looked and thought perhaps my eyes had deceived me, until the next day when a brother stood up in the stand, who was going to Scandinavia to preside over the mission, and he testified to the very same thing that I saw myself, and he verified it. I thank the Lord that I am here at this conference. May the Lord bless my brethren and sisters in all their labors whether it be at home or abroad, is my prayer for us all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

A very wise man once said : "You cannot judge the full value of the teachings of any man by merely hearing the message. You must wait until you see the result of those teachings as they are carried out in the lives of the men and women who accept them and live them." The world now is having an opportunity to judge the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, by examining the lives of the Latter-day Saints. 

A TESTING TIME 

I am sure that it is also true that the world is full of theory. All kinds of theories are advanced by men who have in their hearts a desire to solve the problems of the world, and think they are going to do it. At the same time, I am sure that this is a testing time, when everything will be shaken that can be shaken and when nothing shall stand except that which God has established and that which is the truth. I am not afraid, so far as the Church is concerned, as we enter this great conflict. As the testing time approaches I have no fear, because the Lord himself has decreed that this work shall stand. To Daniel he made it known. Daniel saw our day, and this work, that it should roll forth until it should fill the whole earth, and that it should not be thrown down nor be left to another people. I have absolute confidence, therefore, in the outcome of this work and the fulfilment of that promise. At the same time, to those who have not this faith, we have an appeal to make, — to judge the work by its fruits, by the results that have been obtained from the teachings of the leaders of this Church. 

THE RELIGION THAT IS WORTH HAVING 

I was impressed recently by reading a work written by one of the eminent gentlemen of this country, Thomas Nixon Carver, who, a year ago, addressed the conference in this great tabernacle. He was discussing in his book the kind of religion that is worth having and the kind that will survive, and from some of the interesting things I noted, I wish to read the following extracts. Said he : 

"The religion which best fits men for the struggle with the forces of the world, which enables them to survive in this struggle, will eventually be left in possession of the world." 

Again another : 

"That nation or that people whose average individual character and conduct and whose social institutions and customs are such as to make them strong in competition with other peoples, and able to spread over the earth and subdue it and have dominion over it, become by that very fact the chosen people, whatever their name, language or religion." 

Still another: 

"The church which ministers to a neighborhood where poor people live, that gives them a discipline which enables them to rise out of poverty and pass them on to other neighborhoods, to make room for other poor people who are coming in and by repeating this process, continue to minister to the needs of poor people, but of an ever-changing body of poor people, is the only kind of a poor man's church to be proud of." 

And I am proud of this Church, though it is a poor man's Church. 



ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 57 

At least the membership of this Church was very largely made up of poor men and women, but they did not stay poor, thank the Lord. Through adhering to the teachings of this Church, men have come into the possession of their own homes, as we heard from our President yesterday morning, so much so that 75 per cent of the membership of the Church own their own homes. Perhaps no such record can be found anywhere else in the world. These poor people were made independent and passed on to take care of themselves, and to render assistance to other poor folks who are still coming, that they may ultimately become independent. I think I can see working out in the process of the Church, the fulfilment of all our dreams, for from my childhood I have heard it said that the day would come when this people would be the leaders of the world, would be a pattern and example to be sought after by the whole world, and that the world, if they would come to success, would imitate the Latter-day Saints. 

THE MARGINS THAT COUNT 

Out in Oregon I was impressed on one occasion by a statement of an old forest ranger, who told me that in any group of trees in any part of that great forest country, any single tree in that group whose height was about six inches above any other tree in the group, would become the giant of the group. Just that little margin of difference gave that tree its advantage. I say to you, with my friend, that a religion that prepares a people to succeed in competition with other peoples, to survive, is a religion that will stand and endure. I have thought of how the Lord has provided for the material, spiritual and physical strength and endurance of the Latter-day Saints. I am calling your attention to this, my brethren and sisters, because I do not expect to see a great miracle wrought to produce this change. The key, the way to attain that end, has already been given to us in the very common and practical things that we hear from day to day. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM 

I want the Latter-day Saints to have faith in these revelations. Take, for instance, the Word of Wisdom. The Lord himself said that it was given for the temporal salvation of the Latter-day Saints. It has to do with the making of a strong body. We have heard something about the death rate in the Church— among the lowest of any group of people in the world. We have heard how that the average length of life of a Latter-day Saint is about six years longer than the average length of life in the United States. Any community of people whose average length of life is six years longer than any other group has that margin of difference. They will be the leaders. They cannot help but be in advance. Any community of people whose average death rate is low and whose average birth rate is high, as the Latter-day Saints' death rate and birth rate are, cannot help in the end but be in the lead. They have the margin of difference and advantage. 

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

There has been imported into the United States in the last seven years, one billion dollars worth of coffee, according to government statistics, and not one dollar of that coffee was raised in the United States. How many years would it take the United States government, if all the people would contribute what they now pay for coffee into a tax, to wipe out the national debt? A billion dollars in seven years — it is easily figured out — and yet not one single atom of food value or strength or benefit comes to man, but positive hurt and injury, through the use of coffee. 

That is only one item. Add tea, and tobacco, also other things forbidden in the word of wisdom, and I say to you that if the Latter-day Saints would observe this law of the Lord, it would become a great factor in their economic salvation and would give them a margin of difference over a coffee drinking, tea drinking and tobacco smoking community that would put them, in the end, head and shoulders, physically, mentally and financially, ahead of any other group. 

MINISTRATION TO THE SICK 

I would like to call your attention, since mention has been made of it, to another item. We believe in anointing the sick with oil, and praying over them. At the same time we are not fanatics. We believe in faith and works. We recognize the skill of the physician as the wisdom of the Lord, and we are willing to employ it, but to employ it in connection with blessings we seek at the hands of the Lord in his appointed way. We do not want the Latter-day Samts to forge' that there is a privilege they enjoy to seek the Lord for blessings that may be had through their faith; and often, I believe, we could save ourselves expense and sickness and trouble if we would exercise our faith a little more. Not that I would ban the usel of medicine, properly applied, nor the skill of the physician, but we do not want to forget what the Lord has offered to us; and if it were computed — all that has been saved through the ministration on the part of the elders in the Church in relieving the sick, in saving them and in saving those who would naturally have to pay the bill if physicians had to do the work to bring to pass the restoration to health— it would amount to a tremendous sum, not to say anything of the relief to sufferers. That principle alone would put the Latter-day Saints head and shoulders above any other community. 

PAYMENT OF TITHING 

Again; here is the principle of tithing — a principle that contains the key for the solution of the financial struggle that is going on in the world between capital and labor. It is but the beginning perhaps of that system or plan which our heavenly Father has given for the solut'on of this problem, but I bear witness to you that the Latter-day Saints, if they will pay their honest tithing, will be enabled thereby to produce the state and condition that will enable the Church, as a whole , to take care, not only of their poor, but to take care of their financial problems. By the payment of tithing-, a great industry, we have heard, was saved. I bear witness to you that if that industry, the sugar company, had not been saved, it would have been the greatest calamity financially that has ever happened to this inter-mountain country, and we would not have recovered from it for many years. Thank the Lord some Latter-day Saints paid their honest tithing and there was means in the hands of the Church to stabilize industries of this kind that affected so many of our people. If all the Latter-day Saints would pay their tithing the financial strength of this people would never be imperiled no matter what might come. 

FAST OFFERINGS AND FASTING 

Again, I call your attention to the fact that the Lord has provided for the Latter-day Saints a way to take care of their poor, which does not cost them a dollar. The poor the world will always have' with them and the poor they will always have to take care of. By the provision which he has given wherein we abstain from the use of two meals on the first Sunday in the month, we obtain physical benefits and blessings from that sacrifice, and at the same time we save something, the equivalent of which Latter-day Saints should give to the bishop to take care of the poor of the Church; and if that were done by the Latter-day Saints, so much so that each member of the Church would contribute an average of ten cents for those two meals, of five cents per meal, there would be ample funds, without touching the tithes of the Church, to take care of all the poor and it would not cost anybody a dollar and those who have sacrificed the use of a meal have obtained a benefit. 

I bear witness to you that this is a time when men are being tested as to whether or not they are going to have power over the flesh to resist the temptations of the evil one. There is an eternal conflict on — the conflict between the flesh and the spirit. I think it is a splendid thing for each and every one of us to ascertain who is boss and master in the house in which we live. Does the flesh have its way? I am grateful that once a month there is an opportunity for every Latter-day Saint to demonstrate this thing. I know that when you come to that fasting period, the flesh will begin to say: "I cannot fast; I will have a headache, or T will get weak in the knees or sick," or something else. Does the flesh have its way? If so, you are becoming subjected to the flesh. It is the time and opportunity for the spirit to say : "Yes, I know you perhaps will have a headache and be sick and faint, but once a month I will show you I am boss in this house. I rule. I will have my way; you cannot have it." It is essential that the spirit shall have dominion and control over the flesh. This is the hour, this is the time when the whole world is giving evidence of their weakness and inability to sacrifice and to make the flesh amenable to their own good common sense, or whether or not they want license and liberty to destroy the flesh through yielding to its lusts, to its appetites and to its desires. 

MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE 

And so, my brethren and sisters, with reference to the family. When the President read how low the divorce record is in this Church, how many of the members of the Church enter into the solemn state of matrimony and engage in the rearing of families that make for the stabilizing, the perpetuity and endurance of any community, my soul rejoiced to know that we have a marriage rate per thousand that is perhaps greater than that of any community on earth, and at the same time our divorce rate is lower. What is it that is upsetting and disturbing the world today? This very identical thing. And, if the Latter-day Saints will not only observe this great commandment of the Lord, but at the same time honor the first great commandment to multiply and replenish the earth, and not yield to the lusts of the flesh, to the pleasures, slo-called, selfish pleasures, of life and fail to respond to God's great law; if they will but follow the example set by their fathers and mothers and fulfil that law and discharge their duty to the unborn, giving them the right and the privilege to come with us and enjoy earth life; if the Latter-day Saint boys and girls will continue, I say, to adhere to that high and sacred and holy obligation, then I am as sure as I am that the sun rises that it will come to pass that this people will survive no matter what the calamities may be, no matter what the perils at home or abroad may be, no matter how the earth shall be shaken, how men shall be tried, how nations shall be torn, how thrones shall totter, how finances shall go to wreckage, how laws shall be defied. If only this people shall adhere to these few simple principles which God has given to them, they shall weather the storms and they shall become the beacon light, the hope of the world, the salt of the earth; which may God grant, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ELDER WILLIAM T. JACK 

{President of the Cassia Stake of Zion) 

I have rejoiced very much, my brethren and sisters, in attending the sessions of this conference thus far; and I can say, as was stated by one of the brethren yesterday, that I have been fortunate in my life in the fact that my heart and my feelings have always been in tune with those whom God has chosen to lead his Israel; and I stand before you in that attitude today. I rejoice in the privilege that I have of attending these conferences of the Church and of associating with the best men that live upon this earth, men whom God has chosen from among his people, and has lifted them up to be our leaders, our prophets and those to whom we should look for advice and counsel, and those  whom we should take that counsel and that advice. 

I believe that the third verse of the twelfth chapter of the Book of Daniel is applicable to us as Latter-day Saints today. In the eleventh chapter he has referred to a great war, and pictures the close of it temporarily, and shows that we are approaching the time when the dead in Christ shall arise, and he makes this specific mention of the Latterday Saints, in my opinion; he says : 

"And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever." 

The world's calamity today, as was stated yesterday, is our opportunity. As individual members of this Church, if we are applying ourselves to the missionary spirit and labor, if we are doing our duty, if we are living our religion, we may be laying up for ourselves treasures that some day will make those who do it shine as the stars forever and ever. 

I rejoice that we have been able to read the scriptures differently from our friends who profess the Christian religion in the world. I thought this morning, while sitting here, of the prophecy delivered to and made by John the Revelator while he was upon the isle of Patmos, banished from his brethren and from his people. We are told that an angel came to him and said : "Come up hither, John, and I will show you things which must come to pass hereafter," and he took him up on to an, eminence and showed him the falling away of the ancient church, the decay of the faith of those who were saints and their destruction by the evil power. Then he showed him the period of darkness through which this world has passed. Then, in the spirit of hope, he raises his voice and says : 

"And I saw another angel flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 

"Saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come:' and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of water." 

Well, I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to live in the day of the fulfilment of that prediction. I rejoice to know that Joseph Smith was raised up and received heavenly visions, as was testified to here today by President Cardon. I know that Joseph Smith received the vision of the Father and the Son, in the Spring of 1820. I know that he received a visit from the angel, Moroni, and that he was blessed with visions and with revelations from time to time, and finally with the authority of the Priesthood of God. Friends may rail against us for believing in divine authority and for looking up to the Priesthood of God, but I want to tell you, my brethren and sisters, that is our hope in the future, to follow the lead of these men whom God has raised uf> and unto whom he has given his Spirit, and to whom he is giving the inspiration, the knowledge and the wisdom that should lead Israel and will lead Israel. I rejoice in these blessings and in these opportunities. I know that the gospel is true. I know that the Lord has spoken, that this is his work that he has established upon the earth, never again to be overthrown nor given into the hands of another people, but it will stand forever; and the only question is: Shall we stand with it? 

I think that those who attended the meetings yesterday and those who are here today are among the most faithful in the different parts of the Church, because we appreciate the conference; we are glad to be present and catch the inspiration of the Lord that falls from the lips and through the addresses of men who are called to lead this work. I rejoice in the fact that there are so many who are faithful among the Latter-day Saints — men and women upon whom rests the responsibility of carrying on this great work through these days and years of trouble. 

I know that the admonition and counsel given to the Church a year ago, at this conference, from President Grant, was the word of the Lord. There were people who doubted it at that time. There were people who went home feeling angry that the President of the Church should assume to dictate to them or to suggest to them what they ought to do in their own affairs, but the great majority of them did not feel that way. We knew that it was the word of the Lord and it required less than a year to demonstrate the fact that that was true. So I believe that the words of Daniel will apply to us also in this day, that if we are wise, wise enough to catch the inspiration, to take the word of those who preside over us, the time will come, within, perhaps, the next ten years, when the financial world is crashing and is coming down to the same condition that many of the members are in at the present time, that we will be. able to shine with the brightness of the firmament, as men of wisdom, men who have taken counsel, men who have been guided thereby in their financial affairs. 

May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters. May the inspiration of his Spirit continue to rest down abundantly upon President Grant — and upon his counselors, and upon these chosen men — the Council of the Twelve — men after God's own heart. I thought last night, while listening to Dr. Talmage referring to the general authorities of the Church — twenty-six men — that their equal could not be found among all the peoples of the earth. There are no such men outside of the -Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, upon whom the Lord has placed his power, into whose hands he has given his authority, and to whom he looks for the safeguarding of the good ship Zkn, through the breakers around about us. 

May peace rest down upon you, my brethren and sisters, and the inspiration of the Lord be with you in your homes. May you be successful in the rearing of your families, in the conduct of your affairs, and in your dut'es and obligations to God and to your brethren and sisters, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER B. H. ROBERTS 

(Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the Eastern States 

Mission) 

On the title page of the Book of Mormon there is a statement made of the purpose for which the book was written. Part of the explanation is as follows : 

" — Which is to show unto the remnant of the House of Tsrael what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever; and also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations — " 

That book was published in the Spring of 1830. At that time, I feel very sure in saying, the conviction of those who considered themselves Christians, was practically unanimous in the conception that Jesus Christ, in some way, was divine; and not only divine, but also in .some way, the manifestation of God to the world. And ye': we find in this preface of the l!ook of Mormon a statement that this book had been written and preserved to come forth in the last days to establish the conception of jesus Christ as "The Eternal God;" and many marvel, doubtless, that such a statement as this should be made. 

What more witness or testimony could the world need than is to be found in the New Testament scriptures, to the fact that Jesus is the Christ and God? Yiou doubtless will recall the question that Christ asked the Pharisees with whom he had been in controversy. Turning questioner himself, he said to them: "What think ye of Christ?" — having in mind the Anointed One whom the whole nation of Jews were expecting — "Whose son is he?" And they quite readily answered: "The son of David." "How then," said, the Christ, "doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool ? If David then call him Lord, how is he, then, his son, And no man was able to answer him a word." 

Then, on another occasion, when in controversy with the Jews, the Savior said : "I and my Father are one," and then they took up stones to stone him. Jesus answered them: "Many good works have I showed you from my Father; for which of those works do' ye stone me?" And the Jews answered: "For a good work we stone thee not; but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God," and this, of course, was in their view, blasphemy. The Savior answered them saying: "Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods? If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken; say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God, If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not. But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works; that ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him." 

St. John's testimony is to the sajne effect; namely : 

"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God," and it goes on to tell us that, 

"All things were made by him; and without him was not any tiling made that was made." * * * 

"And the Word was' made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father) full of grace and truth." 

And ,so, you might continue to point out from the New Testament scripture how the Christ is proclaimed to be one with the Father, and possessed of all power, as he himself declared, both in heaven and in earth; and is named in the Holy Trinity as being equal with God, the Father, and with God, the Holy Ghost; the three constituting the Godhead of heaven and of earth. Yet, notwithstanding all these testimonies of the New Testament scriptures, God brings forth a new volume of scripture, the Book of Mormon, which we are learning to call the American scripture, the word of God to the ancient inhabitants of this land of America. He brings that forth and points out in it that the greatest purpose of all in bringing it into existence and preserving it, is to testify to both Jew and Gentile in the last days, that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God. 

In the eastern states of late, there has arisen a great controversy about this very subject — viz, is Jesus Deity? A very noted rector in the diocese of New York, Dr. Grant, in January, in one of his Sunday services, announced that "Jesus was not Deity," but man. His bishop, Bishop William T. Manning, immediately took him to task, pointed out that he was out of harmony with the creed of the great Episcopal Church, and that he ought either to recant the things he had uttered, or else he ought to resign. The doctor declined to resign, though he did modify somewhat the positiveness of his statement that Jesus was not Deity. In his reply to his bishop, he merely said that he did not know of the divinity of Jesus Christ, and believed that the historical gospels that best set forth his life, did not attribute to him Deityship. It is a kind of drawn battle between the rector and his bishop; but it discloses the fact that there were quite as many people in that diocese who sided with the rector as against the bishop; and it also disclosed the fact that the ministry was about equally divided on the subject, This agitation that thus arose, extended throughout all the country, not only among Christians but the Jews also have participated in it. And the discovery is made, and it is safe to make the statement, that not more than one-half of those who bear the name "Christian" do really believe in Jesus Christ as Deity. I am very sure that it is the general mental attitude toward the Christ, that he is merely the "prophet teacher of Nazareth," and not at all God. 

That is as far as I may now lead your reflections upon this sub; but is it not marvelous that a book should be brought forth, about one hundred years ago that would carry in it testimony and witness for the Deityship of Jesus Christ, when there was no earthly reason for believing, when the book was brought forth, that it would have any such emergency to meet as we now see rising in the modern, Christian world? 

I thank God that he thus anticipated the need of the religious world concerning a true knowledge of God; that he brought forth, as from the dust, the testimony of sleeping nations to the great central truth of the Christian religion, the important fact that Jesus Christ is indeed God, manifest in the flesh; and has, in our day, more than doubled divine testimony, that Jesus, the Christ, is both the Redeemer of the world and, under the direction of the Father, the Creator of it and the sustaining power of it; also the vital force, that gives life to all things; and likewise the intelligence-inspiring power; and above all the love-manifested power; the love revealed that God has for all the children of men, in which manifested love, we may hope for the continuation of effort upon the part of the Divine powers, to bring the children of men unto' God. May the Lord grant it, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice." Elder Joseph A. West offered the closing prayer. Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


