11
Afternoon
06 10 1933
Elder Samuel O. Bennion 
2
37-39

None

None

I feel very humble, my brethren and sisters, in occupying this position, and I pray that I may be led to say that which will be best for me to say upon this occasion. 

First, I want to express my gratitude and appreciation for the fine choice the Presidency of the Church and the Council of the Twelve have made in the appointment of President Callis to the Council of the Twelve, and of Brother Taylor to the Council of the Seventy. I have known these men a long while, and I know that they will be welcomed in all the Stakes where they shall go, and that they will be richly endowed as a result of their experience and their faith. 

President Grant gave us a wonderful message this morning in his address. I was greatly impressed by that passage of scripture referred to in the Doctrine and Covenants, 58th section (and I have used it many times in the mission field) wherein the Lord says: 

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 

"For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward." 

Agents unto themselves! That gives us to understand that we have the principle of free agency in us. We can do or not do. We can read, we can work, or we can neglect our work. The power is within us. The Lord appointed men to carry on his work. He led them in the path whereby they might gain a testimony and might know and understand his work; but the freedom of choice is left with his sons and with his daughters. 

There is no place in the world, nor an organization anywhere that offers so much for its membership, through the priesthood and through its auxiliaries, as does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Much responsibility rests upon the priesthood quorums, and great blessings come to them. Men who are anxious concerning their appointment and the work that is entrusted to them, who are all the time thinking about it, planning about it, trying to bring about in the best possible way the fulfilment of their duties and appointments, will feel greatly the power and influence of the Spirit of the Lord. 

There is fine leadership in this Church. The men with whom we are associated all the time are anxiously engaged in their work. They labor earnestly early and late for the establishment of Zion, and constantly preach faith and works and set an example unto us that all of us can profit by, if we take advantage of the opportunity afforded us. 

There never was a time during my period of service when there were better opportunities than now afforded, in the preaching of the Gospel, both at home and abroad. There never was a time when leadership was more needed than now, in every phase of man's existence. The people are looking for men to lead them. They are disturbed and heartsick because of disappointment. They are not fed the bread of life. They don't understand it. They live and they die without any hope, because they have not had opportunities which will enable them to receive the blessings of God, our Father, that they are entitled to. I feel that it is our duty to a very great extent to provide this spiritual food. 

As I travel in the mission field, and especially in the section where I live and have lived for so many years, I ask myself: Am I reaching the men and women with whom I associate, as I know I should do? When I get on the other side can I be justly accused of neglect? 

There isn't any question in my mind but that, if we could get people to thinking, they would revere the plan of life and salvation. They would understand that we do not worship the Prophet Joseph Smith or the other leaders of the Church, but that we do honor these men. We honor and respect them because the Lord selected them and placed them in authority so that the Gospel could be brought again to the children of men. 

It is in the hearts of thousands of people to believe the Gospel. I said there never was a greater time than now, and I believe it. Everywhere one goes there is an opportunity to hold meetings. Men could go out in the mission field for a few months at a time, if not longer — men who are experienced — and with very little money could hold meetings among the congregations of the people of the country. There would be many who would listen to them. Even now, though we are reaching only a few, comparatively, just a few men and women, it is marvelous the way the work of the Lord is growing in the earth. 

The position that we occupy is a most worthy one and we should magnify it. If we could ourselves feel the importance of our calling; if we could feel that we were called and appointed before the foundation of the earth was laid, as Alma the prophet said, if we could feed and feast more upon the glorious principles that the Lord has revealed, it would greatly enrich our souls and give us a greater desire to do for him that which he would have us do. 

I know full well that we shall live again. I know that the Lord revealed all that the Prophet Joseph said he revealed to him. I know that when we sing, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," that Jesus did anoint him a prophet and seer, and that he blessed him to open this the last dispensation, and that "kings shall extol him and nations revere." This will be brought more forcibly to the attention of the world from now on than ever before. 

When we sing, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," in our hearts and with our voices, we do know that the Lord did call and did reveal unto him the priesthood, and gave him the power and the right to act in his name! And nations do revere him in all the civilized world, where missionaries have gone. We find men and women everywhere singing praises unto God and revering that man unto whom the Lord revealed himself. 

May we, my brethren and sisters, do our part. My prayer and heart's desire have always been that we will walk in the path of rectitude; that we will follow our file leaders; that we will ourselves study the things the Lord has revealed; that we will take to heart that which the Lord's servants called to our attention this morning. It came from God. I am a witness of it. I bear testimony of it to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
