4
Morning
06 10 1933
Elder David O. McKay 
18
11-16

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I wish first to express my delight in the choice that has been made to fill the vacancies in the Council of the Twelve and in the First Council of the Seventy, as presented here this morning by President Grant. I have known President Callis and President John H. Taylor for many years. I have labored with Brother Callis in the mission field, have had his confidence, and know him to be a man of God, one who will give his life if necessary for the truth. 

I have been closely associated with Brother Taylor in the Missionary Home. I know his integrity to the truth. I know his reliability and soundness. I know he comprehends as few men comprehend the needs of missionaries. It is highly fitting for him to be called into the First Council of the Seventy, the special mission of which is to direct the missionary work of the Church and to instruct the Seventies of the Church as missionaries. I congratulate the Church upon these appointments. I know Sister Callis and Sister Taylor, and know them to be wise women, worthy to share the great honor that has come to their husbands. They are faithful and true and capable. God bless these brethren and sisters in the great responsibility that has come to them. 

ME WORTH OF THE INDIVIDUAL 

"Remember the worth of souls." This divine admonition suggests the topic about which I desire to speak; namely, The Worth of the Individual. 

If, as it has been said, the babe "is the center of the universe," then man is the center of all social activity. "Man is the jewel of God, who has created this material world to keep His treasure in." This is just another way of saying that the earth was created for man and not man for the earth. 

I am one of those who believe that all institutions and organizations exist primarily for the purpose of securing to the individual his rights, his happiness and proper development of his character. As soon as organizations fail to accomplish this purpose their usefulness ceases. "So act," says Kant, "as to treat humanity, whether in your own person or that of another, in every case as an end, never as a means only." 

In all ages of the world men have been prone to ignore the personality of others, to disregard men's rights by closing against them the opportunity to develop. The worth of man is a good measuring rod by which we may judge of the rightfulness or wrongfulness of a policy or principle whether in government, in business or social affairs. 

THE ARISTOCRACY OF BRUTE FORCE 

Taking a long glance at the world's history with its confused mass of tangled events, we can glimpse an ever-increasing group momentum in favor of the rights of the individual. There was a time even since history began, when men were ruled by the aristocracy of brute force. Under this condition developed such group powers as the Huns, who ruled at one time all peoples between the Caspian and the Chinese borders. Under this power the masses were but serfs. Indeed all conquered groups were compelled to pay tribute to the conquerors. Those who refused were either subdued or exterminated. At one time, for example, the entire region between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean was laid waste. A good illustration of "man's inhumanity to man." 

THE ARISTOCRACY OF BIRTH 

Centuries passed and we find the world governed principally by the aristocracy of birth. This ruling power was climaxed in the declaration of the weak king, James the Sixth of Scotland, who became James the First of England, and who made the declaration that kings rule by divine right. Under this regime also, the individual who represents the masses was but a vassal whose principal right to existence in the mind of the ruling class was to pay tribute. For eleven years, Charles the First, son of James the First, contrary to the spirit and express declaration of the Magna Charta, ruled without a parliament. His tyrannical usurpation of power and his refusal to recognize the rights of his subjects proved his undoing. 

THE ARISTOCRACY OF WEALTH 

However, the aristocracy of birth has crumbled. Thrones of Emperors and Kings are today unoccupied. Titles may be bought for the fourth of a common fortune, or for the wealth of an actress. In the meantime there has arisen in the world another centralized power which may be called the aristocracy of wealth, in which success and influence seem in proportion to the amount a man possesses. Under that regime big business seems more concerned about raising the value of things than in raising the standard of living. Men are used to make money instead of money being used to make men. Of course, man is the ultimate means of wealth, but this personal power should not be exploited by any man or force advantageously situated. 

We are living in an age of changing opinions, of swiftly shifting human relations. Man's wisdom seems baffled. In all our readjustments, plans and policies we cannot do better than keep in mind the divine admonition that the worth of souls is great in the sight of God. 

THE END OF ALL SOCIAL DEVELOPMENTS 

There has been no little discussion as to whether the individual or society is the great end of all social developments. "From the Christian point of view there needs be no hesitancy in the answer so far as man is concerned. The saved individual is the supreme end of the Divine Will." 

Jesus always sought the welfare of the individual, and individuals grouped and laboring for the mutual welfare of the whole in conformity with the principles of the Gospel constitute the Kingdom of God. Many of the choicest truths of the Gospel were given in conversations with individuals. It was while Jesus talked with Nicodemus that He gave us the message relative to baptism and being born again. From the conversation with the woman of Samaria we have disclosed the truth that they who worship God must worship in spirit and in truth. From that with Mary and Martha we get the divine declaration, "I am the resurrection, and the life; he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live." 

Jesus' regard for personality was supreme. When the Pharisees dragged into his presence the woman taken in adultery, Christ saw through the soul that had been stained with sin the personality that still contained the spark of hope, which He kindled into a light that warmed and guided a personality back to confidence and perhaps to righteousness. 

THE PRESENT POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SITUATION 

I said that we are living in an age of shifting uncertainties. Recently I saw an expressive cartoon which depicted an engine on an old railroad track, from which a train loaded with people was being pulled in another direction by a tractor which had left the rails and started out over an unbeaten track. The President of the United States was the engineer. It is expressive of our political and economic situation today. Some of us may not know just where we are going, but we are trusting our leader. 

To policies and legislation now proposed for the purpose of lifting the country out of the quagmire of depression, let us in the spirit of tolerance apply the test of The Worth of Souls. Two of these policies are The National Recovery Act, and Prohibition. 

THE NATIONAL RECOVERY ACT 

Of this one thing we are certain, that the dominating spirit of the movement expressed in the blue emblem of the National Recovery Act has as its impelling motive the good of the individual. It is reaching out to alleviate suffering and to make brighter the life of every unfortunate. Vast sums of money are being appropriated to make better the condition of every citizen in the United States. That motive is sound. It conforms to the measuring rod of the individual and, therefore, deserves the hearty support of every loyal American. 

DEBASING TO MANHOOD 

I wish I could say as much of the Anti-Prohibition movement. Many who are favoring the repeal of the 18th Amendment sincerely believe repeal of sumptuary laws will foster greater temperance. Others, however, lay much stress upon the fact that if our prohibition laws are repealed we shall have more revenue. In this latter case money seems to take precedence over manhood. I have no objection to any effort, indeed, I favor every means to turn into the natural channels of government wealth which has heretofore been flowing to bootleggers and other lawbreakers. But while that is commendable I cannot lose sight of the fact that traffic in alcoholic drinks and the indulgence in intoxicating liquors are debasing to manhood. That which does not contribute to the need, to the comfort, to the happiness of the individuals should be banished from society at whatever monetary expenditure. "Abstinence from the use of alcohol or drugs and purity in the sex relations are fundamental determinants of our efficiency, whether mental, moral, or physical." If the majority of the thinking men and women in the United States agree that prohibition is not the best way to handle this evil, then mark what I say, some method of control must be devised and assumed not only by the States but by the Federal Government or the Cause of Temperance will be set back twenty-five years. It is my personal opinion that traffic in intoxicating liquor should be placed in the same category as traffic in morphine and other drugs and opiates. 

SPECIAL MEANING TO LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

To the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the worth of the individual has special meaning. Quorums, auxiliaries, wards, stakes, even the Church itself, are all organized to further the welfare of man. All are but means to an end, and that end the happiness and eternal welfare of every child of God. 

With wards, quorums, organizations and auxiliaries in mind, I wish to suggest again three major means of winning souls to Christ. 

These three conditions are: 

1. Enrollment of every individual. 

2. Personal contact. 

3. Group service. 

These three plans or conditions are already operating in the Church, but unless they function they will be ineffective in acomplishing the purposes for which they have been established. They will be like a sugar factory in which the wheels are silent and rusty. 

The first duty of each of these organizations is to enroll every individual who belongs to it, not only enroll but know the conditions under which each person lives. 

The second condition is personal contact. To make this possible and effective there has been organized in every ward in the Church a Correlation Committee, made up of the heads of quorums and organizations which combined comprehend every man, woman, and child in the ward. The third is service. It is not enough to know, and it isn't sufficient to visit, for no person can become fairly enthused with the principles and doctrines of the Gospel unless he lives them. "If ye will do the will, ye shall know," is a fundamental law of spiritual growth. 

There are 3,512 quorums in the Church in which are enrolled 150,700 men and boys. There are 101,876 officers and teachers in the auxiliary organizations. If each of these members of quorums and lady officers and teachers (212,500) were to influence for better living one individual and should "labor all his days * * * and bring save it be but one soul unto me, how great shall be his joy with him in the Kingdom of my Father." "And now," continues the revelation, "if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me. into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" 

PERSONALITY SACRED 

I appeal to all members of the Church and particularly to presidents of quorums and to officers of all auxiliaries to put forth a unified effort to make sweeter and better the lives of men. Only in such effort can the high ideal for which the Church was organized be realized. Let us prove to the world and particularly to those who are suspicious of us that we consider personality sacred and not a thing to be exploited for gain. 

DUTY OF INDIVIDUAL TO SOCIETY 

While emphasizing the worth of the individual, I wish to say that the individual in turn owes a duty to society. The world today perhaps as never before is demanding that the employer consider his employee not merely as a part of a machine to make money, but as a living, sensitive being entitled to justice and right. It is equally obligatory upon the employee to recognize the employer as one who has equal privileges. It is the duty of the citizen to take this same attitude toward the leaders of his government, and the duty of the churchman to recognize the rights of those appointed to preside. 

This is a time in which we should renew and rekindle the faith of our fathers. On every hand "we see social unrest; unloving and unlovely men, greed, selfishness, political corruption. We see people indifferent, pleasure seeking, ignorant, far from following a life of service. Plans fail and success seems an Utopian dream. The materialistic philosophy of life which so largely controls our thinking today has nearly succeeded in convincing the world that a man's life does consist in the abundance of things which he possesses." 

THE ARISTOCRACY OF CHARACTER 

It is time for the world to try Christ's teachings. The Church of Christ is so completely organized and so constituted to inspire its members that we may confidently look forward to the day when all individuals will have a fair chance for the joy of living, when men will be measured by what they are and not merely by what they possess, and when an aristocracy of character, will govern in organized society. 

"Then let us pray that come it may, 
As come it will for a' that, 
That man to man the world o'er 
Shall brothers be for a' that,"

Carlyle answered the old question, "What is the chief end of man?" by saying: 

"To glorify God and enjoy him forever." 

And the Prophet Joseph brought to light the great truth that God's work and glory is "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." 

May the Lord continually inspire us to aid in this divine consummation. I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
