12
Afternoon
06 10 1933
Elder George S. Romney 
133
39-41

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am happy to bring to you a word from the Northern States Mission. The Elders and Saints are well and enjoying the spirit of the Gospel. It is interesting to note the difference in the spirit of people as you meet them in the world, as you meet them among the Latter-day Saints and the missionaries in the mission field, and as you meet them in the stakes of Zion at home. We who are separated from you notice the difference. 

President Grant said this morning that that person who found fault with him for talking about the Word of Wisdom indicated by his talk that he was not faithful in keeping that law. I have sometimes thought that people who find fault with others, and who criticize the General Authorities of the Church, and also ward and stake authorities, are simply using that criticism as a camouflage; that they are trying to raise a smoke screen to hide themselves by getting others to turn their attention to the apparent faults of our brethren. 

I have been taught since I was a child to pray for the authorities of the Church, and I think I have always done it. But recently my prayers have changed, somewhat, in that I am now praying more earnestly that I may have the strength and the power and the wisdom to sustain the authorities of the Church, as well as asking the Lord to bless them with inspiration and revelation. It seems to me that the Latter-day Saints should turn their attention more to this particular phase of calling upon the Lord for strength, that we, as members of the Church, may see to it, in all that we say and in all that we do, we sustain the authority of the Priesthood which God has given to us in these latter days. 

I have but a few moments to speak, and I should like to say something about that which you must all be interested in, which is happening in Chicago at the present time. There comes very forcibly to my mind now the visit of President B. H. Roberts about a month ago. He went to Chicago to speak to the World's Fellowship of Faiths. This great institution is in a way the follower or the outcome of the World's Parliament of Religions, which was held forty years ago. It was known to the officials of this organization that Brother Roberts had been in Chicago forty years ago, and had not been permitted to speak in the general assembly. In the introduction that was given to him this fact was referred to as indicative of the change in public opinion. President Roberts was honored, it seems to me, more than any other of the distinguished people who spoke in the many meetings of that organization. He gave to the people a message, in fact, two great messages. He spoke of the Prince of Peace, and how that peace might come to the world by giving justice, social and economic justice, to all mankind. He was powerful in his discourse, and there will be written in the books, the records of that great convention, as one of the first and foremost messages given, that which was given by Brother Roberts during the last days of his life here upon the earth. 

I wish you could go into the booth and see the exhibit in the Hall of Religions that has been made by the Church to which we belong, and listen to your young men and young women who are there working. I believe that there would be many more of the young men and young women of the Latter-day Saints desire to go on missions, and be willing to sacrifice themselves in order to go on missions, if they could feel the spirit of those young men. There are probably from three thousand to five thousand people each day who stop to listen as they give to them the message. It is a living message. 

Our booth is in the Hall of Religions where many other religious faiths have made exhibits, and it is outstanding on account of the spirit of it. The figures in the paintings and the sculpture work seem to be living individuals — they look as if they could speak. They are outstanding. They are different. They are symbolical of the work that is done in the Church. They tell the story of the work of our Relief Society, our Sunday Schools, our missionary work, our Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement work; and especially do they depict most beautifully the ideals of the "Mormon" home, as the father sits with the child in his arms, and the mother stands with her arm over the shoulder of a boy scout. 

These young men who lecture almost continuously for twelve hours every day, for the five months of the Fair, are filled with the spirit and enthusiasm of missionary work, as they deliver the great message which we have to give to the world. And I bear testimony, as Brother Bennion has done just before me, that the world is hungry. The people stop and listen, and you may go into that booth any time of the day, when the rest of the hall is filled or when there are but few there, and there will always be a group filling that booth of ours. 

I wish that this spirit, the testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ which fills the hearts of your young men and young women in the mission field, could be in the hearts of all of you people. I believe it is important in the education of every boy and every girl that they take a mission, and know something of missionary work as well as something of college work. While I believe in college work, I believe that the missionary work is the most needed and the most outstanding experience in a person's education. 

May the Lord bless us, and fill us with the spirit of this great work, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
