14
Afternoon
06 10 1933
Elder Charles E. Rowan, Jr. 
127
44-46

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am reminded of the scripture that says, "Prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost." 

I have enjoyed the conference immensely thus far. As I have heard the words as they have come from the prophets of the Lord I have rejoiced, and hope that all Israel will heed these wonderful messages. 

As one who is not a member of the general authorities, may I express my feeling of gratitude to our heavenly Father in the selection of these worthy men who have been called to help lead and direct Israel. I believe that no finer men could be found in the Church, and yet I appreciate that in this Church we have many mighty, stalwart leaders, who are gifted and talented. 

It has been my pleasure to be acquainted with President Callis for twenty-four years. I have had the opportunity of sleeping with him, eating with him, visiting with him, and enjoying his friendship and confidence, and have had the pleasure of listening to him preach to the people in the mission field, a rare privilege. 

I had the opportunity of meeting Brother Taylor first eleven years ago, when he came into the Garfield Stake of Zion, representing the Mutual Improvement Association. I think he will remember the introduction. We met him in Marysvale with a Model T Ford and took him to Escalante where the conference was to be held. Some of the pitches over the mountain were eighteen per cent and the Ford could hardly make the grade. Sometimes it was necessary for the passengers to walk and Brother Taylor had to help push it over the mountain. More than that, we had a baby girl called Rachel, and at times he carried her in his arms. He said: "Oh, I think Rachel is the finest name in the world." I thought of that when he referred to his kind, sweet wife here today. I am sure the Saints in the wards and stakes will be delighted with these appointments. 

I am happy, brethren and sisters, to bring you greetings from the Saints and missionaries in the Texas mission. Your sons and daughters are well. They are bearing testimony to the people, wherever they can, that God, our Father, has spoken in this generation of time; that no greater mission has ever been given to any people than has been committed to us as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I bring you greetings from the Saints, and say to you that they are honest, God-fearing people in the main; that we have had an increase in our numbers who have paid tithes and fast-offerings this year; that our auxiliary organizations are all fully organized, and we are anticipating increased activity this coming winter. We have had considerable increase in the activities, particularly in our genealogical work. In checking it over the other day I discovered an increase of 862 per cent in the names that have passed through the mission office for the temples this year. Really the spirit of Elijah is resting upon the people, not only those who are members of the Church, but the people in general seem to be interested in finding out who their ancestors were. We are grateful for this. 

I am happy, my brethren and sisters, in this great calling. I have never enjoyed anything so much in my life. I am grateful for the testimony that I have that Jesus Christ is actually the Son of the living God. I am grateful for my association with these fine sons and daughters of yours. I wish to say to you that they are indeed servants of the true and the living God; that they are anxious to go forward and proclaim the truth, and they are doing all they can everywhere to preach the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I want to read a statement here that was made by the Savior during his ministry. He said: 

"All things are delivered unto me of my Father; and no man knoweth the Son but the Father; neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him." 

I am also reminded of the fact that he said: 

"And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." 

Here we find that no one can know that Jesus is the Christ, and that God is our eternal Father, unless it is revealed to him by Jesus Christ. When Jesus was about to depart from this life he said: 

"And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you forever." 

"Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will show you things to come." 

A glorious promise that has been fulfilled and is being enjoyed by faithful Latter-day Saints everywhere! 

I certify in words of soberness that you who have testimonies and have received this revelation from Almighty God, according to that which our Master has said, have the assurance of life eternal. 

May God bless us all. May you be able to sustain your missionary sons and daughters in the field. May you who have sons and daughters, and you who are experienced be endowed with power from on high, with a determination to go forward and help to reap, because truly the field is white, ready to harvest. May we be sustained and profit by the good things we hear in this conference, and support our leaders, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
