10
Afternoon
06 10 1933
Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon 
5
31-37

None

None

I am happy, my brethren and sisters and friends, to be with you in this splendid conference, to enjoy the spirit of this gathering. 

I was greatly impressed this morning, in the opening remarks of President Grant, with the variety of important quotations which he read from the Doctrine and Covenants, which refer to and present the means of solving many of the social, economic and moral problems which confront the world today. Those few excerpts which he presented, of themselves form a strong evidence of the divinity of that scripture. I would like to speak to you for a few minutes this afternoon along some lines that President Grant referred to in those remarks. 

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT’S ADDRESS 

I was reading just recently an address delivered by President Roosevelt, with regard to the conditions which are prevailing today in a social way in this country. Among other things President Roosevelt said: "Social justice is becoming an ever-growing factor and influence in almost every part of the world." Again he said: "Humanity is moving forward to the practical application of the teachings of Christianity, as they affect the individual lives of men and women." Then further: "No program of recovery can suddenly restore all our people to self-support. * * * The longer, harder part still lies ahead. We must redouble our efforts to care for those who still need relief, to prevent disintegration of home life, and to stand by the victims of depression until it is definitely past." Again: "The federal government cannot do the whole job. Every community and every state must do their share." 

EXTENSIVE CHURCH RELIEF 

I am sure we agree to these statements made by the President of the United States, and that the Church to which we belong is doing its part in conformity with these suggestions. I think I may state, without question of doubt or contradiction, that this Church has done more and is doing more, in proportion, for the relief of those in need, than any other religious organization. I do not think I shall be challenged in that statement. In the past I believe the Church has done proportionately more than could reasonably be expected of it. 

SOCIAL JUSTICE 

The desire of the authorities of this Church is for the welfare of its members. As has been frequently remarked, the effort is to help men and women to help themselves. The business of the Church is to promote, in the largest way, social justice for its members and for all mankind. Every worker is entitled to the opportunity for reasonable employment at fair compensation, for leisure time for recreation and study, and for spiritual development. Every wife and mother is entitled to proper consideration in the care of her household and to similar opportunities for recreation, intellectual and spiritual progress. Every child is likewise entitled to opportunities for reasonable education, for recreation and preparation for life, and to protection from unfair practices. In like manner, each of them has the obligation to society at large to do his or her part in promoting better conditions generally that will make for progress and peace. Under the present disturbed circumstances these conditions are not being fully realized. But it is even more important for us all to cooperate in striving to bring such conditions about. The teachings of the Gospel are the very essence of social justice. To the extent that we observe them we shall evidence fair dealing, mutual helpfulness and kindness to all. 

COMPARATIVE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 

I think the economic conditions throughout the Church are probably not so serious as they are in other parts of the country. In the first place, we are generally living in less congested areas than the industrial sections of the country. We are, in considerable part, an agricultural people. That is, we live nearer to the soil, I think, in proportion, than most other communities. There is probably greater equality and, consequently, less extreme poverty and less great riches, among the people of this Church, than other communities, whether religious or social organizations. So our problems may not be quite so serious Yet they are so serious as to deserve the earnest consideration and effort of every one who has responsibility in this Church, and also of every member. Because this Church is working as a unit to promote the welfare of all of the people. 

CHURCH SOCIAL STANDARDS 

Our standards, as established by the Gospel, not only as given by the Savior and his apostles in earlier days, and as taught by the prophets in Israel, but through the revelations of the Lord in these days, are broader and more important and more definitely placed before us than any people have ever had. We have the standards set up for us to follow, socially, morally and religiously. If we will endeavor to observe those standards — in other words, if we will learn, as has been expressed here frequently today, to keep the commandments of the Lord — we shall grow in right living, social justice and true charity. It leads, in fact, to the finest civilization. 

CHRISTIAN QUALITIES 

In one of the quotations from the revelations of the Lord, as contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, President Grant called attention to the qualities necessary for Gospel service among men. The instructions apply to us and to all mankind, if we would promote the greatest human welfare. These qualities are: faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility and diligence. The development of these qualities in the lives of men and women comes as a result of Gospel teaching and enables them to apply the same practically for the welfare of humanity as referred to by President Roosevelt. 

If we would apply in our lives the teachings of the Savior, day by day, as they have been taught to us through revelations from him in these days, our lives would be most exemplary and influential among mankind. 

I believe the Latter-day Saints, as a whole, are endeavoring to live in accordance with these teachings — to practically apply them, as President Roosevelt says, as they individually affect us — so that we may evidence greater helpfulness, equity and consideration for one another. That, I think, is the most effective sign of the spirit of the Gospel for which we are all striving. I am sure that if we keep constantly before us the practical application of the Golden Rule, that whatsoever we would that men should do unto us, we would do it unto them, thinking beforehand what we would like to have done to us, and then applying that in our relations with our fellow men, we shall increase in our power to do good and to advance human welfare. 

NATIONAL RECOVERY 

I believe we all appreciate the fact that the President of the United States and his administration are endeavoring in every possible way to promote general recovery from the depressed conditions we have suffered. As has been stated, it cannot be immediate. It will require time to bring to pass the things that are desirable, and to overcome the economic stagnation through which we have been struggling for the last three or four years. To rise on the crest of the wave which we are hoping and striving for, out of the trough in which we have been for some time, exacts powerful, coordinated efforts. Progress must necessarily be gradual and sound. The efforts of the administration to coordinate public works, industrial recovery plans, means of raising farm commodity and other prices gradually, in order to increase employment and consequent purchasing power, cannot all be effected hastily. The plan conceived and the application of the same are tremendous and never previously undertaken. There have been, of course, delays that have interfered with the program, and have hindered, to some extent, the upward advance which is so greatly needed. I think it is our business to do our part, and to help to coordinate, as far as we can, the carrying out of the plan, so that the unemployed of the nation shall be ble to obtain work to maintain themselves and their families, and not to have to be dependent upon public or private charity or upon federal relief. But, in the meantime, those in need must be taken care of. Therefore, pending complete recovery, there is bound to be suffering and distress, which the people of this nation, individually and collectively, must help to avoid and overcome. 

COORDINATION OF ALL RELIEF AGENCIES 

It is of the utmost importance that there should be even greater efficiency in the coordination of relief by all agencies engaged in caring for all those who are in need, including federal, state, county and private agencies. Care must be exercised in the system followed to be sure that no one in need shall suffer, and, on the other hand, that any who do not need help shall not impose upon those who are furnishing relief. 

SELF-SEEKERS NOT IN NEED 

I was impressed with what President Grant said with regard to those seeking help who do not need it. It seems to be a peculiar feeling or attitude, on the part of many citizens of this nation, that whenever the government has anything to give away, they are desirous of obtaining it, even though they may not actually need it, and are able to support themselves without. That seems to me a rather selfish attitude. I think that we ought to strive to be self-supporting, and, as far as possible, independent of help from other sources. 

FAIR CONSIDERATION FOR UNEMPLOYED 

Where help is needed, those who have the direction of relief should undertake to see that help is extended. There should be fair consideration given to every unemployed head of family, and to every single person. In all of these measures of relief that are being undertaken, there should be no desire to humiliate any individual who seeks employment. There should be no effort to force them to use up all their resources; in other words, to make paupers of them, when they are in need of employment to provide for themselves and their families. In my judgment, those engaged in relief work should, in their investigations, differentiate those requiring somewhat permanent relief from those who are somewhat temporarily in need of help. Certainly the latter, who desire employment, should not be required to sacrifice all they have before they receive make-work or other relief. There is danger in some of the relief work that is being done, that sometimes there has been extreme effort made to require them to go to the very limit to dispose of every single thing that they have, before they can obtain help from those who have the relief in hand. 

ALL ABLE-BODIED TO WORK FOR RELIEF 

Now, those who are out of employment are not entirely responsible for the conditions. They are desirous of obtaining ways and means whereby they can support themselves and their families. They should be encouraged in that effort, without causing them embarrassment. I believe that every able-bodied person who needs help should give labor or service for the relief that is extended. The doing of work in consideration for compensation, whether it be food relief or cash, promotes independence of spirit, self-respect and satisfaction. Any other policy is destructive of good citizenship. All should feel willing to give that effort. As far as possible, no help should be extended without it. 

AIM OF PUBLIC WORKS 

There are many desirable things that can be done in the various communities which, with reasonable planning, can be of great benefit to the communities. That is one of the great things that is being undertaken in connection with public works. The projects must be economically and socially desirable. They are intended to help overcome unemployment and reduce relief. They are planned to prove a stimulus also, to private industry throughout this whole nation. I want to express appreciation for the great thought on the part of the Federal administration in trying, by the advancing of federal funds, under reasonable conditions, to provide the widest possible employment in the various sections in proportion to the needs, and thereby to provide the public improvements, both self-liquidating and otherwise, that will make for the greatest welfare of the people. In this connection may I say that in my judgment there needs to be the greatest mutual consideration in the relations between employers and employes. With the codes being established in industry and the rates of wages on public works, employes will receive higher hourly wages but less hours per week than formerly. If industry is to increase and purchasing power be strengthened, the demands of labor must be reasonable and at the same time the employer must be considerate and fair. 

CHURCH RELIEF POLICY NOT CHANGED 

I believe you appreciate the fact that the church policy with regard to relief is being carried out as it has been. In other words, the Church does not accept responsibility entirely for the relief of those who are in need. The Church realizes that, first of all, the relatives of those in need should extend all the help that they can possibly do, and next to that the counties in the various states are responsible for the care of those in need. The Church stands by to aid, and to see that members of the Church shall not suffer. We cannot, of course, go beyond that. Especially does the Church feel the responsibility for the faithful, devoted members who may be in need. We are endeavoring to cooperate with the various relief agencies in the most effective way toward promoting improved conditions. 

GOVERINMENT RESPONSIBILITY IN UNEMPLOYMENT 

In the stagnated conditions of private industry, it appears that new employment must be largely undertaken by the cities, counties, states and the Federal government until increased buying power develops through the policies being carried out by the administration. Though the Church is not directly responsible for providing employment, it is endeavoring as far as practicable to furnish additional work through the wards and stakes and in a general way. 

CHUCH RESPONSIBILITY AND DESTINY 

I wish to direct your attention to the responsibility of the Church in the fulfilment of its destiny. The matter of aiding in relief is only one phase of its responsibility. Under normal economic conditions the care of those in need should not be a major part of its responsibilities. With improved prices, employment and general business conditions, the members of the Church, in common with the rest of the people of this nation, can through industry, patience and thrift gradually overcome the unfavorable conditions in which we find ourselves. The primary responsibility of the Church is the preaching of the Gospel throughout the world for the spiritual and temporal welfare of mankind. Also, the great work of salvation for the dead through vicarious ordinances, and for the living through the divine ordinances connected therewith, forms an important duty. Likewise, the education in religious as well as secular subjects, is vital to the proper development of all Church members. In addition, the providing of all necessary facilities for religious worship and training, as well as recreational and social activities, becomes an essential requirement. The result of all this effort, in connection with other positive forces at work in the world to promote liberty, truth and righteousness, will be general peace, good will and spiritual progress. 

INITIATIVE AND RESOURCEFULNESS 

President Grant called our attention this morning to the divine counsel given us in the 58th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants — "It is not meet that I should command in all things, for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore, he receiveth no reward. Verily, I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; for the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward." This is, in effect, what we call initiative. It is the doing of that which we ought to do, instead of having to be told. This instruction is given us primarily with respect to spiritual affairs. The same principle applies in our secular affairs. It is the business of everyone of us as individual Church members to plan our efforts and our lives in such a way as to promote the interests of the Gospel in the most extensive way. It is, likewise, our opportunity in our daily affairs to advance our personal interests in getting forward and in properly caring for those dependent upon us. This involves also the development of resourcefulness — the ability necessary to meet unusual demands or needs. Centuries ago a wise man declared, "Seest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings, he shall not stand before mean men." 

INDUSTRY AND SELF-HELP 

It should be the attitude of all who join the Church and those who grow up in it to strive continually to give in every way possible for its advancement, rather than to seek for support from the Church. Very definite instructions have been revealed to us regarding the importance of industry and the seriousness of slothfulness and idleness. There are, of course, times and conditions that may require for some Church members some assistance beyond their own efforts. But, generally, it is expected that each individual will develop the spirit and determination, not only to maintain himself, but also to give service and financial help for the advancement of God's work. Therein lies progress and blessing. On the other hand, condemnation rests upon those who are covetous, greedy or idle, whether rich or poor. 

A CONSTRUCTIVE CHURCH 

This Church is a constructive organization, spiritually as well as temporally. To achieve its great purposes justifies the cooperative effort of the entire Church membership in the use of their time, talents and means. The more universally and willingly the sacrifice, the greater will be the achievement, and the finer the development of the individual members. As we cultivate the unselfish attitude of seeking to maintain ourselves, and also of aiding in the fulfilment of the destiny of this great work, we shall grow in that spiritual faith and power which comes from our eternal Father. 

May the Lord bless and help us to grow in patience, helpfulness and kindliness, which will enable us to gain spiritual strength; and at the same time help us to develop those standards of industry, initiative and resourcefulness which will enable us to become independent in a temporal way. I pray for these blessings, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
