24
Afternoon
07 10 1933
Elder John V. Bluth
128
74-76

None

None

My brethren and sisters, when I heard Brother Grant say that some individual had sent a card, anonymously, asking that the Word of Wisdom be not spoken of in this conference, I wondered whether that individual expected to be present, and whether or not present at each of these sessions. If so, he or she must have been surprised at the wonderful success that card had in bringing exactly the opposite results. 

Most of the speakers have dwelt upon the principle of temperance, and the problem before the people at the present time. I want to indorse the remarks of Brother Ballard, relative to how the missionaries feel in the world, or at least in that part of the world to which I have been assigned, the Canadian Mission; what anxiety they feel as to how Utah will stand upon this question that comes before them shortly — the repeal of the prohibition amendment. 

They have traveled there and taught the people that this Gospel is different from theirs; that it has life and vitality in it; that it changes the lives of its adherents, makes them better, gives them newer ideas; that they live the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Now, they wonder, as they walk the paths, the lanes, and the highways, preaching the Gospel, as to what the result will be should Utah follow the majority who have thus far expressed themselves, the history that she will make. They feel that though Utah be the only state in the Union that votes against the repeal, they can hold their heads high and say: "We have been vindicated; the Latter-day Saints have been taught the Gospel, and whatever there may be of theory or idea as to why they ought to be better off with repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment than they are with that amendment in the Constitution, they have at least shown their faith by their works." They feel if otherwise, the people will say: "You have told us that you have a gospel different from all else that exists in the world; that it has a revitalizing effect upon your people. Now explain Utah's vote." Utah, we are told, is sixty per cent Mormon, and forty per cent non-Mormon; and out of that non-Mormon membership there are many in the Christian denominations and churches who are working hard and diligently against a repeal. If Utah then votes for repeal, it means that thousands of the Latter-day Saints have forsaken that which they have been taught, and have been led away by error. 

Brother Joseph Fielding Smith overheard a remark about which he spoke, to some extent. I also overheard one by a church worker who felt that he had to vote "wet," or for the repeal, because it meant more revenue to us. I wondered where in the world that revenue is going to come from, except out of the pockets of the people who will then be led to indulge in the things that they have refrained from heretofore. Every dollar they spend for liquor goes first to pay for the rent of the saloon, for the purchase of the fixtures the saloon-keeper has to have, for the purchase of the merchandise he expects to dispense there, for the home that he builds for his family, for the luxuries that he gives unto them, for the car, the radio, and other things, to pay the tax upon his property, to pay the taxes upon the saloon property, and to give him something to lay by for a rainy day; and if there is any part left, that goes to revenue. How much? Possibly a dime on a dollar; I doubt if that much. Oh, is it necessary to put a dollar through the hands of the saloon-keeper in order to get a dime back in revenue, and while we get that dime back debauch the manhood of the nation? That is the question as it appeals to me. 

The missionaries feel that they want to be able to say that Utah has shown, by its attitude, that it lives what it preaches. 

The song at the opening of the session here this afternoon was: 

"We thank thee, O God, for a prophet, 
To guide us in these latter days; 
We thank thee for sending the Gospel, 
To lighten our minds with its rays. 
We thank thee for every blessing, 
Bestowed by thy bounteous hand. 
We feel it a pleasure to serve thee, 
And love to obey thy command." 

I feel if we who have sung that this afternoon really mean what we have sung, then we can count upon all of us to do that which is right in this matter, and as missionaries bring as many more to the same attitude of mind. Our prophet has spoken; counsel has been given. Years past have proven to us the wisdom of abiding by the counsels given unto us. Why not learn by experience already had, rather than the lamentable experience that is bound to come to us otherwise? 

I bring you greetings from the brethren and sisters in the Canadian Mission. They are not many, but they are determined; they are full of the Spirit of the Lord. We love them for their integrity, their desire to serve, their willingness to devote as much time as can possibly be given in every day of every week, during their service, in bringing the Gospel to as many people as possible, in any way that they can conceive of. We need more missionaries. We have had to abandon or withdraw our missionaries from four districts, and to concentrate a little more, pending the arrival of more missionaries. But we feel that we are doing the work of the Lord, that his blessings attend us, and that there is a finer spirit than there has been for some time, and that spirit is creeping into the branches of the Church. Much of the discord and disunion that has been exhibited heretofore has been dissipated. The people have learned more of the philosophy of the Gospel, what it means to love 

and to forgive and to overlook. They have learned something of the difference between discord and union, and what the results of those two will be. They are coming nearer unto the Lord. They are putting up a little with one another's faults where they criticised before. 

Our baptisms have increased considerably over those of the entire past year, and there are quite a number of prospects who show an interest in the Gospel, a genuine interest, because of the principles taught. We feel to rejoice in the work of the Lord in that mission. It may be the gleaning time for we get them, one out of a city and another out of a county, here and there, but they are souls, children of God, and should be found. 

We rejoice in the work we have been given to do, and we pray God's blessing, not only upon the work in our mission, but upon the fields throughout the entire world. May the Lord so bless us that finance and means may come unto us, and that the spirit of sacrifice may enter our souls, that we may send more of our people into the field; and may he open up the places where so far the Gospel has not yet been permitted to come, and that the people may be willing to receive it. Then we may find another harvest time. 

God bless you all, my brethren and sisters, and may he help us to be faithful unto the end, and, having entered into the fold through baptism, not be content to sit down by the gate where we entered, and say: "We are saved," as they do in the world, but recognize the fact that our whole journey still lies before us, and if we expect to reach the destination we must continue to plod on in faithfulness, in activity and in service, and learn more about God's commandments, and about living them. 

God bless you, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
