23
Afternoon
07 10 1933
Elder David A. Smith 
95
70-74

None

None

The proceedings of this conference, thus far, have given me encouragement. I shall read the notes I made at that time, for they are a witness to me that the Lord does hear and answer prayers. 

"Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

"And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the house tops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples whom I have chosen in these last days. 

"And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. 

"Behold, this is mine authority, and the authority of my servants, and my preface unto the book of my commandments, which I have given them to publish unto you, O inhabitants of the earth. 

"Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled. 

"And verily I say unto you, that they who go forth, bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is power given to seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and rebellious; 

"Yea, verily, to seal them up unto the day when the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure — 

"Unto the day when the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man. 

"Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear." (Doc. and Cov., Sec. 1) 

These are the words of the Lord given to his prophet Joseph Smith. It seems to me that conditions of the world are such today that this warning is timely and very appropriate. While the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is increasing in numbers, both as to members, and participation in church activities provided for their spiritual and temporal welfare, there is yet much to be accomplished. From a careful study of the records it appears to me that there is a broad field for missionary work which now is being worked in only a haphazard manner, although we have the machinery set up the spiritual energy does not appear to be sufficient to cause it to operate to the fullest extent. 

Are we devoting our time to a study of the theories of men alone? Theories of men may or may not be based upon truth. The revealed word of our Father is the truth and can be proven by each individual for himself. To obtain such truth one must so live that he comes in harmony with the principles of truth as laid down in the teachings of our Lord and Savior; this seldom comes through opposition thereto. One who makes a practice of profaning the name of Deity cannot approach him in the spirit of truth for he has said: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain." That commandment is just as much in force today as when given and one who disregards it has not the spirit of truth. He who fails to remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy does not develop a spirit to which the Lord may reveal the truth. The Lord demands that we "Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God; in it thou shalt not do any work." This commandment has been repeated in this day in Section 59 of the Doctrine and Covenants, which says further, "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day." 

Are our religious services such that all classes may be encouraged by them? Do all who attend have the spirit of worship? Are any inattentive? What are we doing for those who make a practice of using church services as a visiting time? Are our socials orderly? Is there always some one with an understanding disposition on hand to encourage those who are inclined to rowdyism? To my mind attention to these things is of great importance to religious training, for they tend to belittle and make light of the spiritual. 

A careful examination of quorum and auxiliary records will if analyzed reveal a most interesting story, and unless those of us who have been called as leaders become thoroughly familiar with this story we shall naturally approach our labors in an inefficient manner. Are we holding our young men and moving them from one quorum to the next without loss? Are they becoming more zealous in their work and more willing to serve as they approach new experiences? If so we may well rejoice in our labors; if not, it is our duty to redouble our efforts and plead with our Father for wisdom and power to accomplish that end. Spirituality is not developed alone through the study of the revealed word; there must be also a service through which the Gospel principles may be applied, creating in return that joy the Lord is pleased to bestow upon his children as a reward. These two, service, with a knowledge of the Gospel, will break down the power of the adversary and build in the one so fortified a resistance against evil and a power to understand the truth, for our Lord has said: "If ye contiue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed; And ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." (John 8:31-32) 

To add to the activities of the Aaronic Priesthood we have been during the past few years developing work in genealogy. The work of the Genealogical Society is taking an important part in this conference. Their objective is to save our dead. I am sure that with proper planning on the part of Aaronic Priesthood supervisors those who hold this Priesthood can do much, not only to gather the records of their ancestors but also in doing work in their behalf, which will develop the spirit of this work. To know how to prepare records, to be baptized for his ancestors, and later perform other temple ordinances before leaving for the mission field would place each Elder in a position to render great assistance to those who live in the missions, by helping them to prepare their records, much of which, when completed, could with our help be done for them and cause them to feel contented to remain with their friends and neighbors where they may serve as missionaries also, for the missions are embraced in Zion, and young men at home preparing for such work will become a tower of strength to them and examples for good at home. Parents who are about to send your boys into the mission field do not be content with having them go through the temple only the few times they do so while at the mission home. Go with them before this time, help them to understand the full meaning and purpose of this work. This is not alone a privilege, but an obligation placed upon us. We read in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68: 

"Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years eld, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. * * * 

"And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands. 

"And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. 

"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy. 

"And the inhabitants of Zion also shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. * * * 

"And a commandment I give unto them — that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people." 

It is extremely important that we shall provide for our dead that which they were unable to do for themselves, but what of those who were not worthy and who had that opportunity? We are given to understand that they must await the time of the Lord before they can enjoy the blessings promised. What of the boy growing to manhood who is neglected during this time when he so much needs encouragement through a contact with those who understand the Gospel and have a desire to use this knowledge to teach them in the spirit of love and truth? What of the man who has been neglected, whose children are untrained because of his lack of knowledge, a condition existing generally not because he would have it so? Perhaps he too was neglected and has not the power within himself to regain that which he has lost. Is it not even more important that we save him and his household while he has the privilege of enjoying the promise of coming forth in the first resurrection? Let us be mindful of the words of the apostles of old: 

"Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him; 

"Let him know, that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins." (James 5:19-20) 

"We are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us; he that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby knoweth we the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error. 

"Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God." (I John 4:6-7) 

As an example of service I give you the following: The Tabernacle choir began to sing over a national radio network a little more than four years ago; their program is now considered to be the outstanding radio program in the world. Why? Because they receive no other compensation for their work than the joy of service. There are 273 members, they rehearse Thursday nights, sing over the Columbia broadcasting network each Sunday morning, and for the regular Church service Sunday afternoon each week. This requires them to make three trips to the tabernacle and three home each week, a personal outlay for each, of 50 cents a week for car fare. Their average attendance is 63.56 per cent. Each Sunday they are heard from more than 80 stations with combined facilities valued in millions. The commercial value of each program period is about $10,000.00, and of the full period they have been on the air $2,500,000.00. Each Sunday they are heard not only in the United States but also in Europe where the program is relayed by short wave length, those living on the isles of the sea eagerly look forward to it. All this because of the devotion of these singers which finds expression in their faithful attendance and in song and the sweet organ music mellowed by a divine providence. 

I quote from Doctrine and Covenants, Section 93, verses 21 to 28: 

"And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn; 

"And all those who are begotten through me are partakers of the glory of the same, and are the church of the Firstborn. 

"Ye were also in the beginning with the Father; that which is Spirit, even the Spirit of truth; 

"And truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come; 

"And whatsoever is more or less than this is the spirit of that wicked one who was a liar from the beginning. 

"The Spirit of truth is of God. I am the Spirit of truth, and John bore record of me, saying: He received a fulness of truth, yea, even of all truth; 

"And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. 

"He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things." 

If these words are true, and I sincerely believe with all the powers of my soul that they are, are we not charged with a great responsibility? 

May our Father help us to understand and live in obedience to his commandments I humbly pray. 
