25
Afternoon
07 10 1933
Elder Arthur Welling 
102
76-77

None

None

Though feeling my weakness very keenly, my brethren and sisters, in filling this important position, I am nevertheless glad to join in the spirit of this wonderful conference, and briefly to report conditions in the North Central States Mission. 

Listening to the clarion call of our President and others who have spoken in this Conference, I have thought of the question of Paul to the Corinthians: "If the trumpet shall give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle?" (I Cor. 14:8). Obviously, the answer to the question is, "nobody;" which, I believe explains in part the confusion that is found in the religious thinking of the world. There is in its leadership no authoritative, "Thus saith the Lord." 

Whatever else may be thought of "Mormonism," its trumpet call to the world is no uncertain sound. Just think: The Father and the Son themselves, in the sacred grove, announcing Divine disapproval of conditions as they were, and proclaiming a restoration of the Gospel; Moroni, a great Prophet of this hemisphere, restoring the scripture and record of his people, The Book of Mormon; John the Baptist, conferring the Aaronic priesthood; Peter, James, and John, the Melchizedek priesthood; Moses, Elias, and Elijah, restoring the keys of their great calling, with all that that implies. 

And now, today and yesterday, and at every such conference of the Church, the voice of the Lord unmistakably, through his chosen leaders, presenting clear, emphatic, and authoritative trumpet calls to the world, "repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." 

So I am glad to be here, to find myself in harmony with all that has been said and done at this marvelous Conference, and to carry back the message of it to the people among whom it is my privilege and honor to serve. 

In the North Central States Mission we have only one-third as many missionaries as formerly, but we are trying to carry on and to make up this deficiency in three ways: First, by increased activity on the part of the few missionaries who remain: Secondly, by extension of our special or local missionary service: Thirdly, by the greater use of our branches and of the auxiliaries of the Church as missionary agencies and centers of missionary activity. 

To illustrate: only last week, in a far corner of the mission, I met with a newly organized Mutual Improvement Association. Forty-three people were present. Three of us were missionaries. Five others, constituting the leadership of the group, were local members; and thirty-five were friends and investigators who had come out to participate in the benefits and blessings of that particular auxiliary. And so it is elsewhere throughout the mission. 

In the far northwestern corner of our mission, not many weeks ago, four hundred miles above the border at Beaver Crossing near Cold Lake, we held a baptism, blessed a few babies, and organized what I suppose is the northernmost branch of the Church in Canada. This little pioneer community faces the necessity, at once, of building for themselves a chapel from the timber growing on their homesteads; and our hope and prayer is that the Lord will bless them, and that the Gospel may be carried to the various corners of our mission with such agencies as remain. 

Opportunities abound for preaching the Gospel, for which we are grateful; and sentiment favorable to our Church and people is growing. Concerning our missionaries, we are pleased to report that the young men and women who come to us are "the salt of the earth." Every one of them is well, and busy, and happy in his or her work, and the Lord is blessing their efforts and magnifying them in the eyes of the people. 

Our testimony is that God lives, that this is his Church and Kingdom; and that it will stand forever; and "we are all enlisted till the conflict is o'er." 

To which humble testimony and report may the Lord add his blessings, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
