16
Morning
07 10 1933
Elder Alonzo A. Hinckley 
12
50-53

None

None

I am exceedingly happy this morning. We have just listened to the remarks of Elder Rulon S. Wells. My heart has thrilled as he has spoken unto us. He was my mission president in days long ago. While upon that mission the Lord sent unto me a son, and it was in the heart of the mother of that son to name him "Rulon." I loved this man in the days of my younger manhood. I loved him for his faith, for his devotion, for his tenderness. I love him today. As I sat here today and looked up into his face, heard his ringing testimony, and his declaration anew of the first principles of the Gospel, and of their fundamental endurance, and the part they take in every action of our lives, I was fed. God bless him during his remaining days with peace and all the sweetness that he has earned. 

Yesterday was a very great day in my life. Everything seemed so beautiful, with the sun overhead, and though I came up from the flowery land of California, as I walked through these temple grounds I took off my hat, and I offered a prayer of thanksgiving for the peace, the beauty, and all that surrounds this sacred spot of ground. As I came into the tabernacle and I looked at the hosts of people, my heart thrilled again. I felt that I was in tune with the infinite; that I was blessed more than it was possible for me to express. 

In the beginning of our conference when the name of Chas. A. Callis was read as the man to fill the place made vacant by the passing of Apostle James E. Talmage, I was filled with joy because I had been permitted by the goodness of the Lord to minister, as one called and set apart as an ambassador of truth, under President Callis. The vision went before my mind how the thousands that have grown up around President Callis in this last quarter of a century will lift their hearts in thanksgiving that their great leader has been called to this high council in the Church. 

Oh, how my soul rejoices to know that we live in a day when the Lord reveals his holy mind and will; that we are not left to walk in darkness; that it is our privilege to walk in the light, and that we can with safety follow those whom he has appointed. 

When President Grant, in his opening address, read so many wonderful things to us from the book of the Doctrine and Covenants, and then, in answer to an anonymous communication requesting that he should not mention the Word of Wisdom, he, as the mouthpiece of the Lord, spoke out with courage words that should find lodgment in the hearts of all the Latter-day Saints, my joy was added to. He reaffirmed and confirmed all that he said six months ago as he opened that great conference. At that time we departed and carried the word wherever we went, as the word of the Lord given through his servant. He renewed that same message at this important time in our lives, and satisfied my soul. 

I recall how President Grant stood here six months ago and said that he had been contemplating the conditions that existed throughout the world, and he bore testimony that without the shadow of a doubt in his mind, the Lord had revealed — in a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that covered not more than a page — the solution that would solve the perplexing problems of the world and then proceeded to read that great revelation and to make his comments. He added that it was not only for the Church and for the high priests and for the Saints of the last days, but it was for all the world, if they would listen and obey. 

We went back to the California Mission, and I suppose that all men in authority went back to their fields of labor and carried that message as we carried it in California, to every nook and corner. Did the Saints respond? I bear testimony and say yes, they did, and though they had beer, and though they had light wines in abundance, throughout all the territory covered by the California Mission, I bear testimony to you that the Saints have, in the language of Brother Wells, and in the language of the Lord, "chosen the Lord," they have chosen to follow his servants. I bring you word from the thousands down there that they are temperate, sober-minded, faithful, good Latter-day Saints, that will compare with the good Latter-day Saints up here in these valleys of the mountains. I know that I speak with understanding when I say that they have these qualities in them. 

Many of them have propounded the question: "Brother Hinckley, now that the states, one by one, have voted as they have on this prohibition question, will Utah vote as other states have voted, or will she, when the world forsakes these standards and calls for those things, stand and be an example unto the world?" All I have been able to say is, "I hope so." What a lesson! Many come back and ask of the men of the Church "How does the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stand on this question?" It stands for prohibition. It stands for freedom from the use of all these things, and for temperate lives among all of its people. The Lord has revealed that it is not good for man to touch any of these things. 

Now, I say, to have this counsel in our conference, renewed at this time by that great discourse, wherein the President of the Church, after giving his own testimony, read into that great address the testimonies of Hyrum Smith, Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith, bringing down to date the testimony of the servants of God, is a warning unto this people. 

For the Lord has declared, as I read — perhaps I can quote it (Doc. and Cov., Sec. 1:1-4): 

"Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say, hearken ye people from afar, and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. 

"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. 

"And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed. 

"And the voice of warning shall be unto all the people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days." 

Do we have it complete? Is it given unto us by the mouths of his disciples whom he has chosen in these last days? Yes, verily yes; and the Lord says that whether it is by his own voice or by the voice of his servants, it is the same. When they speak under the influence of the Holy Ghost, it is scripture; it is the will of the Lord; it is the voice of the Lord; it is the word of the Lord; it is the power of God unto salvation. 

To me, the warning is complete; the vision is clear. I see the way. I feel to say, in the language of one of old, Joshua: "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." More than that, if it were within my power to persuade all men to forsake their evil ways and cleave unto the Lord, that would make me happy indeed. 

I should, of course, bear testimony of the Elders. Thirty-nine of them are all we have — the choicest of the choice — down in California. To their fathers, their mothers, their friends, their bishops, I say they are pure; they are sweet; they are wholesome. They are offering a consecration unto the Lord, their time and their talents, their very best service. Twelve lady missionaries likewise; all well, all happy, all sowing the seeds of truth, witnessing the results of their work. In these last nine months there have come into the Church, through the testimony that has gone out unto them, four hundred members, who declare that to them this is a new world! 

I never was happier. I know the truth. I love it. I pray for power to live it and to be able to consecrate my life to his service, henceforth and forever, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
