22
Afternoon
07 10 1933
Elder Levi Edgar Young 
48
67-70

None

None

I had the pleasure yesterday of bringing to the afternoon services of this conference Miss Thelma Cazalet of London. Miss Cazalet is a member of the English Parliament, and is in America studying the economic and social conditions of the country. It is gratifying to know that in her itinerary she included Salt Lake City. Upon her arrival here, she called on me and presented a letter of introduction from Mr. William Teeling, one of England's most prominent newspaper men. I had the pleasure of entertaining Mr. Teeling two years ago, and he seemed to have enjoyed seeing this marvelous building, and listening to its great organ. His letter to me concerning Miss Cazalet reads: 

"If you remember the time that I visited you in Salt Lake City, you will recall that we went to the Tabernacle; and then you were kind enough to take me to meet President Grant and his counselors. I wonder if you will allow me to introduce to you Miss Thelma Cazalet of the British Parliament. Miss Cazalet is very much interested in the social life of the United States, and expects to go to Utah to find out Something about the Mormon people, how they interpret life, and what they are doing for the social uplift of humanity through their marvelous organization. I would be very glad if you will call on Mr. Smoot, and have Miss Cazalet meet the distinguished senator, for she wishes to interview him on the economic conditions of America." 

The rest of the letter is personal, so I will not quote it. 

I had the pleasure of escorting Miss Cazalet about the city, and calling on Senator Smoot. I am very happy to tell you the gracious compliment Miss Cazalet paid Senator Smoot, for she said that the English people and members of Parliament regard him as one of America's greatest citizens, and a man who more than any other American understands the economic and financial problems of the world. This gracious compliment paid the Senator I shall not forget; I appreciate it from the bottom of my heart. 

A great many tourists come to Utah, and pay high tribute to the work of our people. They see something here that is delivering mankind from bondage, and bringing liberty. Such a revival is not the work of man, but the work of the Spirit of God. Miss Cazalet looked into your faces and noted your honesty; your sincerity of life. "There is something about the people here that is impressive," she remarked in words that to me were graciously given. 

Miss Cazalet is a friend of Susan Ertz, who also visited Utah something over a year ago. I had the pleasure of taking Miss Ertz about the city and bringing her to this building where she heard an organ recital. It was an impressive hour. Miss Ertz has written a great novel based on the trek of the Mormon pioneers to the far West. In her story the hardships and sorrows of the people are clearly portrayed; and she tells of the great truths of colonizing the West, and pays high tribute to the pioneers of this State. 

It is only recently that the noted Austrian writer, Walter Eidlitzs completed his two volume work entitled ZODIAC. I think the novel bids fair to obtain the Nobel prize for literature this year. Herr Eidlitz came to Utah from Vienna, Austria, because he had been told by one Ann Litisch that the Latter-day Saints seemed to have a power far beyond anything she had ever experienced in her life. Here Herr Eidlitz would be able to find the power and light that the world needs, namely, the priesthood of God. Herr Eidlitz was in our home for two weeks investigating the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ our Lord, and he was greatly impressed with our testimony that the holy priesthood of God had been restored to earth. 

I think that all people who accept the Gospel of our Lord are the intelligent ones of the world. It is true that we bring from Europe and other parts of the world the poor in material things, but not the poor in spiritual gifts. We have brought from Scandinavia, Germany, England, Italy, France, and other nations those who have humble faith in the Savior. It is only such who can understand the Gospel. They, like the Apostle Paul, find power in faith; a faith that produces and works itself out in a life of love. They learn like the rest of us that true faith gives all; and in return receives all. This is what was meant by the Prophet Joseph Smith when he wrote these words which are found in the eighty-eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, a book which I wish we would read more in our homes: 

"For intelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; wisdom receiveth wisdom; truth embraceth truth; virtue loveth virtue; light cleaveth unto light; mercy hath compassion on mercy and claimeth her own; justice continueth its course and claimeth its own; judgment goeth before the face of him who sitteth upon the throne and governeth and executeth all things." 

A few months ago I brought into this building Dr. Murai, one of the distinguished educators of Japan. He was greatly interested in the architectural beauties of the Tabernacle, and the radiancy of the interior. It all looked so beautiful that day. On his return to Japan, he wrote me some of his impressions as to what the Gospel means, and among the many good things he said were these: 

"To follow Jesus Christ means: First to be a child toward God. This is trust and faith in our Maker. We must be servants, and serve with spiritual grace and power our God. Then the next thing is to be sovereigns over ourselves, which means self-control. Think of these words: Faith, Service, Self-control. What a lovely lesson! Religion after all is a holy synthesis of all that is true and beautiful." 

I am thankful that this noble old building in which we are sitting this afternoon inspires such thoughts in the hearts of men. Through many channels of thought, I firmly believe that mankind is coming to a better understanding of life and its meaning; I think the world is moving toward Christ. It was the prophet Malachi who wrote: 

"For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering." 

Our call as members of the Church and as men holding the Priesthood of God, is to go into all the world and preach the Gospel. It is a sacred thing given us to do. To be effective in this we must go forth with pure hearts and contrite spirits; with an eye single to the glory of God. Our spirits must be clean: and with pure hearts, which will enable us to see and understand the ways of truth, we will become the standard bearers of that divine Will which ultimately will establish the glorious Kingdom of God on earth. So in the midst of this practical world, we shall have to exhibit a practical life of love: a busy life of helpfulness; feeding the hungry, receiving the stranger, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and sorrowful. In this period of stress and tribulation, sorrow and pain, trouble and care, there is a deep and lasting lesson to be learned. It is the lesson that no one can live without God in his life. The Apostle Paul wrote to the Philippians: "Unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake." Be encouraged, my brethren and sisters. Your lives will be filled with greater visions and dreams; your days will yet be golden. Remember what an apostle of old said to the Romans: 

"Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in honor preferring one another; 

Not slothful in business; fervent in Spirit; serving the Lord; 

Rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing instant in prayer; 

Distributing to the necessity of saints; given to hospitality." 

When we have given heart and soul and life to God, we need not worry about the things that may happen tomorrow. The courage of faith will be our attitude of mind that will bring peace today. There is Light today in the world. It is a greater and more radiant light than ever before in all history. This light is the Truth of God as revealed by the Father. Remember what the first historian wrote in the Holy Scriptures: 

"In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. 

And the earth was without form and void; and darkness was on the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved on the face of the waters. 

And God said, Let there be light: and there was light." 

Then we are told in words that ring with the greatest and most divine truth of all: "God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him." 

God bless us every one. May our love increase; may our faith in God deepen, I ask in Jesus name. Amen.
