17
Morning
07 10 1933
President Heber J. Grant
10
53-54

None

None 

I regret to announce that Brother Richard R. Lyman is confined to his bed on account of illness. He is on the high-road to recovery however, for which we are very grateful. 

Brother Charles H. Hart is also unable to be with us on account of illness. 

I have received a message from Brother John A. Widtsoe, which I am pleased to read to you, as follows: 

"Read the history of man down the ages. Always truth has been compelled to fight its way through ferocious opposition. Over and over again someone has sealed truth with blood. Christ, in whom was only truth and all truth, was crucified unto death. 

Never was the universe of untruth more deeply stirred than when the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ was restored in this age — the beginning of the end of the reign of anti-Christ. Centuries of apostasy had built a fortress of error supposedly impregnable to truth. Hell raged at truth's venture into a world claimed for its own. Persecution began, raged, and has continued for a century. 

TRUTH’S DESTINY 

Truth's destiny is victory. It breaks down every barrier of error. Ultimately it rises triumphantly above its vanquished enemy. After many trials and much tribulation, slowly, painfully it reaches its happy end. The masses of men love truth better than error, but are blinded by the clever presentations of the enemy of truth. 

Just so, the truth of the restored gospel is becoming understood in the world. The senseless persecution of the past is dying down. The essential purity and human value of the Gospel are becoming reoognized. 

THE DEVIL'S TRICK 

But, though driven into a corner, the opposition remains active. It plays its last card, the devil's trick. If persecution from without is diminishing, contention within is fanned into livelier flame. Of the two methods of destruction — persecution by untruth or discord among those who have accepted truth — the latter is the deadlier. An inward is more serious than an outward wound. 

This, then, is the sober warning to all Latter-day Saints: 

Persecution from without is gradually vanishing. For that we are grateful. But, at the same time, the danger of jealousy, strife and evil speaking among the members of the Church increases. Such internal persecution wrecks the strongest organization, even one founded in truth. 

Latter-day Saints should be forewarned of this ancient satanic trick. Contention among members of the Church must be banished. Kind words must replace evil-speaking about fellow members. Generous good-will must stifle jealousy. Officers must be accepted, sustained and supported with heart and hand. There must be an honest endeavor to love our brethren and sisters as well as the Lord in heaven — the first law of Gospel living. 

THE POWER OF LOVE 

Love begets love. Whenever Latter-day Saints live in love together, their armour and their shield, all their weapons are of heavenly workmanship. The forces of evil flee in terror before them. Try it; the results never fail. The heart never beats so warmly as under the power of unselfish love. Whoever allows himself to cause contention in a ward or branch, or to spread it, whatever the means employed, plays into the hands of Lucifer and helps him win victory out of his sullen corner of defeat." 

