35
Afternoon
08 10 1933
President Rudger Clawson 
7
104-107

None

None

My dear brethren and sisters, it is a wonderful responsibility to stand before a great congregation like this. There are perhaps ten thousand people in this building. I trust that I may be strengthened for the present ordeal. 

THOSE WHO BRING GLAD TIDINGS 

I have enjoyed every moment of the conference. I am in hearty accord with all that has been said and done. I have listened to the singing of this conference with rapt interest. I have been thrilled. Yesterday a solo was rendered, entitled, "How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those who bring glad tidings of great joy!" If I might be pardoned, I would like to paraphrase this title somewhat by saying, "How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of the General Authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the Mission Presidents, and the Authorities and presiding officers of 104 Stakes of Zion, that are represented in this congregation, who bring glad tidings of great joy to the people of the Lord!" 

NOTABLE WOMAN DEFINES SUCCESS 

Some days ago I read a brief article in the public press that has caused some reflection on my part. This article sets forth to some extent ideas upon the vital question, What is success in life, and what is failure? I think you will agree with me that that is a vital question. Very often the division line between success and failure is very thin, and at other times the division line is very strong. 

If you will bear with me for a few moments I shall be glad to read this brief article in your hearing. It concerns the death and burial of a notable woman which occurred in New York City, January 23rd, 1933: 

"The metropolis prepared a notable funeral today for Miss Elizabeth Marbury, 76 years old, who considered herself a failure. 

"A renowned leader in theatrical, literary, political and civil life, she nevertheless believed that any one of millions of obscure housewives was more successful than she. 

"When asked for her ideas about success for women, she would say: 

" 'There is only one real success for women; that is to marry happily and have children and a home. In other words, to bring forth life as God intended a woman should.' 

" 'If a woman,' she would say, 'has not been blessed with such a union as I have in mind, and with motherhood, then it is better for her, if she has talents and qualifications, to go out into the world and find some occupation that will prevent her from becoming narrow, introspective and unhappy.' 

"Because Miss Marbury had talents and 'went out into the world,' there will be a notable funeral tomorrow. Governor Herbert H. Lehman is expected to head a huge gathering of distinguished people who will go to St. Patrick's Cathedral to pay tribute to the woman who died yesterday of a heart attack. 

"Most people would have said that Miss Marbury's was a full life. She was a member of the Democratic National Committee, agent for famous authors, adviser to young talent, war worker and woman leader. 

"In a book entitled, 'My Crystal Ball,' she told of her dealings with poets, statesmen, dancers, generals, playwrights, and politicians. She was play agent for Victorian Sardou and George Bernard Shaw. Oscar Wilde sent her 'The Ballad of Reading Gaol' from his prison cell and she sold it here for $250.00. She produced 'Little Lord Fauntleroy.' She was a war nurse and once she and 'Big Bill' Edwards sold $10,000,000 worth of Liberty Bonds in ten minutes from the steps of the sub-treasury. 

"She crossed the Atlantic seventy times, went bicycling with Nellie Melba in Brittany. She saw Paris in ruins just after the Prussian victory in 1870. She promoted the New York success of Irene and Vernon Castle and she established a highly moral dance hall on Broadway. She got decorated by several governments and founded women's clubs. She fought for Al Smith and against prohibition. 

"But, as she would say, 'There is only one real success for women.' " 

Brethren and sisters, to my way of thinking, the woman was just about right in the conclusion she reached. Surely the high dignity and honor appertaining to the great blessing of becoming a mother of men is beyond all comparison with the many things which this good woman did. 

THE FIRST GREAT COMMANDMENT 

Is it to be wondered at that the Lord said in the beginning: "It is not good for man to be alone. I will make a helpmeet for him." So he gave Eve to Adam in marriage in the garden of Eden, and it was then that the great first commandment was given which has come thundering down through the ages — and is equally binding upon all who live under the marriage covenant — namely, "Be fruitful, and multiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and the fowl of the air, and over everything that moveth upon the earth." 

I am quite sure that the phrase, "Be fruitful," did not then mean, and does not mean now that the family should be limited in number to the husband and the wife and one or two children. No provision was made in the first marriage for divorce. It seemed not to have been under contemplation, for you will remember that Adam said, having the woman in mind: "She is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh, and she shall be called woman because she was taken out of man." 

MARRIAGE A CO-PARTNERSHIP 

Now, in a very real sense, in marriage woman becomes a part of man, and it was this thought in mind doubtless that led the Lord to say: "What God hath joined together let no man put asunder." The ease with which in many instances the marriage tie is sundered is certainly very deplorable. Marriage in most countries is solemnized in some form; among the Latter-day Saints it is regarded as a solemn sacrament of very great importance. It is learned, by a careful study of the scriptures and the revelations of God, that the husband and the wife, in bringing forth children, actually enter into a co-partnership with God in heaven, for the reason that God in heaven supplies the spirit of the child and the parents upon the earth furnish the body, and the spirit and the body of the child in birth joined together form this great and important co-partnership with God. Is it not wonderful, is it not marvelous, is it not an honor of the very highest dignity, that people upon the earth have the opportunity of entering into this co-partnership? Marriage to the Latter-day Saints means very much more than it does to our friends of the other Christian denominations. They marry for this world only, but the Latter-day Saints marry for this world and the world to come. 

Now, it may be said that there are some Latter-day Saints who marry for this world only. What is the answer? It is because of a lack of understanding. They little comprehend the nature and far-reaching influence of marriage for eternity. 

LATTER-DAY SAINT MARRIAGES 

How lovely it is to contemplate the destiny of a young couple who have contracted a Temple marriage; joined hand-in-hand they face the battle of life fearlessly, courageously. Still hand-in-hand they pass along through the years celebrating at various intervals some very important wedding days — there is, for instance, the wooden wedding, the pottery wedding, the silver wedding, the golden wedding, and the diamond wedding day. Crowned with seventy-five years of happiness mingled with trials that were hard to bear this couple descends into the grave only to rise again on the morning of the resurrection when they will be reunited in the family relationship and will enter into exaltation and glory and go hand in hand throughout eternity. 

The nature of the marriage covenant, brethren and sisters, is beautifully and concisely set forth in one paragraph of Section 132 of the Doctrine and Covenants. I will read that paragraph to you. It is the 18th paragraph in that wonderful and marvelous revelation given to Joseph Smith the Prophet: 

"And again, verily I say unto you," — said the Lord — "if a man marry a wife, and make a covenant with her for time and for all eternity, if that covenant is not by me or by my word, which is my law, and is not sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, through him whom I have anointed and appointed unto this power, then it is not valid neither of force when they are out of the world, because they are not joined by me, saith the Lord, neither by my word; when they are out of the world it cannot be received there, because the angels and the gods are appointed there, by whom they cannot pass; they cannot, therefore, inherit my glory; for my house is a house of order, saith the Lord God. 

I say unto you Latter-day Saints in boldness and without fear of successful contradiction that any man or woman who contracts a Temple marriage in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and abides by the conditions and restrictions of this great law will have lived a successful life. That is my testimony. 

A TESTIMONY 

I know that this is the Church of God. I testify that Jesus was the Christ who was crucified upon Mount Calvary for the sins of the world, and that we today and all future generations and all past generations will be benefited by the mighty sacrifice that he made, and what might to some have seemed to be a failure, yet the crucifixion of the Savior was the stepping-stone to his everlasting success in the kingdom of his Father and our Father. 

I testify most solemnly and earnestly that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, and one of the mightiest of the latter-day prophets. 

May God bless you, brethren and sisters, and bless this great people, the Latter-day Saints, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
