28
Morning
08 10 1933
President Anthony W. Ivins
13
82-90

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I desire to express the gratitude which I feel that I am permitted to meet again in a general conference of the Church. I have not been well, but through the blessing of the Lord I have not been seriously sick. I thank him and praise his name for this privilege. 

I love to be here at these gatherings of members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I love to listen to the voices of my brethren who are called upon to address you. It is one of the joys of my life. 

Naturally, knowing that I might be asked to make remarks at this conference, I have thought of something to say. I knew the message that I wished to deliver, but was at a loss to find words with which to properly express it. Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, in his remarks, supplied me with a text. He quoted from the words of the Prophet Ezekiel, words which, notwithstanding the centuries which have passed since they were uttered, are as applicable to us today as they were when the Lord uttered them to him. It was an admonition to him personally. 

HAD TURNED TO IDOLS 

The Israelitish people had turned from the faith of their fathers to the worship of idols. The Lord called Ezekiel, the son of Buzi, to go to them and proclaim his word, and he tells us that he went to those who dwelt upon the river Chebar, and abode with them for seven days. He marvelled at their wickedness, at their lack of faith, and hesitated to declare the message which the Lord had sent him to deliver. It was at this time that the Lord called his attention to the fact that when he required at the hands of a man the accomplishment of a work, when he sent him to call the wicked people to repentance, and he failed to deliver that message, and the wicked died in their sins, he might be held responsible for it. But he also said to him that if he complied with the commands of God our father, and warned the wicked man of his ways, then if the man died in wickedness, he had complied with his duty and would not be held responsible. He called his attention to the fact that he had made him a watchman upon the towers of Zion, a man through whom he might properly send his word to unbelieving people. 

DUTY TO MAGNIFY IDEALS 

I have often read this scripture, have studied it carefully, and endeavored to understand its import and application. I have asked myself this question: What application has this command of the Lord to you? The answer that has come to me has always been the same. It is this: that whatever my profession, whether it be as a citizen of the government to which I have given my allegiance or a member of the Church with which I affiliate, it becomes my duty to magnify in my life the ideals for which my country stands and the doctrines which my Church teaches. 

If I fail in either, and by example or precept lead other people away from loyalty to their country or to indifference and lack of attention to religious duties, I have in a sense become responsible, and I never feel this responsibility more than when I stand before a congregation of Latter-day Saints in the attitude of teacher, for the Lord expects men and women who accept responsibility to magnify it, otherwise they will be in judgment. 

A PROPHET’S CALLING 

This particular scripture which was quoted called my special attention to prophecy, the inspired word of God our Father, which is uttered by his servants the prophets, modern and ancient. I thought of its importance, of its application to us, and so sat down and outlined some of the results of prophecy in which we modern people are particularly interested. 

The word, prophet, defined in the Hebrew language, means one who has been called to denounce sin and foretell the consequences and punishment of it. He is to be above all else a preacher of righteousness, to call the people back from idolatry, to faith in the living God, and when moved upon by the Spirit of the Lord to foretell coming events. But more particularly a prophet is to be an expounder of present duties and an interpreter of the meaning and application of the written word. 

PROPHECIES BEING FULFILLED 

We at the present day have an entirely different relationship to prophecy than had those who lived at the time that many of the most important of the prophecies made were uttered. People of Bible days looked hopefully and in faith forward to the fulfilment of the words of the prophets. 

We look backward and see that many, very many of those important predictions have been fulfilled. We know if we study them carefully that we are living at a time when they are being fulfilled and that we are the actors in their fulfilment, whether we are conscious of it or not, and we know further, if we are to judge by the signs of the times which have been given to us by the prophets, and Christ himself, that we are upon the very verge of the fulfilment of the most important of them all, when God our father will consummate his work, when Christ our Lord shall come to rule and assume dominion over the kingdoms of this world. 

COVENANT WITH ABRAHAM 

It was four thousand years ago that the Lord called Abraham from Ur of the Chaldees, and brought him up into Palestine to a country and people who were alien to his own race, and entered into a new covenant with him. This man was ninety years of age and was childless, yet the Lord told him to look over all the land of Palestine, from north to south and from east to west and promised that he would give this land to his posterity who he declared would become, by comparison, as numerous as the sands upon the seashore or the stars of heaven. 

It was not until one thousand years later that this prediction, this covenant of the Lord, was fulfilled. When David, the shepherd king, led the armies of Israel, subdued the last Jebusite defenders of the city of Jerusalem, and established his capital city at that place, was the word of the Lord fulfilled. Israel did become at that time one of the dominant and most influential kingdoms of the known world. 

A LAND OF PROMISE 

We, my brethren and sisters, are assembled here today in this historic building, in a city which we call Salt Lake, in a territory which we call Utah, a territory which forms one of the forty-eight federated states of our union, each state independent in its own sphere, but all bound together by constitutional law, which welds them into a single entity. 

Only yesterday the ground upon which this building stands, in fact the entire area covered by the United States of America, was an uncultivated wilderness. The prophets of the Lord, centuries before, had predicted the existence of this land, before it was known to the people of the old world. They had outlined to us the establishment of this government of ours; they had declared that upon this land, which to them was a land choice above all others, there would be established a system of civil government, which would be a light to the world; a government to which would be gathered the remnant of the scattered house of Israel; a government in which men would enjoy equal rights under the law; a government in which men would act as their own conscience might prompt them to do — with this restriction, however, that in that which they did they must not infringe upon the rights of others or prevent them from exercising the agency which they themselves exercised. 

The prophet Isaiah, referring to this land of America, these everlasting hills, declared that at a future time — the time to which he referred was the latter days — the house of the Lord would be established here, and that all nations would flow unto it; that they would be taught here the way of the Lord and learn to walk in his paths. By foreknowledge of God the prophets declared that by the direction of his Spirit the Lord would bring people to this continent who would establish this form of government, and said that they would never be overthrown or conquered by other nations, if they would but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ. 

The destiny of America from the day that Columbus sailed from the ports of Spain to the present, was declared by the prophets of the Lord, as I have said, before the people of Europe knew that America existed. The sailing of Columbus, from the port of Palos, in Spain, was not a thing of chance. It had been declared by the prophets nearly two thousand years before that the Spirit of the Lord would rest upon a man among the Gentiles, and that he would sail forth and land upon this continent. As he sailed on and on over uncharted seas, his crew was in open revolt, they declared that they would go no farther, and that upon the morrow they would turn the prows of their ships back to the east and endeavor to find their way back to Spain, but upon that eventful night a gun from the Pinta announced that land had been sighted. A new world had been discovered. 

COMING OF PILGRIMS 

Two hundred years after the landing of Columbus another landing occurred which had been just as definitely declared by the prophets of God. When the Pilgrim Fathers anchored their ships off Plymouth Rock, another prophecy had been fulfilled and the history of the American nation had been commenced. Both of these events had been declared, according to the dates I have been able to discover, two thousand years before their final accomplishment. 

INDEPENDENCE DECLARED 

For more than a century the colonists who had come from the Old World continued to live under the governments of the countries from which they came. At the end of that time, and this too in fulfilment of the decrees of the prophets, they declared that they of right were and should be an independent people. 

The Declaration of Independence was published to the world, the War of Independence was fought and won, and our ship of state was launched on a troubled sea. The hour had struck that kingcraft and priestcraft, which for ages had held the struggling masses of the world in thralldom, under perverted control both in civil and religious life, were to be stricken and the people of the world were to be emancipated from the shackles with which they had been bound. 

CHURCH FOUNDED 

A half century had elapsed since the establishment of our government when another event of transcendent importance to the world occurred. The events that I have so briefly and imperfectly outlined up to the present were simply the foreordained and divine accomplishments that were to occur for the accomplishment of a divine purpose. Our Lord taught his apostles that though his life might be taken by his enemies, though the kingdom which he would have established might be destroyed by men, yet would he live on and come again to assume control and dominion over the earth. When they asked him when this would be — "give us a sign," they pleaded, "by which we may know the time of your coming and the establishment of your kingdom," — he outlined the things which would occur in the world, things which we are passing through today, as plainly as though he had seen them, and definitely declared that this gospel of the kingdom should be restored and preached in all the world as a witness. 

That promise, my brethren and sisters, was fulfilled eighteen hundred years later when, through the ministry of Christ our Lord and under his direction, the opening of the present gospel dispensation was effected through Joseph Smith and those who were associated with him. 

WASHINGTON’S INFLUENCE 

Immediately after the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown, trouble, as serious as any which our government has since experienced, occurred. The army was about to be disbanded, there was no money with which to pay the soldiers for the years of devoted service which they had rendered their country. It was proposed that Washington be declared king and that the confederation of states be dissolved. Others denounced Washington as the person responsible for all of the trouble with which they were threatened. The army threatened to march upon the Congress and enforce its demands, and for fear that this might be accomplished, Congress adjourned and moved its place of meeting from Philadelphia to Princeton in New Jersey. 

"While these plotters were assembled," Fiske says (I have copied this from his writings, and now quote): "Washington suddenly came into the meeting and amid profound silence broke forth in a most eloquent and profound speech. All," he says, "were hushed by that majestic presence and those solemn tones. He pleaded for patience," as Elder Richards pleaded for it here yesterday, for tolerance, "for trust in the newly born government which would in the end pay that which it owed. The soldiers listened, hesitated and yielded to the irrepressible presence of the man who, more than any other, had made the establishment of our nation possible." 

OVERCOMING PROBLEMS 

From that time to the present our country has met and solved many grave problems, it has had wars and emerged victorious from them. It has had financial depressions, many of them, but notwithstanding this trouble, it has gone on. I might go on and quote part of the notes I have here, from the war of the rebellion, when fratricidal war shook the foundations upon which the government was established down until the present time. From all of these we have emerged stronger, more influential, more powerful, until today the United States of America has become the most influential and perhaps the wealthiest nation in the world. 

PRESENT PERPLEXITIES 

At the same time, paradoxical though the statement may appear to you, in the midst of all its wealth, surrounded by the abundance which the Lord has showered upon us, we know that millions of our fellow citizens are in dire need for the common necessities of life. Every citizen who is familiar with existing conditions in our country knows that embarrassing situations and complex questions confront us at the present time. 

They are not only perplexing to the national government, but to the various states which constitute the Union, the counties which constitute the states, and the municipalities which constitute the counties; and to a greater or less extent, my brethren and sisters, they affect every individual of the commonwealth, as you who hear my voice well know from your own experience. 

Three things have conspired during the past decade which more than any others although there have been many ramifications from them, have created the present unfortunate situation. They are, as I analyze them, the following: 

First, the unprecedented disposition among the citizens of our country to treat with indifference the obligation of obedience to civil law, and the indifference manifested by administrative officers in the administration of it. 

Second, the frenzied desire of selfish men to become suddenly wealthy regardless of the ethics of the means employed to accomplish their ambitious and unrighteous desires. 

Third, the increasing indifference of our people to the sacredness of religious obligation. 

SHOULD OBEY LAWS 

The revelations given for the guidance of the Church tell us definitely that governments are instituted of God for the benefit of man, and admonish us to be obedient to the civil law in the countries in which we reside; that it is the right of all men to act in both private and public affairs as their conscience may direct, but, as I have stated, with the limitation that they are not to infringe upon the privileges and rights of others. 

The Lord says — and this is quoted from a revelation: 

"And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land by the hands of wise men, whom I raised up for this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." 

OPPOSITION OF LUCIFER 

If this government was established by God our Father, no argument should be necessary to convince you that anti-Christ is opposed to it. Lucifer is the enemy of God and Christ his Son. His minions have always been arrayed against them. He fights to lead men away from the Redeemer of the world. Never have his emissaries been more active than at the present time. The very elements appear to combine to bring confusion and tribulation to the people of this troubled world of ours. Both physical and spiritual forces are at work to effect and accomplish if possible our ruin. 

Shall Christ or Lucifer triumph in this conflict? This government of ours and all other governments need the strength of the Church. It was by Christian people under God that our government was founded and has been maintained. I have faith in the soul of the American people. They may stumble, they may waver, wicked men may for a time seize control of the affairs of government, but even though confronted by chaos, these people whom the Lord has brought here will rise in their might and with the help of God will triumph. 

INFLUENCE OF THE CHURCH 

Just as the government has had its difficulties, has had its trials, has been at times almost upon the verge of destruction, so has the Church since its organization. Its members have been driven, they have been persecuted, they have been misunderstood, and like Saul of Tarsus, under the impression that they were doing God service, men have endeavored to destroy its influence. Notwithstanding its drivings, notwithstanding the suffering of its people, like the government of which we form a part, the Church has become stronger, more powerful in influence and better than ever before, I believe, in its history, and I say the word better believing it to be true. 

PLEADS FOR LOYALTY 

I appeal to you, my brethren and sisters, and to all others who are under the sound of my voice, or to whom my words may come, to remain firm and immovable in life or death to the principles upon which this government of ours is founded. In its sphere it occupies the same relationship to our Father in heaven that the Church does. He is clearly the author of both, each to act in its own sphere — the government for the temporal protection and welfare of mankind, and the Church for their spiritual salvation. 

And so I feel impressed to call upon my brethren and sisters to support and magnify and do their duty to both the State and the Church. We need the sympathetic support of government wherever we are. You mission presidents who go into the field to proclaim the glad tidings of the restoration, my first act would be to get in harmony with the civil officers of the country in which I labored. 

We are frequently oppressed because people do not understand us, they do not know our mission, and that in many instances is because we have never endeavored to impress upon the minds of governing officers the real mission which we come to deliver. So I say we require the sympathetic support of the civil law. Without it Lucifer will sweep truth from the earth as he did in the primitive church and substitute in its stead the worship of idols. 

I want to say to you men of the Church who may be present or those who are absent and may hear my words, you doctors, lawyers, bankers and merchants, you men who because of your busy lives have forgotten perhaps the full sense of responsibility to the Church of which you form a part, to return to it, renew your affiliation with it. The Church needs you, it needs your intelligence, it needs your learning, your wisdom, as you need the strength which only the Church can afford. Your fathers, many of them, laid down their lives in its establishment. Come back to it and help us in this time of stress. 

I am sure that with this combined strength, my brethren and sisters, the proper union of the Church with the State, and the proper union of the State with the Church, we shall triumph. Without it our heritage may pass into the alien hands of a godless, idolatrous people. There is real fear of that except we faithfully do our duty, both to this government of ours, the best there is in the world, with all its weaknesses, the government established by God our Father. I pledge myself to be obedient to its laws. I have always been, and to the men who have administered its affairs, notwithstanding the fact that they may have weaknesses. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, keep us in the faith. Do not falter. The daydawn is breaking, when Christ our Lord shall come, not only to assume dominion over his Church, of which we form a part, but over the world at large. It was by church people — do not forget — that this government was founded and the foundations of it were laid. It was by church people that the War of Independence was fought. It has been by church people that it has been maintained, and it will be by church people that it shall be rescued from chaos, if it is rescued at all. God bless you. Amen. 
