Morning
04 10 1907


PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

Gratifying unity of the Priesthood and members of the Church. — The cause of the Lord should be paramount. — Individual effort and righteousness essential to salvation. — Assurance of eternal felicity imparted by the Gospel. — Admonition to faithfulness and purity of life. — Shun association with w icked enemies, but seek their salvation. — The dead, as well as the living, must repent. 

I feel very thankful to see so many of the Latter-day Saints assembled as are here this morning at the opening - session of our Seventy-eighth Semi-Annual Conference. I desire to express the feelings of welcome we have to all of you who have come together for the purpose of participating in the business that may be transacted at this conference, and for the purpose of listening to such instructions as may be given to us through the servants of the Lord. It is a source of great satisfaction to me to witness the interest that is manifested in this conference by our people. We welcome you here this morning, and feel to invoke upon you the blessing of the Lord; that His Holy Spirit may rest upon all who are assembled here for the purpose of worshiping the Lord in spirit and in truth, and who have come with a desire and purpose in their hearts to fulfill their duty to the Church and to the Lord, who has made it, by His word, necessary for us to assemble together, from time to time, to talk over and to consider His work, and the business that pertains to the upbuilding of Zion and the spread of the Gospel to the nations of the world. 

I feel thankful that the Presidency are in the enjoyment of usual health and strength, and that we are united in our labors. I am also very thankful to say to you that the Apostles are also united, not only among themselves, but with the Presidency; and our interest in the work of the Lord is increasing, I believe, day by day. I may say with all truth, that the First Coun of Seventies are united with us and also united with each other; and, so far as I know, (and I think that we have very good opportunity to judge), there is a spirit of union and love existing throughout all the Church, pervading all the people of God. And this is undoubtedly a source of pleasure and of strength, a source of joy and satisfaction to every soul who has an interest in the work of the Lord. 

Our duties in the Church should be, I think, paramount to every other interest in the world. It is true that we are under the necessity of looking after our worldly interests. It is, of course, necessary for us to labor with our hands, and our minds, in our various occupations for obtaining the necessaries of life. It is essential that the Latter-day Saints should be industrious and persevering in all the labors that devolve upon them, for it is written that "the inhabitants of Zion shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord." Again it is written : "Let every man be diligent in all things, and the idler shall not have place in the Church except he repents and mends his ways." Again : "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." But in all our labors in life, in all the cares that beset us,, and the temporal responsibilities that rest upon us, we should put uppermost in our thoughts, and highest in our appreciation and love the Cause of Zion, which is indeed the Cause of truth and righteousness. It is the plan of life that the Almighty has restored to man in the latter days for the salvation  the souls of men, not only in the world to come, but in our present life, for the Lord has instituted His work that His people may enjoy the blessing's of this life to the utmost; that they should be saved in this present life as well as in the life to come, that they should lay the foundation here for immunity from sin and all its effects, and consequences, that they may obtain an inheritance in the kingdom of God beyond this vale of tears. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation, and it is absolutely necessary for every man and woman in the Church of Christ to work righteousness, to observe the laws of God, and keep the commandments that He has given, in order that they may avail themselves of the power of God unto salvation in this life. 

I do not believe in the ideas that we hear sometimes advanced in the world, that it matters but little what men do in this time, if they will but confess Christ at the end of their journey in life, that that is all-sufficient, and that by so doing they will receive their passport into heaven. I denounce this doctrine. It is unscriptural, it is unreasonable, it is untrue, and it will not avail any man, no matter by whom this idea may be advocated; it will prove an utter failure unto men. As reasonable beings, as men and women of intelligence, we cannot help but admire and honor the doctrine of Jesus Christ, which is the doctrine of God, and which requires of every man and woman righteousness in their lives, purity in their thoughts, uprightness in their daily walk and conversation, devotion to the Lord, love of truth, love of their fellow-man, and above all things in the world the love of 

God. These were the precepts that were inculcated by the Son of God when He walked among His brethren in the meridian of time. He taught these precepts; He exemplified them in His life, and advocated continually the doing of the will of Him that sent Him. 

He that sent His only-begotten Son into the world to accomplish the mission which He did, also sent every soul within the sound of my voice, and indeed every man and woman in the world to accomplish a mission, and that mission cannot be accomplished by neglect; nor by indifference; nor can it be accomplished in ignorance. We must learn our duty; learn the requirements that the Lord has made at our hands, and understand the responsibilities that He has placed upon us. We should learn the obligation that we are under to God, and to each other, and that we are under also to the cause of Zion, that has been restored to the earth in the latter days. These things arc essential, and we cannot prosper in spiritual things, we cannot grow in knowledge and understanding; our minds cannot expand in the. knowledge of God, nor in wisdom, nor in the gifts of the Holy Spirit, without we devote our thoughts and our efforts toward our own betterment, toward the increase of our own wisdom, and knowledge in the things of God. 

We labor day by day for the bread that perishes, and we devote but a few hours, comparatively, in seeking to obtain the bread of life. Our thoughts, in great measure, are placed upon worldly things, the things that perish, and therefore we are prone to neglect the higher duties that devolve upon us as the children of our father, and to forget, in some measure, the greater obligations that rest upon us. It is therefore proper, and indeed it becomes the duty of those who are placed upon the towers as watchmen in Zion to exhort the people to diligence, to prayerfulness, to humility, to a love of the truth that has been revealed to them, and to earnest devotion to the work of the Lord, which is intended for their individual salvation, and, so far as they have influence upon others, the salvation of those whom they may have power to influence to move in the right direction; not that I can save any man, nor that any one man can save any other man or fit him for exaltation in the kingdom of God. This is not given to me to do for others, nor is it given to any man to be a Savior in this sense, or in this way, to his fellow man; but man can set an example; man can urge the precepts of the Gospel. Man can proclaim the truth to others, and can point out the way to them in which to walk, and if they will harken to their counsel, listen to their admonitions and be led by them, they themselves will seek the path of life and they will walk in it, and obtain their exaltation for themselves. And thus the work required of us by the Lord is an individual work, it devolves upon each individual alike. No man can be saved in the kingdom of God in sin. No man will ever be forgiven of his sins by the just Judge, except he repents of his sins. No man will ever be freed from the power of death unless he is born again, as the Lord Almighty has decreed, and declared to the world by the mouth of His Son in the meridian of time, and as He has declared it again in this dispensation through the Prophet Joseph 

Smith. Men can only be saved and exalted in the kingdom of God in righteousness, therefore we must repent of our sins, and walk in the light as Christ is in the light, that His blood may cleanse us from all sins, and that we may have fellowship with God and receive of His glory and exaltation. 

Now, it is not my purpose to occupy very much time this morning, but I desire, the Lord giving me His spirit, to declare my faith in the divine mission of the Son of God, who spoke as no man ever spoke; who announced principles and doctrine that no man ever enunciated, and who proclaimed in the clearest possible terms, the plan of life and salvation; and gave His own life and name to the world, as the only means and name under heaven by which man can be saved and exalted in the kingdom of God. 

I declare to you in all candor, and in all earnestness of soul, that I believe with all my heart in the divine mission of Joseph Smith the Prophet, that I am convinced in every fiber of my being that God raised him up to restore to the earth the Gospel of Christ, which is indeed the power of God unto salvation. I testify to you that Joseph Smith was instrumental in the hand of the Lord in restoring God's truth to the world, and also the holy Priesthood, which is His authority delegated unto man. I know this is true, and I testify of it to you. To me it is all-in-all; it is my life, it is my light; it is my hope, and my joy; it gives me the only assurance that I have for exaltation, for my resurrection from death, with those whom I have loved and cherished in this life, and with those with whom my lot has been cast in this world — honorable men. pure, humble men, who were obedient unto God and His commands, who were not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, nor of their convictions or knowledge of the truth of the Gospel; men who' were made of the stuff of which martyrs are made, and who were willing at any moment to lay down their lives for Christ's sake, and for the Gospel, if need be, which they had received with the testimony of the Holy Spirit in their hearts. I want to be re-united with these men when I shall have finished my course here. When my mission is done here I hope to go beyond into the spirit world where they dwell, and be re-united with them. It is this Gospel of the Son of God that gives me the hope that I have of this consummation, and of the realization of my desire in this direction. I have staked all on this Gospel, and I have not done it in vain.I know in whom I trust. I know that my Redeemer lives, and that He shall stand upon the earth in the latter day, and, as Job, has expressed it, "Though worms shall destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God." 

It is these things that I desire to impress upon the minds of the Latter-day Saints. You have received the truth. No man can prove to the contrary. No man under the heavens knows to the contrary. But you do know that you have received the truth, for God has given to you His Spirit, the Holy Ghost, by whom the things of the Father are revealed unto the understanding of the children of light, and they know in whom they trust. You have received the Gospel of Christ. Live it. Be faithful to it. Honor the covenants that you have made with the Lord in the waters of baptism. 

Honor every obligation that you owe to God and to your fellow man. Live so that you can be indeed saviors upon Mount Zion in the sense that your lives will be above reproach, in the sense that no man can justly point to you as transgressors of the law of God, though they may malign you; though they may say all manner of evil against you falsely. Live so that they cannot justly and truly point out in you corruption, wickedness, or misconduct. Let your light so shine that honest men will see your good works and will be led to glorify your Father who is in heaven. Keep away from the haunts of sin. While you may entertain in your hearts a feeling of love, of charity; a merciful feeling toward sinners, those that transgress the laws of God you do not have to take them into your bosoms, nor condescend to their conduct and habits. 

I feel in my heart to forgive all men in the broad sense that God requires of me to forgive all men, and I desire to love my neighbor as myself; and to this extent I bear no malice toward any of the children of my Father. But there are enemies to the work of the Lord, as there were enemies to the Son of God. There are those who speak only evil of the ' Latter-day Saints. There are those — and they abound largely in our midst, who will shut their eyes to every virtue and to every good thing connected with this latter-day work, and will pour out floods of falsehood and misrepresentation against the people of God. I forgive them for this. I leave them in the hand of the just Judge. Let Him deal with them as seemeth Him good, but they are not and cannot become my bosom companions. I cannot condescend to that. While I would not harm a hair of their head, while I would not throw a straw in their path, to hinder them from turning from the error of their way to the light of truth; I would as soon think of taking a centipede or a scorpion or any poisonous reptile and putting it into my bosom, as I would think . of becoming a companion or an associate of such a man. 

These are my sentiments, and I believe that they are correct. If you can throw yourself in the way of the sinner to stop him in his downward course, and become an instrument in the hand of the Lord of turning him from the way of vice, iniquity, or crime, into the way of righteousness and uprightness, you are justified and that is demanded of you. You should do this. If you can save a sinner from his wickedness, turn the wicked from the course of death that he is pursuing, to the way of life and salvation, you will save a soul from death, and you will have been an instrument in the hand of the Lord of turning the sinner unto righteousness, for which you will receive your reward. Some of our good Latter-day Saints have become so exceedingly good( ?) that they cannot tell the difference between a Saint of God, an honest man, and a son of Beelzebub, who has yielded himself absolutely to sin and wickedness. And they call that liberality, broadness of mind, exceeding love. I do not want to become so blinded with love for my enemies that I cannot discern between light and darkness, between truth and error, between good and evil; but I hope to live so that I shall have sufficient light in me to discern between error and , and to cast my lot on the side of truth and not on the side of error and darkness. The Lord bless the Latter-day Saints. If I am too narrow with reference to these matters I hope that the wisdom of my brethren and the Spirit of Light from the Lord may broaden my soul. 

We have a few people amongst us who are so wrapped up in and so devoted to some of their kindred who have been guilty of every species of abomination and wickedness in the world, that, the moment they are dead they will come and ask for permission to go into the ^ house of God to perform the ordinances of the Gospel for their redemption. I do not blame them for their affection for their dead, nor do I blame them for the desire in their heart to do something for their salvation, but I do not admire their wisdom, nor can I agree with their conception of right and justice. You cannot take a murderer, a suicide, an adulterer, a liar, or one who was or is thoroughly abominable in his life here, and simply by the performance of an ordinance of the Gospel, cleanse him from sin and usher him into the presence of God. God has not instituted a plan of that kind, and it cannot be done. He has said you shall repent of your sins. The wicked will have to repent of their wickedness. Those who die without the knowledge of the Gospel will have to come to the knowledge of it, and those who sin against light will have to pay the uttermost farthing for their transgression and their departure from the Gospel, before they can ever get back to it. Do not forget that. Do not forget it, von Elders in Israel, nor you, mother' Israel, either, and, when you seek to save either the living or the dead, bear it in mind that you can only do it on the principle of their repentance, and acceptation of the plan of life. That is the only- way in which you can succeed. 

The Lord bless you. Peace be unto the House of Israel. Never mind what the world says, nor what the world does against you. Let us serve God, do our duty, live our religion, keep the commandments of the Lord, and work out our salvation in time and throughout eternity. This is my admonition to the Latter-day Saints, and I pray God that we may all be able to do it, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the -anthem, "Lift up the voice in singing." 

PEESIDENT JOHN" R. WINDEE. 

Unity of the First Presidency and Apostles. — Progress of the Lord's work in the world, and in His temples. — Discretion to be observed in work for the Dead. — Gratitude for lengthy life and God's favor. 

You cannot imagine, my brethren and sisters, how grateful I feel this morning to have one more privilege of meeting with you in general conference. I was very much delighted in listening to the remarks we have heard from our President, and I wish to testify, before you, to the truth of the same. President Smith has spoken of the unity of the First Presidency and the Apostles; I testify to that also. We are united, and work together harmoniously in all matters pertaining to the interest and welfare of the Church of Christ on the earth. 

I appreciate the privilege of  before you a few moments, and express my thanks and gratitude to God my eternal Father that He has lengthened out my days, that I am permitted to see this beautiful morning, and address this grand assemblage of Latter-day Saints. 

My desire and intention is to sustain and uphold my President in all matters pertaining to the welfare of the Church upon the earth. 

I feel very thankful, my brethren and sisters, for the gratifying reports that come to us concerning the progress of the work of the Lord throughout the world, where our missionaries are laboring. While the work is prospering in the world, I am very thankful to be able to say that the work of the Lord is also increasing and multiplying in His holy temples. This is a duty that is laid upon the Saints; the Lord requires that they shall minister in behalf of the dead, and it is astonishing sometimes to see the interest that is taken in regard to this matter. Our temples are frequently filled to overflowing, and this is a source of great pleasure to us. 

President Smith made a remark in relation to those who seek permission to do work for the dead who were unworthy. Such cases have arisen, and I have marveled that brethren and sisters do not exhibit better judgment — if I may be allowed to use that expression — than to seek the privileges of the house of the Lord for those who are not worthy. I have no doubt they feel anxious and desirous to do all they can for the salvation of their relatives; but they should exercise wisdom in regard to these matters. 

I hope, my brethre:. and sisters. that we will all be united — that the Latter-day Saints throughout the world will all be as united as the authorities of the Church are at the present day, and that the Lord's work will continue to grow, and prosper, and multiply upon the earth. 

I feel to again express my gratitude to God, my eternal Father, for His goodness and mercies to me. He has lengthened out my days till I am now nearly eighty-six years of age, and I am thankful for the measure of health and strength I enjoy. My determination is, this morning, that I will stand by and uphold President Joseph F. Smith with all my might, mind, and strength; that I shall keep the commandments of God, and that I and my house shall serve the Lord from this time henceforth and forever. This is my desire and prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LTJND. 

An example of punctuality. — Encouraging reports from missions. — A missionary's unselfish devotion to duty. — Erection of meeting houses, and attendance therein. — Faithfulness and zeal under ordinary conditions. — Need of watch-care over children. — Advantages of religious training, and proper example. — Immigrants should be helped. 

I hope that all present will remember the good remarks made by President Smith this morning, and follow his exhortation to us as Latter-day Saints. I rejoice in the testimony he bore, and I thought how thankful we ought to be that the Lord has given us individually a testimony of the truth, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God. I was also pleased  hear President Winder express his gratitude at being in our midst. A short time ago he was taken sick with pneumonia, and, on account of his age, we all felt apprehensive that he might not have strength to overcome it, but the Lord blessed him. He was absent from the temple only one day. Here is a lesson in punctuality for us to follow; President Winder has never been absent from the temple, from the time it was opened till now, with the exception of that one day. We feel thankful that the Lord has strengthened him, and given him so great a degree of health that he has been able to continue his labors, both in the temple and in the office with his brethren. 

I am pleased to see this large congregation this morning, at the opening of our conference. It shows that the people are interested in the work of the Lord, that thev love to come together on these occasions to receive strength in their faith, and to be instructed in their duties. President Smith said that the work is progressing; this is true. The reports from all our missions are encouraging. The Elders are doing their best to disseminate the truth among the people where they are called to labor, they are trying to make the most of their time, and their labors are crowned with greater additions to the Church. The Presidents of Missions are studying how the work can be best forwarded in their respective mission fields, and the Elders are sustaining them. We hear good reports, monthly, of the labors of the Elders; and we are pleased that but very few Elders return before they have honorably filled their missions. Sometimes sickness may compel them to leave their fields of labor, and in that case we consider they have performed an  mission as long as they have been away. We do not want the Elders to feel that they must stay in the mission field two years, or any stated length of time, if their health is impaired. We want the Presidents of Missions to watch over the Elders in their charge, and if any of the brethren are attacked with sickness to see that the best care is taken of them; and, if it is deemed wise, to send them home, that they be not kept in the mission and thus endanger their lives. As a general thing, the Elders are determined not to leave their missions until they have been honorably released, and many of them feel, when the time approaches for them to go home, that they can hardly leave the Saints in the world. They have such affection and love for the Saints among whom they labor, and for their fellow missionaries, that it seems almost as hard to leave their fields of labor to go home as it did to leave their dear ones at home to go upon their missions. 

We have a letter from President Taylor of the Japan Mission, a young man who has labored there over six years, among a people who do not believe in Christ or in the Gospel as preached by His Apostles. To convert such a people as the Japanese is, of course, a hard task. This young man and the missionaries with him are doing all in their power to reach the hearts of that people, and to convert them to a belief in Christ and in the saving principles of the Gospel. Brother Taylor is translating the Book of Mormon into Japanese, and he is anxious that it shall appear in the best form, that the language shall be such that the people there cannot find fault with its construction. When you consider the difference between a  like that and our own, and the difference between their mode of thinking and expressing themselves and our mode of thought and expression, you can imagine how hard such a labor is. But this young man says in his letter that he does not desire to return until he ' has finished the work. So devoted does he feel to the. labor of the Lord that, though he has been absent so long, and has a splendid home here, where friends would do everything for him, yet he is willing to spend his time and his means in the work of the Lord in that faroff land, even if it should require years longer to accomplish the. task, set him. That is the spirit that should inspire our Elders. They should seek the kingdom of God and His work first, and then let other things follow. 

The past summer has witnessed the erection of many meeting houses. Our brethren feel anxious to improve their houses of worship, that they may have proper places in which to worship the Lord. We  commend the Saints for their willingness to do this, but we would say to the presiding men, be careful not to incur too great expense in erecting meeting houses. While we love to see these buildings monuments of honor to the people, yet we do not want the people to be over-burdened. 

We hope that the people who are so willing to build meeting houses will also be willing to use them, and not let indifference and carelessness keep them at home on the Sabbath day. This is one of the duties that , we must perform; unless the Saints attend their meetings it will be hard for them to keep alive in the Gospel. "To live our religion is just as hard as to die for it," has been said, and I believe it. When our time and attention are taken up with the every-day affairs and labors of life, we are apt to get a little indifferent to the work of the Lord. While on the battle field, a soldier will rush to his death under the impulses of the moment. Likewise, when one is attacked for his religion, he feels strong- to resist the attack, and stands up for his belief at any cost, but when it comes to every-day duties, — and there is something for the Latter-day Saint to do every day — some become lukewarm and indifferent. It requires much zeal and endurance to attend to our duties in the Church under these ordinary conditions. The feeling should be uppermost in our hearts that, under all circumstances, we will faithfully do our duty. It is not he that just begins and then stops who is promised salvation, but he who endures to the end. Let us not forget to ask ourselves every morning, What are the duties before me today? and, when night comes, let the question be, Have I performed my duties today? If we can answer this affirmatively, then with our last waking thoughts our hearts can turn to our heavenly Father with thanks for His aid and assistance during the day, and in prayer for His protection during the night. We have duties that we owe to ourselves, to our fellow men, and to God; let us not neglect any of them. There are also duties that we owe to our children; we must not neglect them, they are of the utmost importance. 

This summer we have had some *sad exposures of acts of depravity that have taken place here in Salt Lake City, amongst some of the juveniles. We were shocked to hear of these misdoings. Every think man and woman should study the matter earnestly and try to find the causes of, and the remedies for, such a state of affairs. One of the causes of the condition that we read about is the freedom we give our children — unrestricted liberty to roam in the streets, especially at night time. Our children ought to be home in the evenings. If we allow them to go to a neighbor's, or any other place, we should know where they are, and not feel satisfied to have them come in at any time during the night. It takes work to watch over our children, but it is something that will reward us, and the children will thank us, by and by, for our watchcare over them. I remember a boy who complainingly said to his mother, "Why are you always on my track ? Why can't I go like our neighbor's children? Their mother never looks after them; they have perfect freedom; but I can't be away ten minutes before you are looking for me." This boy thanks his mother now for the care she had over him. The boys I have alluded to have taken a course that must make their mothers very sad indeed. We must look after our children at nights. Where there are curfew laws, they should be enforced. Make the children understand that when the curfew bel! rings they must be at home. 

We ought to point out to the children the dangers that beset their path; and, as President Smith has told us, warn them against bad company. How dangerous bad companions are. A vicious boy or a vicious girl can do incalculable harm in a community. We should warn our children against such associations, and urge them to seek good company — the company of those good companions with whom  study in school. Let them study their lessons together, and spend their time usefully. Let us warn them against bad company in the streets and other places. Of course we all feel that this ought to be done, but many of us either have so much confidence in our children that we think they Will not do wrong, or we are careless about it, but such carelessness will result in much sorrow and regret. As our children grow up, let us have them attend the Sunday Schools, the Primaries, and Religion Classes, and, when they are older, the Mutual Improvement Associations. All these organizations are safe-guards to put around our children. 

A word about the Religion Classes. Our outlines for the coming winter present lessons on morality and purity of life, giving the children practical lessons in true living — in fact, teaching them practical religion; teaching them to pray, to be devoted to godliness and piety — I mean piety of the right kind — and teaching them to walk uprightly before the Lord. We have tried to make the outlines for the coming year conform as nearly as possible to these lines. Brother Maeser, who took such an interest in Religion Classes, was very desirous that teachers should take a special interest in the children, not alone in the schools or in the classes but when they were out of school. The Religion Classes being a part of the Church School system, he felt that the same guardianship should be exercised over the children belonging to these classes as is exercised over the children who attend the Church schools. You know the organizations we have there — how the teachers are trying to look after the children who are  from distant homes to the Church schools, to see that their time is spent usefully, and that they are not getting into bad company, and bad practices and habits. In some of our stakes, the suggestion has been made that our Religion Class teachers help to look after the young at nights, help the probationary officers of the Juvenile Court to keep the children at home, to know something about them, and lovingly use an influence for good over these children who have been given into their charge in the Religion Classes. We hope this movement will be successful, and that it will extend throughout Zion, for we feel that we cannot take too much care of our children. They are precious charges given unto us, and the Lord will ask us to render an account, by and by, as to how we have taken care of them. I feel deeply concerned about our children, and I know all the Latter-day Saints feel the same. Let us watch over our children in their amusements. Lately, the old custom of the young and the old mingling together in amusement has become obsolete, and we leave the children alone in their dances and sociables. It would be well for the Bishops who can exercise an influence upon the management of amusements in the wards to see that older people be present with the children, so that our children, when they associate together, may not come under improper influences. 

In our homes, brethren and sisters, let us be careful of our talk before the children, and be careful to set them such an example as we would like them to follow. The boys and girls look up to their parents with full confidence, and what they see father and mother do they consider must be all right; and, if they are told that certain things are not right, they think it cannot be very wrong for them to follow the examples of their fathers and mothers who do these things. 

Let us be careful that our conduct be such that it will not give offense to our conscience, and that it may be a correct pattern to our children and others. A great many people live in our midst who do not belong to our faith, and they watch us. They know well how a Latter-day Saint ought to live, and, if he deviates from the course that they know he ought to follow, they are not slow in pointing it out, and it gives offense. It has been said : "Woe unto them by whom offenses come." We do not want to take upon us the responsibility of giving offense, but we want to use our time and efforts to bring others into the Gospel fold. If we are not called to labor abroad as missionaries, or called upon to preach at home, we can preach by example. Let the world see us as we are. Let them see us not only professing to be Saints, but that we are Saints in very deed. 

Let us not forget the poor in our midst. Let the Saints remember their fast offerings that . the poor may be provided for, that they shall not suffer want and their cry rise up to our heavenly Father. He has commanded us to minister to them, then let us see to it that the poor in our midst are remembered. 

When our brethren and sisters from abroad come here as immigrants, let us try to look after them and help them. The first week or two they are here everything is strange, they have no work, and they feel tried and friendless. That is the time to reach their hearts. 

Often we let this opportunity to help them go by, and they become associated with people who are discontented, who, perhaps, have apostatized from the truth, and our immigrant brethren and sisters may be influenced by such people. When the immigrants come to our different wards, let us remember that they have obeyed the Gospel out of love, for it. They have been willing to leave friends and relatives for the sake of their faith, and have come here as strangers. Let them not feel that those whom they have looked upon as children of Zion have lost the love they should have for their brethren. I think this is a very important matter for us to consider. 

I would also say to our brethren who have been abroad as missionaries, who have labored to bring people into the Church do not lose your interest in them, or in the work for which you have spent so much time and means. You should remember those with whom you become acquainted in your missions. If a letter might do good, send it to them; and, when they come here, remember how hospitable they were when you came into their homes; remember their kindness to you, and try to do something for them here. I commend those of our brethren who have continued to take an interest in the Saints that they became acquainted with on their missions. I have noticed, when the Saints from abroad come here, such Elders have been willing to take them into their homes, try to get places for them to work, and are interested in their welfare. That is right, and is what the missionary ought to .do. He should also feel that there is never coming a time when he is not a missionary. 

And all of us, my brethren and sisters, should take an interest in those who come here. Remember that we send our Elders — our sons and brothers — abroad to preach the Gospel, to bring- the people into the Church of Christ, and to gather them to Zion; now, When they get here, let us not feel that our duty is ended, but remember that the responsibility for the growth of Zion and the building up of the kingdom of God rests upon us. 

May the Lord bless the Latterday Saints; may his work continue to spread with greater speed in the earth, that the truth may be known, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

President Smith requested the Presidents of Stakes in Salt Lake City to adopt measures to provide for visitors attending Conference who need places where they may obtain lodging or board. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn commencing: 

"Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah, Lead us to the promised land, 

We are weak, but Thou art able — Hold us with Thy powerful hand." 

Conference was adjourned till 2 p. m. 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch Angus M. Cannon. 


