Morning
05 10 1907


ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Importance of observing the first great commandment. — High percentage of children in "Mormon" families. — Remarkable statistics. — Great influence of environment. — Advantages of Church school training. 

Brethren and sisters : I trust that I shall be able to make myself heard by this vast congregation. I rejoiced exceedingly yesterday in listening to the strong opening address of President Smith. It was an index to the character of the conference, and of the meetings which have followed. 

It was indeed pleasant to listen to the powerful testimonv of Presi Winder, and to see him in such good health. I was also very much impressed with the remarks of President Lund, and of President Lyman', especially with reference to the children of the Latter-day Saints. We are a people who believe in marriage and in children, and we not only believe in them, but this belief has taken an active form, and has become a living principle with us. You will remember that, when the Lord placed Adam in the Garden of Eden He saw that it was not good for man to be alone, and He gave him the woman, Eve, to be his companion and helpmeet. Then again, the Lord saw that it was not good for husband and wife to be alone, and He said unto them : "Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth." As a result of obedience to this first great commandment, Adam and Eve were blessed with posterity. Woe unto that nation or people who disregard that sacred obligation of marriage, or interfere with the fountains of life. Every nation which has taken this, course has felt the anger of an offended God. We need only to look back to the great Roman Empire for an example, and to other nations before and after. When the nations began to disregard and violate the sacred duty and obligations of marriage, weakness and dissolution came, and they have disappeared, many of them, from the face of the world. As a people, the Latter-day Saints, I think I mav safely say, aporeciate the glorious principle of marriage. In my travels I have seen some very large families of children. I met one sister who was the mother of eighteen- children. I looked upon her as a veritable queen among women; her crown was studded with eighteen precious jewels. I have met other sisters in the Church who were the mothers of fourteen, fifteen or sixteen children, which we will all concede are very large families. There are hundreds of mothers in Israel who have had eight, nine, ten eleven, twelve and thirteen children, which reflects great credit and honor upon them. 

If we would understand and comprehend something of the great obligation that rests upon us with respect to these children that God has entrusted to our care, it might be well for a moment to consider the fol-. lowing figures, taken from last year's statistical report. Last year there were in the Church 86,742 children under eight years of age, a veritable army. If we should assume that this Tabernacle would accommodate 15,000 children, then this building would be filled five and one-half times with children of the Latter-day Saints under eight years of age. Is not that thought impressive? The percentage of children in some of the stakes of Zion is very high indeed; and I am sure if it were known to the world, it would not only create some amazement but, with many perhaps, would elicit admiration. The highest average is in the Kanab Stake of Zion. In that stake 33 per cent of the population of the Church are children under eight years of age — nearly one-third of the population. Alberta Stake, in Canada, has 32  cent; San Juan Stake, 32 per cent; Uintah Stake, 32 per centJuarez Stake, in Mexico, has 31 per cent; Panguitch Stake, 31 per cent; Woodruff ^Stake, 30 per cent; and Snowflake Stake 30 per cent. There are thirteen stakes with 29 per cent, eight stakes with 28 per cent; six stakes with 27 per cent, seven stakes with 26 per cent, and three stakes with 25 per cent. I think you will concede with me that these are very high averages. There is one stake with 19 per cent, and two stakes with 18 per cent, which is the lowest average. 

Now, if anybody should ask me the question: What do you think is the most important consideration with reference to this vast army of children under eight years of age? and then: What do you think is the most important consideration with reference to the children of the Latter-day Saints who are above eight and up to twenty years of age ? ( The latter constitute a vast army. We have in the Sunday schools an enrollment of 119,000 souls. There are a few of these Sunday school children, under eight years of age, some who belong to the kindergarten department, but most of them are above the age of eight, and below the age of twenty. There are 24,600 enrolled in the Young Men's Association; 26,200 enrolled in the Young Ladies'; 48,737 enrolled in the Primary, and 25, 629 enrolled in the Religion Classes. We have in the Church 4,961 Priests, 6,292 Teachers, and 18,976 Deacons.) I should say that the most important consideration with reference to these children would be the question of environment — environment of the home first, and environment of the Church second. The child is born  the home, and remains there through the early years of its life, U p to manhood or womanhood, and anything that occurs within the sacred precincts of the home must have a powerful influence upon the mind of the child. It is necessarily so, because the youthful mind is very impressionable. When we look into the home of a Latter-day Saint, whenever we reflect about this matter, we naturally ask: Is the home well ordered? Is family prayer observed both morning and evening ? Do the parents set a proper example before the children ? Is reverence for sacred things impressed upon their minds — reverence for the Church, reverence for the Priesthood, and reverence for the parents? The children should be taught to respect and honor those who gave them birth,and those who are placed to instruct and guide them. Oh, how important these things are to the cause of Zion! Brethren and sisters, I repeat, how very important is the environment of our children in the home! I think they should have first consideration, and our profoundest attention as parents in Israel. 

Then there is the environment of the Church. This army of Priests, Teachers and Deacons, members of the lesser Priesthood, belonging to associations wherein they are taught to become acquainted with authority, and taught to exercise authority in the ordinances of the Gospel, — how important that proper attention should be given these young men in their quorums! Then, again, there is the environment of our auxiliary organizations, mighty engines for good — if that is a proper term — powerful levers in lifting the young people from lower to higher conditions. And last, but  least, the Church school system. You will remember that, over thirty years ago, President Young directed Karl G. Maeser to go to Provo and open a Church school. A little later, Brother Maeser presented himself to President Young for instructions: no doubt he had prepared his mind to receive very minute and ample directions in respect to this movement, for it was destined to become of great magnitude in Zion. President Young said to him something to this effect: "Brother Maeser, you are not to teach even the A B C's without the Spirit of God. Every study that shall be pursued in the Church school over which you are appointed to preside must be accompanied by the Spirit of God." And he told him that the greatest, the supremest study in the Church school should be theology. Let me say to you, my brethren and sisters, from the time Brother Maeser opened up that school, with only a few in attendance, a handful of students, the system has steadily grown and spread, and this year there will be enrolled in our Church schools about ten thousand students. Is it not a remarkable movement ? Does it not impress you ? Is it not wonderful what God hath wrought? I can scarcely think of any movement of later times in Zion that will have such a profound effect and influence upon our children as our Church schools. Why is this such an important movement? Simply because it goes beyond the Sabbath day; it may include it, in a way, but it goes beyond, and brings to the child the proper religious instruction, and the influences of the Gospel, every day in the week, every hour in the day, and every minute that he is in the school room. Now it seems to me that this is beautiful. I remember reading in one of the daily papers that the late President Harper of the Chicago University, complained sadly of the absence of religious influences in the school room; and he freely admitted that students who attended that university in his day, and under his instructions, went forth from the school with less religion and less reverence for sacred things than when they came into it; and those were the kind of educated students who were sent into the world from that great institution. It is the same with many other institutions of learning; and I think the people of the nation are coming to the view that there must be religious instruction of some kind, at least that the Bible should be introduced into the public schools of the land. Well, we have been converted to that idea from the first. One thing that President Young regretted, with respect to the public schools, was that the Lord Almighty was excluded, and I presume that was what prompted him to inaugurate the Church school system. . 

Brethren and sisters, as I said before, how important is the environment of our children. If you doubt that there is anything in this question of environment, cast your thought back to the children of Israel. You will remember that they went down into Egypt as worshipers of the true and living God. No doubt they continued to be instructed in that worship during their pilgrimage in the land of Egypt, while they were in bondage. After 400 years, they were brought forth out of bondage, through the power of the Almighty, with the fear of God  their eyes; and they walked through the Red Sea dry shod; and they saw the Lord descend— that is, they saw a mighty manifestation of His power upon Mount Sinai, when the mountain smoked as a furnace, the thunder rolled, the lightning flashed, and they heard the voice of God. And, mind you, when Moses, the prophet, the lawgiver, the leader of Israel, withdrew for a short period of time— 40 days and 40 nights that he was in the mount communing with the Almighty — the children of Israel rebelled and worshiped an idol, the golden calf; yet they were the'people who had just previously witnessed the manifestation of God's power in their great deliverance from bondage. And why did they worship the golden calf? It was due to their environment in Egypt. They had been in bondage 400 years, and had been surrounded by idol worshipers; their children had grown up under these influences, and they were affected, in the wilderness, by the environment of their early life. 

May the Lord help us, may He give us wisdom as a people, as parents, as officers of the Church, as men of Priesthood, and women of faith, may He give us wisdom to watch over our children and to give them good counsel, and to set before them examples worthy of all acceptation, because the children of today are the men and women of tomorrow, so to speak; and whatever the children are, the men and the women of the future will be. Let us lay the foundation deep and strong that we may erect thereupon a most glorious building, which I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HYRUM M. SMITH. 

Great significance of the revelations imparted to Joseph Smith.— Unchangeable character of those revelations.— Prevailing religious indifference. — Preachers who create unbelief.— Personality of God has been clearly demonstrated—Proper use of the Bible in public schools. — Existence and divinity of Christ made known in this age. 

My brethren and sisters, I feel somewhat weighed down this morning under the great responsibility that rests upon me in occupying this position, and in speaking to a congregation of this character and size. Nevertheless, I rejoice greatly that I am deemed worthy to bear the responsibility, and have the authority to testify concerning the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ and His mission, and declare the truth of the Gospel restoration in this the dispensation of the fulness of times, through Joseph Smith, the Prophet. 

As Latter-day Saints, we have assembled here for the purpose of worshiping God, acknowledging Him as our Father in heaven, and manifesting our love for Him and His Son. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established and founded by Joseph the Prophet, under the direction and inspiration of Jesus Christ, in April, 1830. The same principles and doctrines of life and salvation that were preached by Jesus, during His ministry in the flesh, were revealed to Joseph Smith and announced by him again to the world. 

Joseph Smith was raised up to be, and he is, a Prophet of God. In answer to his prayer, the Father and the Son appeared to him, together, in person, and made known to him their divine will. Thereafter they sent unto him heavenly  from their presence, and also, by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost revealed to him the truths of the everlasting Gospel. These revelations are written in the Doctrine and Covenants, Book of Mormon and Pearl of Great Price, and if believed in, and practiced, will eventually save men in the celestial kingdom of our Father. They were proclaimed by revelation, as I have stated, and up to this time, after over seventy-seven years of existence of the Church, not one principle or doctrine thus revealed has been receded from by the members of the Church. We have never repudiated any of the truths revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith and to his successors in the office of Prophet, Seer and Revelator to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. We have never relinquished our belief in any one of these doctrines and principles. We have never called together conferences or conclaves for the purpose of revising the revelations of God. We have never been called upon, nor found it necessary, in any stage of our progress, to eliminate any revelation from the record. Neither have we ever denied any of them. We testify in all soberness that these revelations are from God. They are therefore the same yesterday, today and forever, and are everlasting and essential to the salvation of those unto whom they are given. We have adhered faithfully to the Gospel of Christ, the religion which we have received. As a people, I trust we will always remain faithful, firm and steadfast as we' are, and even more so, and by greater diligence exercise greater faith in the Lord. This is a day when there is a great falling away from the churches, a departure of men from their own religions and creeds. The things of this world are paramount in the estimation of the world. We send our Elders into the world to preach this Gospel unto all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, and there are three classes that they meet. One is a class of people that receive them gladly when they hear the testimony of the truth, and of the restoration of the gospel. Their hearts swell within them at the sound of the voice of the true shepherd, and they listen eagerly. They desire to know more; they investigate earnestly, and perceive the truth gladly, and embrace it. Those who comprise this class, I say, are not very numerous. Then there is another class, perhaps quite numerous, who, the moment they hear the testimony thus declared bristle up and become antagonists, and bitter enemies of the truth, and oppose it with all their powers; and they scruple at nothing to hinder and destroy the work that the Elders are endeavoring to perform. Then there is the third class, and they are numbered by thousands, who are totally indifferent to that testimony, or to the testimony of any other man who preaches religion. Thus we discover that in the world the majority of men are not inclined to religion. They are falling away from religion, departing from creeds, and absenting themselves from places of worship. They do not know anything about religion, and they care less about it. Now, who are responsible for this * condition? There may be many things causing this, to a greater or less degree, but I believe those who are most responsible for the- lack of faith are so-called preachers of religion. They have sown the seeds  unbelief in the hearts of men. Being uninspired, and without divine authority, they by their teachings have caused men to disbelieve in God, the Eternal Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ. They make certain professions, by way of lip service, but they deny the power of godliness. They declare that God is incomprehensible, that we cannot understand Him, and do not know Him; that He is without body, parts or passions. They declare that Jesus Christ is not divine. They repudiate the miraculous, and cast doubt upon the wonderful works that Christ wrought, and that were performed by His followers, His disciples, in primitive times, as recorded in Scripture. Everything that does not appeal to their particular and narrow sense of reason, they denounce as irrational and untrue. We are not afraid of the avowed infidel and agnostic, he who comes out openly declaring his utter contempt for all things that savor of God and religion, and ridicules those who do believe in them. I believe that true religion has never suffered very materially on account of the warfare made upon it by open and avowed enemies who call themselves atheists and infidels; neither has true faith been much disturbed by such attacks, but the trouble is that there are those who style themselves ministers of religion, who prefix the word "Reverend" to their names, and under this guise stand in pulpits, and upon the rostrum of religious gatherings, and there proclaim the same falsehoods that infidels have declared, namely, that Jesus Christ is not divine, that He is not the Redeemer of the world, but a mere man, a moralist, it is true, a man advanced beyond the  in which he lived. It is all very well to proclaim a belief in the existence of God, because of the glories of the heavens and the beauties of earth; all very well to say we can see the handiwork of God in the mountains, in the forests and in the streams of water, in the fruits and the flowers of the earth, but not any of these thing's ever yet convinced men of the personality of God. Men may gather from these things a belief that there is an all-wise and allpowerful creator, but none of these things bear direct testimony of the personality of God, the Father, nor of the divinity of Christ the Son. These truths must be revealed to men, a knowledge of them being essential to salvation. Men must receive, understand, and impart them to their fellow men; and this has been done. God has time and again revealed Himself to His servants the Prophets; they have seen Him, have beheld His person, and have discovered the truth of the declaration that man was created in the image of God. Thus they could truthfully testify to others that God lives, and that we are His children, created in His image. He is not only the Creater of the heavens and the earth and all that we see that is beautiful, useful and desirable in them, but He is also the Creator of man, and man is in the likeness of His person. These things are true. Christ declared the truth of them; he declared His divinity. He said He came into the world to take away the sin of the world; and all His disciples, who were true to him, bore the same testimony, because they had seen and heard. So, the responsibility for the indifference we find so universal on the part of men towards the Gospel rests large upon those who claim to be ministers, and pose as preachers of the Gospel of Christ, and at the same time teach that Christ is not divine, that God did not create man, and that there are no such things as miracles, revelations, gifts, and so on and so forth. While pretending to preach the doctrines of Christ they, at the same time, deny most of them. The personality of God, the divinity of His Son, the creation of man, the fall of Adam, the atonement, the resurrection, eternal life, celestial glory, etc., etc., are doctrines now discredited by many of them. Little wonder that men have grown tired of and become indifferent to, a Gospel stripped of nearly all its essentials. Such hypocrites and religion fakers as these are responsible for the condition of irreligion that we find in the world. And if this is the result of preaching the Gospel of Christ, so-called, and reading the Bible in churches, we may well pause before introducing such reading in the public schools. 

I can see no remedy for this condition, only in the unequivocal acceptance of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as He declared it in His day, and as it has been restored in our own day. Men must believe in God; they must believe that He is our Father, that He created us and established us here; and He shall welcome us again in His presence. We must believe that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, and accept Him as such. We must accept the doctrines He taught, and put them into practice in our lives, if the reading of the scripture, His word, will do us any good. So long as we have infidels, skeptics and unbelievers in the public schools, men who do not understand the Bible and cannot make proper explanation of its contents, I sav, to read it in the schools and, as some ministers do, disparage the belief in Jesus Christ and the miracles He wrought,and the great work of redemption He accomplished, would be more disastrous than beneficial by far. Until such time as men can read the Bible and the Scriptures understandingly, by the power of the Holy Ghost, in the spirit in which they were written, I am not prepared to declare my belief in the efficacy of teaching it in the public schools. 

It is folly for men to say Jesus Christ is not divine, and that He was just a great moral teacher, a man in advance of His time, and then advise men to follow Him; for, either He is Christ, the Son of God, who came from the Father to take away the sin of the world, and to die for the redemption of man, or He is not. If He is, He is worthy of the respect and confidence even of the lowest among men. He is either what He represented Himself to be, or He is not, in any sense of the term, because He declared Himself to be the Son of God. He proclaimed, "I am the way, the truth and the life; no man cometh to God save by me." Men can come to God in that way only, or else the Son of Man told an untruth, and lying is far from being a moral habit. He declared, furthermore: "I am the resurrection and the life; whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die." "Whosoever believeth in Me, though he were dead yet shall he live." He said again: "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel unto every creature; he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." 

None but the Messiah Himself could make such statements and speak the truth. He was what He announced Himself to be, and what we declare Him to be, or else He performed a most arrogant and immoral act in assuming to be He who could forgive sins, and who could save men from their sins and lift them up, and exalt them in the presence of God. 

My brethren and sisters, every page, almost, of the Holy Scriptures bears record and attests the divinity of Christ. Christ Himself declared it. John the Baptist said to the multitude/'Behold, the Lamb of God who taketh away the sin of the world." Peter, James and John, Matthew, Mark, Luke, Paul and many of the other disciples of Christ likewise bore testimony,without doubt, that He was divine and is the Redeemer of the world. And in our own day, we bear the same testimony, for the same things have been revealed anew. Joseph Smith was visited by Him and God His Father, and he beheld them with his own eyes. Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon also saw him, and bore testimony that they saw Him, even as Stephen saw Him, clothed in glory, surrounded by those inhabiting the celestial kingdom of God. They also saw God seated on His throne and Jesus Christ at His right hand, "and they heard the voice bearing record that He is the only begotten of the Father." So far as the Latterday Saints are concerned, we know these things are true. There is no doubt in our minds about it. Why? Because the Spirit of Truth, the Holy Ghost, has been received by  us, through our obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel, and he, true to His office, has testi to us of Jesus Christ, our Lord. 

May God bless you, my brethren and sisters. May you prove faithful all your lives. May you, as we have up to this time done, adhere faithfully to every precept, every doctrine, and every truth that_has been revealed in this dispensation by God, through Joseph Smith, for the salvation of the children of men. I rejoice in the Everlasting Gospel. I know it is true. I know that God lives, that Jesus Christ is our Lord and Savior, and that by obedience to the laws and ordinances which He Himself yielded obedience to, and commanded all men to obey, we shall be saved in the kingdom of our Father. May we be saved. May we labor diligently to counteract the influences of indifference, unbelief, and agnosticism which now prevail so extensively among men in the world. 

God bless the Presidency of the Church, and the Twelve Apostles, and the Seven Presidents of the Seventy, and the Patriarch. May He likewise bless, according to their callings and their necessities, the Presidents of stakes, their Counselors, and High Councilors, Bishops of wards and their Counselors, and those who preside in the auxiliary organizations, or in branches of the Church.  May He be with the Presidents of Missions to inspire them and to equip them for their great and responsible duties in declaring the truth; and may He bless each and every individual missionary laboring under their direction for the spread of the everlasting Gospel into all the world, as a witness before the end shall come. This is my prayer in behalf of the Church and the servants of God, and of all men of God and the just in all the world,  I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

A contralto solo, "O Love Divine," was beautifully rendered by little Sister Millie Williams. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

Children a priceless heritage from the Lord. — Childless homes a national calamity. — Beautiful examples of affection for destitute children. — An appeal to the childless to adopt homeless orphans. — A splendid way to help mission work. — A missionary magazine. 

I am sure that all who are here today have been edified by the instruction we have received, and can testify that the sweet influence of the Spirit of our Father, that was so bountifully poured out upon us yesterday, has been continued. 

I was very much impressed with the report made by Brother Clawson concerning the exceedingly large number of children in the homes of the Latter-day Saints, and I was reminded of a passage of Scripture that is often referred to in tenderness, and that has been illustrated upon canvas by some of the greatest painters of the world. When the Savior was surrounded by a multitude, and He was laying His hands upon the heads of small children and blessing them, His Apostles suggested that they trouble Him not. He then made use of the memorable saying that we all cherish, "Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." If it be true that nearly one-third of the population of some of our stakes are very young children, not yet accountable for sin, then indeed, in those stakes there should be an outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord that should be felt in every home. As a people we believe in children. We believe that they are an heritage given to us by our Father in heaven. We can understand how, in the olden times, as recorded in the Scriptures, when some of the grand women of Israel were childless, and deprived of the joy of having little arms cling around their necks, and sweet innocent lips to give them the kiss of childish affection, they cried unto the Lord that they might have children, to take away their reproach. We understand what that means, if we understand the Gospel of Jesus Christ; and we comprehend that one child, born under proper conditions and reared under suitable circumstances, is worth more than all the cattle and sheep upon a thousand hills, aye, than all the treasures of the world. That is why, as Latter-day Saints doing our duty, we welcome these priceless treasures from the throne of God when they come into our homes. In the world it is not always so, but, lacking understanding, some are stopping the springs of life, and assuming the responsibility of cutting off posterity, by avoiding fulfilment of the great commandment given to our first parents, to "multiply and replenish the earth." Children are the offspring of God, their spirits were begotten in the holy heavens of our Father, and they are given to us for our blessing. We, as stewards, are permitted to receive them in their infancy, to educate and prepare them, not alone that they may become great in this world and bring honor to us here, but by observing the laws of God, that they may live again with us in the presence of our Father, throughout the endless ages of eternity. 

I was reading a short time ago that in France the birthrate is diminishing so rapidly that it is viewed as a national calamity, and a national association, which is studying the matter, has reached the conclusion that any couple raising more than three children merit public gratitude and protection. In this connection, I am reminded of the remark of a gentleman not of our faith who lives in the East whose home is childless, who met, a few months ago, one of our sisters who is the mother of thirteen children, and she, by the way, sits in the congregation today. (God bless her. ) She had told him she was the mother of thirteen children, and he said to me, "Mr. Smith, I took my hat off to her. She was deserving of great honor." 

I saw in the press a few days ago a report that there is a union of women, in one portion of Europe, who have agreed that they would give birth to no more children, and members of their organization are traveling among the people teaching this pernicious doctrine, and many have joined the deplorable union. I wondered if they realize that, of all the blessings God had been good enough to bestow upon them, of all the privileges that they might enjoy in this life, they are blindly rejecting the most priceless of all; I thought that, if the Gospel of Jesus Christ could but touch their hearts, if they could comprehend that this is a part of the great plan of our Father, if they could understand that the purpose of their existence in this world is that they might have joy, and that joy could come to them in perfection only by being the mothers of sons and daughters, how differently they would act. No Latter-day Saint woman, understanding 1 or comprehending the Gospel of Jesus Christ, will refuse the legitimate opportunity to bear sons and daughters in the image of God. No man properly realizing his privileges and opportunities, would do anything to prevent himself being a father in Israel, and having the privilege of rearing and educating children created in the likeness of our Father whom we worship. But our brethren and sisters in some parts of the world fail to understand that, and, in the place of sweet, innocent children, and the prattle and joyous laughter of those of whom our Father has said, "Their angels are ever present with me," we find dogs, birds and cats receiving the affection and taking the place of those jewels that the Lord intended should embellish the crown of every good man and woman in the world, who are capable of being fathers and mothers. 

A few years ago a family consisting of father, mother and several children, residing in Bear Lake Stake, took a little child from the orphanage and gave it a home. I have queried what the result would be, and whether it would be satisfactory. Yesterday this same mother came to my house with a little boy, five years old, she had just received from the Orphan's Home and Day Nursery, and was en route to her home with him. That was sufficient answer for me. The first sacrifice has been suitably rewarded and the joy experienced in the development of the first child has opened the door of welcome to another little stranger. I questioned the little fellow, yesterday, as to his knowledge of animals, etc., and learned that he was fond of them. I told him he was going to live  they had horses, cows, sheep and chickens. His face lighted up and he asked, "Can I have some, too?" in such an eager way that it almost brought tears to my eyes. A new world was opening for him. The narrow limits of the orphanage were stretching out, and he was beginning to realize that there was some place in the world that would be home to him, somebody he could call mother. He was dressed in a nice new suit, and as he stepped aboard the train, in the care of that good woman, I could not but feel that the Lord would accept the offering of the family in opening their home to the little man. I pray that He will bless them for the good they do this orphan child. 

Only a few months ago there was brought to this city a little child, whose mother had died and the father was unable to take care of it in a suitable way. The question was raised, "What stiall we do with the child?" A daughter of one of the most prominent brethren in the Church, a girl only 17 years old, responded surprisingly. She had no parrot, no dog, no little pet lamb, but she had a number of brothers and sisters whom she had learned to love and cherish. She had been reared in a Latter-day Saint home, and understood the duty of doing good to the children of our Father. She knew what it meant when the Lord said, "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of one of these ye do it unto me," and she requested her parents that she might take that little child and care for it until other suitable provision could be made for it. She received permission, and gladly gave her time, day and night, for baby's comfort. That daughter of Zion did something in assuming such a responsibility that would surely endear her to all good people; and the Father of us all will not be unmindful of her consideration of one of His little ones. 

How will those feel who fail to obey that first great command when they stand in the presence of the creator, who says to them, as He said to those in olden times, "Suffer little children to come unto me, and- forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." How can they comply with that invitation if they have no children to take to the Father? They must remain childless throughout eternity. They have been blind to their rights and privileges. It is only by a proper understanding of the laws of God, and by compliance with the Gospel of Jesus Christ, only by doing what the Lord has said we should do, that we will enjoy the fulness of happiness that our Father in heaven has promised those who are faithful. I do not feel to censure, but with all my heart I pity the man and woman who grace their home with the lesser animals of God's creation, and keep away from their firesides those angels from His presence who might be theirs through time and through all eternity. I realize there are some men and women who are grieved because they are not fathers and mothers, thev are not blessed of the Lord in that particular, they haye r.c children of their own, and by no f f ult of their own. I believe the Lord will provide in such cases. If they will do their duty in keeping the other commandments, their reproach will be taken away. I raise my voice among the sons and daughters of Zion, and warn you that if you dry up the springs of life and abuse the power that God  blessed you with, there will come a time of chastening to you, that all the tears you may shed will never remove. Remember the first great commandment; fulfill that obligation. 

Are there any here who have no children in their homes? If there are such, I say to you that in the orphanage, near this city, there are, I am told, thirty or forty little children. They are being fed and clothed and kept from the cold, and are nursed when they are sick, but they know not what it is to receive the affectionate embrace of loving parents that most of you have enjoyed. They know not the joy of roaming the fields and woods, and having toys and pets like children who have parents to care for them. Oh, how they would appreciate a real home! There are many childless homes, where the presence of these children would be a God's blessing; and there should be no orphan child depending upon charity in this land. If you have no children of your own, if you realize the admonition of the Savior, then some of you who desire this blessing should reach out your arms and adopt some of these homeless children. And, though they may not prove in all respects all that you could wish, the intent of your heart will be rewarded by the Father who knows your desire to do good. I do not hesitate to say that the blessing that will return to the one whose home is opened to a child without parents will not only be that they will rejoice in the growth and development of that child, but that other blessings of our Father will be added to them in proportion to their good works. If there strayed into your dooryard a fine colt or calf, without an owner, and  prospect of anybody claiming it would you cast it. out ? Wouldn't you consider it valuable and take possession. Perhaps it would be worth a few dollars at the most, yet you would rejoice to get it. But if it were an orphan child, a homeless waif, created in the image of God, its spirit begotten by Him, and its possibilities incalculable, would you consider it valuable, and be willing to give it a home? Let me ask you, What is the value of an immortal soul? 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, that we have the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I will rejoice more when I learn that we who have ability, we who have opportunity, put into effect the law of God, "Love your neighbor," and prove it by taking the orphans to our homes and providing for them. Another suggestion : There are ' some of our people who have no sons to go into the mission field; some whom God has blessed with means and ability, who live in palatial homes and have all the comforts of life, but they have no sons to bear their names in honor in the mission field. My brethren and sisters, look around you, and perchance not very far from your doors there may be a faithful son of some good, noble man and woman who are unable to furnish him means to fill a mission. If you will provide the means whereby that man may go into the world and proclaim the truths of the Gospel of our Lord, and have his faith planted securely in a knowledge of the divinity of Jesus Christ and this Latter-day work, I think the means expended in that way will bring an abundant blessing to you; your compensation will be adequate in the souls brought to Christ. 

A sister said to me, not very long ago : "Brother Smith, I have no son, the Lord has not given me any children, but he has blessed me with a little means; if you know where there is a faithful Latter-day Saint Elder who is in need, and who can be helped to fill his mission by a little .means taken from my account, it is your privilege to draw on me and help to keep him in the field until he is released." I felt to bless her, because she has a proper conception of the duties of members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There may be others who have no sons in the mission field, and there may be many who could not afford to assist to the extent of keeping one laboring there to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ for the salvation of our Father's children, but there is another opening for missionary aid that comes to my mind. At Independence, Mo., the old and the new center stake of Zion, the place that God ordained should be a gathering place for the Latter-day Saints, there is a missionary paper printed, and it goes to the 'people by the thousands every week; it is called Liahona, the Elders' Journal. It contains the truths of the Gospel, and, like the sacred Scriptures, it bears witness of the divinity of our Lord, the Redeemer of the world, and also bears testimony of the divine mission of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Perhaps you cannot send a son to the mission field, nor assist some other man's son similarly, but there are few of us who cannot afford to send the little messenger to somebody in the world, that truth may be disseminated thereby, and we may to that extent, have part in the glorious privilege that the Lord has given us to teach the Gospel to His children who are in the world. I commend it to you, my brethren and sisters. You can contribute in a small way of your means, and you can have a missionary, yea, you can in this way have thousands of missionaries in the field by reason of your contributions, and they will be preaching- the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the honor and glory of our Father in heaven. 

I rejoice this day to be with you. Let us be grateful for the children God has blessed us with, and let us be grateful for the children that He has blessed our brethren and sisters with, and help to make them great and honorable men and women in the earth, as we desire our own to be. Let us be ever on hand to contribute of our means for the comfort and blessing of the poor, take care of those who are in distress, and ever be ready to minister to those who are in want, for the Lord has said, "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of one of these, my children, ye do it unto me." God grant that when we go back to His home we may hear the welcome plaudit: "Well done , good and faithful servant; you have been faithful in a few things, I will make you ruler over many things, enter into the joy of your Lord," is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The latter-day glory begins to come ' forth; 

The visions and blessings of old are returning, 

And angels are coming to visit the earth. 

Conference was adjourned till 2 p. m.  Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph E. Robinson. 


