Afternoon
05 10 1907



EIDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Progress and glorious destiny of the Church. — Earnestness and zeal of the Saints and missionaries. — Divine assurance that the Church will continue. — The Saints should rejoice, and feel encouraged. 

My soul has been filled with exceeding peace during the meetings of this conference. I was thinking, while the choir was singing, how the truths which have been spoken, accompanied by the Spirit of the Lord which has been with us, have fitted into the structure of my faith like beautiful hewn marble into a temple. I have had no occasion to trim off the corners or to reject any of the material. It seems to be a , of my very being, and I have not been embarrassed by what has been said. I testify to the truth of the things which have been spoken, and stand prepared to defend these principles, knowing that they are eternal truth. 

As a people, and as individual members of the Church, we have reason to be very thankful to our Father in heaven for what He has done for us through the Gospel. We have no occasion to be discouraged, but have much to encourage us as individuals and as the people of the Church of God upon the earth. The Lord has fulfilled His promises unto us and concerning His work. Though we may sometimes feel that we are making but slow progress, the end does seem to me to be in sight, and the glorious destiny of this work is assured. True Latter-day Saints have no doubt in their minds in regard to this matter. We have seen this Church grow from its infancy. Seventy-seven and one-half years ago tomorrow marks the date of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in the state of New York, with but six members. She has steadily grown in strength and numbers, in the face of great obstacles, persecution of her members, falsehoods, misrepresentations and vituperations from the pulpit and from the press; all of which, by the way, instead of hindering the progress of this work, at whose helm is God, the Eternal Father, has but given it renewed impetus. I fear when persecutions cease, — when those who are not of us cease to raise their voices and to use their pens against this great work, — that we may become indifferent and forget our responsibilities. I have in remem the charge which the Savior gave to His Apostles in the primitive Church. We read in John, 15th chapter : 

"Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain : that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, He may give it you. These things I command you, that ye love one another. If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own; but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you." 

In the face of this injunction that the Savior gave His Apostles, that they be bound together in the bonds of love, which is stronger than the cords of death, warning them that the world would be arrayed against them, what may we expect but persecution from the hands of those who are not willing to receive the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ which we bear to the children of men. Persecution has followed this work all along the line, and this has helped to keep us in the path of our duty. The thing to be feared by this people, is that, when such exceeding peace comes in the land and envelops us, we. may forget the Lord and our religious duties. I realize that at the present time there is an era. of peace, that this people have liberty, such as they have not always enjoyed, to worship the Lord and carry on the work in its various avenues; but I am- pleased to note, where I have had experience and association with the Saints in the mission field, and in the Stakes of Zion, that they are not relaxing their efforts. They are pressing - forward with earnestness and zeal, as if to make the best possible use of the time while there is peace; and the spirit of inquiry is spreading abroad through the earth in relation to this people, and the doctrines which they teach. It is manifest in the mission fields, where presidents of missions have their forces better marshalled. New and improved policies have been adopted to get the Gospel before the people of the world. There are perhaps, more inquirers, more earnest investigators of the truth and doctrines of the Gospel than ever before in the history of this Church; and I may say, with equal force and truth, that there are more converts than ever before. This work is making headway in the world, and we are increasing from that source as well as from within. As you heard this morning, from the figures which were presented, there is no people upon the face of the earth so prolific, none who realize so fully the importance of the first great commandment of our Father, that we multiply and replenish the earth, none so faithful in carrying out that and all the other requirements which the Lord has laid upon us. By these means we are increasing in numbers, in strength, and in power and influence at home in the stakes of Zion. As stated, we are also increasing in the world, and having an influence with the people of the world such as we never had before. We begin to comprehend what is in the future for Zion. We begin to realize that what the Lord, through His Prophets, has said of Zion, what she shall attain to in numbers, power, influence, and glory, will indeed be fulfilled. I have in mind a dream which was given by the Lord to 

Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, more than six hundred years before the birth of our Savior, and how the Lord, through that dream, and the interpretation which was given by the Prophet Daniel, showed most clearly the destiny of the work which He should commence in the last days. The establishment of this Church, its organization on the 6th day of April, 1830, was the beginning of the fulfilment of that most important prophecy. I think that the Lord had a purpose, a noble and great purpose, in giving to Nebuchadnezzar that dream, and giving the interpretation of it, that we who should engage in that great work might receive comfort through it; and that it might be quoted by us in defense of the principles of righteousness, after the organization of this Church. The Lord tells us, through other prophets of old, that this great work should be established in the latter days. Through Daniel, the Lord made known that He would set up a kingdom that should never be destroyed, a kingdom that should not be given to other people, but it would endure forever, and it is likened unto a little stone cut out of the mountains without hands. This little stone was seen to roll forth and crush to atoms the great image representing the kingdoms of the earth; and it was said that it should roll until it filled the whole earth, there should be no power to s*tay it. Inasmuch as the Gospel has many times been upon the earth, and as many times taken away because of the wickedness of the children of men, it does seem important that the Lord should give this assurance to His people of the last days, that no more would His Church be taken from the earth, or  to another people. In this we have great satisfaction and encouragement. Of course, the world does not believe that the organization of this Church is a fulfilment of that prophecy. Neither will they^ regard the restoration of the Gospel, through the angel Moroni, as a fulfilment of the prediction of John, on the Isle of Patmos, recorded in the 14th chapter of Revelations; when he looked down through the vista of time unto the last days, in reference to which he said : 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to Him; for the hour of His judgment is come, and worship Him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters." 

No, the world does not accept that; but what a joy and satisfaction it is to the Latter-day Saints to know that the restoration of the Gospel is a fulfilment of that prophecy, to know that the Gospel did come in the way that the Lord, by the mouth of His servants, predicted and said that it would come. What a joy and satisfaction! We cannot expect the people of the world who reject the simple doctrines of the Gospel, which were enunciated by the Son of God Himself, to accept these prophecies, and their fulfilment in the restoration of the Gospel, and the organization of the Church in these last days. No, but the Latter-day Saints have occasion to be thankful, and to be encouraged because of what the Lord has given us — seventy-seven and a half years of growth; and what a mighty people we have become! 

I have in my pocket a clipping from the Deseret News of April 20th last, which I wish to read to you. It bears upon this subject, and represents the truth as it is seen abroad : 

"mormons now eighth. 

r 'A Christian Cynosure estimate of the growth and expansion of Mormonism will prove decidedly interesting if not instructive reading at this time, to many people both within and without the Church. It is a well known fact that its membership is increasing in goodly number and that 'the little stone that was cut out of the mountains without hands' is rolling rapidly forward to fulfill the destiny that the Almighty has marked out for it. And the destiny will be reached as surely as the world moves or the sun shines. 

"To those members of the Church, if any such there be, who have grown impatient at the thought, that it was not going forward at as high a rate of speed as they in their well-meaning zeal might desire, it is meet that they should remember that seventy-seven years have barely passed since its restoration to earth. To take eighth place among the churches of America, from the numerical standpoint, in an even threee-quarters of a century, with the tremendous obstacles it has had to meet, is in our opinion, altogether a remarkable showing. If it shall but continue its present ratio of membership increase it will have moved up to a very commanding position by the time its first centennary shall be celebrated in 1930. Its virility, strength and cohesion are the wonder of thinking men and women through the world. Soon they will learn that it is an American Church in all that the term implies. And when that great truth shall be comprehended we may expect to see a growth that will startle the wise of the earth. 

"Apropos of our opening reference to the Christian Cynosure, which is published in Chicago, we call attention to the fact that it bases its statement upon the written report of the chief authority on that subject in the country, and that his comparisons prove Latter-day Saint growth to be far in excess of that of any other religious organization. Its words are : 

" 'The Mormons, figures of the United States government offices show, are growing very rapidly. The report of Carroll D. Wright, United State Commissioner, shows that they have increased in number during the last sixteen years 138 per cent. That is to say, they have been doubling their number every twelve years. There were 166,125 in 1890. There were 396,354 in 1906. No one other religious body has increased as largely within the same period. Thev now rank eighth in numbers among the denominations in the United States.' " 

I believe this to be a reliable report, and we may congratulate ourselves, as Latter-day Saints, that we are identified with the most Christianized Church in America, a Church which is destined to be acknowledged as the most Americanized Church in America. Why not? We have the principles of eternal truth, we have the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we teach it as He and His Apostles taught it. We have the organization with- all the officers as they existed in the primitive Church. We have the authority to preach this Gospel, and minister in its ordinances, for the salvation of the human family. We are here upon the land of Zion — America. Why should not the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints be regarded as the most Americanized church in the land? Such is its destiny. 

Are there any of us discouraged? Would any of us retrace our steps ? Do we desire to go back to the unreliable faith that we had before the light of the Gospel came into our souls? No, verily. Of those who have undertaken to walk the narrow way, up a hilly and thorny path, beset with obstacles of various , only those have become discouraged who have not the power to deny themselves those things which are in conflict with the teachings of the Gospel, those people who will not accept that which makes men and women Christ-like and prepares them to go into the presence of our Father. Those who become discouraged and forsake this work are usually those who have gratified their passions and desires, until they have lost all the spirituality that was in their souls, and they have no ambition to press on to the goal of glory. Those who have been true and faithful will lay down their lives rather than forfeit these principles, or relinquish the hope they have of obtaining eternal life. The Lord has planted in our hearts a testimony; yea, many testimonies, of the divine origin of this work and of its saving powers, and we doubt not, but we speak of those things of which we know. It is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, and friends everywhere, that God does lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, that the Gospel has been restored, and we have it to give to you — yea, those who have authority have it to give freely to all mankind who, with broken hearts and contrite spirits, with faith in God, prepare themselves to receive its ordinances and to live its laws. 

God bless you, one and all; may we be kept from all evil, that the Spirit of God may dwell in us, that we may see the beauties of the Gospel, that we may appreciate these blessings, and through faithfulness and obedience obtain eternal life in the end, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY. 

Reply to Bishop Spalding. — Calumny the cause, persecution the effect. — Marcus Aurelius and the Christians. — Charges against the Former-day Saints and the Latter-day Saints compared and refuted. 

I trust that while I speak to you this afternoon I shall be aided by the same spirit of wisdom and intelligence that has inspired the utterances of the speakers who have already addressed the conference. 

When I gaze upon this immense congregation — a Saturday congregation — and realize that it is only a part — perhaps about half the numbers of the Latter-day Saints who have gathered to their central city for the purpose of attending conference, I am reminded of the words of the hymn, "Zion is growing." The only thing that mars my peace in relation to the matter is the information given by the city press, that some of our brethren and sisters are walking the streets, unable to secure accommodations, even by paying for them, on account of the crowded condition that prevails. I heartily commend the appointment and the labors of the committee whose duty it is to see that this situation is relieved, and hope that none of our visitors, and especially those who have entertained many of us at their homes, may be without food or shelter, through any laxity on our part. 

I once heard of a public speaker, who was about to address an assemblage of a mixed character, and was cautioned by the chairman not to speak upon a certain subject, because it would offend a portion of the audience, — the Methodists. "Very well," said the speaker, "I will dwell upon such and such a ." "No, that will never do," said the chairman, "that would be distasteful to the Presbyterians." "Then suppose I say such and such things." "No, no, that will not do, either — it might give umbrage to the Catholics." "Well, then," asked the bewildered orator, "what can I say? Whom shall I talk about?" "I have it," exclaimed the chairman; "pitch into the Mormons; they haven't got a friend in town." I do not think any Latter-day Saint can say or feel, at this time, that he tiasn't a- friend in town. The town is filled with them from near and far. But let none of our brethren and sisters be even tempted to believe that they are without friends in Salt Lake City. 

I am now going to read you a selection from a sermon, delivered, so the papers say, at St. Mark's Cathedral, in this city, on Sunday morning, September 22, 1907. The speaker was Bishop F. S. Spaldinp. and his subject was "The Kingdom of Heaven." I wish, in the beginning, to commend him for one thing; he did not deem it necessary to "pitch into the Mormons" alone; for while he passed some strictures upon us, he also remembered the Methodists, the Christian Scientists, and the Seventh Day Adventists; but he was most severe upon the Latter-day Saints. He said, in part: 

"President Andrew D. White, in the introduction to his work on the "Warfare of Science and Theology,' affirms his most sincere respect, yes, his most reverent belief in the Christian religion; but he has no word strong enough to express his dislike of Christian theology." 

I understand the difference between religion and theology to be this — religion is the practice, and theology the statement of the doctrine. Bishop Spalding goes on to say : 

"This point of view is that of a large number of thoughtful men. The new psychology has given its testimony to the reality of religious experience. All men have a feeling of moral unrest, which they instinctively feel can alone be quieted by making proper connection with the higher powers, is the report of the most prominent investigator. And surely this is good news. It tells us that all men are religious; that even in the breast of the most brutal, the most worldly, there is the germ of that high instinct which binds the creature to his Creator! 

"But here comes the necessity of a word of caution, for this religious faculty drives men into excess, it makes them overlap reason and even morality. To the Seventh Day Adventist it presents a petty matter of time as a fundamental of the faith. To the Mormon, it justifies, nay, requires, a social system which strikes death to the center of all social progress, the purity of the family." 

I do not know Bishop Spalding, and I do not know that he knows me; but I do know that he does not understand the Latter-day Saints, and does not comprehend their religion. Either this, or he has made a most woeful mistake, in saying, consciously, that which is not true concerning them. I feel a personal regret in this matter, because in times past I have sustained friendly relations with some of the Episcopal bishops. I remember with respect that "grand old man," Bishop Tuttle, who presided over a diocese comprising Utah, and other western parts, for many years. He was an upright and honorable man, and never, to my knowledge, did he utter one word of unkindness towards the Mormon people. I do not know that he ever attacked in any way our- religion. He had a big heart and a kindly soul, and he won  love of the people among whom he labored. I was also friendly with his successor, the late Bishop Abiel Leonard, and in conversing with him on a certain occasion I commended the spirit and conduct of the Episcopal bishops, so far as my acquaintance extended, and spoke particularly of the liberality of Bishop Tuttle. Bishop Leonard replied, "That is a characteristic of our bishops; they are liberal, they are charitable to all." Hence, it is with a feeling of regret, such as one might have in seeing an idol shattered, that I contemplate the unfriendly utterance of Bishop Spalding. 

But my personal feelings are of very little moment, compared with weightier considerations that arise. I want to show you some of the more serious effects of utterances of this kind, and I will now read to you a dispatch taken from the Deseret News of last evening, the headlines of which are as follows : "Elders expelled from Germany." "Their offense, spreading the Gospel, conducting baptisms and making converts." "Their names are not given." "They were arrested and summarily taken under guard to the frontier." "Thousands of native members of the Church have been subjected to various police hindrances." And then follows the dispatch : 

"Dresden, Saxony, Oct. 4. Three American Mormons have been expelled from Germany, as the result of persisting, despite final warnings prohibiting them from spreading the propaganda, in conducting river baptisms and making converts. They were arrested and summarily taken under guard to the frontier. The Imperial authorities decided in 1903, that it was not desirable to allow. Mormon agents to continue their activity in Germany; but, owing to the representations of the American embassy in Ber, and Chief Missionary Cannon, whose field of activity was Central Europe, with headquarters at Berlin, the foreign office allowed the Mormons a month in which to settle their affairs and leave the country. There were at that time fifty or more missionaries' in the various states in Germany, and the grounds for their expulsion were teachings contrary to public morality. 

"It was also agreed with Mr. Cannon that all the Mormons who were American citizens should discontinue presenting their doctrine in Germany. The German converts, of whom there were thousands, and who continued to follow their faith under native pastors, were subjected to various police hindrances. Mr. Cannon moved his central European headquarters to Switzerland, and it is understood, has since returned to Salt Lake. 

"It is now presumed his successor is re-entering the German field for Mormon missionary work from which formerly many women converts were sent to Utah." 

I place these two newspaper re-, ports side by side — the sermon of Bishop Spalding; on one hand, and the expulsion of our Elders from Germany on the other; and I say that they sustain to each other the relation of cause and effect. Not these particular instances, perhaps, but the classes of events to which they respectively belong;, represent that mutual relation. 

We do not marvel that partisan newspapers, having; political ends to subserve, make a business of misrepresenting; the majority of the people of Utah. We are used to such things. We do not expect anything else from newspapers of that class. But surely we have the right to expect better treatment from men who profess to be followers of the Son of God, and who call themselves bishops of the Christian church. Men who claim to be shepherds over the flock of Christ, and whose mission is the salvation  souls, have no right to foment mobocracy and murder, or cause the expulsion of unoffending missionaries from the nations. 

Perhaps you think my language rather lurid when I speak of murder, as one of the possible consequences in such cases. I want you to understand that I am speaking by the record. Not in one instance, nor in two or three only, but in many, have the falsehoods generated in Utah and scattered broadcast over this nation and over the world, resulted, not only in persecutions of a petty character, but in the murder of innocent men, in the shedding of blameless blood, that will rise to judgment against those responsible for the fulmination of such calumnies. 

And yet these things, grievous as they are, do not much astonish the Latter-day Saints. Mormonism, if it tells the truth concerning itself, is the religion of Jesus Christ, and this is the dispensation of the fulness of times, when God has restored, by the ministry of holy angels, that ancient gospel, which was framed in the heavens before the world was created, as the means of man's salvation; and it has been revealed to man, in a series of dispensations, reaching from the days of Adam down to the present time. It is the same religion that Jesus introduced and died for; the same that His Apostles preached under His direction, and for which they laid down their lives. It has come back to the earth, with the same promises and the same powers that characterized it anciently, including trie promise that "all who live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution." Therefore we are not much surprised (though we may be made to grieve) that the Latter-day Saints should have inherited, as a legacy from the past, similar persecutions to those suffered by the Saints of former times. 

And now I desire to read another selection, showing- the experiences of some of the early Christians during- the days of the Roman empire. The book I have before me is a volume of the "Beacon Lights of History," by the late Dr. John Lord, who, in his lecture on Marcus Aurelius and the Glory of Rome, says : 

"The only stains on the reign of this good and great emperor — for there were none on his character — were in allowing the elevation of his son Commodus as his successor, and his persecution of the Christians. It would have been wise for Aurelius to have selected one of the ablest of his generals, or one of the wisest of his senators, as Hadrian did, for so great and responsible a position, rather than a wicked, cruel, dissolute son. * * * * For five reigns the empire had enjoyed peace and prosperity. For five reigns the tide of corruption had been stayed; but the flood of corruption swept all barriers away with the accession of Commodus, and from that day the decline of the empire was rapid and fatal. Still, probably nothing could have long arrested ruin. The empire was doomed. 

"The other fact which obscured the glory of Marcus Aurelius as a sovereign, was his persecution of the Christians,— for which it is hard to account, when the beneficent character of the emperor is considered. His reign was signalized for an imperial persecution, in which Justin at Rome, Polycarp at Smyrna, and Ponthinus at Lyons, suffered martyrdom. It was not the first persecution. Under Nero the Christians had been cruelly tortured, nor did the virtuous Trajan change the policy of the government. Had rian and Antoninus Pius permitted the laws to be enforced against the Christians, and Marcus Aurelius saw np reason to alter them. .But to the mind of the Stoic on the throne, says Arnold, the Christians were 'philosophically contemptible, politically subversive, and morally abominable.' They were regarded as statesmen looked upon the 

Jesuits in the reign of Louis XV, as we look upon the Mormons, — as dangerous to free institutions. Moreover, the Christians were everywhere misunderstood and misrepresented. It was impossible for Marcus Aurelius to see the Christians except through a mist of prejudices. 'Christianity grew up in the Catacombs, not on the Palatine.' In allowing the laws to take their course against a body of men who were regarded with distrust and aversion, as enemies of the state, the emperor was simply unfortunate. So wise and good a man, perhaps, ought to have known the Christians better; but, not knowing them, he cannot be stigmatized as a cruel man." 

This, as you will observe, is in the nature of an apology for the emperor who, good and great though he was in many respects, failed for some reason to acquaint himself with the true character of the people called Christians, who . were everywhere spoken evil against; and he therefore allowed matters to drift — allowed the laws enacted against an innocent people by his wicked predecessors to be enforced; and thus came the stain upon his administration which our author justly deplores. Marcus Aurelius knew no more about the true character of the Christians and their religion, than Bishop Spalding seems to know about the Latterday Saints and their faith; and this is the most charitable construction that can be put upon his act. But why did not the Roman emperor make himself acquainted with the people whom his officers were cruelly persecuting, even unto death? Why do not our modern Christian ministers, if they desire to tell the truth about the Latter-day Saints, acquire correct information concerning them before committing themselves to reckless statements like the one I have quoted? There  some excuse for men in the far east, or west, who read nothing - but libelous newspapers that misrepresent the Mormon people, or^ who have heard nothing but the scandalous and false stories that are the stock in trade of most of the ministers of Christendom in relation to Mormonism — there is some excuse for these men, who stand off at .a distance and pelt us with stones; but what excuse can be offered for those who will take up their abode in the very midst of this people, mingling with their Mormon neighbors, meeting them every day upon the street, or in public halls, and even visiting them in their homes, having every means of acquainting themselves with their lives and characters, and who will then revamp the old, stale, worn out stories and cant phrases, brought with them, perchance, from the hot-beds of anti-Mormonism abroad? You would think that fair and honorable men, who had formed incorrect theories regarding the Mormons, when confronted with the facts, would abandon their theories, or modify them in order to be in harmony with the truth. But no, rather than do that, there are some who would bend and distort the facts, and try to make them conform to their false notions and preconceptions. I do not know whether Bishop Spalding is a man of that kind or not. But either he did or did not know what he was talking about, when he made the statement that the religion of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints "justifies and requires a social system that strikes death to the center of all social progress, the purity of the family." 

The charges preferred against the Latter-day Saints are precisely the charges that were urged against  early Christians, who, as our author truly says, "were everywhere misunderstood and misrepresented." The Christians were regarded as "philosophically contemptible, politically subversive and morally abominable;" and this is the substance of the indictment brought against the Saints of latterdays. I propose to answer these charges seriatim : 

First, — let me ask, what is meant by philosophy? The great Emerson, himself a philosopher, says : "Philosophy is the account which the human mind gives to itself of the constitution of the world." If you will consult your dictionaries, you will find that philosophy also means the search for fundamental truth, and the philosopher is therefore a 1 seeker after fundamental truth. Measured by this standard, Mormonism admirably answers the description. That is just what we hold it to be, — fundamental truth; and Joseph Smith answers the description of a philosopher, a seeker after fundamental truth. He was disgusted — long before Andrew D. White's day — with the unphilosophical theology of the churches of Christendom. He was confronted by those old traditions, musty with the ages, which had come down to modern times, demanding that men believe in a God who is one and 37;t three, three and yet one, defining Him as merely a spirit, impersonal, incomprehensible, without body, parts or passions, and declaring that he made man and woman, and the earth, and all that it contains, out of nothing, and made them to save half of them, and damn the other half, regardless of their merits. This was the God of the Christian world, which was all split up into fragments, its sects contending with each other, and in conflict with each other's claims. Joseph Smith, a reader of the Bible, a seeker after fundamental truth, desired to know which of all these contending churches was the true church of Christ. He was philosophic enough to determine for himself that they could not all be true, that God was not the author of confusion, and he made his first oral prayer to Deity in an attempt to learn which church and which religion were the church and religion of Christ. The Lord answered his prayer, and gave him more than he asked. He had only sought to know which of all the churches was the true one, and was told to his surprise that the true Church was not then upon the earth. God came to him in person, with His Son Jesus Christ, and forever shattered the false notion that the Father, Son and Holy Ghost are one in person, and that God is only a spirit, an atmosphere or essence, filling the immensity of space, an immaterial influence, that 

"Warms in the sun, refreshes in the breeze, 

Glows in the stars and blossoms in the 

trees; 

Lives through all life, extends through 

a!) extent, Spreads undivided, operates unspent." 

Joseph Smith said, "I saw two glorious personages — the Father and the Son. They were in the form of man, and they spoke to me." That was the greater part of the revelation embodied in Joseph's first vision; for it restored the lost knowledge of the true God, after which the world, with its vain philosophies, had been groping for ages. It revealed anew the sublime fact that man is verily the child of Deity, and can become, by , like unto his Father and his God. It taught the great truth that man is divinity in embryo, and capable, by education, through human experience, and by obedience to the principles of eternal progress, of rising to the plane whereon stands the Universal Father, who desires to make His children equal with Himself, and to put into their possession all things. What is there unphilosophic about it? What is there contemptible about it? What is there unreasonable about it? You earthly parents expect your children to become men and women like yourselves. You know that it is only a question of time, when, if they live, your little toddling children will become men and women, and will marry and have children of their own. Why, then, should it be deemed unphilosophic for man, the child of God, — man and woman, male and female, — to become like their Father and their Mother in heaven ? We are at the defiance of the world to prove this doctrine unphilosophical. 

Our system "strikes death to the center of all social progress," does it? Why, the Gospel in which we believe was instituted for man's eternal progress. Joseph Smith declared that God, in the beginning, finding Himself in the midst of spirits and glory, because He was more intelligent, saw proper to institute laws whereby the rest might advance like Flimself. That is the purpose of the Gospel, the system now called Mormonism. It stands for progress, through time and in all eternity. Unphilosophic, is it? Let us see. Emerson says- again: "Plato is philosophy, and philosophy Plato, at once the glory and the shame of mankind, since neither Saxon nor Roman have  to add any idea to his categories. No wife, no children, had he, and the thinkers of all civilized nations are his posterity, and are tinged with his mind." Now, what does Plato say regarding- the origin of all things ? To the study of nature he prefixes this dogma : "Let us declare the cause which led the Supreme Ordainer to produce and compose the universe. He was good, and he who is good has no kind of envy. Exempt from envy, he wished that all things should be as much as possible like himself. Whosoever, taught by wise men, shall admit this as the prime cause of the origin and foundation of the world, will be in the truth." So says Plato. Note the similarity in the thought of the Greek philosopher, and the thought of the American prophet. Plato says that the Supreme Ordainer wished that all things should be as much as possible like himself, and therefore He produced and composed the universe; Joseph declares that God, in the beginning, surrounded with spirits and glory, saw proper to institute laws whereby the rest might have a privilege to advance like Himself. 

But perhaps you think Joseph Smith was a plagiarist, that he was merely echoing the thought of the ancient philosopher. Not so. Joseph Smith was not acquainted with Plato. We have no evidence that he had ever read the writings of that great thinker. But Joseph recoginzed that the source of all truth is one, as the source of all life is one; and that even as the light, which illumines the day and the night proceeds from the sun, so all truth, by whomsoever received, at any time, proceeds from that God who is the personification of eternal . Joseph was no more a plagiarist of Plato, than Jesus was a plagiarist of Confucius, who declared in a negative way the principle of the Golden Rule, two or three centuries before Jesus affirmed it. All we can say of such things is that our heavenly Father gave to Confucius, the Chinese sage, a glinting of the same light that dwelt in His son Jesus Christ, in whom was "the fulness of the Godhead bodily." In like manner, the same Being who inspired Plato the Greek, chose Joseph Smith the American as His prophet — the prophet of the last dispensation, and revealed to him anew the eternal, fundamental truth, the heritage of all the ages. 

The Christians, in the next place, were regarded as "politically subversive;" that is, they were accused of designing the overthrow of the State. Their great Apostle, Paul, had declared that the "powers that be are ordained of God; wherefore let every man be subject to the powers that be, until He comes whose right it is to reign." But this did not avail them. They were still "disloyal," still "enemies of the State." Though innocent, they could easily be slandered, and when a cruel Roman ruler, anxious to cover up his crimes, to divert from himself public censure, accused the Christians of burning Rome, and of seeking to undermine the empire, his word was taken, the plea of the innocent was set at naught, and they were murdered by hundreds and by thousands. They were burned as torches in the gardens of the Roman emperor; they were flung to wild beasts in the arena; they were stoned to death; they were dragged at the tails of wild, horses until life was extinct. They were "enemies of the State," be.cause, forsooth, a monster named Nero had so declared, and he was the emperor of Rome, sitting- on the summit of political power. But the charge against the Christians was as false as the hell in which it had its origin, a hell that will receive into its fiery embrace those who put to death the Saints of God in all ages. It was a wicked lie. And the charge made today, that the Latter-day Saints are enemies of the State, that they seek to undermine society, that they are disloyal, treasonable, rebellious, and that they plot for the overthrow of free institutions, — this also is a lie, a lie so black, so infamous, that no language is capable of characterizing it. Our religion is against everything in the nature of treason, disloyalty, anarchy or rebellion. The Gospel we preach is ''the perfect law of liberty." Joseph the Prophet, in the Articles of Faith, accepted by this people as their rule of guidance, emphasizes 'Paul's teaching, and enjoins upon us to be subject to the powers that be, until Pie comes whose right it is to reign. I could, if there were time, quote from the Book of Mormon, from the Doctrine & Covenants, from all the revelations to Joseph Smith, enough to make a volume, in support of the assertion that the Mormon people are the friends of law and order, friends of the Flag, and of the Constitution of the United States, which they deem heaven-inspired. I could cite many of the sayings of the Prophet (who was accused of trying to make himself a king, but whose last and crowning act was an endeavor to become the President of the United States,) to show that he desired the glory of his country, the extension of the Union; that he was a true and loyal 

American, one who loved American institutions, and predicted a day to come when the Latter-day Saints would save their nation, at a time when treason and anarchy would be plotting against and aiming at its life. But time will not permit, neither is it necessary. 

Let us come to the third count of the indictment. It was said that the Christians were "morally abominable." lust as .now it is alleged that the Latter-day Saints justify and even require "a social system that strikes death to the center ci" all social progress, the purity of the family." Because of such false charges, made by men of character and prominence, our missionaries are hindered in their sacred work, and expelled from the confines of the nations, their fields of labor. The world has been made to believe that we are a corrupt people, and that we send our emissaries forth for the sole purpose of converting women and dragging them down to degradation. The truth is, that the Elders are sent to preach the Gospel — faith, repentance, baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost. They put forth no special effort for the conversion of women. If more women than men have joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, — though that is a question; but even if it be true, it is only because women are .naturally more religjious than men — better than men, purer than men; and being purer, they are more susceptible to spiritual influences,' the inspirations that come from heaven; and this is the reason why more of them are converted. The Gospel is preached not to any one class, but to all classes, and to both sexes, and the Elders are under obligations to baptize all converted souls who  unto them, except certain one s— and who are they? Women whose husbands, and children whose parents, object to their baptism into the Church. These are among the strict instructions given to our missionaries; not to baptize any married woman- without the consent of her husband, nor any unmarried girl, under age, without the consent of her parents. If husbands or parents object, theirs must be the responsibility. It is not true that the teachings of our missionaries are against public morality, or private morality. It is a falsehood, and it had its origin here in Salt Lake City, in the utterances of such men as the Episcopal bishop whom I have quoted, and in the Culminations of a political and partisan press, bent on the accomplishment of certain selfish ends. 

"Purity of the family," indeed! I know something about Mormon families. I have not lived fifty years in this community for nothing. My father was the head of a Mormon household, and I know .whereof I speak, when I tell you that he was a pure and a noble man, who taught his family to be honest, truthful, and virtuous. His wives, my mother and my other mother, the second wife, taught their children the same principles, and both were good, pure, honorable and virtuous women; and the family life was pure. I mention my father's family because I know it better than any other. It is but an instance, however, a sample of hundreds and thousands of the families of this people. What about the family of President Smith? He said, at Washington, that he was proud of his family and of every one of his children. He is not alone in that pride. It is an honest pride. 

We are all proud of the family of President Joseph F. Smith; they are exceptionally moral and clean; not a black sheep in the flock; pureminded, honest, virtuous boys and girls, worthy of their noble father and of their pure and noble mothers. We join with the President in saying, we are proud of every one of his children, and will be, so long as they follow in the footsteps of their faithful parents, so long as they serve God and keep His commandments, and remain as pure and virtuous as they are today. And his family does not stand alone. There are others. The families of President Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Daniel H. Wells, Wilford Woodruff, John Taylor,George A. Smith, the Grants, the Pratts, the Snows, the Richardses, the Cannons, and hundreds of others might be named. Here and there a black sheep, it is true. But have Christian families none such? Are the Gentile families without spot or blemish, that they can cast the first stone? The great majority of the grown children of Mormon parents, even those born and reared in the midst of so-called polygamous influences, are exemplary men and women. They were taught from their mother's knee that next to the crime of murder is the sin of unchastity. There are family prayers, morning and night, in these households; they are a church-going people; they serve God, mind their own business, and make sacrifices at home and abroad for the preaching of the Gospel and the conversion of souls to the truth. You cannot tell me anything about "the purity of the family" in the midst of Mormondom. 

I hope Bishop Spalding did not know that he was misrepresenting us. If he did know it, I hope that he and his class will repent, lest, perchance, through their misrepresentations, innocent blood may be found upon their skirts at the Day of Judgment. If God judges this world — and He says He will — upon the principle of "whatsoever ye do unto My servants ye do unto Me," then beware! "Touch not Mine anointed,do My prophets no harm " If you should cause the death of a servant of God in the discharge of his duty, better, far better, that a millstone were hung about your neck and you be cast into the depths of the sea! If the bishop did know, and purposely misstated the character and spirit of the Mormon peo^ pie, let me in all charity commend to him those words of the wise Solomon: "These six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto Him: a proud , a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, a false witness that speaketh lies, and him that soweth discord among brethren." But if he did not know what he was talking about, then I respectfully commend to him those other sayings of the sapient man of old : "With all thy getting, get understanding," "He that judgeth a matter before he heareth it, is not wise." Amen. 

Elder Elihu Call effectively sang the tenor Solo, "Abide with me." 

The choir and congregation sang "The Doxology." 

Conference was adjourned until Sunday, Oct. 6th, at 10 a. m. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph A. McRae. Sunday, Oct. 6th, 10 a. m. 


