Second Overflow
06 10 1907



ELDER ALONZO A. HINCKLEY. 

(President of Millard Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, the sessions of the conference that it has been my privilege to attend thus far I have enjoyed most thoroughly. I have rejoiced in the spirit of the conference, in the blessing of the Lord that has accompanied our brethren who have borne testimony, and spoken to us, and I sincerely hope that, for the few moments it is my duty to appear before you, I shall be remembered by you in your faith and prayers, that the Lord may assist me. I have absolutely formulated nothing in my mind in all the anxiety that I have experi) A. HINCKLEY. 99 

enced in the last two hours, since this meeting was appointed, but I have felt in my heart that, if I could do nothing more, I could bear an honest testimony to the truthfulness of the work of the Lord. 

I have been called to labor in the Millard Stake of Zion, over a most excellent people; and, as I was remarking to one of the brethren yesterday, we feel that we cannot help but accomplish good when, out of a Church population of about 4,700 souls, in the Millard Stake of Zion, we have 2,000 who bear the Holy Priesthood, a majority of whom are faithful and true in the discharge of their duty. In a calculation that was made some three weeks ago, by members of the Stake Presidency, we felt we could safely report that, in the Millard Stake of Zion, all the officers, including the presidency, high council, alternate high councillors, and those who preside over the various auxiliary associations of the stake, the Bishops, their counselors, and those who work in organizations in the various wards of that stake of Zion,numbering 1,700, are honest and faithful tithe payers, and all are observers of the Word of Wisdom, so far as tea, tobacco and alcoholic drinks are concerned; not one but has full faith in the Gospel. I say that, with that force of brethren and sisters, of that sterling quality and manner of life, and such faith in the Gospel, we have felt we could not help but succeed in the work that the Lord has called us to perform. 

The great duty that rests upon the Latter-day Saints is, not so particularly in declaring the word of the Lord, but it is living the Gospel as we have received it. It is not sufficient that a child should learn to repeat, "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God," but, the proper impression to be given to the child should be, when they learn that beautiful saying is, "I will be pure in my heart, that I may see God." It is not sufficient that they should learn, "Thou shalt not lie," but that they should feel in their hearts, I will not give myself to deception of any kind. Every principle that is taught should become active in their every-day life. It is not sufficient that our children should hear their father and mother in family prayer, kneel down and pray for the authorities of the Church, but that they should also hear father and mother in their conversation upholding and sustaining the authorities, and yielding obedience to the counsel and instructions that come unto them through that source. It is not sufficient that a father or mother read the Word of Wisdom, contained in the eighty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. They will not be excused before the Lord, when they tell their children that it is the word of the Lord, and at the same time those parents sit down and drink tea or coffee; I consider that the sin is greater than merely transgressing the word of the Lord in that particular. There are the children; they hear that read as a revelation of the Lord unto His people, and then they discover that their father or mother pay but slight attention to that revealed word. I take it that, when the child hears other things that the Lord has spoken, their inclination also will be to treat that lightly, if they have discovered that tendency in their father or mother. The responsibility of living the Gospel is greater than the responsibility of „ simply hearing and professing. The  of living is greater for good upon those with whom we are associated, than simply hearing that which we have to say of the Gospel. 

I thank the Lord when I discover in the world the good examples that we occasionally meet. I thank the Lord that it was my good fortune to have been born of goodly parents. I never forgot the lessons of a good mother. When days of hardship came upon my father, I remember the lessons mother taught her boys. I happen to be the son of the second wife in a polygamous family, and I say, to the credit and the honor of my parents and also of my aunt, his first wife, that, in our household, I hardly knew which was my mother, for my aunt was as devoted and attentive in her care for my mother's children, it seemed to me, as she was for her own. In the days when hardship came upon our family, and father was away from home, I remember that mother came, after we went to bed at night, and taught us, and said, "You boys ought to be thankful for the comfortable bed that you rest in;" and she would tell us of the many who were not so blessed. She would tell us of the authorities of this Church, and of the great sacrifices they had made and were making, until it became second nature to me, when I met the servants of the Lord, to have a very high regard for them, to look upon them as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. I praise my mother today for those early impressions, and feel that they are worthy of commendation to all parents. 

It has been my privilege to bear my testimony to those who are not of our faith. I have been delighted in this conference to meet numbers 101  those to whom it was my privilege to proclaim the Gospel, and to find in them the same love of the truth that was first engendered in their hearts when they heard the glad tidings of great joy. One good sister, when she spoke to me said, "My brother, while I am delighted to be gathered up to Zion, I hope that I shall be given your faith and prayers, for my trials are many. I do not find among all of my brethren and sisters the exemplary life that I had hoped to discover." Notwithstanding, this good sister had been taught faithfully by Elders that, when you gather to Zion, you should not look for perfection. They have sung of the time when they would come to Zion, to learn of the ways of the Lord and walk in His paths, and no matter how thoroughly they have been warned, when they gather here, if they discover coolness and indifference, it is a severe trial to them. I hope, my brethren and sisters, that we may sense the responsibility that is upon us, of living worthy the name of Latter-day Saints. Our everyday acts should preach the Gospel, and bear testimony of our sincerity, that we might have the confidence of our brethren and sisters, showing that our lives are characterized by humble spirits, and devotion to the work of the Lord. 

I desire to bear testimony to a knowledge that we are engaged in the work of the Lord. I have not been privileged to see any marvelous manifestations connected with the work of the Lord, only as I have seen it progress, but the Lord has made manifest unto my soul the divinity of this work. He has made manifest unto me that development, comfort, and blessings come unto all those who are faithful, and that  comes unto those who prove derelict in their duty. 

May the Lord help us to be faithful, that we may cherish a love for the truth; and while we may seek the favor of the world, that we shall never sacrifice principle, but that we shall declare the truth by word and deed every moment of our lives, serving the Lord with full purpose of heart, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER EDWARD H. SNOW. 

(President of St. George Stake.) 

I have been thinking, my brethren and sisters, during my attendance upon this conference, that we live in a momentous age; and at this particular period of our history we are, as a people, both in this nation and in. the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, making very important history. We live under the leadership in political life of a very strenuous President. As members of the Church, we are living, in our religious affiliations and obligations, under an equally strenuous leader. Pessimists have nearly all turned optimists, and patriotism, nationally, has been aroused. Our faith in the nation's leaders springs almost spontaneously in our hearts. We believe that, generally, they are just men, that they have the welfare of the nation at heart. They have seen dangers that the ship of State was liable to be wrecked upon and have grappled with the great problems of our day with a firmness and integrity that challenges love, admiration, and support, regardless of our affiliations or beliefs. I believe, my brethren and sisters, that, while that condition obtains in civil affairs, it is emphasized and marked to a greater degree, perhaps, in our spiritual life, in our connection and membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is not necessary, I believe, with the great mass of the members of the Church, to preach confidence in the authorities of the Church. Their acts, lives, labor, integrity, and the good results which come from following the counsel of those men, all bring from us, without restraint, our love, respect, and unfaltering support. We are animated and sustained by a determination to do our duty, to be faithful and true. These are auspicious signs of strength, and unity, and I say, my brethren and sisters, that we are fortunate in living in these days. We are fortunate in living when there are so many who are faithful and true, and when we behold the progress, uplifting, and spreading abroad of the Church and its people. We are also gratified as members of that Church, and rejoice in the goodness of our Father, that He has lifted the veil of prejudice that has surrounded the nations with reference to our people. Not an Elder has gone into the world but has suffered in his feelings when he has stood upon the streets of the great cities, or in the house of the prejudiced man or woman who has been filled with lurid tales concerning the "abominable Mormons." He has felt in his heart to pray, "O Lord, how long shall we suffer from the ignorance of the world regarding the virtues, aims, and purposes of our people?" Thank the Lord for the changed sentiment; I feel that we are becoming better known every day. 

It is perhaps a good thing, al at times we have questioned it, that we are surrounded on all sides by the civilization of the world. We have felt sometimes as though it would be a question with us as to which would survive religiously, we or they; whether we should leaven the whole lump, or whether we should be influenced altogether too much by them and their customs. But, to the Latterday Saint who has been faithful and true, and who has a testimony and knowledge of this Gospel, there has never been any question as to the ultimate outcome. We must be tried in all things; our faith must be tried. We must rise triumphant over the temptations of our day. We must love righteousness for its own sake, and virtue for its own reward. That being the case, there is no question of ultimate victory. Being on the highway where travel has been through our midst, where the great of the land, editors, statesmen, and politicians have come among us, have seen us in our homes, have witnessed our lives and labors, the people of these United States can no longer be made to believe that we are what our enemies have represented for the past fifty years. Our reputation is fast merging from the clouds of misrepresentation, our true character, that of a God-fearing, righteous and uplifting people, is becoming known, and this has been brought about through the benign influence of the Gospel of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. We ought to be thankful that we have been born in these valleys, in the midst of these mountains, where the environment has been pure physically and morally. We ought to be thankful for the sweet and uplifting influences of the Gospel upon 103  lives. I believe that we are thankful; and ]ust in proportion to the heartfelt expressions of gratitude we offer to our Father, do we manifest that we appreciate these blessing's day by day. 

I pray the Lord to bless us as a people, to bless the Presidency and other authorities of the Church, and the people, that we may see eye to eye. That we may labor together, unselfishly and harmoniously, for the redemption of Zion, for the spreading of truth, for the setting up of the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth, that His purposes may be fulfilled, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

I am pleased, my brethren and sisters, to meet with you this afternoon. Of course, you are disappointed that vou were not able to secure seats in the large Tabernacle, or perchance in the Assembly Hall. There are only a few of us here, but we are nevertheless entitled to an outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord upon us. That is His promise, when even a few meet together in His name He will be there, and that to bless them. My experience has been that, in some of the smallest meetings I have ever attended, I have enjoyed and witnessed a rich outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord. I trust we shall enjoy the same good Spirit that has characterized the instructions, admonitions, and words of encouragement we have received throughout the meetings of this conference. 

I was reading in the Deseret News, this morning, a report or interview that was sent out from this city to the Indianapolis Star. 

There are a few words of the excerpt that were printed in last evening's News that I wish to call attention to. We do not notice all the evil things said against us, just as a selfrespecting man will not deign to pay attention to every small dog that may snarl at his heels; but occasionally, when we read a report that is a type of misrepresentation, we feel justified in calling attention to it. The words of this interview or report that I specially wish to call attention to are as follows : "They," meaning the Latter-day Saints, "do nothing until the priests direct them. You would not believe how subservient these poor Mormons are. Mostly from the European slums, they are naturally serfs. They know nothing but to be dominated." It may be that the gentleman who sent out a report, or interview, of that kind, actually believes what he says to be true. Emerson, the philosopher, from whom Elder Whitney quoted yesterday, says, "Nothing shall warp me from the belief that every man is a lover of the truth." That is the general rule, men and women love the truth. I sometimes feel that, patient as we are in standing abuse that may be heaped upon us, after all, we may not be patient enough, perhaps we are not as forgiving and charitable in all instances as we should be, because those who traduce us may be among- that universal class Emerson speaks of who love the truth. 

I was thinking, in reading this excerpt today, how the whole history of the "Mormon" Church disproves the truth of every statement that is contained in those words I have read to you. In the first place the "Mormon" converts were formerly members of other Christian GENERAL CONFERENCE. . They had espoused different religions and denominations of the Christian world, and in order for them to join the Church, they had, in the first place, to break the ties that were already established between them and the churches to which they belonged. It required independence and individuality to do this. If there was not a test thus early in their experience, as proposed converts to the "Mormon" Church, they very soon afterwards, in most instances, experienced some other trying test. It came to individuals in different ways. To the father in poor circumstances, working under a master for a livelihood, in many instances the ultimatum came to leave the Church or leave that employment. That meant very much of serious consequence to the struggling parent, seeking to earn a livelihood for his children, to lose his employment, but, in such cases, he did not hesitate a moment in the choice. Sometimes the test came to the son or daughter from unbelieving parents. After using every effort to persuade that son or daughter not to espouse an unpopular religious cause, the verdict was given that they must either forsake "Mormonism" or forsake the home; turn away from the family hearthstone, cross the threshold for the last time, or abandon the prohibited religion. They met social ostracism, as well as experiencing a disruption of family ties. I noticed today, in the printed program of a meeting of the Daughters of the Pioneers, a number of talks assigned on reminiscent subjects, among others the breaking and severing of home ties. I venture the assertion that those of you who may hear those reminiscent speeches will hear pathetic accounts of individual ex in the severing of ties of kinship and affection which were dear to them, but which became necessary in order for them to be true and loyal to the Gospel. Some parents met their tests in having their children turn against them. The husband in having the wife no longer his affectionate helpmate, on account of his alliance with the "Mormon" religion; and the same with the wife in some instances. But they had received a witness for themselves of the truth of the Gospel they had espoused; they had received a fulfilment of the promise that was given to Joseph Smith, that if they would do the will of the Father, He would manifest Himself unto them. It could be said of them as the poet Lowell says of the month of June : 

"It is as easy now for the heart to be true 

As for grass to be green or skies to be blue, 

'Tis the natural way of living." 

And so with those true hearts who had courage and strength enough to sever the religious ties that formerly bound them, also home and kindred ties, for the love of the Gospel, demonstrating that they were able to comply with that divine admonition recorded in Matthew 10 : 37: "He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me : and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me." 

In gazing today on the faces of those aged brethren who sat in front of me in the large Tabernacle I thought that it could almost be said of them, as the prophet of old said of a vision given unto him, "These are they who have come up out of much tribulation." I saw 105 -cart veterans, men whom I knew had witnessed the death of many "Mormon" emigrants upon that trail between the Missouri and the Rocky Mountains, scores who died, without murmuring, at the hard lot that had caused them to forfeit their lives. The test came to the "Mormon" convert all along the line. They buried loved ones in unmarked graves, in the sea and upon the plain. When they came to these valleys they found such work as heroes perform, in overcoming the hard condition that confronted them, in order to secure suitable inheritances, homes and comfort for their children and their children's children, and which are now being enjoyed by them. . 

The line that I have read to you brought to my remembrance an article that I read a long while ago, the report of a speech delivered refuting a charge that was made at that time to the effect that the "Mormon" people were lacking in those qualities that make individuals independent, that make true men and women. It was an article in the first volume of Tullidge's Magazine, published about '81 or '82. The speech I refer to was made by one who was formerly a member of the "Mormon" Church, but who at that time had apostatized, but yet he recognized the fact that the charges then being made against his former associates, by his political colleagues and associates, were untrue. In that speech, made in support of the political cause that he had joined, he took occasion to refute the erroneous accusations his associates had uttered, and which find an exact re-echo in the lines I have read to you. He pointed out the fact that, instead of being subservient individuals, it required the  strength of individuality and character to perform the work that had been accomplished by the "Mormon" people. He called attention to the fact that, to become members of the Church was to become iconoclast, in a certain sense, to the systems with which they had previously allied themselves. And so, the history of this people all along the line, from the time of their conversion abroad, and after they settled in these valleys and upon these plains, haiving been brought up "to the mountain of the Lord's House," established in the mountains and exalted above the hills, their history has shown courage, independence, manhood, all qualities which are the opposite of the epithets applied in the quotation read. 

The historian, Bancroft, in referring to the "Mormons," says that the missionary adventurers of no sect are more devoted, more selfsacrificing, or more successful than were the missionary efforts of the "Mormon" people. He further says that "the Catholic friars, in their new world excursions, were not more indifferent to life, health, wealth, or comfort, not more indifterent to sarcasm ana io siariuer, had no more high courage or lofty enthusiasm, than had the 'Mormon' Elders in their Old World enterprises." That is the tribute an impartial historian gives, after the examination of hundreds of original sources of * information, manuscripts, magazines, papers and books bearing upon that subject. 

My thought during this conference time, has run something along the same line as that of others who have spoken. During the remarks of Brother Frank Y. Taylor, at GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Priesthood meeting - last evening, in reference to the care of our children, it occurred to me that while 150,000 people had visited the Fair, and looked with pride upon the products of the field, fruits of the farm, and the works of art, after all, the most important thing, the most important question — the most important product, if you please, is the character and kind of young men and women we are raising and developing in this country. I recall the lines of a certain poetess, and say to mothers, "What a holy charge is theirs; with what a kingly power their love might rule the fountains of the new born mind; warn them to wake at early dawn and sow good seeds before the world has sown its tares." And that early dawn, that time to sow those good seeds, is before the child reaches the age of eight years, as we are given to understand in the Doctrine and Covenants. There is no sadder thought with a parent than to realize he has raised sons and daughters who have turned out badly. What a ioyous thing it is to father and mother when they realize that their children have been properly trained, that they are virtuous, that they have been able to sufficiently educate them, and have started them out in life right; that they have been fortunate in securing happy wedlock, married to others equally virtuous and honest. I have a sublime admiration for the young man and wife who are willing to go upon, a quarter-section of . sagebrush land and redeem it, and make a home there for themselves. I have high esteem for a young mother living upon one of those places, desolate to begin with; see her nursing a real live baby, not fondling a teddy bear or poodle dog,  devoting herself to those things that tend to the building of empires. 

We hear in this day a good deal said in reference to the Fatherhood of God, and the brotherhood of man. Where, my brothers and sisters, will we find greater evidence than in the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the great fact of the brotherhood of man, and the reality of the Fatherhood of God. His work was established for the benefit of His children, that faith might increase in the earth, that those who sin may be chastened, that they may repent; that those who seek wisdom may be instructed and that those who are humble might be exalted. The divine injunction is given to man to esteem his brother as himself, and practice virtue and holiness before the Lord; man is not to speak evil of his neighbor, nor do him any harm; he is to visit the poor and the needy, and administer to their relief. A general compliance with these divine injunctions, for the betterment of mankind, would establish bonds of brotherhood and fraternity so strong that contention and strife would be done away with. If those simple requirements were practiced universally by the children of men, what a transformation it would make in the condition of the world! 

I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH ECKERSLEY. 

(Of Wayne Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice exceedingly in the spirit that has 107  all the meetings of this conference. We know, notwithstanding all that may be said to the contrary, that it is the mission of "Mormonism" to save the souls of men. The evidence of this lies in the fact that every action of a Latter-day Saint in life is of an unselfish character. Their energies, thought, and ambition, is to do something good in this world.^ I was deeply impressed, this morning, with the remarks of Elder Rulon S. Wells. He gave to us, in his brief address, what I think to be the essence, so to speak, of "Mormonism," namely, a life of self-sacrifice. Any person who has been thoroughly converted to the Gospel is converted to this principle, for it is a fundamental truth of true religion. I rejoice that the true history of this people of God testifies that they are indeed what they profess to be, followers of the meek and lowly Nazarene. 

It has not been my good fortune to have the experience of the brethren who have addressed us here this afternoon. I think all of them have been blessed with the privilege of being born in the valleys of the mountains, in the Land of Promise. They have been blessed with "Mormon" parents, and have been raised in "Mormon" homes. Perhaps they have never heard or known anything of any religion but "Mormonism," until they attained manhood, and were sent as messengers of truth to the nations, I often regret that I have not had this privilege in my experience in life, yet I rejoice in the knowledge that God is no respecter of persons, and that the Lord loves all His children, wherever they may be upon His footstool. I was impressed by the tender way in which Brother Smoot  to his mother this morning. I was charmed with the ideal that he had in boyhood, the hope that he might some day have the opportunity of going with his mother to her native country, that she might again behold the scenes of her childhood, and be reminded of- the great blessings that God had brought- her by compliance with the Gospel. I was raised in one of the large centers of civilization in England. The Gospel came to me in my boyhood. I have passed through some of the experiences that Elder Hart referred to this afternoon, that are common to those who receive . the Gospel in other lands; but the Lord has sustained me through those unpleasant experiences. While it is true that, temporarily, the experiences encountered when we receive the Gospel in the world are indeed to us a hardship, yet as the years roll by, and if we cling to the truth, if we adhere to the principles of righteousness, those apparent sacrifices or disagreeable circumstances become the greatest blessings of our lives. 

I rejoice, when I contemplate the present magnitude of the work of God, and remember its small beginning. This should arrest the attention of honest thinking men and women. They should be reminded of the words of the Savior when He said that "a tree is known by its fruits." When we think of all that "Mormonism" has accomplished for this world, and what it is expected to accomplish in the future, it seems to me, if thinking men and women would consider what the Saints have done and are doing, and what our aims are, they would not be deluded into the belief that we are not a people who are striving to serve the Lord. It is GENERAL CONFERENCE.  that among- the Latter-daySaints there are those who are not as pure in their lives as they should be, according- to the professions that they make, but is this not true of every church? Are there not people in every church in the land who do not live up to all the principles and doctrines of their churches, and whose lives are not in harmony with the professions they make ? We say this : wherever there is a man or woman in the Church who is a wrongdoer, he or she is not a true Latter-day Saint. 

Reputation is one thing: character is another; and the Lord will judge us acording to our character, not by our reputation. When men speak evil of us, we take consolation in the words of the Savior, speaking in the days of old to His disciples, He said, "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad : for great is your reward in heaven : for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." 

Let us be sure, my brethren and sisters, that what the world says derogatory to the Latter-day Saints is false, so far as we are concerned individually, and then we need take no concern. The world has never said anything so bad about the Latter-day Saints that has exceeded in hatred and the spirit of animosity, the falsehoods that were uttered against the Son of God. Hence we have consolation in the words that He spoke, for He foreknew that all who would live godly in Christ Jesus, all who would do right, who would decide to keep His commandments, would be in ill repute with the peoples of the world, those who have given themselves over to the  pleasures of life, and take delight only in such gratification. 

I rejoice in the Gospel because of what it has done for me. I know as I live that God has established it Himself, that, by revelation from the Father and the Son, and the instruction and teaching of angels Joseph Smith, a man of God, established this work, with a foundation so durable that all the persecution that can be waged against it will never shake the edifice, for God is the architect. The work of the Father will spread, and missionaries by thousands will continue to publish this Gospel of peace, righteousness, and good-will unto all the children of men, until the words of the Redeemer shall have been fulfilled. The Gospel shall be preached to every nation, every kindred, every tongue, and every people; and the honest and pure in heart, they who are seeking God, who are in the condition that the prophet of old spoke of when he said that they would run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, will ultimately find it, for God loves the man who is seeking after truth. They may search in different directions, they may go to the various churches that have been established by men, but after a time they will come to the Lord, they will come to the truth, and God will draw them to the fountain of eternal light and righeousness. 

Let us take courage, hope and consolation in the promises God has made to us. Let us go home from this conference with an earnest determination in our hearts that we will serve the Lord. Let us reduce to practice every good precept that . has been taught us, and be faithful in keeping all the commandments of God; for this is the only way 109  we can demonstrate our love for God, namely by keeping His commandments. We should do all that in our power lies to be Christlike; emulate Him in our lives and thoughts, and we shall have joy while we live, and be privileged eventually to enjoy the association of the righteous forever. This is what I desire above all other things. I hope that we will take to heart the injunctions given to us and with all our getting get understanding and purity of heart. With all our searching, search for the love of God, and eventually we shall realize, to a greater extent than we now do, what it is to have the love of Christ burning in our hearts. 

May God bless you, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A quartet, "Content," was sung by Prof. Charles Kent, Charles S. Martin, Alexander Crawford, and Alvin Keddington. 

ELDER NEPHI L. MORRIS. 

(President of Salt Lake Stake.) 

I have greatly enjoyed the remarks made by the various brethren who have spoken during this conference. I could not help feeling while looking over the vast audience at the Tabernacle this morning, how fundamentally great a thing is this semi-annual conference which is held by the Latter-day Saints. Its importance is guaranteed in the fact that God, by revelation, has made it a permanent institution in His Church. From the very beginning of the work conferences have been held until the holding of them has become a charac of the people. Not only does this practice obtain in the Church in Zion, but it extends out into the missions of the world, as it does also in every stake and ward or branch in the Church. The various Priesthood quorums, and the auxiliary organizations also meet in regular conference capacity. The Church, or mother organization, in these semi-annual conferences, calls her children together for counsel and instruction and to give reports while each of them has already convened in smaller assemblies to prepare for these great gatherings which represent absolutely every interest of the Church of Christ. 

I am aware that other religious societies beside our own observe a practice in some respects similar to ours : for instance, the Y. M. C. A. holds occasional conferences, the Epworth League has annual conventions, which are held in different parts of the country. Various churches convene their synods and convocations, but the Latter-day Saints are the only people who call these vast assemblies of the members and the officers for a series of eight or ten general meetings. 

The response to this call is so general that the Saints have for a long time been confronted with the problem of accommodations. As an effort at a partial solution of this perplexing problem, we find ourselves convened as the third section of the final session of this conference. From a consideration of this subject we may anticipate the day when conferences may be necessarily confined to sections of the Church where convenient groups of stakes will be convened in turn throughout the whole Church. 

It is interesting to study one of these conference congregations. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Among- them will be seen the husbandman and the scholar, the artisan and man of affairs, the school boy and the professor. In short, men and women from every calling and station in life are represented. The mere contact of such diversified elements is necessarily educative, and broadening, as well as being conducive to unity and harmony. And, perhaps, the greatest effect is found in the augmented conception which all must gain of the magnitude of this great latterday work. 

In speaking of the diversified elements which compose one of these great gatherings, one is reminded of the fact that nearly all of the races of the earth are here represented. This remarkable achievement is brought about by the principle of gathering, another characteristic of our faith. In every Gospel dispensation the Lord has separated his people from influences which would have restricted Him in the accomplishment of His purposes. It is very befitting that this great latter-day gathering from all nations should be brought about in a nation whose foundation stones were laid on precisely the same principle. Inter-mingling and crossing of races or types, under favorable conditions, produce the greatest results. Our national life verifies this statement. Washington, Franklin, Jefferson, Jackson, in fact all the fathers of our nation, were the products of an inter-mingling of races on new soil, and in a better environment. The present occupant of the White House is another illustrious example of this principle. His ancestry may be traced back to the good old New York Dutch. If in a generation or two this principle has produced such individuals  those named, may we not in succeeding generations look for an entire people to become superior ? This theory is greatly strengthened bv the results of Mr. Burbank's experiments with plants. He seldom obtains results in one or two crosses of species and often not until the tenth or even the twentieth generation. His final results, however, are astounding the scientific world. 

Does not this suggest that the Lord is employing the most natural, and at the same time the most effectual means of bringing about similar and even greater results in calling His chosen people from all the nations of the earth, and making of them a united whole? 

As Mr. Burbank, by painstaking care, brings each plant to a higher development in order to accomplish the final results, so should we as fathers and mothers and guardians of the youth of our people, by prayerful vigilence bestow like care upon the tender and beautiful plants God has entrusted to our nurturing in order to promote His purposes in the perfecting and exalting of the human race. To this end may we consecrate our lives is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT SEYMOUR B. YOUNG. 

I am led to say a few words this afternoon in regard to what was said in Priesthood meeting last night, looking to the distribution of the Book of Mormon among the people of the world. Brother Ellsworth, of the Northern States Mission, reported that they had distributed recently, by sale, several thousands of the Book of Mormon; and so greatly had the demand inIll  for this scriptural volume, that he had given an order for a supply for the following year to be sold in his mission and in the Southern States, Central States, and Eastern States missions. He had ordered one hundred thousand copies, and he believed that would not quite fill the demand that would be made upon them during the coming year. Now this, my brethren and sisters, is very encouraging. It makes my heart glad to see this great book, containing the revelations of the Lord, the restoration of the Gospel, the pure principles of life and salvation, coming to be better known among the children of men, more universally appreciated. 

I am reminded now of something that I read a day or two ago that appeared in a morning paper, in regard to the laying and dedication of the cornerstone for the building of a church in Washington, D. C, the United Christian Church, that is to cost seven millions of dollars. J. Pierpont Morgan, one of the greatest financiers of the age, was present, and it is said that he was one of the largest contributors to the construction of that church. President Roosevelt also was present, and congratulated the general board of administration on the wonderful success they had met in obtaining subscriptions toward the large amount of means needed for the building of this great house of worship. I am reminded, my brethren and sisters, of a house of worship that was built in the early part of the nineteenth century. In 1833 a house of worship was commenced in Kirtland, Ohio. It was erected under direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the dispensation of the fulness of times. In the commencement of that build it was conceded that there was not means enough in possession of all the members of the Church to erect the house; but, faith in God, the eternal Father, was the inspiring word, and they were successful. In less than three years from the time of its commencement the house was completed, known as the Kirtland Temple, the first that was built by the Latter-day Saints, and it cost about $70,000. The Saints taxed themselves to the utmost in time and means to erect and complete that house of worship; it was most earnest self-sacrifice and devoted labor. 

I would like to call your attention to the prayer of dedication that was given by revelation through the Prophet Joseph Smith. On the 27th day of March, 1836, this temple was dedicated, not as the Church I spoke of that is to be erected in Washington, D. C, to Saint Peter and Saint Paul, but it was dedicated to Israel's God. "Thanks be to thy name," was the prayer of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as he extended his hands to heaven, and bowed before the congregation of the Saints : 

"Thanks be to Thy name, O Lord God of Israel, who keepest covenant and showest mercy unto Thy servants who walk uprightly before Thee.with all their hearts. Thou who hast commanded Thy people to build a house to Thy name in this place (Kirtland). And now Thou beholdest, O Lord, that Thy servants have done accordfhg to Thy commandment, and now we ask Thee, Holy Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of Thy bosom, in whose name alone salvation can be administered to the children of men, we ask Thee to accept of this house, the workmanship of the hands of us, thy servants, which Thou didst command us to build; for Thou knowest that we have done this work through great tribulation, and out of our poverty we have given of our substance, GENERAL CONFERENCE.  build a house to Thy name, that the Son of man might have a place to manifest Himself to His people." 

On that occasion, Sidney Rigdon preached the dedicatorial sermon, and he took for his text the following scripture, "The foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of man hath not where to lay His head." Then he proceeded and said in effect: Many edifices, churches, and temples of worship have been erected by the Christian sects of the world and dedicated to St. Paul,' St. Peter, St. John, St. Matthew, St. Mark, St. Luke and others of the Saints and Prophets named in church calendars, but for the first time in this generation, or dispensation, or during many hundreds of years past, a house is being dedicated this day to the name of the Lord, for His divine acceptance, a place for Him to visit or to dwell in. In proof that He did accept of this house, I beg leave to call your attention to section 110 of the Doctrine and Covenants, from which I read to you as follows : "Visions manifested to Joseph, the Seer, and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple, April 3rd, 1836 

"The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us, and under His feet was a paved work of pure gold in color like amber.   . . And His voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: T am the first and the last, I am He who liveth, I am He who was slain, I am your Advocate with the Father. Behold, your sins are forgiven you, you are clean before Me, therefore lift up your heads and rejoice. Let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all My people rejoice. For behold I have accepted this house, and ... I will  unto My servants, and speak unto them with Mine own voice, if My people will keep My commandments, and do not pollute this holy house.' " 

My brethren and sisters, the following points I wish to impress upon your minds : The circumstances under which this first temple was erected were seemingly unpropititious for its completion, yet, by the faith of the Saints, and their united efforts, although but a handful, they did complete the house and dedicated it to the Lord, and the Lord accepted it. 

I am led to mark the difference that exists in the Church then and today, in regard to erecting public buildings. It is not a serious matter now, nor one of long postponement, for the Saints to undertake and complete any kind of public building needed by them, and finish it in beauty and excellence as they may desire to do, for we are much more numerous than we were in Kirtland. We have better facilities, and more means at our command to accomplish the work that is required at our hands, and in this we rejoice exceedingly. I am led to note, at this time, the difference in the condition of the Prophet and his brethren in the early days of the Church and conditions as they are now. President Joseph F. Smith and his brethren are free to eo and come as they may deem proper. Not so in the days of the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum. They knew no peace from the time of the Prophet's first vision in 1820, until their martyrdom in Carthage jail, in 1844. President Joseph F. Smith occupies the same position before the people and before the world that his uncle, Joseph Smith the Prophet, occupied; and his brother John occupies the 113  that their father held, viz., Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, we truly rejoice in our improved conditions. We are glad that our brethren who preside over us now have liberty, have freedom of speech, are free to travel to and fro. As I said before, we rejoice at the improved opportunities that are now given to the people of the world to become better acquainted with the Saints, and with the Book of Mormon, that priceless book translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith from plates of gold, committed to him by the Angel Moroni, who gave to the boy Prophet of the nineteenth century the record which he translated by the gift and power of God. 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that Joseph Smith was indeed a Prophet of God; that this is the Church of Jesus Christ, and that from it will grow His kingdom that shall fill the earth. I pray that we may prove faithful and maintain our integrity and purity of life, and be witnesses for Him that we may be acceptable unto Him, and increase in knowledge in regard to this great work which He has established in the earth. May we be true and faithful to all things committed unto us is my earnest prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The names of the General Authorities of the Church were presented by President Seymour B. Young and all were sustained by unanimous vote of the congregation. (See l-'St in connection with report of proceedings in the Tabernacle.) 

A double quartet, "Home Love," was sung by the brethren who had rendered the preceding pieces. 

Benediction was pronounced by President Seymour B. Young. 
