Morning
09 04 1932

Conference reconvened Saturday morning, April 9th, at 10 o'clock, with President Heber J. Grant presiding. 

The hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints," was sung by the congregation. 

Elder Abel John Evans offered the opening prayer. 

A sacred solo, "The Penitent," was sung by Sister PSertha Sessions. 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 

Presiding Bishop of the Church 

I can assure you, my brethren and sisters, and friends, that I feel keenly the responsibility of this position. I rejoice with you in the spirit of the Conference sessions that we have had and the instruction and testimony that have been given to us. 

GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT 

I appreciate the fact that we are living in important times, and that it is proper for us so to live and act that we may be guided by the influence and power of the Holy Spirit. The Lord has promised to all of us who have taken upon us his name, who have been baptized in water and by the power of the Holy Spirit, that if we will live in accordance with his commandments we shall enjoy the light of his Spirit to guide us. Surely there has never been a time in the history of the Church when that guidance was so necessary for every individual. 

We have 'our free agency. We shall be responsible for the deeds that we perform and for the failure to perform those things that will be for our progress and development. The Lord is desirous that every one of us shall go forward, do his will, keep his commandments, and enjoy his blessings. 

I realize the fact that if we will listen to the whisperings of the Holy Spirit, and be alert to follow promptly that inspiration that may come to us from time to time, we shall be enabled to avoid difficulties and troubles, and have joy, satisfaction and contentment in our daily lives. 

CHURCH ADVANCEMENT 

I rejoice in the leadership of this Church. I realize that they are men who are inspired of God to advise and counsel us in the way of truth and progress. 1 am sure that if ,we will listen to them and observe to do what they suggest to us, we shall be able to make satisfactory progress. 

I was impressed with the instructions and the report given by our President at the beginning of this Conference. As was stated by him. 

48 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the Church is growing in membership, and it is growing in activity. It is true that the tithes in total have not been so large this past year as the previous year. Yet there are instances in various stakes and missions where there has been an increase in tithes. There has been an increase in the number of tithepayers in the Church. There has been quite a material increase in the fast offerings donated for the benefit of the poor. I am quite sure that the spirit of the present prevailing conditions has influenced many who may have been neglectful, possibly, or inappreciative of conditions of unemployment, in the realization of the fact that we should donate more liberally for those in need in these times. The result has been somewhat more evident in the observance of the fast offerings. 

PRIESTHOOD ACTIVITY 

It is to be noted that the activity of the priesthood is increasing. I am particularly familiar with the Aaronic priesthood, and that interest is evident. We are striving in cooperation with the stake presidencies, ward bishoprics, mission presidents, and all others who are concerned with the welfare and progress of this important work, to stimulate the young men who receive this priesthood, to greater faith and activity and an appreciation of the blessings that come through the fulfilment of their responsibilities in the Aaronic priesthood. 

Also, in other respects, the work of the Church is increasing. In the matter of ward teaching, this important labor has been carried on to a larger extent, month by month, in all of the various stakes and wards throughout the Church. 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 

With reference to building construction, the (Church spent, as was reported by President Grant, over a half million dollars last year in the erection of ward buildings. That amount has been matched by the labor and the cash subscriptions of members of the Church and others in the various wards that have built meeting houses; so that, in total, the expenditures for this purpose aggregate a very considerable sum. I believe that there has been more care exercised on the part of those who have had charge of building construction in the various wards, to see that the funds were efficiently expended. I am sure that, throughout the various wards and stakes, consistent efforts are being made to exercise the greatest economy possible in this, as in every other phase of material affairs in the Church. 

CLARITY OF CONSCIENCE 

In connection with the matter that I have referred to, of cultivating the Spirit of the Lord, I am reminded of a maxim, adopted by George Washington, whose two-hundredth anniversary we are celebrating this entire year, as a rule of conduct for him as a young man. I think the last one of the rules of conduct' that he adopted is as follows : "Labor to keep alive in your breast that little spark of celestial fire called conscience." The development of conscience is one of the most helpful 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 49 

means to promote right living and fair dealing. I am sure that the Latter-day Saints are possessed of that spark of celestial fire. As a result of developing the spirit of frankness, of stimulating . the sense of right and wrong, of not allowing their consciences to be dulled by those things which interfere with straightforwardness and uprightness, they are in a position to have that sense touched by the influence and power of the Holy Spirit, to lead them in righteousness and faith and truth. 

A TIME OF TRIAL 

We live in times when we are being tested and proven. All the dross, all that is not pure metal is, so to speak, being burned up or skimmed off, leaving the pure metal. To the extent' that mankind have had to undergo trials and suffering, and that they have, in courage and faith, made sacrifice of material things that they have previously enjoyed, they have emerged so much stronger and finer. I believe adverse conditions are bringing men generally to an understanding of the elementals of life; and to a better appreciation of the measure of the values of things which really count in life. 

THE POWER OF TRUE RELIGION 

I am impressed with the fact that the acceptance of this Gospel involves our willingness to deny ourselves, if necessary, of anything that we may be called upon to sacrifice. I am reminded of a statement made in one of the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine and Covenants. Though the lectures are not accepted by us as revelation, yet we are told they were prepared by the Prophet' Joseph, and were for the benefit of the people of the Church. This statement is as follows: 

"A religion that does not require the sacrifice of all things never has power sufficient to produce the faith necessary unto life and salvation." 

Abraham's willingness to sacrifice 

Now, that is a very strong saying. Yet, the experiences of some of those of whom we have record, who have developed great spiritual power, demonstrate the fact that sacrifice has produced such results in their lives. I am reminded of Abraham, who was told by the Lord to take his son — the son of promise — born to him in his old age, through whom the divine assurance to Abraham regarding his posterity should be fulfilled, and offer him as a sacrifice. When this son was grown to be a youth his father was told by the Lord to offer him as a sacrifice upon Mount Moriah. Abraham did so. He took his son to that place and there was prepared to do what the Lord had commanded. He had proven his determination to carry out the will of the Lord, even though it meant the taking of the life of his son. 

There are those who would utter condemnation against such a course, as being contrary to all equity and righteousness. Yet Abraham recognized that the Lord had the power to give and to take away. He had that confidence in the Lord that the course of life that he was pursuing, and the instruction he was receiving from God, were such 

50 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

that the Lord could save his son's life if it were necessary. So he proved his willingness to sacrifice the life of his beloved son. But when it came to the final test, after he had proven himself, the Lord did not require that sacrifice at his hands. However, he did greatly magnify Abraham, and he became, we are told, the friend of God, because of his sacrifice and his faith. He mingled with the great of the earth at that time, and was recognized by them as a power. Among the Mohammedans today Abraham is recognized as the greatest prophet of all. Likewise, among the Hebrews and Christians, he is recognized as a wonderful man. 

THE SAVIOR'S GREAT SACRIFICE 

Now, another example is that of the Savior himself. He was called upon to sacrifice his life because it was the will of God. It was his mission. He had the assurance that the course of life he was pursuing was pleasing to God. The final achievement of his mortal life was to undergo that atoning sacrifice for the redemption of mankind. He realized the terrible agony that he would have to suffer, as well as the mental crucifixion that he must endure through the shame and ridicule that was to be heaped upon him. Yet he was prepared to accept and undergo the sacrifice that was before him. Thereby he became the Redeemer of the world; and the mediator between men and God. He is the one who stands between us and our eternal Father. Through him alone can we gain the resurrection and come to salvation by the acceptance of his teachings, and the observance of his commandments. 

MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH 

There have been others who have been called upon to make great sacrifice for their devotion to divine truth. The Prophet Joseph Smith demonstrated in his life the very thing that is contained in the statement, that only that religion which has the power to call for the sacrifice of all things, even of life itself, if necessary, has the power to produce the faith necessary to bring mankind to life and salvation. The Prophet Joseph went to his martyrdom assured that the faith he possessed and the principles that he had adopted were of God. He (had had the assurance from the Lord himself, from his personal visitation to him, that he should become an instrument in his hands for the accomplishment of divine purposes. Through his faith and .sacrifice we understand that he is appointed to stand at the head of this last dispensation. 

I do not assume that the Lord is going to require of every one of us such sacrifices. But I!do maintain that the living of the Gospel will develop the spirit of sacrifice. If we are to gain salvation we must first have assurance that the course of life we are pursuing is in accordance with the will of the Lord. In other words, we must have a testimony of the divinity of this work. If we do not, we cannot, of course, be willing to make sacrifices. So it is important that every one of us should gain assurance of the divinity of this work, and of the fact that the Prophet Joseph Smith was ordained of God for the establishment of this work. To him were consigned the keys of divine authority 

ELDER SYLVESTER Q. CANNON 51 

to direct the work. All who have succeeded him have been appointed to bear the keys of authority in the Church, and have been inspired of God. That authority permeates the entire body of the Church. 

REAL VALUES OF LIFE 

Do these sacrifices really mean loss in the real sense of the word ? In the mortal or human sense, probably yes. From the standpoint of the pleasures of the world, probably yes. The people of the world consider anything a deprivation that would restrain them from indulging their appetites of whatever nature. But those who have an appreciation of the values of life will realize that the things that the people of the world refer to as the pleasures of life and the satisfying of their appetites, are the petty things. They are the things that will pass. They are the dross that will be thrown away. It has been aptly said that to do without and like it is the 'first lesson in the art of being happy. The principles that the Lord has revealed are the things that will count as realities in this ilife and in eternity. 

DEVELOPMENT THROUGH SACRIFICE 

These principles are known to us. I do hot need to enumerate them. All that the Lord has commanded us to do are for our benefit. We receive the blessings. There is no sacrifice in the final and permanent sense of the word. The rewards obtained are so much greater than the self-denial necessary. We gain through the observance of divine commandments, because every principle and any deprivation that may be entailed thereby is for our greatest welfare, growth, and development in life, here and hereafter. 

TITHING REQUIRES FAITH 

I have been impressed with the testimonies at various times in these conferences of the Church relative to the results of the observance of tithing, that have been borne to' us, and the evidences shown in our investigations. I think probably that tithing may he considered a principle that from a pecuniary and selfish standpoint requires more power and faith to observe than some other commandments. Yet it brings blessings far outweighing the sacrifice itself. 

TITHING IN OTHER CHURCHES 

I am reminded, too, of a statement made showing the way in which this principle is growing among other people. I have an article clipped from a magazine of the Protestant Episcopal Church, known as "The Diocesan Council," in which the subject of tithing is discussed. It refers to a booklet called "The Church has Tithers," written by a Dr. Louis B. Franklin. He writes of the observance of tithing as they understand it. His comment' in regard to the principle of tithing is rather interesting: "The practice of tithing is extremely simple. Onetenth of all income, plus one-tenth the rental value of a house wholly owned and used as one's residence, should be set aside as God's property to be administered for him. Help to dependent relatives is a family 

52 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

obligation and should not ibe taken out of the tenth. Exercise the same care in administering God's portion as you do in running your own business, or budgeting your household expenses. Whatever the reason, many have recorded it their judgment that' it is easier to live on ninetenths than on ten-tenths. The readjustment of a family budget so as to provide for setting aside the tithes may demand a reconsideration of the whole question of standards of living. Many have found in such a consideration the dawning of a new and happier day." 

That is the testimony of people who do not belong to this Church. Does that indicate that the principle of tithing is a natural, divine principle? Surely if 'it is divine it will produce result's for all who practice it in the spirit of it, as far as they have understanding. 

FAITHFUL TITHEPAYERS GENERALLY EMPLOYED 

From the reports given by some of the mission presidents, and by the stake presidents and bishops, and from our own investigations, it appears that generally the people throughout the Church who pay tithing are making their way forward financially as well as spiritually. Those who need help are largely not' those who have been faithful tithepayers. On the other hand, most of the faithful tithepayers have been able to maintain themselves even under this most extended period of depression. Surely this is a splendid evidence of some of the results of faith and sacrifice. Let it he remembered, however, that faith in the divinity of this or any other principle alone can bring the blessings. 

My brethren and sisters, I desire to testify to you that this and every other principle of the Gospel is for our welfare and progress, and that the Gospel itself is the greatest thing that has come to mankind, both for this life and for the life hereafter. I pray that I may be able to stand, with you, firm and faithful, be prompt to accept instructions given, alert to follow the guidance of the Holy Spirit, and to measure up to the finest standards of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GIDEON N. HULTERSTROM 

Former President of the Swedish Mission 

My dear brethren and sisters, I am indeed glad and happy for this opportunity to be in attendance at this General Conference of the Church. I humbly pray that while I stand before you I may have a rich portion of the Holy Spirit of God, to direct my report that I am to give of the Swedish mission. 

I bring you greetings and good tidings from your sons in Sweden. They are performing a faithful labor in that far-off land. They are laboring earnestly for the building up of the church and kingdom of God. There seems never to have been a time when there has been a better opportunity to do missionary work than at the present time, and I am pleased to report that the work of the Lord is gaining headway in Sweden. 

We are proclaiming the Gospel in the usual way, but also by illusELDER GIDEON N. HULTERSTROM k 53 

trated lectures about Utah and the pioneers, and also lectures about the Book of Mormon. In connection with our conferences held we are giving concerts and religious pageants, and I am happy to state that all these new methods have had a wonderful effect for good in behalf of the Lord's cause in Sweden. 

In one of our conferences in the city of Stockholm we had the honor to have with us the U. S. Consul General, Mr. John Ball Osborne. We took the opportunity to call upon him to speak. In his address he said among other things, that the Latter-day Saints are trustworthy men and women. He praised the work accomplished by our Elders, and he spoke highly of our Church leaders, especially of those that he had become acquainted with, namely, Dr. John A. Widtsoe, Dr. James E. Talmage and Senator Reed Smoot. Much good came from the results of this conference, especially for the reason that we had this distinguished gentleman with us, taking part on the program. 

On the 14th of June, this year, it will be eighty-two years since the Gospel was first introduced in Scandinavia by the late Apostle Erastus Snow. This was the most outstanding event in the history of the Scandinavian countries, and the proclaiming of the restored Gospel in those lands since the year 1850 has brought nearly fifty-five thousand souls into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. What a wonderful harvest! I rejoice when I think of the progress of this great latter-day work in all parts of the world. 

I am pleased to state that a change has come about in the world, because in the past our message has been somewhat misunderstood. I am pleased to report that the newspaper press in Sweden is more favorable now than it has ever been before. Our meetings are advertised free of charge in nineteen of the newspapers over there, and a friendly spirit exists today. Whenever prominent Church members visit us we arrange for an interview, and the good things thus published in the papers have a wonderful effect for good. I can truthfully say that we have been blessed indeed by the Lord in our work in Sweden. 

I take this opportunity to greet you from President and Sister John A. Widtsoe, presiding over the European Mission.. By the way, they are doing a most wonderful work, and under their able direction we are trying to build up the branches of the Church in the Swedish mission, and to keep in step with all new things and new methods introduced by the Church, here at home and in the missions. 

I can state that more responsibility has been placed upon the local brethren, and our auxiliary organizations are working; they are active and they are doing a most splendid work. The Primary work was introduced in the Swedish mission about a year ago and five such organizations are now functioning. I am also happy to relate that we have organized, during the past two years, three genealogical societies in that mission, and they are doing a considerable lot of good for the members of the Church, in their research work, preparatory to sending their genealogical work to the Salt Lake Temple. 

The Book of Mormon has its mission to* fulfil, — a great mission, by 

54 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

the way. It contains the fulness of the Gospel, and the Elders have done their best to distribute this book. It has been placed in the libraries of Sweden, and in some of the leading book stores, and thereby several copies are being distributed. During my visit in Finland, a couple of years ago, I presented the Book of Mormon to Mr. Uno Thurman, of the public library in Helsingfors. He was very glad to receive this sacred volume. 

In conclusion I wish to testify to you that Mormonism is the true Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I am grateful indeed to my Heavenly Father for the privilege I have had to spend ten years of my life as a missionary abroad in the ministry of the Gospel. This wonderful privilege has come to pass in fulfilment of a patriarchal blessing that I received about thirty years ago. 

I rejoice in this work, and my desire is to keep on working in this Church during all the days of my life. I know, as surely as I know that I live, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, and that President Heber J. Grant and his associates, who stand at the head of this Church today, are true servants of the living God, holding the keys of the priesthood and having authority to build up the Kingdom of God in all the world. 

This is my testimony, and I bear it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Sister Pearl Kimball Davis sang, "O Love Divine." 

ELDER FRED TADJE 

Former President of the Swiss-German Mission 

The poet, on seeing weather-beaten trees, and remarking their shape and outline, wrote reflectingly : 

"Is it as plainly in our living shown, by slant and twist Which way the wind has blown?" 

The answer to this query is yes; we do, in our living, reflect the way the wind has blown. Every influence that we have known registers some mark upon us. Each one leaves its impress, and one day finds expression in our conduct or attitude. 

As you have heard, I come to you from the mission field, where it has been my privilege to associate with many of your sons. I have had the opportunity to observe them; to study their actions and reactions; to appraise their character. I have seen them in discouragement and in enthusiasm, in defeat and in victory, confused by problems, and triumphing over them. I have seen their works. I have recognized their efforts. I have looked into their lives — their souls were bared to me. I have known their faith; and I wish to say to you mothers and fathers of missionaries, there are no finer young men in all the world than those you send to us as missionaries. I congratulate you as parents, and I congratulate the Church for such splendid types of young people. Their 

ELDER FRED TADJE 55 

character is an honor and a credit to you, for they reflect the influences that you have exerted over them. 

Just as surely as weather-beaten trees show the way the wind has blown, so do these young men disclose the kind of training they have received. In the lives of these young men we can see the shaping power of the Church and of the home, and the influence of their parents. 

One of the most potent factors in molding an individual's life is the power of example, particularly the example of the parents. The child naturally looks to his father as a. perfect model. His son will copy his walk, his speech, his manners, his every action. Father is his model, his rock on which he stands. Unconsciously, perhaps, but nevertheless surely, the child patterns his life after his father. If the father is a man of faith and virtue, if he cultivates the good qualities, then every fine trait is accented in the child. But if he is careless and negligent, if his habits are bad, his influence, just as strong, is for the worse. 

Fathers and mothers, what a tremendous responsibility is ours! How vigilant we must ever be to guide our children right. How we must foster the spirit of faith and love in our homes. There it is that we can inculcate a love of the Gospel, an unshakable faith, in the breasts of our children. Let every influence be an uplifting one. Cultivate religious expression. 

I believe one reason why the Gospel means so much to me is, because it meant so much to my parents. We were brought close to the Gospel as children in the home. Not a day passed that some phase of the Gospel was not discussed. Family prayers were observed regularly, and then early in the evening, before any one was over-tired. The motto in the home was: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." The spirit of the home, the discussion of the Gospel principles, the family prayers, and above all, the example of the parents, who endeavored to live real Gospel lives, imbued a desire into the hearts of the children to serve the Master in whatever capacity they were capable. 

A father confided to me, at one time, that when his children passed through the critical period of their lives he had fasted and prayed a day every week for years, for divine help to rear his children properly in the Church. He wanted them to grow up in faith and in love of the truth. He said : "I cannot bear to see my children go astray, or disinterested in the Gospel. Should that happen it would shorten my life, and with the help of the Lord I will do all that lies in my power to instil into their hearts a desire to serve him." What a devotion to a righteous cause! Were his efforts in vain ? Indeed not, for thus far his children are firmly grounded in the faith, and no matter what call is made upon them by the Church, they respond joyfully and whole-heartedly. 

I have three boys whom I love dearly. If I can inspire them with the same high faith that my parents bequeathed to me, if I can instil into their hearts a fervent love of God and his work, if I can be a worthy example in all things, then I shall be content. If I can create in them an earnest desire to know God's will and to do it, to serve him and to love 

56 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

his Gospel, then I shall be indeed gratified. Some day, I hope, they maytake their place as missionaries, thoroughly qualified to carry on in the all-important work. And I hope that some future mission president, looking upon the lives of my boys, and of yours, may read in them the reflection of good influences and proper example. May he never see child-like faith dulled by parental indifference, or potential virtue marred by parental neglect. 

Let our every influence be for good. Let our example be a shining light to guide our children in the paths, of truth and righteousness. Let us bring the Gospel close to our children, that they may learn to know and love it, and that they may respond to its uplifting influence. 

My experience has proven that, generally speaking, the most faithful and successful missionaries come from families here at home where the Gospel receives first consideration. I have observed, too, that the families where the Gospel is the predominant thought are ever responsive to the call of the Authorities of the Church, no matter what sacrifice it might entail. 

Let us all place ourselves in tune with this great cause by making the Gospel a substantial part of our home life and training. I am exceedingly grateful for my membership in this Church. I prize more highly than I can express the privileges I enjoy as a bearer of the Melchizedek priesthood. My earnest desire is to be able to show my appreciation for my many blessings by rendering at all times, and under every circumstance, acceptable service in the sight of the Lord. This Gospel has brought me joy and gratification beyond description. I have tasted of the fruits of the Gospel, and I want to testify to you that I have found them most delicious. 

May the Lord continue to bless us all, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

At the request of President Grant the congregation arose and sang two verses of the hymn, "Redeemer of Israel." 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

BENEFITS OF CONFERENCE 

It has been my great pleasure now for nearly forty years to be in attendance at the General Conferences of the Church. I count it a liberal education in the science of life to have had this distinguished privilege, not alone from the things that were said, but the spirit that prevailed during those many sessions has brought to me understanding, light and knowledge that I have prized most highly. I have observed that there has always been something suited for the occasion, for the times demanded certain instructions; and that those instructions were forthcoming at the conference, for the profit, the guidance and the blessing of the people. I am sure this Conference is proving to be full of fruitful benefit to the membership of the Church. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 57 

KINGDOM OF SATAN TO BE SHAKEN 

In the beginning of the foundation of this work the Lord said — I am reading from the hundred and thirty-second section of the book of Doctrine and Covenants : 

"Everything that is in the world, whether it be ordained of men, by thrones, or principalities, or powers, or things of name, whatsoever they may be, that are not by me, or by my word, saith the Lord, shall be thrown down. * * * 

"For whatsoever things remain are by me; and whatsoever things are not by me shall be shaken and destroyed." 

I read a statement similar to that in the Book of Mormon, Second Nephi, reading from the twenty-eighth chapter. Speaking of these days, which Nephi undoubtedly saw, full of all their peril and their trouble, he said: 

"For the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be stirred up to anger, and perish; 

"For behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good." 

He expressed the same thought in the last chapter of First Nephi, and I read as follows; describing these very events such as we are now passing through, he observed : 

"The righteous need not fear, for they are those who shall not be confounded. But it is the kingdom of the devil, which shall be built up among the children of men, which kingdom is established among them which are in the flesh — 

"For the time speedily shall come, that all churches which are built up to get gain, and all those who are built up to get power over the flesh, and those who are built up to become popular in the eyes of the world, and those who seek the lusts of the flesh and the things of the world, and to do all manner of iniquity; yea, in fine, all those who belong to the kingdom of the devil, are they who need fear, and tremble, and quake; they are those who must be brought low in the dust; they are those who must be consumed as stubble; and this is according to the words of the prophet." 

These marvelous declarations that the day would come, in the history of the world, when everything that was set up by man, that was not in harmony with God's will and purpose, would be shaken and destroyed, indicates a new epoch in the history of this world. 

As we look back over the hundred years that have passed since these prophecies in the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants were made known to us, we see evidences of the Lord fulfilling these very predictions; everything to be tested, to be tried and to be shaken, and only that which is the truth and that which was set up by the Lord shall survive. 

A CENTURY OF PROGRESS 

What marvelous things the Lord has been doing in the earth, outside of this Church! Next year, in the city of Chicago, there will be a centennial exposition celebrating the hundredth anniversary of the founding of that great city, for it was established three years after this Church was organized. It has been named "A Century of Progress." 

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

using the exact title of a very fine manual which the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association adopted in 1930. The exposition will set forth what has happened in human progress during the past hundred years. 

I was impressed recently by reading a book entitled "A Century's Changes in Religion," and the observation made that the last fifty years have shown greater changes in religious thought and practice than all the ages of time. But what changes have been wrought! What changes have occurred in the science and the arts! How human thinking has been modified! 

When Joseph Smith came forth declaring the restoration of this Gospel, with its clear-cut notions concerning the salvation of men, concerning the doctrine of deity, they were so diametrically opposed to every existing religious denomination that there is no wonder he had the hatred and enmity of religious bodies. But how the truth he taught has survived! Belief in miracles was necessary to accept Joseph Smith's statement, and that was not a miracle-believing age. But how the Lord has changed human thinking in these hundred years! 

Let me read two items that I secured recently. One of them is a statement which occurred in the very year that Joseph Smith received his first vision, the year 1820. 

J. R. Howard, former president of the American Farm Bureau Federation, and now head of the National Transportation Institute, stated in a recent address that back in 1820 the head of a school board at Lancaster, Ohio, wrote the following letter to one who had applied for the use of a school house for a debate on the practicability of the railroad and telegraph. Here is his letter : 

"You are welcome to use the school house to debate all proper questions in, but such things as railroads and telegraphs are impossibilities and rank infidelity. There is nothing in the Word of God about them. Tf God had designed that His intelligent creatures should travel at a frightful speed of fifteen miles an hour, by steam. He would have clearly foretold through His holy prophets. It is a device of Satan to lead immortal souls down to hell." 

Even as late as 1870, here is an item that appeared in a Boston newspaper : 

"A man about forty-six years of age, giving the name of Joshua Coppersmith, has been arrested in New York for attempting to extort funds from ignorant and superstitious people by exhibiting a device which he says will convey the human voice any distance over metallic wires, so that it will be heard by the listener at the other end. 

"He calls the instrument a 'telephone,' which is obviously intended to imitate the word 'telegraph' and win the confidence of those who know of the success of the latter instrument without understanding the principles on which it is based. 

"Well-informed people know that it is impossible to transmit the human voice over wires, as may be done with dots and dashes and signals of the Morse Code, and that, were it possible to do so, the thing would be of no practical value. 

"The authorities who apprehended the criminal are to be congratulated, and it is to be hoped that his punishment will be prompt and fitting, that it may serve as an example to other conscienceless schemers who enrich themselves at the expense of their fellow creatures." 

Have we made any progress in a hundred years? When my voice 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD 59 

is now traveling over radio — not over wires — to those of you who are listening, at the speed of light, one hundred and eighty-six thousand miles a second, almost eight times around this globe in one second — have we made any progress ? 

I listened to an international broadcast honoring America's greatest inventor, who passed away last year, Thomas A. Edison, celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the invention of the electric light; his voice coming instantly, and the voice of Dr. Einstein from Berlin, on the other side of the world, in the smallest fraction of a second. Then 1 fell to thinking of what had happened in the fifty years that I could remember, and I concluded that more human progress had been made in these fifty years than in all the ages of time; and I asked myself : Why have I been permitted to live to see more than all my fathers, back to the day of Adam, had seen, all combined together? 

THE HAND OF GOD MANIFEST 

Why this marvelous change, and how it has changed human thinking! Now we live in the age of miracles! There are a thousand of them that we see with our eyes. They are demonstrated, and yet we, many of us, cannot comprehend them. They are miraculous, and yet they are realities. 

How all this mighty flood of truth has been an ally to this Church, perhaps its greatest ally! But I count it all as having come from God. He was fighting the battles of truth. When it was his good pleasure, as Joel saw, the day would come when the Spirit of God would be poured out upon all flesh, and young men would dream dreams, and old men would see visions, the vision of the things of God. These were all his secrets. It was not that the age that preceded ours was lacking in intelligence, that they did not discover these marvels that have brought us such great human transformations. It was that God had not willed it. When the hour came that he was willing that a new order of things should be established in the earth, he unlocked the secrets he had held, and let man come to know them. 

Hence these have been our allies, for we find ourselves in no contradiction to any of these scientific truths that have come. We recognize the vast difference between the theories of scientists and the facts of science. I have failed to find this Church, or its teachings, in conflict with a single fact of science. 

GROWTH OF CHURCH 

It used to be said that Mormonism flourished where ignorance was most profound, but in the age of the world's greatest enlightenment there is no church on earth whose percentage of growth equals this Church. While others are losing ground, how we rejoiced to hear yesterday the report of the continual progress and growth of this Church, and that in the age of the world's greatest enlightenment! 

There was published in 1929 a volume entitled "The Story of Religion," and I read this regarding Joseph Smith and Mormonism; 

60 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"The incredible thing about Mormonism is that such a respectable religion could have been derived from such a disreputable person. Mormonism is barely a century old, and yet it is one of the most successful religions on the American continent. If we are to accept the dictum of Jesus, 'By their fruits ye shall know them,' we must rate Mormons high. There is no disputing the fact, however, that Joseph Smith, the undoubted founder of Mormonism, was not only a psychopathic case, but also a shrewd schemer whose ethical sense was poorly developed. 

"America has no better citizens than the Mormons. At first sight it is difficult to account for the evolution of present-day Mormonism from the teaching of such an erratic person as Joseph Smith. 

"There are several factors of importance, however, in the situation. In the first place, in spite of his visions and vagaries, Joseph Smith was undoubtedly a commanding and attractive personality. That fact has been testified to by friend and enemy. In the second place, there were elements of power and worth in Smith's message." 

We are making some progress, that we are counted to be among the most enlightened, and no religion more acceptable. Still they cannot understand how it could have come from such a disreputable person. How long shall we live until the whole truth shall be known, until out of the bigotry of that age that had conceptions such as I have just read to you, Joseph Smith shall yet arise gloriously, when the truth he taught shall be more fully understood by men ? 

We know that they had not understood him. They have not understood us. But we shall yet win the world to pay honor and respect to that prophet of God, and know that those who traduced his character did not tell the truth. So I rejoice in that which is happening. I rejoice in what God is doing today, for he is moving among the nations of the earth. 

HOPEFUL OF FUTURE 

Yes, I see him even in this depression, brethren. I know that greater human progress will be made in the future than in the past. I am looking for greater progress in the alleviation of the economic distresses of the world in the next ten years than the last hundred years have seen. The men of this age are awakening to the need of it. God is preparing for the coming of his Son, Jesus Christ. He would not come to a world that was in the condition this world was in a hundred years ago. Neither is he ready to come just yet. There are many things that must yet be clone in the battle for truth and right. There shall yet be wars, certainly : but out of each conflict, no matter how deadly, will come victory for truth and for human emancipation, for it is in God's program. 

You Latter-day Saints need not be afraid, if only you will continue to adhere to these principles that have brought us through in the past so successfully, and shall deliver us from the trials of the future. Do not become alarmed nor disturbed. It is said of human beings, when they are confronted with disaster, the great majority lose their heads and go temporarily insane. If a fire breaks out in a theatre, the majority of people will trample each other to death. How few there are that in the majesty of their souls arise to the occasion, undefeated, and walk out calmly! 

ELDER MELV1N J. BALLARD 61 

ADVICE TO LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

In this time of panic and distress there are many who lose their heads and rush on banks, to wreck them. That ought not to be a characteristic of the Latter-day Saints. They ought, in majesty and in peace and in self control, to be sane and not insane. There are those who lose their faith, some allow their spirit to be broken, and some even commit suicide. It should not be so with the Latter-day Saints. Our position should be to study our problem and discover what led us into our present difficulties. Then go to work, and see to it that we solve our problem and let not this lesson be repeated unto us. 

Let us not become ramblers. If we have failed in one place we need not go to the ends of the earth to try again. Right in the same community where you are you will discover another chance. You need not leave your farming occupations either. If you will be patient, and stay by the enterprises that you have undertaken, and practice self-denial, God will deliver you. The greatest losses are not financial. They are spiritual. Our financial losses will all be recovered if we will only be patient and see the hand of God working for the furtherance of his holy purposes. We have reached the day, thank the Lord, when his truth is triumphant, when it is going to succeed, the greatest day truth has ever known. 

TESTIMONY OF THE TRUTH 

My soul rejoices to be identified with the Church that has the truth. I am more interested in seeing the truth succeed than any organization to which I belong, but thank God, the organization to which I belong has the truth, and everything that has come forth in this age is demonstrating it. It will stand every test, and it will stand forever. 

God help us to be loyal to it, support it; there never has been an opportunity, in the history of this world, for the Gospel of Jesus Christ to really demonstrate its power, its virility and its strength. Now its day has come. Live our religion, arid let our light shine, and we shall see God's work going forward to greater and holier accomplishments than in the past. 

This is my testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, for I believe with all my soul that God has not deserted us, but he is moving forward to the accomplishment of his purposes. May they speedily be accomplished. May we keep the faith and be found with God's work in the day of its victory, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

As I stand before you this morning I find my mind still occupied by an ever recurring thought suggested by a conversation I had recently with some students, more particularly with one student, who within a day or so, came to inquire for guidance and to seek possible help. 

This particular young man was very much perturbed in his feelings. He had heard in one of his classes several imputations that seemed to 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

conflict with his ideas of religion. One of the latest, for an illustration, was this : His teacher had said that the principle of "Fasting is a relic of asceticism." I immediately asked him if he had ever thought that asceticism as related to fasting might be the prostitution of a worthy principle. He said he had never considered that phase of the question. 

ASSOCIATION WITH LEADERS AN INSPIRATION 

Before I comment further upon this conversation I desire to express a few thoughts in relation to the adequacy of this Church in supplying the needs of every human heart. An appreciation of the whole will make more impressive the importance of any particular part. I am happy that this one hundred and second annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints finds me in absolute harmony with the teachings and ideals of the Church. My confidence in the First Presidency as noble men and inspired leaders is secure. My association with the Council of the Twelve, with members of the General Sunday School Union board, with members of other general boards, with stake and mission presidencies, and with the priesthood generally throughout the Church is a constant source of inspiration and delight. 

CHRIST THE IDEAL 

The teachings and life of the Master never before seemed to me more beautiful, more necessary and more applicable to human happiness. Never have I believed more firmly in the perfection of humanity as the final result of man's placement here on earth. With my whole soul I accept Jesus Christ as the personification of human perfection — as God made manifest in the flesh, as the Savior and Redeemer of mankind. 

"He stands alone," as one has said, "in unapproachable grandeur. Nineteen centuries roll away, and his character so lives that he inspires millions of men with impassioned love. 

"Other men may seem to be children of their surroundings. He became what he was despite his surroundings, and he is the only one who can say, in truth : 'Do as I have done.' " His eyes looked beyond the present, peered into eternity, and comprehended the infinite. He is the image of God. 

Christ's gospel a perfect plan 

Accepting him as my Redeemer, Savior, Lord, it is but logical that I accept his Gospel as the plan of salvation, as the one perfect way to happiness and peace. There is not a principle which was taught by him but seems to me to be applicable to the growth, development and happiness of mankind. Every one of his teachings seems to touch the true philosophy of living. I accept them whole-heartedly. I love to study them. I like to teach them. 

Christ's church a comprehensive plan 

So it is with the Church which Christ has established. Since it is founded by the Perfect One, it follows that when properly interpreted 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY l 63 

it too approaches perfection. Every phase of it therefore seems to me to be applicable in some way to the welfare of the human family. When I consider the quorums of priesthood, I see in them an opportunity for developing that fraternity and brotherly love which is essential to the happiness of mankind. In these quorums and in the auxiliaries I see opportunities for intellectual development, for social efficiency. In the judicial phase of the Church I see an ample means of settling difficulties, of establishing harmony in society, of administering justice and of perpetuating peace among individuals and groups. In the ecclesiastical organization I see an opportunity for social welfare such as cannot be found in any other organization in the world. Thus do Christ and his Church become my ideal, my inspiration in life. I think it is the highest ideal for which man can strive. 

FAITH AN ANCHOR TO THE SOUL 

Such faith in the Great Teacher and in his Church I consider a safe anchor for young people to possess, especially during the formative period of their lives, and I freely take issue with any man who deliberately destroys such a faith without offering something better in its place; and I know of nothing else in the world that can even approach Christ's Church as an anchor for the soul. 

MORE FAITH NEEDED 

One great need in the world today is more faith, less skepticism, more confidence, less doubting. As Bruce Barton expresses it: "Faith in business, faith in country, faith in one's self, faith in other people, — this is the power which moves the world. And why is it unreasonable to believe that this power, which is so much stronger than any other, is merely a fragment of the great power that operates the universe?" 

FAITH SHOULD BE INCREASED NOT UNDERMINED 

Now, at the opening of my remarks I referred to my conversation with a'student because it illustrates two things : First : Insinuations made to the young who are yet undecided as to what are the most important things in life may shake the faith of youth, and "Youth without faith is a day without sun." 

Secondly, I cite that instance to bring home to us today the necessity of parents and officers in the Church teaching more earnestly and diligently the principles of life and salvation to the youth of Zion and to the world in order to keep the latter properly balanced through the formative period of their lives. 

"Our civilization is imperiled today," writes an American statistician, "simply because it is ill balanced. Our spiritual culture lags so far behind our material culture, in its development, that we have no adequate control over the latter. Our science, our education and our government can do much to help correct this lack in our spiritual development, but in the main this must be done, if done at all, by religion and by the Church, for religion is the creator and the conservator of our social ideals, and the church is their chief propagator." 

64 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The confidence and faith I have expressed this morning in the First Presidency, the Twelve, and others of my associates, as well as in the Gospel and especially in the Savior, applies also to the tenets and teachings of the Church. Every one when properly interpreted and applied has in it a saving power and blessing for all who will accept it. 

PRINCIPLES TO BE APPROACHED FROM PROPER VIEW POINT 

There is not time this morning even to mention further these various phases of the Church, each one of which will apply to the needs, to the education, to the peace of individuals. I should like to take, as an example, however, the principle already named. Considering this will illustrate also how even a teacher may himself become warped in his attitude toward what he might consider merely a dogma. You know there are occasionally men in the profession of teaching — as that is my profession I can speak plainly — who pride themselves on being iconoclasts; but unfortunately, when such teachers break their so-called images they supply nothing to replace them. They destroy ideals but offer no others, thus leaving the young boy in doubt and uncertainty. Such a one seems to me to be heaving anchor and starting out on the ocean of life before his course is even charted. It is well not only for church people but for educators everywhere when teaching the young to have in mind the three "C's" as well as the three "R's" mentioned so proverbially. By those three "C's" I mean character, conduct, citizenship. The teaching of religion in public schools is prohibited, but the teaching of character and citizenship is required. 

PRINCIPLE OF FASTING APPLIED TO HEALTH 

Every principle and ordinance of the Gospel may be attacked from one angle or another as a mere "ism," but it may also be considered as possessing elements of soul growth, beauty and sublimity. 

Consider for a moment this principle of fasting. It is as old as the human race and undoubtedly when first practiced was related to health. It is generally conceded that most people usually consume more food than the body requires. Overeating clogs the system with deleterious waste products. < (When such a condition exists a short fast is useful as a means of restoring the body to its normal active state. One authority referring to this says, "The great thing about the fast is that it sets you a new standard of health." And an eminent Scotch physician adds, "Fasting for a longer or a shorter period is often a beneficial practice especially in the case of those who have been living too freely." 

TO SELF-CONTROL 

But besides this there is the spiritual strength derived from the subjecting of the physical appetite to the will of the individual. "He who reigns within himself and rules passions, desires and fears is more than king." As in eternal life, so in self-mastery, there is no one great thing which a man may do to obtain it; but there are many little things by observing which self-control may be achieved. And a subjecting of 

ELDER DAVID O. McKAY 65 

the appetite to the will and a refusal to satisfy desire are two of these little things. Writing on this very question, the subjection of appetites and desires to the will, the psychologist William James admonishes "To do each day something which you do not like to do." If there were no other virtue in fasting but gaining strength of character, that alone would be sufficient justification for its universal acceptance. 

AS AN ECONOMIC BENEFIT 

But associated with this practice in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the giving of a fast offering, the underlying purpose and far-reaching benefits of which make the monthly observance of fast day one of the most significant features of this latter-day work. Besides the benefits already mentioned there are : First, all the spiritual uplift that comes from a Christ-like desire to serve one's fellowmen; and Second, an economic means which when carried out by a perfect and active organization will supply the needs of every worthy poor person within the confines of the organized branches of the Church. 

The regularly constituted fast consists of abstinence from eating two meals once each month. The value of these two meals is given as a voluntary donation for the relief of those who are hungry or otherwise in distress. Sincere observance of this rule means spiritually that the divine principle of service is expressed and the resultant promise of the Master is merited, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." 

Let us apply this principle to some local condition. Recently there was carried on in Salt Lake City, as in other progressive cities, a campaign to raise $155,000 to be used for charitable purposes. Suppose that at the beginning of 1931 everybody in this city had observed the fast for the special purpose of aiding the needy through the Community Chest. There are 140,000 people in Salt Lake City. That would be 280,000 meals a month. At an average cost of 10c a meal, $28,000 a month or $336,000 a year would be made available 'for the relief of the poor, or more than twice as much as was collected for this worthy purpose during this year. 

THE CHURCH TRIUMPHANT 

So you may take any phase of this Church and prove its potency in its particular field in the advancement of the individual, in the happiness and peace of the home, in the progress, safety, and perpetuity of society. 

God help us to contribute our might and influence to the perpetuation of the Church of Jesus Christ, of which we can truly say : "Persecution has not crushed it; power has not beaten it back; time has not abated its force; and what is most wonderful of all, the abuses and treason of its friends have not shaken its stability." May neither prosperity nor popularity hinder its progress any more than these other forces, and may teachers and parents unite in impressing youth particularly to be loyal to that which we know is good for humanity and contributive to eternal salvation, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

66 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The congregation joined in singing the hymn, "O ye mountains high." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Elmer F. Taylor, President of the Young Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. 


