10
Afternoon
06 10 1900
Elder George Teasdale. 

A fundamental principal of the Gospel— The "great and marvelous work" — How to receive a testimony — Union among the Twelve — The Law of Tithing. 

I am exceedingly thankful for the privilege of attending this conference, and I think we can congratulate each other for the great privilege that is vouchsafed unto us in the redemption that ha.s been made for us by our Redeemer. Jesus Christ said, "No man cometh unto me, except the Father draw him." The fundamental principle of the doctrine of Christ was that those who would do the will of the Father should know of the doctrine. Apostle James said: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be £iven him." We have tested these princiDles and I think we are highly favored in having the privilege of living upon the earth in the dispensation of the fulness of times, when the Gospel is restored. I have proved in my experience that if we will ask, the Father will answer. Before the Church was established upon the earth.  it was known that there was a Seer in the land, men went to the Prophet Joseph and asked him what the Lord desired concerning them, and it was told them that a great and a marvelous work was about to come forth, and that all who desired to take part in this work had the opportunity. The promise was given that if we would ask we should receive; if we would knock, it should be opened unto us; if we sought, we should find. At that time there was but one man upon the earth who knew that God lived, and the revelations that came unto him were very simple, easy to be understood. The Lord told those who desired to know His mind and will concerning them that it would be impossible for anybody to be engaged in this marvelous work save he was full of love and had faith, hope and charity, "being temperate in all things whatsoever shall be intrusted to his care." When the Priesthood was restored to the earth, those upon whom it was conferred were instructed not to exercise unrighteous dominion, but, with all long-suffering, patience, and love unfeigned, preach the restored Gospel, entreat and warn the people. 

The Gospel came to me in a very simple manner through a small tract — "The Only Way to be Saved." That, with the "Voice of Warning," gave me the first intelligence I had concerning this marvelous work. By the grace of God He led me into His Church, and gave me a testimony concerning this work. In my experience from that day to the present I have been enabled, in common with those who have taken the Lord at His word and have sought and found, to know that the work which we are engaged in is of God and that we are living in the dispensation of the fulness of times, and that this is the "marvelous work and a wonder" predicted by the Prophet Isaiah. In the 29th chapter of Isaiah we read: 

"Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men: 

"Therefore, behold, I will proceed to  a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder'; for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

It had a very small beginning. Two men— Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowd ery — were ordained to the Aaronie Priesthood by John the Baptist. They were ordained to the Apostleship by Peter, James and John. From that very small beginning, look at the wonderful work that our Father has doner This vast body of people here, in solemn assembly, members of the Church' of Jesus Christ, is evidence of what the Lord has done. The Latter-day Saints have come from all parts of the earth, in fulfillment of the prediction that the Lord would gather His elect from the north, and from the south, from the east, and from the west, and? deliver them from the hands of theenemy. What enemy? The prince of darkness. And God has given unto us a living testimony. We are not dependent upon others. We have been taught of God, and He has given us the knowledge that we have concerning; Him. For He is a God of revelation, and we know it. He promised that the signs should follow the believer, and they do. We know that it is by the grace of God that we have been put in possession of this knowledge; and in our experience and schooling, referred to by our beloved President in the opening of the Conference, we know that the Lord has sustained and is capable of sustaining us through all the vicissitudes of life and through all the persecution and ridicule we may have to meet. We know that He lives, and that He is a rewarder of those that diligently seek Him. I say therefore that we can afford to be charitable. We never would have known what to do if we had not humbled ourselves before the Lord and sought Him for knowledge. We had to be converted to believe that we would receive, if we asked in the proper manner. We were told to ask the living and true God, in the name of Jesus Christ, with humility in our hearts, and we would be answered. I know that that is true, for I asked and received. I know that the Church of Christ is a church of revelation, and that the spirit of prophecy is in the Church. Brethren are set apart to go upon missions and prophecies are made concerning them and their missions, and when they return they invariably tell . us that every word predicted was literally fulfilled. Who inspired those blessings? Our Father in heaven, by the power of His Spirit, for He is doing His own work. Man is a manifest failure without the Spirit of God. Take Paul for example, the great Apostle to the Gentiles. Under the dominion of the Prince of Darkness he was a rabid persecutor of the Saints. But when he was under the influence of the Prince of Peace, Light and Truth, he was a very different man. While operating by his own wisdom, he was striving to bring men and women into trouble because they dared to worship the living and true God and testify of a risen Redeemer; but when he was under the influence of the Spirit of God, he was more valiant for the truth. Those who are opposed to us and misrepresent us, what influence are they under? What good does it do them? They waste a great deal of time and talent in vilifying the people of God and trying to make them a "stink in the nostrils" of all people. Do we vilify those who do not believe as we do? No, we have charity concerning them. We lay before them the principles of the everlasting Gospel and plead with them to take advantage of it. We are the friends of the people, and we have traveled a great deal in their behalf. We are minute men. We go where we are sent. We are subject to our file leader. We sustain President Lorenzo Snow as Prophet, Seer and Revelator. We know .him, having been associated with him for a long time. He presided over the quorum of the Twelve and he was anxious to have us united as one man. He lias lived to see that union. He besought the Lord that this might be brought about, and the testimony which he bore yesterday shows that it has been fulfilled. He has only to express himself that he wishes us to do anything, and that is sufficient, because we love cur Father in heaven, and we are devoted to His work. Seven times I have crossed the Atlantic. I never went except  I was sent. I never ask any questions, only that I may be where the Lord wants me to be. For I am so thankful to Him for the glorious redemption He has wrought out for me, and I appreciate so much the knowledge that He has given unto me. To my mind He is the first consideration. I reverence my glorious Creator, and I worship Him in the name of Jesus Christ, as he hath appointed. 

I have a living testimony concerning this work and I persuade men to be reconciled to God, obey the Gospel, be kind to themselves, and make the record of a well-spent life. I show them the advantages that we have in being honored to assist in this marvelous work and a wonder. Who built the Temples in St. George, Manti, Salt Lake and Logan? Look at our meeting houses; look at our magnificent homes, Who has brought this to pass? Our Father in His glorious providences. If we cannot see and understand this, it is time that we had our eyes opened. He does not ask anything of us but what is consistent. I want to bear my testimony with regard to the law of tithing. I know that it is a correct principle. The Lord has done to me what He has said: "Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of Hosts, if I will not open to you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." In my experience I am a living witness that that is true. If any of us do not have this knowledge, it surely is a disgrace to us, because it has been decreed in the heavens from the beginning that whoso would do the will of the Father should know of the doctrine, and that redeems us from doubt, ignorance and from death. 

I rejoice exceedingly in these principles. I love my brethren. I love my President, and whenever he utters anything that he wishes me to do, by the grace of God, I hope to be able to do it. The only way that the Kinkdom of God will ever be established upon the earth is by giving- our hearts to God and by saying, "Father, thy will, not mine, be done." If we will listen to Him, keep His commandments, and walk humbly and faithfully before Him, He  lead us back into His presence in His glorious kingdom, through Jesus Christ, Amen.
