21
Afternoon
07 10 1900
John Nicholson, 

Clerk of Conference. Its Semi-Annual General Conference. 

The general semi-annual conference of the Sunday schools of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held at the Tabernacle Salt Lake City, Sunday evening, Oct. 7, 1900, at 7 o'clock. General Superintendent Geo. Q. Cannon presiding. There were present of the general superintendency, Geo. Q. Cannon and Karl G. Maeser; most of the members of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board, several of the Apostles, and a number of Stake superintendents, ward officers and Sunday school workers. The conference was opened by the Tabernacle choir, conducted by Prof. Evan Stephens, singing, "For the Strength of the Hills We Bless Thee." 

Prayer was offered by Elder John W. Taylor. The choir and congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation." 

General Secretary Horace S. Ensign called the roll, which was responded to by thirty-two Stakes and the Iosepa colony. 

GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

We desire whatever may be said this evening by those who shall speak to be said briefly and to the point. There are several subjects that will be brought before the meeting, and we desire to get through with our business so that we can dismiss at the proper time. 

It is very gratifying to see such a large congregation here this evening. It is an evidence of the interest that is taken in the great work of training our children in the principles that belong to our religion and of preparing them by proper instruction for the duties of life as Latter-day Saints. We have every reason to be encouraged. Every man and woman that Is engaged in  work throughout the Church has great cause to be encouraged at the results of their labors. The Sunday school work is prospering, and, it is enlisting, as it should do, the energy, the talent and the skill of a great many people who labor in this cause, prompted entirely by motives of love— love for the salvation of their fellows. 

I pray that while we are together this evening, we may have the Spirit of God resting upon us, and if there are any here who have any subject that they would like talked about, we would be glad to get hints from them, or have them come to the stand and mention it, so that the subject, if deemed worthy of attention, may receive some comment from the brethren of the Board. I ask God to bless us in the name of Jesus. Amen.
