22
Afternoon
07 10 1900
Elder John M. Mills. 

My brethren and sisters: As Latterday Saints we are all striving to the same end. Our duty here upon earth is to live in such a way that when we have finished our work here, we may go back into the presence of God. We have various organizations +o help us to this end, above all, we have a story to tell that no other people can tell; and unless we are ready and willing to tell that story, we are not doing our duty. We should not be of that class of people that Rousseau spoke of when he said, "Some men live to be a hundred years old who die at their birth." We ought always to be alive to do our duty; and if we do this we shall find that our work will be well accomplished and we shall reach the end we seek. 

The aim in a Sunday school is to make Latter-day Saints. If we are going to make Latter-day Saints of the children, we certainly ought to be Latter-day Saints ourselves. Teachers ought to live up to the minor duties. They should not delve into the mysteries. These minor duties form a good foundation for our characters; and if we work harmoniously in this respect, we shall be able to accomplish that which we desire. In our Stake conferences, which are held annually, it is necessary that all officers participate in that work; that representatives be sent from every Sunday school to the annual stake conference, in order that they may get the instructions that are given there, and take them back to the various districts from which they come. But even in this case, not all of the people in the Stake can go to the annual Stake conferences; and for that reason, in some Stakes, particularly in the Sanpete Stake, the Weber Stake, and the Utah Stake of Zion, there have been district conferences appointed, and in these district conferences the same work, largely, is taken up that is taken up in the Stake conferences. In these district conferences more people can be enlisted. All of the people of the district in which the conference is held, can attend, making comparisons and witnessing the exercises. The exercises to be rendered here are the best to be found in all of the schools of the district, and the superintendents, seeing these, may introduce many things which will improve their own schools. And a'lways only the best of the exercises of all the districts ought to be brought before the Saints in the Stake conference, and then the Stake officers, visiting all the district conferences, are enabled to see the work that is done in the various parts of their Stakes better than they can see it in the Stake annual conference; and the members of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board who visit the district conferences can see the work that is done in these various districts. In the central Stakes the work done in the district conferences has been very effective in rousing people to their duties, and this work would be even more effective in the outlying Stakes, if district conferences were held regularly. The general board would therefore urge the holding of such conferences. We have found in our visits to Stake conferences that in some cases there is a very poor representation from remote sections of the Stake. In some cases people have to come  fifty to a hundred miles to attend Stake conferences; and there are usually enough people in these remote parts to form good district conferences. Now if we will all be energetic in our work in the Stake conferences, and in the district conferences, and in our ward Sunday schools, we shall see unparalleled improvement in our Sunday school work. If we will live up to the minutest duties, there is no doubt that we will reach the great end in view. But although this is our duty; although we are expected to do all this work; although we are expected to go through this life and perform all our duties, still we have our own free agency. As officers and teachers we can do as we please. We should not stand in the road of the progress of the children placed under our charge. If we can't keep pace with the work of God, we should step aside, and let the great work go on. If we do wrong we shall have to meet the consequences of our wrong doing. If we do right we shall have our reward. 

"Know this, that every soul is free, To choose his life and what he'll be; For this eternal truth is given, That God will force no man to heaven. 

He'll call, persuade, direct aright — Bless him with wisdom, love and light — In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human wind. 

Freedom and reason make us men; Take these away, what are we then? Mere animals, and just as well The beasts may think of heaven or hell." 

Let us, then, brethren and sisters, be energetic in the great work the Lord has called us to perform through the authorities of the Church, and always be ready to work. I ask that the Lord will bless us in our endeavors, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
