23
Afternoon
07 10 1900
Assistant Supt. Karl G. Maeser. 

My dear fellow laborers, among the many features in the Sunday school work, the importance of concert recitation is, in some of our Sunday schools, not sufficiently appreciated, and I have been instructed by President Cannon to lay this matter before this conference. 

It is desired by the Sunday School Union Board that concert recitation be practiced in every Sunday school throughout our Union every Sunday, for five minutes or so, before the different departments disperse for their recitations, that all may be together, the theological, second intermediate, first intermediate and primary, and all have the benefit of the training of that particular feature. Many of our Sunday school superintendents do not appreciate the importance of this feature. A concert recitation has the tendency of photographing, so to speak, the subject on the minds of the scholars, so that they do not forget it. They are carried along with it, but it is not desirable to make the exercise monotonous by a too frequent repetition of the same subject. The Sunday School Union Board have recommended six subjects, to start with: The Lord's Prayer, the Ten Commandment, the Articles of Faith, the words by which the bread and the water of the Sacrament are consecrated, the Testimony of the Three Witnesses and the presentation of the Authorities of the Church as published in the Supplement to the Leaflets. These are six subjects giving material for six weeks in succession, one subject each Sunday. Then they can all be repeated three or four times without becoming monotonous and wearisome to the pupils. In regard to the Ten Commandments and the Articles of Faith, the Sunday School Board desires that the number of each of the Commandments and of the Articles of Faith should be repeated by the school — the "first" commandment, the "second," the "third," and so also, the "first" article, the "second," and the "third," and so on. It would be well if our teachers conducting the concert exercises would first familiarize themselves with the subjects. Do not stand before the class and make mistakes. As long as you cannot trust yourself, keep your card before you; but let the teacher try as soon as he can to stand before the class without a note, a book, or a card, so that he may set an example to the pupils. That is— what we want them to learn and know, we want to first learn and to know ourselves. There is this further benefit to be derived, a concert recitation harmonizes the minds of the 

 of the whole school, about in the same way as the singing does. It is a means of disciplining, harmonizing, and subduing the restless heterogenous spirits of which a school is composed. 

Objections have been made by many of our professional teachers to this concert recitation. They think that it is too mechanical. Let it be so. If we should not teach any religious prin-^ ciple to the children until they are capable of understanding it — if that principle should be adopted, there would be a danger of it leading our children away from the Lord. "We could not teach them to pray. We should not have the little child, three or four years old, kneeling at its mother's knee, saying its evening prayer. We do not catechise the child; we do not analyze the meaning of that prayer. We teach the child to repeat it, although it does not understand it thoroughly. If we should wait until the children understand all the prayer, we should not teach them to pray.nor teach them anything about God, nor the Ten Commandments, nor anything of the Divine nature, until they are fourteen or fifteen years old, when they would be weaned away and have no taste for Divine things. This is a wrong principle altogether. Teach them from the beginning. I could bear my testimony in regard to these matters, from my own experience. But keep concert recitations up, my fellow teachers, from one Sunday to another. Commence with those six subjects which the Sunday School Union has recommended. Perhaps a passage from the scriptures may be judiciously introduced by the superintendent once in a while. A passage of scripture, a short one, of two or three lines — not more — will occasionally answer for a concert recitation. Make your school familiar with good passages of scripture, with the sayings of wise men, of servants of God. These are the subjects suggested for concert recitation, and the more you practice these, the more good you will find growing out of it. 

A auestion is asked: "Is it preferable to repeat the same exercise in concert three or four times consecutively, or change the subject each Sunday?" If I have not been perfectly plain on that subject, I repeat what I wanted to say. Change the subject from one Sunday to another; otherwise it would be monotonous. One Sunday recite in concert the Lord's Prayer, the following Sunday the Ten Commandments, the next the Articles of Faith, and so on. There are subjects for six Sundays for them, and then take them over again two or three times, in order not to become monotonous. The children will thus be made quite familiar with them. Any superintendent may introduce other subjects, as for instance extracts from the Sermon on the Mount, verses from standard hymns of the Church, etc. 

APOSTLE HEBER J. GRANT. 

I will say that six months azo I tried to sing "O, My Father," and failed. I am going to try again, and if I fail tonight, I will try again each six months from now. (Brother Grant then sang the hymn, "O, My Father," through, with organ accompaniment by Prof. Stephens.) 

PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON. 

I think Brother Grant's perserverance in learning to sing is something very admirable. I suppose if some of us who have met with him in council and heard him join with us in singing had been asked if it would be possible for him ever to be able to do what he has done tonight, I think the universal reply would have been in the negative. But he has persevered, and I think it is as good an illustration of the success of perserverance as I ever met with or heard of in this Church; and I trust he will continue, for he takes great enjoyment in singing, and he certainly has made very wonderful improvement considering the difficulties he has had to contend with. 

APOSTLE HEBER J. GRANT. 

It is said in the Book of Doctrine & Covenants, that the Lord delights in the song of the heart, "yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." I love the hymn, "O, My Father." I love the hymns, "Come, come ye Saints," and "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet;" and if I lack the ability to sing them well, I do not lack the abil to appreciate and love the words, and I am determined to learn to pray to the Lord in the songs of Zion. My determination to learn is such that I have sung some of our hymns 115 times in one day. 

I have been appointed tonight to speak on Cottage Sunday schools. I wish to say to the Latter-day Saints that wherever there is opportunity to have cottage Sunday schools, and get our young people to attend, who are not now attending our regular Sunday schools, we want them organized. We want all the young people to have the benefits of attending school. We don't want a single, solitary one of our children neglected. We understand that people who are not of us are establishing schools in private homes. It is said that the Catholics boast that if they can have the children to educate until they are thirteen years of age, they will defy the world to turn them away from Catholicism. If they can make this boast, then if we as fathers and mothers and teachers in the Sabbath schools do our duty, we can defy the world to turn our little ones away from the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Even' missionary who is sent out into the world is instructed by the Apostles that, under no circumstances are they to baptize a man's wife without the consent of her husband, and under no circumstances are they to baptize children without the consent of the parents. We do not send men abroad to steal children from the people of the world; but the missionaries from the world come here, and they say, there is no need of getting after these old hard headed "Mormons," as we can do nothing with them, we will have to work with their children. Let the Latter-day Saints be alive and looking after every one of their children, and then there will be no danger of their being stolen; and one of the best ways is to have these cottage Sunday schools where there is no opportunity for our children to get to the regular Sunday schools. God bless you. Amen.
