24
Afternoon
07 10 1900
Elder Joseph W. Summerhays. 

Last Friday evening there was quite an important meeting held in this city. At that meeting there were very many topics discussed in regard to Sunday school work; and. by the way, the  was composed of the Deseret Sunday School Union board, the superintendents of stakes and their assistants and aids. 

Before the close of the meeting, a question came up as to the advisability of buying out the Juvenile Instructor, that the Sunday School Union board might own it. Of course you understand that George Q. Cannon & Sons have sold out their publishing business to the Deseret News. Some of the brethren at this meeting in question, thought the time opportune to buy out the Juvenile Instructor, that it might be owned by the Union. The question was discussed, and we had already bought it without asking President Cannon anything about it. But finally he talked to the meeting, and he said that he thought, too, that the time was ripe for the Sunday School Union to own the Juvenile Instructor. And upon the motion of one of the brethren, a committee was appointed to confer with President Cannon, and see if terms could be made looking to its purchase. This committee desire me to say tonight that since that meeting on Friday evening, they have been working looking to the end that the Juvenile Instructor might become the property of the Union. We cannot report in full tonight as to the outcome of our labors; but we are quite sure that the deal will be consummated, and we hope to have all our plans matured so that we can report to you at the coming convention, and perhaps the deal will be consummated then. President George Q. Cannon has met us more than half way as far as we have gone, and he has told us he is not a hard man to deal with, and I think we will be able to consummate this arrangement. If we do, then I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that we want you to support that paper as loyally in the future as you have in the past. We would have you bear in mind that the Deseret Sunday School board is not the Sunday School Union. If this paper is bought and we continue to publish it. it will be published by the Deseret Sunday School Union, and every superintendent and every teacher and every boy and every girl conected with the Sunday schools of the Church belong to that union, and therefore we expect  support. Also, while we haven't got President Cannon's consent yet, we expect he will consent to remain the editor of the paper. We will report further on this at the coming convention. 

The committee on convention also desire me to report that everything is working along harmoniously, and we believe that we will have a good time. We expect to welcome you just as heartily, we expect to feed you just as well, we expect to have just as good a program, and I want to say to you, if you will each come with as much of the Spirit of God with you this time as you did last — and I am quite sure you will — you will enjoy yourselves individually and collectively, and the convention will be a great success. We feel on behalf of the committee to say this to you. 

Elder John Robinson sang in his usual sweet style, "Grant us Thy peace." 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

Here is a question: "We have but one baptizing day in each year in our Stake. Thus we nearly always have children over eight years old in our schools that are not baptized." This I think to be a very great mistake. I believe in this Stake of Zion there is a baptizing day in each month, and all the children that reach the age of eight years, and all others who desire it, may be baptized, without waiting any longer than one month. We think it is all wrong that children should be kept for nearly a year after they are eight years of age before they are permitted to be baptized, and we would recommend to all the Bishops and to the presidents of all the Stakes, to institute the practice of baptizing once in each month in all the Stakes, and as far as possible in all the wards, so that all the children may be baptized, when they are eight years old, according to the commandment that is given to us in the revelation. We think that the parents as well as the Bishops should take very great pains in carrying out the instructions that are given us in the revelations respecting the proper teaching of their children in the first principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and in faith in God, and in His Son, so that they may be prepared for baptism when they are eight years old. Amen.
