26
Afternoon
07 10 1900
Apostle Francis M. Lyman. 

It is delightful to meet with so many people who are interested in the Sunday school cause. I do not know of a better cause in connection with the work of the Lord, and it embraces, directly or indirectly, all the Latter-day Saints. There are none so aged, nor hardly any £»o young, but they are interested in the Sunday school cause. It has become popular, because everybody favors the work, and everybody seems willing to do their part. This cause has been very materially benefited by the organ spoken of here by our brother, the Juvenile Instructor, and I don't know but what we have come to feel as though it was our organ already. It  always been the organ of the Sunday schools, and it has always seemed to ' me as though it was ours; and whatever it lacks of being ours, it will come to be fully ours in the future, under the same management or control, sofar as its editorial department is concerned, as it has been in the past. "We are well agreed, I believe, all that have heard the subject mooted, that it is very desirable that the organ should belong to us, that we should own it, if we are able to make the terms to suit President Cannon, and I have no doubt we can. There are 120,000 people who are workers, teachers or pupils, in this organization; that is, about one-third of all the Latter-day Saints are included in this great movement. It has its branches and departments in every ward and in every mission everywhere— except the cottages, and now the proposition is to take it into the cottages, that is, to the homes of the people— some of their homes— so that the Sunday school is so accommodating that if you cannot go to the Sunday school, we'll take the Sunday school to you, just as has been done with conferences. The general conferences, stake conferences, ward conferences, and all other kinds of conferences among the people are taken to the people in order that all the people may be benefited. And in the Sunday school is embraced all mutual improvement work, all the primary classes, all the religion class members, everybody is included. That is the reason the house is full here tonight. It takes everybody in. And those that it has not already taken in, it is willing to take in in the future. We are determined to have it so arranged that everybody shall be interested: that parents shall be interested in their children, by their own attendance also, and the benefits of the Sunday school cause will be found on every hand. We bespeak, as we have done in the past, for the Sunday schools the" right of way (if that is the proper term), for the Sunday morning:, that all Sunday mornings shall be devoted to the Sunday school cause, and that nothing shall interfere, or at least as rarely as can be arranged. President Cannon has been as jealous for the Sunday School Union, and more so, than he ever has  the Juvenile Instructor. He has always stood up and guarded the cause, and he has been listened to, and the Presidency of the Church, the general authorities, have always been willing that the Sunday schools should have the Sunday morning, and then other times for conferences, such as are needed, so that every encouragement is given that can be given by the general authorities. I believe, too, that the Bishops are very attentive as a rule to the Sunday schools. We hear of nothing hardly placed in the way of the Sunday school cause at the present time. Since the schools have been graded and departments established, we do not need auite as many teachers as we used to, and we find the schools well supplied with able men and women. The Sunday school is taken care of very much by the single sisters in the Church. They are very devoted and faithful. I do not know of any class of people that can possibly be more attentive and faithful than the young ladies have been throughout the Church. And the young men are laboring, and the Sunday school cause is popular because everybody takes hold of it and gives it encouragement. 

I pray the Lord to bless you, my brethren and sisters. There is no one that needs to feel that the work is not great enough, good enough and important enough for his missionary service; and we want, to see the cause advocated until every child in Zion that belongs to Latter-day Saint parents, and every child that is not otherwise occupied by other people, in other Sunday schools is welcomed as a scholar to our schools. And our schools are converting. They are converting and they are baptizing, not without the consent of the parents at all, but they are baptizing and bringing members into this Church, and they have been doing it for twenty-five years. When I was in England, I remember, quite a number of people were baptized in the Nottingham branch, through the Sunday schools; and this cause is accomplishing a wonderful work in Zion. It is accomplishing a wonderful work throughout the world; and there is no people, I think I may safely say, that has made the start,  that are so firmly and fully established in the Sunday school cause as the Latter-day Saints. I think there is nothing in the world to compare with it. We challenge the world to show us anything to compare with what we have accomplished. May the Lord bless and sustain us in the future as He has done in the past, that our cause may be altogether successful. 

President Smith wants to know if I want to say something in regard to secular songs in the Sunday school. I have never heard of them, brethren; I have never heard of them in the Sunday school. They do not have them in the Sunday school; and I believe I never heard of but one sacred concert for the benefit of Sunday schools. And that was the last one; there will never be another. I did hear a sacred concert proposed for Sunday evening, in order to raise means for the missionaries who were in the field abroad. But when it was suggested that it would be better to hold it on another night, the brethren and sisters all took to it in a moment, and it was well advertised and made a very great success, and made money; but it was on Monday night instead of Sunday night. We cannot be too careful to instil into the minds of the young people the sacredness of the Sabbath day, that it should be kept holy, and that they may appreciate the sacrament that the Lord has commanded to be administered on the Sabbath day; that they may appreciate it and enjoy it, and realize the value of partaking of it, and keep the Sabbath day holy. That is one of the very important parts of our Sunday school work, and I believe it is accomplishing its purpose in that regard. The Lord bless you, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
