Morning
05 10 1900



PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

OPENING ADDRESS. 

Glorious prospects of the faithful— Necessity for personal knowledge as to their source— Philosophy of trials— Care exercised in the selection of presiding officers— Examples of Christ and Job. 

Brethren and Sisters, I feel to rejoice greatly in having this opportunity of meeting with you this morning and to deliberate upon all such things and talk about them, as may pertain to our present condition and secure our future prospects. When this Gospel— these principles which we have espoused— came to our ears in the different countries and nations where they found us, of course they opened up to us certain prospects— prospects that relate to the present time, and to present time matters, of the highest consequence in relation to our temporal salvation; and again, prospects in reference to the future; what should be the outcome of keeping the commandments of God; what should follow; what should be the results when we have accomplished these things that are required of us; what would be the results in the next life. 

Now, so far as regards our temporal advantages and our temporal prospects, they certainly must be far superior to any that were before us before this Gospel reached us; before the offer of salvation saluted our ears. In the days of Noah the Gospel which we have espoused was proclaimed to the people of his generation, and the same prospects as are presented to us were presented to them, temporal advantages, temporal salvation, and spiritual exaltation and glory; and the circumstances were of that character that every person that listened to the voice of Noah could receive clear manifestations, satisfactory knowledge, that what he said came from the Almighty. Now when we received these principles it was clear to us, I presume, that we actually received assurances, the most perfect assurances, that what was said to us, was actually of the Lord, that the parties that brought us these principles were actually inspired from the Most High. The nature and character of the work that each one would necessarily have to perform, the circumstances that would surround us and the trials and temptations to which we had to be exposed, would require a perfect understanding, not through the teachings of these individuals that proclaimed to us these principles, but actual manifestations and assurances that should come from the Lord, either by extraordinary faith or by a perfect reception, physical and spiritual, of the Holy Spirit, a baptism of the Holy Ghost, as was promised in former days to those that should receive the Gospel. 

I dare say that the people that are before me this morning have learned that it was an absolute necessity to have a perfect understanding, and an understanding that could only come directly from the Lord. It would not be satisfactory simply to turn over the leaves of the New Testament and to see that these principles were in accordance with those preached by the Apostles of old, but to have this knowledge come directly to themselves from the Lord. Now, I say this in order that if there are any Latter-day Saints, who have not advanced to this knowledge and can not see and understand clearly that they have espoused the principles of salvation and exaltation and glory, and that directly from the Lord, it is time they were about receiving this information. 

"We are not through with our labors yet, although we have got through a great many of them that have been considerable of a trial to us, and temp, perhaps, have been to some of us of a nature that almost amounted to a disposition to turn away from the principles that we had received. The trials and temptations have been very great to many of our people, and more or less, perhaps, to all of us. The Lord seems to require some proof on our part, something to show that He can depend upon us when He wants us to accomplish certain things in His interest. The reason is that the condition in which we will be placed in the future, as time passes along, as eternity approaches, and as we move forward in eternity and along the line of our existence, we shall be placed in certain conditions that require very great sacrifice in the interests of humanity, in the interests of the Spirit of God, in the interest of His children and our own children, in generations to come, in eternity. Jesus Christ the Son of God was once placed in a condition that it required the highest effort in order to accomplish what was necessary for the salvation of millions of the children of God. It required the highest effort and determination that had to be exercised before the Son of God could pass through the ordeal, the sacrifice that was necessary. 

I believe that his Father had educated him, had passed him through scenes that were of a very serious character, of great trials, and he knew just what he could depend upon from the facts that were illustrated and shown by his experience. We place men here from time to time in positions of presidents of Stakes, as Bishops of wards. We are called upon sometimes to take into consideration whom we will place in this Stake or that Stake of Zion to preside over us. Perhaps there are fourteen thousand members, Latter-day Saints, in that Stake, or there may be fifteen or twenty thousand, and the prosperity of the people of that Stake, to a certain extent anyway, depends upon the qualification of 'that president. 

How can we determine in order to make the proper selection? How are we to determine so as to make a wise selection, in placing the responsibilities upon a man that we nronose to take this position? The people of  Stake are greatly concerned; they want a good man; they want a wise man; they want a man that by night and by day will think how he can best improve them, make them happy, place them in circumstances that will be agreeable, and advance them. "We look around to find a man that we feel has a thorough interest in the people, and that is a wise and a good man, and it is well that we should. That is our business— to look after the interest of the Saints, and to place suclvmen before them to look after their interests as will be faithful in their calling and will be unselfish, and will not spend their time in any other direction than that which pertains to the general advancement of those they are appointed to look after. Is it possible that we sometimes make a mistake and get the wrong man? Well you perhaps should be the judges. But I can tell you one thing, surely, that we use our best efforts to find the proper man. How do we do it? We send somewhere about eighteen hundred missionaries to the nations of the earth. We keep about that number of missionaries in the different nations. We appoint men here at home, we place responsibilities upon them, large responsibilities. We look over the history of these men. Perhaps this man was a Bishop. Well, how did he act and perform his duties as a Bishop? Did he devote himself to the interest of the people of his ward or was he trying to make himself wealthy? Was his mind devoted to saving what he could for himself and in enhancing his own individual interests and that* of his wife and children and neglecting the interest of the people of his ward? How is it? We inquire around. We get the history of the man, his past experiences He has had several calls here and there. Did he answer those calls? Was he called as a missionary to leave his wife and his children and go to the nations to be gone two years or three years or four years, as the case may be? And did he go, or did he say: "Oh, no; I would like to go very well, but my circumstances are not quite so pleasing or advantageous as they ought to be under such circumstances in order that 

I might go; I cannot go and leave my family very well." 

Did he make these excuses, and how has he been all along the path of his life for the past few years or for many years as the case might be? We judge the man not always by his looks or appearance; not always by hearing him preach a sermon; but we judge him by what he has done or failed to do in the past. That is just the way the Lord intends to do with you or me exactly. We will be judged according to what we have done or what we have failed to have done all along the line of our experiences. When Jesus was placed in a condition where acting in propriety or otherwise confronted him; when he saw before Him the cross and the immediate prospects of being placed upon it and of his undergoing those excruciating: tortures that he had seen others experiencing, then his nature failed as it were and he said: Father if it be possible that this experience or this cup pass from me, let it pass. 

That is the way he told the Lord. But notwithsanding, he said: If this cannot be done, Thy will be done, and not mine. So he was placed upon the cross and suffered that excruciating torture.. Supposing that he had failed, the nations of the earth and the people of the Lord, his sons and daughters, would have failed to be put into the position of having the opportunity that you and I have today. They would have failed for a long time, to say the least. Of course the provisions would have been made and the work of the Almighty would have been proceeded with, but there would have been a halt there. But the Lord knew just what he could depend upon, and therefore, he selected that son of His, our Savior, Jesus Christ, and he has wrought out that great work of redemption for the human family, the living and the dead. 

Now brethren and sisters, what have these principles we have espoused done for us? Are you satisfied? I am, perfectly and fully satisfied. I have gone through a great many things that were very unpleasant, far from being agreeable, all along the line, and I do not know how much further or what else will be required of me of this character; but I am satisfied with what the Lord has done for me and what I expect He will do in regard to my temporal affairs, temporal salvation, and also in regard to the future. 

My hopes in reference to the future life are supremely grand and glorious, and I try to keep these prospects bright continually; and that is the privilege and the dut" of every Latterday Saint. I suppose I am talking now to some Latter-day Saints that have been sorely tried and they have thought sometimes, perhaps like the Savior felt, that he had no friends, that his friends had all gone; and -everything was going wrong, and everything was disagreeable, and his circumstances were continuing to get worse and worse, and those that he depended upon for assistance failed perhaps to render the assistance expected, and all that sort of thing. Likewise everything sometimes becomes dark to us and we almost forget the relationship that we stand in to the Lord and begin to feel as though it was not what we expected. 

I wonder if there are a few here within the sound of my voice that have feelings of this kind, like old Job had, for instance. A poor man who wondered why his children were taken from -him; why his herds were destroyed and why his houses, his dwelling, went up in flames, and why he was left without anything. He formerly was a very wealthy man, then was left without anything. Well, his friends came about him. They were supposed to be friends. They were friends formerly. They came about him and wanted to show him that these evils came upon him because he had failed to do his duty in the past; because he had committed some sin. That was the kind of ideas that they communicated to him. But there was nothing of the kind. It was not so. They were vastly mistaken. The Lord had a certain position in which He sought to place Job in the future at some future time when years and years had rolled away perhaps, and he wanted to try him. He wanted to educate him so that he would not complain, no matter how illy he thought himself treated ~by the Lord. That was a glorious trial of Job's It has come down in history; his experiences and his trials, and  has been a wonderful consolation to the people of the Lord to read the history of his experiences and his trials and how well he passed through them. 

The religion that we have received, the principles of exaltation and glory that you and I have received, bring upon us persecution, or else they are not those principles which we thought they were. They bring upon us trouble upon the right hand and upon the left, but we should seek to be calm and cool as Job learned to be calm and cool under circumstances of the most uphappy character. We should learn to do this and there are things that are provided for us by which we can learn this. Think now of how much worse you and I might be, and then think of what superior blessings we actually possess. We know that in the future after we have passed through this life, we will then have our wives and our children with us. We will have our bodies glorified, made free from every sickness and distress, and rendered most beautiful. There is nothing more beautiful to look upon than a resurrected man or woman. There is nothing grander that I can imagine that a man can possess than a resurrected body. There is no Latter-day Saint within the sound of my voice but that certainly has this prospect of coming forth in the morning of the first resurrection and being glorified, exalted in the presence of God, having the privilege of talking with our Father as we talk with our earthly father. 

What a glorious thing! You will know no prison walls, your friends turning away from you, your being dispossessed of your property, being driven from your home, being cast into prison, being defamed. These things do not hurt you one particle. They do not destroy your prospects, which are still glorious before you. And then we should understand that the Lord has provided, when the days of trouble come upon the nations, a place for you and me, and we will be preserved as Noah was preserved, not in an ark, but we will be preserved by going into these principles of union by which we can accomplish the work of the Lord and  ourselves with those things that will preserve us from the difficulties that are now coming upon the world, the judgments of the Lord. We can see, as we read in the newspapers, that they are coming upon the nations of the ungodly; and they would have been upon us if we had stayed among the nations, if the Lord had not inclined our ears and brought salvation to us, we would have been as they are. 

Brethren and sisters, I feel to say God bless you. Here are my counselors. We are one. We are united. We do not quarrel with each other. We speak well of one another because we ought to do it, and we think we are worthy of being well spoken of by each other. And here we have twelve men sitting in front with us — Twelve Apostles, There are many of these that you know. You know them from hearing what they have accomplished. You have a personal acquaintance with some of us. Now they are with us heart and soul. We are united together. We do not quarrel with each other. We do not slander one another, but we go where counsel requires and we are heart and soul together. What for? Not to make ourselves rich, not to make ourselves wealthy, but to see what we can accomplish in the interests of the people, and we are laboring continually to see what we can do. We come together every week and we talk about what we can do for the people. What can we do for these forty-two or forty-three Stakes of Zion? Are some of the presiding Elders, some of the presidents of these Stakes, getting too old to administer to the people? Are some of them neglecting their interests? We talk these things over. We study and consider them. We try to ascertain what they are doing and what their feelings are and how they manifest them in the presence of the people. Are they working for themselves? Are they trying to see how much money they can get into this bank or the other, or are they engaged heart and soul in doing what should be done in their respective responsibilities? Well, we are not idle in these things. 

You will have a number of speakers here during this conference, you  probably have in the neighborhood of Twenty speeches here. When the brethren arise to speak yovt. should ask the Lord to let them say something that you want to know, that they may suggest something tayou that will be of some advantage. If you have any desire to know certain matters that you do not understand, pray that these brethren in their talks may say something that shall enlighten your mind in reference to that which troubles you, and we will have a grand and glorious Conference, a better one than we have ever had before. Strange as it may appear, our last Conference always seems the best, and may this be the case; and you brethren and sisters, let your hearts rise up to the Lord and exercise faith while our brethren are talking to you. We will not be disappointed, and you will not go home, you will not retire from this Conference, without feeling you have been greatly and abundantly blessed. Amen. 

ELDER REED SMOOT. 

Spirit of Union among the Presidency and Twelve—Indebtedness is bondage — Labor should be created for the young— Beneficent results of tithe- paying— Avoid Procrastination. 

I am truly grateful to our Heavenly Father for this privilege of speaking at our Semi-annual conference to the Saints of the Most High, and I shall claim an interest in the opening prayer made by Brother Young, that the Spirit of the Lord will attend those who address this congregation. I shall alsoask you, my dear brethren and sisters, to give me your faith and prayers, as requested by the Prophet of the Lord; for I have had experience enough in speaking to the Saints to know that without their faith and prayers and the assistance of the Spirit of the Lord, I can say nothing that will be of interest to the people. I have no desire in my heart to say aught this morning but that will be for the benefit of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I am of the opinion that there is not a soul present in this vast audience but can say that the Lord has truly blessed them in more ways than one since our last conference. I am thankful that the principles of the Church to which we belong are so broad that they not only cover our spiritual welfare, but extend farther and cover our temporal welfare. As President Snow referred this morning' to our material interests, I wished to myself that the people of this Church knew the true feelings and desires of the Presidency and Twelve Apostles of this Church with regard to the material interests of every member of the Church. I bear testimony to you concerning what President Snow said in regard to the unity that exists among the Presidency of this Church and the Twelve Apostles. Unity and love truly exist with them, and I would that the same spirit extended to every member of the Church. My belief is that if that unity and love existed among all the people, together with a determination to do only that which God requires, the power of the Church and of the members thereof would be so far-reaching that all hell and the devil himself could have no power over this organization. I do not believe that the love, union and determination of the Presidency and Twelve were ever greater since the Church was organized than at the present time. Our desire is to do nothing but that will advance the interests of the Church and Kingdom of God. We want the people to be prepared for the coming of the Son of God — which I say to you, my brethren and sisters, is nearer than many of us anticipate. 

I ask you, my brethren and sisters, to be prayerful and humble, and to seek the same spirit that the Presidency and the Apostles have; and I promise you that you shall have a testimony that they are working for your interest and for the advancement 6f the Church of God upon this earth. The quorum of the Twelve Apostles visit every Stake in the Church. They go into the homes of the people; they listen, not only to the complaints of the people, but also to the desires of the Saints, and they know the true feelings of their hearts, they know their virtues and their short-comings. I do not believe, therefore, that there are any better capable of judging as to what the members of this Church require than the Apostles and the Presidency of the Church. Moreover, they labor to this end, to advance not only the spiritual wel of the Saints, but also their temporal interests. There is scarcely a. day passes without some of them meeting together to consider matters of great importance to the people, and among them none greater than the salvation of our youth. These questions are talked over and the brethren become familiar with and instructed regarding them, and then they go forth to teach the people how to avoid many conditions and evils that are existing, some of which have been so trying to the souls of the Later-day Saints. 

I desire now to mention one thing that has brought sorrow to many a home, and that is, so many Latter-day Saints running in debt and not knowing how to get out of it. It is my hope and desire that the warning which has been sounded among the Stakes of Zion for the last year or more, advising the Saints to keep out of debt, and those who are in debt to get out as soon as possible, will be heeded by the Latter-day Saints; for I tell you that to an honest man there is no bondage controlled by human laws upon the face of the earth greater than the bondage of debt. I trust that the note of warning which has been given by the Apostles in all the Stakes of Zion, at the quarterly conferences, will be heeded by those who are in debt and by all people. Ask God's blessings upon your efforts in this direction, and at the same time remember the Lord in your tithes and your offerings, and He- will bless you and so shape your circumstances that relief will come unto you who are in debt. And when you are relieved, do not go in debt any more. The improvement made by the people in this regard during the past six months is marvelous, from all I hear, and I pray God that this improvement will continue until the time shall come when not only the Church will be absolutely out of debt, but when each of the members of the Church will be able to say, "I owe no man a dollar that I cannot pay." Then when we are in this position, whatever call may be made upon us or wherever we may be called to go by the servants of the Lord, we can say that we are ready to go and fulfill the call without being under obligations to anyone; we can perform  duty that God requires at our hands, because we are free. How much better this would be than to be in the position that some of the brethren are in at present. President Snow reported this morning that some who were called on missions replied that they had a desire to go, but their circumstances were such that they really could not leave. These "buts" are put in a great many times when they have no right to be put in by men holding the Priesthood of the Son of God, who are supposed to be minute men and ready to go anywhere when called. 

I also desire this morning to call your attention to the early days of this great commonwealth of ours. Allow me to refer you to the memory of that great man, President Brigham Young, and to some of the fundamental principles pertaining to our temporal welfare which he taught so strongly. One thing that he advocated long and loud was that the people should place themselves in a position to create labor for their sons and daughters. Are we doing this? I am afraid that we have almost forgotten that there was such a principle advanced. Who taught home manufacture more than President Brigham Young? Who preached oftener and stronger and put his money into those institutions more than did President Brigham Young? We are raising young men by the thousands in this fair State of ours, and do we ever stop to think what they are going to do for a living? I hope my brethren and sisters, that we will think of this, and that we will, so far as possible, establish such industries here as will give employment to our youne- men and young women. I also feel that the fathers and mothers of this Church should begin to realize the importance of instructing their boys to prepare themselves for future life by learning some kind of trade. Our boys, as a rule— and I think that the parents are at fault in many instances — seem to drift along without caring anything about the responsibilities of life, or thinking of how they are goiner to fulfill the requirements that will be made of them as husbands and fathers. They do not stop to consider these things. I want to say that this is not an undeveloped country now as it used to be, not has it unlimited homesteads for all  comers, and we ought to begin . to think what our sons and daughters, especially our sons, are going to do for a living in the future. Take almost every institution that is started now by the people here, where skilled labor is required, and do we find Utah boys at the head of the different departments? Take, for example, the Provo Woolen Mills. Can I get a Utah boy to start in the dye room and learn the trade, and stick to it until he knows every requirement of this department? No, I cannot. The result is, we are compelled to send east to get a man who has lived in a community where it was absolutely necessary for him to learn every detail of the business, in order to take charge of that department, and it is so with other departments. I hope we will begin, as fathers and mothers, to see our responsibility in regard to our children, and take care that they learn a trade. So far as I am personally concerned, if I were possessed of millions of money I would desire every son of mine to have a trade at his fingers' ends, so that if everything were swept away from him he could fall back on his trade and make an honest living. I wish that every son in this fair State, and especially in this Church, was in this position. 

I had a young man come to me a short time ago and ask for an explanation of some remarks he had heard Brother Grant make concerning tithing. He said that at a meeting the other day he had heard Brother Grant express the belief that a man who paid his tithing honestly— one-tenth of all God gave him— would be better prepared to meet his obligations with tjf.e nine-tenths and it would go further than the whole, and he did not believe it. He said he came to me as one who had studied financial matters, and would like to have me explain how ninety cents could go farther than one dollar. I thought a minute or two and then decided to take his own case for an example. I asked him if he would object to my taking his own case to prove to him the truth of what Brother Grant had said. Certainly not, he said. All right, said I, I will prove to you by your own acts that what Brother Grant said was an absolute fact, and I believe it is so in nine hundred and ninetynine cases out of a thousand, if not in every case. I then remarked to him, "I was going- to a conference not long ago, and I saw you out driving on the Sabbath with a two-seated rig, at a time when you ought to have been at meeting." "Yes," he said, "I remember." "What did you pay for that rig?" I asked. "It only cost me four dollars," he replied. "What are vou getting a month?" "Forty-five dollars a month." "Then," said I, "this would almost have paid your tithing on your wages for that month and you could have claimed the blessings of the Lord instead of breaking the law of God pertaining to the Sabbath." I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters, that the law of tithing is not a question of dollars and cents alone. I believe that the man who pays his honest tithing to God will not only be blessed by God himself, but that the nine-tenths will reach farther than would the ten-tenths if he did not obey that law; for the man who believes in the law of tithes and offerings, believes also in the other requirements made by God of him, and he does not spend money in breaking the Sabbath day, nor in going to places where his very soul is in danger of partaking of things that are not good for a Latterday Saint to receive. I testify as Brother Grant testified; I testified to that young man that I believed what Brother Grant had said, and he was compelled to say that he had never thought of it in that light before. Brethren and sisters, there are thousands of dollars spent by the people in breaking the Word of Wisdom more each year than all your cash tithing amounts to. This vast sum is sent out of this State and for what? Not for the necessities of life, but for articles the use of which cause the people to break a commandment that God has given us. Let us remind ourselves of the positions that we hold. Let us understand what we are— that we are members of the Church of Christ, that we are the children of God, that we have a special work to do here, and that the Priesthood which has been given us has been given for a purpose. We should realize the importance of, this authority, and labor to the end  we will not do anything contrary to the spirit of God or the laws of thi9 Church. 

There is another thing with our young people, as well as the people generally, that I desire to call you attention to and that is, procrastination — putting off till tomorrow what we ought to do today, and thinking that we will live our religion a little better next year. The old saying that to travel by the road of bye and bye will reach the home of never, is just as true today as it ever was. Let us live our religion today. Let us do the duty of today. Let us pay our tithes that we owe today. Let us do everything required of us today, and not put it off for some future time. 

My testimony to you, my brethren and sisters, is that this is the Church of God; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Living God; that his successors down to and including President Snow have been called of God, and that they have given the people the word of God. I hope and trust that this same testimony will be so strong in the hearts of every member of this Church, and especially in the hearts of the young men and young women, that no matter what trial or temptation may come in our way, we can say, Thy will, O Father, be done, and not mine. If we get in this position this Church will grow and increase, and we will be blessed, not only spiritually, but in every way that God can bless a son or daughter of His. To this end I ask God's blessings upon the Church and upon the people, and may peace and plenty be yours forever, with a glorious salvation in the kingdom of God, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RUDGER CLAWSON. 

Growth of the spirit of Union— Building of Temples and vicarious work for the dead— Thoughts and desires of the Paints should be directed to their ancestors— Valuable suggestions upon this subject. 

Brethren and sisters: I have greatly rejoiced in the remarks that have been made to us this morning, and in the spirit of union alluded to by President Snow. I can testify that, so far as I have been able to observe, the most perfect union exists among the First Presidency and Twelve;' and so far as  observation has gone, I can also testify that there is a spirit of union and harmony among the First Seven Presidents of Seventies, and with the Presiding Bishopric, and with the Patriarch, and with very many, if not all, of the Stake presidencies, the Bishops and counselors of wards, and the presidencies of quorums. And I believe that this spirit of oneness and union is growing upon the Latter-day Saints. Therein is the strength of this Church. 

There is a subject that is very near to my heart, and I would like to say a few words upon it this morning, if the Spirit of the Lord shall give me freedom of speech; otherwise I should wish that it might be taken entirely from my mind, because I desire to speak to the Saints only that which the Lord desires I should speak, and which will be most suitable for the occasion. I will first read from an address to the Saints by the mighty prophet of these latter times, the Prophet Joseph Smith. These were his words: 

And again, verily thus saith the Lord, let the work of my Temple, and all the works which I have appointed unto you, be continued on and not cease; and let your diligence, and your perseverance, and patience, and your works be redoubled, and you shall in no wise lose your reward, saith the Lord of hosts. And if they persecute you, so persecuted they the prophets and righteous men that were before you. For all this there is a reward in heaven. 

And again, I give unto you a word in relation to the baptism for your dead. 

Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you concerning your dead: When any of you are baptized for your dead, let there be a recorder, and let him be eye-witness of your baptisms; let him hear with his ears, that he may testify of a truth, saith the Lord: 

That in all your recordings it may be recorded in heaven; whatsoever you bind on earth, may be bound in heaven; whatsoever you loose on earth, may be loosed in heaven; 

For I am about to restore many things to the earth, pertaining to the Priesthood, saith the Lord of hosts." 

In another place: 

"Now the nature of this ordinance consists in the power of the Priesthood, by the revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein it is granted, that whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Or, in other words, taking a different view  the translation, whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven; and whatsoever you do not record on earth, shall not be recorded in heaven; for out of the books shall your dead be judged, according to their own works, whether they themselves have attended to the ordinances in their own propria persona, or by the means of their own agents, according to the ordinance which God has prepared for their salvation from before the foundation of the world, according to the records which they have kept concerning their dead. 

It may seem to some to be a very bold doctrine that we talk of — a power which records or binds on earth, and binds in heaven. Nevertheless in all ages of the world, whenever the Lord has given a dispensation of the Priesthood to any man by actual revelation, or any set of men, this power has always been given. Hence, whatsoever those men did in authority, in the name of the Lord, and did it truly and faithfully, and kept a proper and faithful record of the same, it became a law on earth, and in heaven, and could not be annulled according to the decree of the great Jehovah. This is a faithful saying! Who can bear it? 

And again, for the precedent, Matthew xvi, 18, 19, "And I also say unto thee, that thou art Peter: and upon this rock I will build my Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it; and I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." 

Are not these most glorious words, my brethren and sisters? Even in those early days of the Church the Prophet Joseph Smith was exercised very greatly concerning the temples of the Lord, so much so, that the word of the Lord came to him, and from him to the people, that they must not cease the work of His temple, and all the works which He had appointed. Special stress was laid on this subject of the temple. The spirit of temple-work has rested down upon the Latter-day Saints from that day until this, and I doubt not will rest upon them with great 

power from now until the morning of the resurrection, and from the morning of the resurrection until the thousand years of the Millennium have expired. This spirit will grow stronger and brighter with this people. Was it not upon President Young and the Pioneers? Almost the first words he uttered concerning this land were made upon this block, when, striking his cane upon the ground, he said, "Here we will build a temple of God." How glorious^ ly that prediction has been fulfilled! That Temple has been erected, though he did not live to see its completion— a monument to the faith, the determination and the good works of the Latter-day Saints. Not only is there a Temple on this block, but there is one at St. George, one at Manti, and one at Lo-an. And shall we cease building Temples? No; other Temples will be built. There is a reason for this. 

Strangers come into our midst, and they gaze upon the Temple. In many instances they say it is a magnificent building, a great accomplishment to have been commenced in the early days of the settlement of this country and to have been carried on at such vast expense until finally completed. It certainly was a great accomplishment. But, my brethren and sisters, the value of that building is not in its outward appearance, not in the expense that has been put in it, not in the beauty of its architecture, nor in the richness of its furnishings. The value of that Temple is in the ordinances which are performed therein for the living and the dead. 

The keys of this great power of binding and sealing, referred to by the Prophet Joseph Smith, are with us. That power breaks down the barriers of the grave. By it both the living and the dead are made to stand before the Lord as if there were no such thing as mortal time. Moreover, the dead are made equal with the living. Glorious thought! Do we not see that God is no respecter of persons? The man who lived upon earth in a time when the light of the Gospel had been extinguished, and who therefore lived in ignorance of the Gospel, will not be consigned to endless misery because he did not accept an opportunity that never came to him, but the mercy and justice of God will reach out to that man and he will have the opportunity in the other life. Therein is the virtue and force of the binding and sealing power. It reaches into the spirit world to every soul, no matter how humble or obscure that soul has been on earth. The^ light of the Gospel will break in  him, and there will be a time ip. the other life for repentance and reformation. Then shall the people of the earth go forth in the temples of God and do a vicarious work for those behind the veil, as the Savior of the world has done a vicarious work for us all. We will taste of the fruits of His great work in our salvation; so will the dead receive the good fruits of our work in their behalf in the temples of God. 

Is it not time, brethren and sisters, that our minds should run back and be interested in the fate and condition of our ancestors? Shall we not be interested in every soul that has passed away? Must_ not the chain be made complete, and the dead be connected with the living, and the living with the dead? Otherwise, we shall be rejected as a church; for the Apostle has told us that we without them cannot be made perfect, nor they without us. 

Some thoughts have come to my mind in relation to this great and glorious subject, and these thoughts have relation to the missionary work of this Church. We are calling upon many able-bodied young men to go forth and proclaim the Gospel of salvation to the nations of the earth. This glorious duty and privilege is today resting upon the young men of Israel. But there are many who are not in a position to accept a call of this kind. Many are deeply engrossed in the affairs of life in a way perchance that they cannot be spared to take upon them this great responsibility. Then there are those who are so advanced in years that it would not be wisdom for them to go forth and proclaim the Gospel. Must it be said of them that they shall be denied the privilege of becoming saviors upon Mount Zion, because of the infirmities of age and the engrossing cares of life? No, it shall not be so said. There is a chance for them. If they cannot go forth into the world to win souls unto Christ, let them go forth into the temples of God and spend a portion of their time in working for the salvation of the dead. I believe that the soul of one who is dead is just as precious in the sight of God as the soul of one who is living. Need the father say to his family, "There-is not rmich-.ojpportunity now-for  to do good; my days of usefulness are past." No; your days of usefulness are still with you; your opportunities are still present; go forth and perform this great labor. 

But it Will be said by many in the Church that their employment or their business connections are such that they cannot give any time to temple work. What shall be done in such cases? Men are spending their whole time, not alone in providing for themselves and their families the comforts of life, but to accumulate means and build up a fortune. This is being done by hundreds of Latter-day Saints; for God is blessing and multiplying His goodness upon the peo, pie, and the windows of heaven are. opened unto us, until many are becoming rich in this world's goods. Is it not so? If you do not believe it, go to some of the Stake conferences and see the expensive vehicles that are tied all around the meeting house. Do people walk to meeting any more? Not except they live within a half a block of it or so. If they live a mile or a mile and a half away, they never think of walking. And they do not need to walk; for God has blessed them with horses and carriages, by means of which they can ride to meeting in comfort. They are being blessed in all their affairs and multiplied exceedingly, until it has come to that condition that some of our brethren in the Church hardly know what to do with their means. 

The question with them is. Where shall we invest our riches? Put money in the sugar factory? Yes, by all means, because it is a good investment; it pays a good dividend. It did not pay a good dividend when the Presidency of this Church were urging the people to take hold of the industry and contribute of their means to establish it. They could not see it then; but now they can see it, and sugar stock can hardly be purchased at present, it is so desirable. However, as I was saying, the people hardly know where to put their savings. 

Now, I want to tell the men of means among the Latter-day Saints of a good investment; where they can place some of their means to bring  in a hundred per cent. Find me an investment in this country today that pays twelve per cent, or perhaps fifteen per cent, and I will point out to you a most splendid enterprise. But this investment that I allude to will pay one hundred per cent, and never fail. What is it? Lay up some of your treasures in heaven. Invest with the Lord. Put some of your means into His temple. 

If you are so busily employed in looking after your material interests, which are so vast and varied that it takes all your time, send your son to the temple, and support him while he works there for you. If you have no son, perhaps you have a good neighbor, a man of God, who has no means of his own and no employment; send him to the temple, and provide well for him while he is there; look after his bodily wants, and let him work for your dead and save your ancestors. 

Perhaps you will tell me that you have no list of your ancestors; you have not even a single name. I take it that that is no excuse. If you cannot do a work for your own dead, do a work for your neighbor's dead. Assist that poor man across the way who has perhaps hundreds and thousands of names, but has no means and no way of having them officiated for, and verily you shall in no wise lose your reward. When an Elder is sent into the world to preach the Gospel, if circumstances are favorable, he goes first to his relatives and acquaintances, and then he preaches the Gospel to the world. So we must labor at home. If we cannot get information concerning our own dead, let us expend a portion of our means, if we have any, for the salvation of the dead of others. In this we will manifest the spirit of true charity. 

As it is at present, we find that in some instances brethren are building up fortunes for their children to quarrel over and spend when they are gone. We know by experience that we cannot take these things with us from this life, and the result is. all we accumulate of this world's goods is left behind, and trouble generally arises among children over such things. 

I am reminded of an occurrence that is said to have actually happened. One of our rich brethren died, and after a time his spirit returned to earth. He visited a friend, and this is the language that he used in speaking to that friend: "What a fool I have been. I spent days and weeks, months and years upon the earth in accumulating means, and I was abundantly successful. I built up a big fortune, and then I was called away. I passed into the spirit world, and left it all for my children to quarrel over. "What a fool I have been." 

Is there not a text in his words? It might have occurred to that man, while he was talking to his friend, that he could have founded an institution of learning, or endowed a hospital, or better than that, he could have created a temple fund; that is to say, he could have provided amply for each one of his children, and with the remainder, or a goodly portion of it, could have created a temple fund, to be used for the salvation of the dead; and had the fund been sufficiently large, the interest only, and not the principal, might have been expended to save his dead and the dead of others. Perhaps the thought occurred to him that if he had done this, while his body rested in the grave and his spirit dwelt in the spirit land, the means that God had given him on earth would be doing a great and glorious work and perpetuating his memory upon earth. This is one way in which we can perpetuate our memories. 

It seems to me that this is a most glorious subject to contemplate. And not only shall the brethren be saviors upon Mount Zion, but the sisters, too, shall share in this glorious work; for they can go to the temple and assist in officiating for the dead. The sisters as well as the brethren shall have credit on the books for their share in this grand work. Brethren and sisters, here are the temples before us. Now let me ask the question, Who shall be worthy to go into them and to do the work that I have indicated? You know something of the power and sacredness of the work; you know something of this binding and sealing power; you know  great responsibility of exercising that power. I ask you, Who shall be worthy to go into these temples? We have been told by our Prophet and President that the man who does not pay his tithing in this Church shall not have access to them. Not that he shall be coerced, not that he shall be frightened, by this saying of the President's; but simply because he is unworthy to go into the temple. If he violates this great commandment of God — the law of tithing— then he is not worthy to receive and participate in the blessings of the House of the Lord. It is a simple proposition. The Bishop shall not recommend him; the president of the Stake shall not recommend him. They cannot do it. It would not be pleasing in the sight of God. And they who violate the other commandments — and! there are many who disregard the authority of the Priesthood, who slight the counsels of the servants of God, and who will not give ear to their teachings — are not worthy to go into the house of the Lord and officiate for the living and the dead. And that shows a very close connection between the living and the dead, between this world and the other world; for you can scarcely mention the work for the dead, except you shall say something concerning the living; and you can scarcely speak of the living, except you shall say something concerning the dead. 

I believe that God speaks to us as if we were in eternity, and that whenever He gives a commandment or a law unto this Church, it is done as if there were no such thing as death or a veil dividing us from His presence. His laws are permanent and eternal in their nature; they are binding upon this world and upon the world to come; they are binding upon the living and binding upon the dead. 

As I have said, this is a glorious theme for contemplation, and could not be exhausted in a sermon a month long. God bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang: 

All hail the glorious day, By Prophets long foretold. Benediction by Patriarch John Smith. 
