Afternoon
06 10 1900



ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. 

Saints cannot plead Ignorance as an excuse — A constant effort necessary— The Lord does not expect impossibilities of His children— What the Lord requires of His people i* the Word of Wisdom— Encouraging home industries. 

I rejoice exceedingly in having the opportunity of again assembling with the Latter-day Saints in general conference. I have listened with much interest and pleasure to the remarks that have been made thus far, and while I stand before you I most earnestly desire that the same good spirit that has inspired the remarks of the previous speakers may be with me. There is no other desire in my heart than that I may be able to say something that shall be beneficial to those who listen as well as to myself, and which may be calculated to strengthen our determination to serve the Lord. I believe that every true Latter-day Saint desires to know the mind and will of God and to have the strength of character to perform, in the daily walk of life, those duties that will tend to advance the cause of God upon the earth. If we have not this desire in our hearts, then we are not true Latter-day Saints. 

We have the commandments of the Lord before us in the written word, and from time to time we have our minds refreshed by the outpouring of the Holy Spirit upon those who are called upon to preach to us. There is therefore no excuse for the Latter-day Saint who does not keep the commandments of God. We cannot say that we do not know what our duties are, because they are fo often and so forcibly brought to  minds by those who speak to us. I realize that it requires a constant effort on the part of each and every one of us to make a success of our lives. It requires no effort at all to roll down the hill, but it does require an effort to climb to the summit. It needs no effort to walk in the broad way that leads to destruction; but it needs an effort to keep in the straight and narrow path that leads to life eternal, and we are told that but few find this path. The all-important thing for you and me is to discover whether we are walking in the straight and narrow r path that leads to life eternal, and if we are not, wherein have we allowed the adversary to blind our minds and to cause us to depart from that path w r hich will lead us back into the presence of God? Each one should search his own heart to find out wherein he has failed, and then he should diligently seek unto our heavenly Father for the assistance of His Holy Spirit, that he may come back into the straight path. By the assistance of our Heavenly Father there is no obligation and no law in the Church that we cannot fulfill. The Lord will give us the strength and the ability to accomplish every duty and labor that rests upon us in an acceptable manner in His sight. The only question is, have we the disposition? I heard yesterday of a Bishop who said that he could not give up drinking coffee. I do not believe that that man tells the truth. I think he lacks the disposition to try and give up the habit. I believe emphatically in the statement of Nephi. If there is one character more than another whose history is recorded in the Book of Mormon who has inspired me with respect and with a desire to follow in his footsteps, that character is Nephi. When he came to his father's tent, after conversing with the Lord, his elder brethren were complaining against their father because he had asked them to go back to Jerusalem for the plates of brass. They said that he required a hard thing of them. But when Nephi came, his father blessed him because he did not murmur. The record says: 

"And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father, I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing- which he commanded them." 

This is the spirit that should animate every Latter-day Saint. 

They went up after the plates and were driven out. The elder brethren desired to go back to their father; but Nephi said unto them, "As the Lord liveth, and as we live, we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us." They then gathered up their gold and their silver and their precious things and went up once more to try to get the plates. Laban stole their wealth and tried to destroy them. Nephi's brethren commenced to murmur again, and they took a rod and beat him with it. As they did so an angel of the Lord stood before them, and he commanded them to go up again, promising that God should deliver Laban into their hands. I call the attention of the young men and young ladies to this, for I have heard many of them say, "Oh, if I could only see an angel, I would believe and forever after be faithful." The seeing of an angel amounts to nothing, unless you are keeping the commandments of God. No sooner had the heavenly messenger departed than these elder brethren, who were lacking in faith and did not keep the commandments of God, commenced to murmur, and instead of having faith in the promises of the angel, they said unto Nephi, "How is it possible that the Lord will deliver Laban into our hands? Behold, he is a mighty man, and he can command fifty, vea, even he can slay fifty; then, why not us?" Did this discourage Nephi? Did he lack faith? No; he believed in the promises of the angel of God, and he said unto them, "Let us go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be faithful in keeping the oommandments of the Lord; for behold He is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens of thousands?" They went up and were successful. 

God has commanded the Latter-day 

Saints to keep His commandments. Ever since I can remember we have had preached unto us what our duties and obligations are. Well do I remember, when a boy, hearing President Brigham Young.in the conferences that were held in the old bowery, teach the Latter-day Saints their duties and obligations. I say as Nephi of old said, that God has required nothing at our hands save He will prepare a way whereby we can accomplish it. What does God require at our hands? He requires that we shall overcome our selfishness; that we shall be honest in our dealings with Him, and that we shall pay an honest tithing. I want to make a little explanation here with regard to my remarks that were quoted by Brother Smoot. Any young man who would go around and make the statement that I said ninety cents would pay more debts than one dollar, simply states what is not true. It is like hearing a man say, "I killed John Jones in self-defense," and then quoting him as saying, "I killed John Jones," and leaving the "self-defense" off. I say to the Latter-day Saints that God will bless the man who is honest with Him, and that the nine-tenths will go further and will bring down upon his head the blessing of God more than though he robbed God and kept the ten-tenths. That is what I said, and I repeat it. 

I have heard taught to the Latter-day Saints all my life that they should obey the Word of Wisdom; and I say that a Bishop, a father of a ward, who so far forgets his duty and the example which he should set as to break the Word of Wisdom, is unworthy to occupy that position; and if he does not repent, it is only a question of a short time before his resignation will be tendered to him, and he will have to accept it. The day is gone by when the Lord will trifle with the Latter-day Saints. He has said that His Spirit shall not always strive with man. In the very first section of the Book of Doctrine and Covenants the Lord says: 

"For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance; 

"Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven; 

"And he that repents not, from him  be taken even the light which he has received, for my Spirit shall not always strive with man, saith the Lord of Hosts." 

We have been letting- out High Councilors and Bishops that were failing to keep the commandments of God, and there will be more of them let out unless they repent. It is a disgrace for a man blessed with the Priesthood of God and with a testimony that God lives burning in his heart, to be so weak that a little insignificant cup of coffee is his master. How he must swell up in vanity when he thinks what a wonderful man he is that a cup of coffee is his master! The example is pernicious. 

Now we desire that the Latter-day Saints shall be free from the bondage of debt. The Prophet of God has sounded the key-note to the people, "Pay your obligations, and do not go in debt." We pray to God day after day to bless and prosper the Latter-day Saints, and then we squander our substance in breaking a commandment of God. There is today more money spent in breaking the Word of Wisdom than there is paid in cash tithing by the Latter-day Saints. Very few of the people stop to reflect upon what good that money would do in helping their brothers and sisters to pay their obligations. The Apostle James says that faith without works is dead. 

"What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? 

"If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, 

"And one of you say unto them, depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? 

"Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone." 

The prayers do not amount to much of those Latter-day Saints who pray for the Lord to bless and prosper the Saints that they may get out from the bondage of debt, and who at the same time go on squandering their substance in breaking one of the commandments of God. What does money do? Why a dollar of money has the same effect as a drop of blood in the human body. It is a circulating medium. It goes over  over and over again. We find that the heart of man beats, on an average, about seventy-six times every minute, and that it handles four ounces of blood every time it beats. In other words, it handles nineteen pounds a minute. Multiply that by sixty, and you will find how much it handles in an hour. Multiply that by twenty-four, and you will find how much it handles in a day. Over twelve tons! I have figured this out since I have been sitting here on the stand. Over twelve tons in twenty-four hours, and yet there is only about eighteen pounds of blood in the human body; but it goes over and over again. It is exactly the same with a dollar. It is calculated that every dollar does at least twenty-five dollar's, worth of work in a year, and I haveknown it to do more than that in a single week. Now we spend nearly a million dollars a year in breaking the Word of Wisdom, and every dollar of that money goes out of this country. God said that the Word of Wisdom was given to the Latter-day Saints for their temporal salvation, and I say that if we had obeyed it we would be the richest people in this inter-mountain country, because the millions upon millions that we have spent since we came here in; breaking the Word of Wisdom would? have stayed right here in this country, instead of being sent away as it has been, and we would have had more wealth than any of the intermountain States if we had obeyed this simple commandment. 

I know that the policy of President Brigham Young in advocating to the people that they support home manufacture and keep their money at home to build up the country, is the true policy for the Latter-day Saints to follow. I wear home-made clothes. I have done it ever since I was a little boy. Why? Because I believe it isbetter for this community that I paytwenty dollars for a suit of clothes than that the wool be sent East and bring only one dollar back. 

I believe it is better to have the nineteen dollars circulating around here. I heard Bishop Farrell some years aero in the Assembly Hall tell a very good story on home manufacture. He said he believed in home manufacture because it benefited him as well as other people. He said that when he was coming down to conference he met at the depot a brother to whom he owed five dollars for making some shoes for his children. He gave this brother the live dollars, and he turned around and handed the money to another brother whom he owed, and he handed it to another, and he handed it to another, and the fourth brother came up and handed it back to Brother Farrell, saying "I owe you six dollars, here is five of it," and Brother Farrell put the money back into his pocket. That money paid five hundred per cent in debt there in just about the same length of time that it takes me to tell the story. But if the Bishop had bought the imported goods it would not have paid the five hundred per cent, because it would have gone out of the country. I went to a negro minstrel show once, and there were about ten or fifteen on the stage. One of them rushed in with his hat off and said, "which of these here niggers am lost two dollars?" holding up a two dollar bill. There hadn't any of them lost two dollars. "Well," he said, "if none of you have lost it, I found these two dollars right by the door here and it is my money." They said all right, and he put it in his pocket. No sooner had he got it in his pocket than up jumped a nigger and said: "Look here, George Washington Jones, you owe me two dollars; pay your honest debts!" He handed the two dollars to him. Another nigger jumps up and says: "Look here, Julius Cseser Brown, you owes me two dollars; pay your debt." He got it, and in this way it went clear round. When the last man got it, up jumps George Washington Jones, and says: "Here, give me back the two dollars; you owes me two dollar^ ' No sooner had he got it in his pocket than & fellow rushes in and said "which of you niggers has found two dollars?" George Washington Jones took it out of his pocket and said: "Here, take your money and go home; we've all paid our debts." 

I desire that the Latter-day Saints should all pay their debts. One reason why I desire this is, I am in debt myself and I want to pay my debts. I want to live to see the day when I shall owe no man anything. I want the Lat-day Saints to not only pray for me but to keep a little more money in the country so that I will stand a better chance to get some of it. If they will . keep the commandments of God and do less praying, I will be obliged to them. I believe in the saying of the Savior: 

-He that hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me! and he that loveth Me shall be loved of My Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him." 

If we keep the commandments of God He will love us, and the Savior will manifest Himself unto us. If we fail to keep the commandments of God, there is no promise made to us. The Savior said: -Not every one that sayeth unto me Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven." It is the keeping of the commandments of God that causes men to grow and to become strong and powerful in the Church and kingdom of God. God bless you all. Amen. 

Sister Judith Anderson sang, "Flee as a Bird to Ton Mountain." 

ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE. 

A fundamental principal of the Gospel— The "great and marvelous work" — How to receive a testimony — Union among the Twelve — The Law of Tithing. 

I am exceedingly thankful for the privilege of attending this conference, and I think we can congratulate each other for the great privilege that is vouchsafed unto us in the redemption that ha.s been made for us by our Redeemer. Jesus Christ said, "No man cometh unto me, except the Father draw him." The fundamental principle of the doctrine of Christ was that those who would do the will of the Father should know of the doctrine. Apostle James said: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be £iven him." We have tested these princiDles and I think we are highly favored in having the privilege of living upon the earth in the dispensation of the fulness of times, when the Gospel is restored. I have proved in my experience that if we will ask, the Father will answer. Before the Church was established upon the earth.  it was known that there was a Seer in the land, men went to the Prophet Joseph and asked him what the Lord desired concerning them, and it was told them that a great and a marvelous work was about to come forth, and that all who desired to take part in this work had the opportunity. The promise was given that if we would ask we should receive; if we would knock, it should be opened unto us; if we sought, we should find. At that time there was but one man upon the earth who knew that God lived, and the revelations that came unto him were very simple, easy to be understood. The Lord told those who desired to know His mind and will concerning them that it would be impossible for anybody to be engaged in this marvelous work save he was full of love and had faith, hope and charity, "being temperate in all things whatsoever shall be intrusted to his care." When the Priesthood was restored to the earth, those upon whom it was conferred were instructed not to exercise unrighteous dominion, but, with all long-suffering, patience, and love unfeigned, preach the restored Gospel, entreat and warn the people. 

The Gospel came to me in a very simple manner through a small tract — "The Only Way to be Saved." That, with the "Voice of Warning," gave me the first intelligence I had concerning this marvelous work. By the grace of God He led me into His Church, and gave me a testimony concerning this work. In my experience from that day to the present I have been enabled, in common with those who have taken the Lord at His word and have sought and found, to know that the work which we are engaged in is of God and that we are living in the dispensation of the fulness of times, and that this is the "marvelous work and a wonder" predicted by the Prophet Isaiah. In the 29th chapter of Isaiah we read: 

"Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men: 

"Therefore, behold, I will proceed to  a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder'; for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

It had a very small beginning. Two men— Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowd ery — were ordained to the Aaronie Priesthood by John the Baptist. They were ordained to the Apostleship by Peter, James and John. From that very small beginning, look at the wonderful work that our Father has doner This vast body of people here, in solemn assembly, members of the Church' of Jesus Christ, is evidence of what the Lord has done. The Latter-day Saints have come from all parts of the earth, in fulfillment of the prediction that the Lord would gather His elect from the north, and from the south, from the east, and from the west, and? deliver them from the hands of theenemy. What enemy? The prince of darkness. And God has given unto us a living testimony. We are not dependent upon others. We have been taught of God, and He has given us the knowledge that we have concerning; Him. For He is a God of revelation, and we know it. He promised that the signs should follow the believer, and they do. We know that it is by the grace of God that we have been put in possession of this knowledge; and in our experience and schooling, referred to by our beloved President in the opening of the Conference, we know that the Lord has sustained and is capable of sustaining us through all the vicissitudes of life and through all the persecution and ridicule we may have to meet. We know that He lives, and that He is a rewarder of those that diligently seek Him. I say therefore that we can afford to be charitable. We never would have known what to do if we had not humbled ourselves before the Lord and sought Him for knowledge. We had to be converted to believe that we would receive, if we asked in the proper manner. We were told to ask the living and true God, in the name of Jesus Christ, with humility in our hearts, and we would be answered. I know that that is true, for I asked and received. I know that the Church of Christ is a church of revelation, and that the spirit of prophecy is in the Church. Brethren are set apart to go upon missions and prophecies are made concerning them and their missions, and when they return they invariably tell . us that every word predicted was literally fulfilled. Who inspired those blessings? Our Father in heaven, by the power of His Spirit, for He is doing His own work. Man is a manifest failure without the Spirit of God. Take Paul for example, the great Apostle to the Gentiles. Under the dominion of the Prince of Darkness he was a rabid persecutor of the Saints. But when he was under the influence of the Prince of Peace, Light and Truth, he was a very different man. While operating by his own wisdom, he was striving to bring men and women into trouble because they dared to worship the living and true God and testify of a risen Redeemer; but when he was under the influence of the Spirit of God, he was more valiant for the truth. Those who are opposed to us and misrepresent us, what influence are they under? What good does it do them? They waste a great deal of time and talent in vilifying the people of God and trying to make them a "stink in the nostrils" of all people. Do we vilify those who do not believe as we do? No, we have charity concerning them. We lay before them the principles of the everlasting Gospel and plead with them to take advantage of it. We are the friends of the people, and we have traveled a great deal in their behalf. We are minute men. We go where we are sent. We are subject to our file leader. We sustain President Lorenzo Snow as Prophet, Seer and Revelator. We know .him, having been associated with him for a long time. He presided over the quorum of the Twelve and he was anxious to have us united as one man. He lias lived to see that union. He besought the Lord that this might be brought about, and the testimony which he bore yesterday shows that it has been fulfilled. He has only to express himself that he wishes us to do anything, and that is sufficient, because we love cur Father in heaven, and we are devoted to His work. Seven times I have crossed the Atlantic. I never went except  I was sent. I never ask any questions, only that I may be where the Lord wants me to be. For I am so thankful to Him for the glorious redemption He has wrought out for me, and I appreciate so much the knowledge that He has given unto me. To my mind He is the first consideration. I reverence my glorious Creator, and I worship Him in the name of Jesus Christ, as he hath appointed. 

I have a living testimony concerning this work and I persuade men to be reconciled to God, obey the Gospel, be kind to themselves, and make the record of a well-spent life. I show them the advantages that we have in being honored to assist in this marvelous work and a wonder. Who built the Temples in St. George, Manti, Salt Lake and Logan? Look at our meeting houses; look at our magnificent homes, Who has brought this to pass? Our Father in His glorious providences. If we cannot see and understand this, it is time that we had our eyes opened. He does not ask anything of us but what is consistent. I want to bear my testimony with regard to the law of tithing. I know that it is a correct principle. The Lord has done to me what He has said: "Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of Hosts, if I will not open to you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." In my experience I am a living witness that that is true. If any of us do not have this knowledge, it surely is a disgrace to us, because it has been decreed in the heavens from the beginning that whoso would do the will of the Father should know of the doctrine, and that redeems us from doubt, ignorance and from death. 

I rejoice exceedingly in these principles. I love my brethren. I love my President, and whenever he utters anything that he wishes me to do, by the grace of God, I hope to be able to do it. The only way that the Kinkdom of God will ever be established upon the earth is by giving- our hearts to God and by saying, "Father, thy will, not mine, be done." If we will listen to Him, keep His commandments, and walk humbly and faithfully before Him, He  lead us back into His presence in His glorious kingdom, through Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOHN HENRY SMITH. 

Extensive ground covered by administration of the Eiders — A great field yet to b=i reached — The Lord will break down the barriers — Earnest aDd devoted labor necessary — Immediate responsibilities of the Saints. 

At the introduction of this work, the Lord laid it upon the Latter-day Saints that they were to go into all the world and preach the Gospel unto every creature. They that received it were to be blessed, and they that rejected it were to be condemned; and upon those who did reject it His judgments were to be poured out in His own time and in His own way. "When we think of the small start that was made, it is wonderful the extent that has been covered in the ministrations of the Elders from thajt time to the present. We find represented in this congregation people of many nationalities, and in this conference are men who are defenders of the faith and expounders of the principles of the Gospel from Mexico and Canada, and from the various mission fields upon the American continent, where they have been laboring to disseminate the principles of the Gospel. They are here to represent bodies of people who have received the Gospel. The growth of the work truly is a marvel to all who will stop and think of it. Nevertheless, only a limited portion of that work has been accomplished as yet. There are many countries in the world untouched, because it has been impossible for us to make our way in them. The character of the governments that exist, the extreme prejudice that abounds in the hearts of people of various countries through their lack of information, has led to their rejecting the Gospel in one sense, and has prevented extending the truths thereof as our Father designs they shall be extended among the children of men. As fast as openings can be made looking to the extension of free thought and free action, the Elders are carrying the olive branch of peace, backed by the word of the Lord, and fulfilling the obligation resting upon them. Wherever the effort has been made to introduce this Gospel and the spirit of intolerance has manifested it to a degree that has prevented the accomplishment of that work, our Father in heaven will, in His own time, have a controversy with those nations and people who so determine to hedge up the advance of the work which He is seeking to establish. Their rejection of it forebodes to them trouble of a serious kind. It may be necessary that upheavals shall occur and changes be wrought that may cause bloodshed and confusion. The doors must be opened. It is the decree of Providence that such shall be the case. His children cannot be judged by his word until a knowledge of it has been sounded in their ears, at least to some extent. And if governmental matters are such that free speech is prohibited, and if words of peace fail to accomplish a change in these conditions, I am one of those who believe that in the providences of God, those governments will be scourged and humiliated in some form or another that sh ill lead to the opening of the doors whereby this Gospel may be sounded in the ears of the people of those nat Ions. 

We have accomplished but a limited Dart cf the great work that has been assigned unto us. It is true, some of the more liberal governments of the world have treated us with reasonable kindness and have guarded our rights as well as could be expected, considering the prejudices that exist in the minds of people against the introduction of any new idea, whether in manufacture, in invention, in government or in religion. Especially are men slow to receive religious views that may come in contact with their inborn prejudices. Rut the work of Almighty God delivered to the Latter-day Saints in this the dispensation of the fulness of times, has a destiny, the highest that could be imagined, so far as its extension and growth are concerned. There is no reason for us to doubt the fulfillment of the Almighty's purpose in regard to this, when we remember what has been accomplisned But a few brief years ago, in a village to the eastward of us, ^ few uersons made a covenant with Almighty God that they would obey His will and meet the requirements of His Gospel. They plighttd their faith in the waters of baptism, that His standard, v.nf ai led to the breeze, should never be lowered in this world until the uttermost parts of the earth should hear the warning voice of a servant of God. We may imagine sometimes that we have accomplished the mission that was assigned unto us; but we have only touched the edges of the work. This work is to become the joy of the whole earth. Providence has decreed it. No power can stay its progress. It may meet with rebuffs; enemies may seek to hedge its way; barriers may be thrown across its path; but they will be blown out of the way as the wind gathers the straws and carries them from place to place, or as the breezes gather the ocean waves and whip to pieces that which our Father wishes to destroy. 

In order that the Latter-day Saints may fulfill the great destiny that God has designed for them, it will require an earnest and a most devoted labor in every given direction. We must exhibit our fidelity to him by the use of the talents which he has given us, looking to the betterment of everything that may come under our influence, and in extending the principles of right, justice and mercy as far as we may have the power so to do. No greater mercy can be extended to the human race than to carry to them the eternal truths which our Father has revealed, which shall point to them the way of life and open up to them an understanding of the ministry they should perform to make themselves acceptable to our Father in heaven. We may have thought that our work was nearly completed, inasmuch as barriers seemed to be in our way in some nations, and the nations that had received us and given us so liberally of their people now seem to be but fields for the gleaning. We have perhaps forgotten that all this earth is covered with the sons and daughters of our God. and that while the nature of the governments under which they live or the prejudices in which they have been indoctrinated shut their hearts in some measure to the advance of the' Gospel in their midst, our Father's purpose in regard to them is that they shall have the privilege of hearing that message. And he will so shape this earth,  the sea heaving itself beyond its bounds, by wars and rumors of wars, and by the contention and strife that will appear in various parts of the earth, that door after door will be opened, until the seed shall be sown and the light of eternal truth be allowed to shine in the dark places and the manifest wisdom of the glory of God be seen which shall change the hearts of the people and lead them to a love of the principles of eternal truth. 

We are a people who believe in the continued extension of our doctrines among the people of the world. We left the village to the eastward; we planted our standard in Ohio, in Missouri and in Illinois; we have planted it beneath the shades of these grand old mountains, our "friends" pushing us forward to the accomplishment of our destiny, not recognizing the fact, and we not sensing it ourselves altogether, that it was the divine purpose to utilize us for the regeneration and uplifting of the human race; that from the mountain sides we should proceed in every direction, looking to the well-being and interest of our Father's children, heralding His truths among the people, and thereby freeing ourselves from that responsibility which has been placed upon us. 

My brothers and my sisters, the field is before us, and that field is the earth. God's children are our brothers and our sisters, their rights should be as sacred to us as our own rights. It is laid upon us to carry to them the knowledge that God is their Father and our Father; that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world; that He has restored the keys, opened the door, pointed out the road, and selected us who have bowed to His shrine and recognized His hol^ will, to become the fore-front of mankind in disseminating every principle that shall tend to the ennobling and uplifting of man. To this end you have pledged your faith, your lives, your fortunes, your sacred honor; and to this end the men who have been selected to guide and counsel have directed their energies in the past and will direct them in the future, never slackening until the voice of truth shall be heard in every land and in every clime l 

We have not, in many instances, as  prepared ourselves for the accomplishment of this duty as we should have done. We have not secured unto ourselves that species of education and prepared ourselves in an understanding of the laws and customs of nations sufficiently to fully qualify us for the accomplishment of the work of sowing the seeds wherever opportunity might offer. But the oportunities will be given. Doors will be opened, light and truth will be shed forth, the standard that our Father has thrown to the breeze will float in these lands and climes, and the truth will be made known, at least to such an extent as to free us from responsibility of their blood, which would rest upon us if the effort were not made to give them the knowledge that our Father has given the Holy Phiesthood unto His children and has turned the keys by which the dead millions shall be redeemed. He purposes the opening of the door of every land, that every human being ma-" have the privilege of saying yes or no to His word. 

While we speak thus upon these questions affecting the interests of our fellow-men, we must not forget the responsibilities that surround us. Our eyes should be upon the standard, watching its movements, and looking to the accomplishment of our Father's purposes. It was His purpose that this nation of ours should become the leaven of liberty that should leaven the lump, until every doorway should be opened for the benefit and blessing of His children. It is accomplishing its mission, and His blessing will abide with it so long as the prospects of liberty and the opening of doors for His Gos shall manifest themselves in its onward movement. 

May heaven's blessings and peace abound with you; may we love the truth: may we love the principles of liberty; may we love to extend those principles; and may we love the souls of men more than we love our own lives; utilize the talents the Father has given us, and see that men shall learn of His ways and walk in His paths, is mv prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER B. F. JOHNSON. 

My dear brethren and sisters, it is a pleasure that I did not expect, to have the privilege of standing here to bear my humble testimony to the truth of the words this day spoken in your hearing — the truth of the great fact that God has set His hand to the accomplishment of the great purpose of gathering together all things in one in Christ. I feel to express my gratitude that God has given me the privilege of living in this day of the harvest time of the earth — a period toward which all energies, all desires and hopes have been directed from the earliest times. I know that God lives; I know that Jesus Christ lives; I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of the Most High God. It is a pleasure to me to look around upon this vast assembly and say to you that this is my testimony, and that I know that the work in which we are engaged as Latter-day Saints, is the work of God. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Light and Truth." 

Benediction by Elder Joseph W. McMurrin. 