Morning
06 10 1900



PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW. 

I want to say just a few words. What I say may not be necessary to a large portion of this audience, but I want the Latter-day Saints to understand and think of the object of their coming together. It is only once in six months that we have such an oppor~  as we have today, and I wish to remind the Latter-day Saints that the advantages we receive today or tomorrow, while gathered here, will be according to the spirit that we exercise individually. The Elders may address you here, and yet no particular advantage is secured unless you have the spirit and exercise the faith that it is our privilege to exercise, that we may be blessed to understand such things as may be spoken. We had a beautiful meeting yesterday, and the Spirit of the Lord was poured out greatly upon the Elders who spoke. We wish the same today, and we would like the Latter-day Saints to forget everything outside of the meeting, and try to exercise faith that the speakers may advance such principles as will be most to our service. 

ELDER ANTHON H. LUND. Temple T work — Baptism for the dead — To be born of water and of the Spirit — Be diligent in the Search for Genealogies — Work of thellGenealcgical Society — Missionaries should keep records — Religion classes. " 

Our meetings were enjoyed very much yesterday, and to me they were spiritual feasts. I hope that our meetings today and tomorrow may be like them, that we may enjoy a rich portion of the Holy Spirit. 

I was much impressed yesterday with Brother Clawson's remarks concerning temple work. I thought to myself, What a glorious principle this is! How thankful we are that the Lord brought this forth through His servant Joseph. It was in the latter years of his life that he was more deeply impressed to lay this matter of salvation for the dead before the Saints; but it was not a new principle. Though he preached and wrote upon this subject a year or two only before his death, still we find this principle referred to in the revelations given to him in the early years of the Church. In that glorious vision given to the Prophet Joseph and Sidney Rigdon concerning the different glories, we are told about a certain class that had not received the Gospel while alive, but had received it in prison after death. This shows that the Lord gave His Saints to understand at that early day that there is an opportunity for salvation after death. It manifests the great mercy of God, and places salvation beyond the narrow bounds within which it is placed by other denominations. The Prophet Joseph could not have received this from man, because man did not teach this doctrine. It was revealed to him, and he gave it unto the people. In looking upon and examining this principle, we cannot help but be. struck with the wisdom and mercy of God in providing salvation for the many, many millions that have died without a knowledge of the truth. Even before this allusion to the principle of salvation for the dead was made, it was given unto the Prophet Joseph. That first night when he received a visit from the Angel Moroni, the angel ex to him several principles that were not known to the world, and he also explained several chapters of the prophets. Among others, he alluded to the prophecy in Malachi, to the effect that Elijah should be sent to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. "Who had understood the deep meaning in these words? When the Lord revealed more to Joseph we began to understand it, and now we know that that prophecy pertains to salvation for the dead. I suppose that the boy Joseph did not understand the import of the prophecy at the time, but the Lord wanted these things brought forth. They were not evolved as the Church grew, but they were principles given before the world was. Hence in these first revelations to the Prophet they are pointed at and indicated, and gradually, as the people were ready for them, they were explained. 

These principles are not new. They were understood by the prophets of old and by the writers of the New Testament. Paul alludes to the ordinance of baptism for the dead. I have attended several funerals in England, and I have been surprised to hear them repeat the 29th verse of the 15th chapter of I Corinthians: 

"Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" 

How few understood the meaning of the words in this verse! Paul understood them, and I believe the first-day Saints understood this principle clearly, for Paul uses this as an argument in favor of the resurrection. What would be the use of being baptized for the dead if the dead rose not? That was his argument. The Saints no doubt practiced the principle in those days, because we find in the Church afterwards that decrees were made against the custom of being baptized for the dead. Some ten hundred years after, up in Russia, when some of their princes were converted to Christianity, they felt impressed to ask for that ordinance to be performed for their forefathers. Whether they had any knowledge from the history of the first-day Saints, or not, I do not know; but such an or was actually performed in Russia. The Apostle Peter undertood the principle of salvation for the dead, and our Savior understood it, and, I believe, laid it before the congregation in Nazareth. After he had been out teaching and returned to his home at Nazareth, he was called upon to read from the roll, as was the custom in their synagogues, and when it was handed to him he read from the 61st chapter of Isaiah. When I was in Nazareth I visited that synagogue (at least, they tell us its is the same), and when I stood inside that old building, I wondered where He had stood when He spoke on that occasion, and I thought of the glorious doctrine that He alluded to — salvation for the dead. I wish to read a few verses from this chapter: 

"The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me; because the Lord has anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound; "To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn." 

He read these verses, which describe His own mission. Among other things, His mission, He tells us, was to liberate the captives and to open their prison doors. This part of His mission He did not f Jifill while living in the flesh, so far as we have any account, but we have an account that He fulfilled it afterwards. Peter tells us that He preached to the spirits in prison— those that Job speaks of when he says that they should be brought forth out of the pit and out of their prison. Jesus went and opened their prison doors; He led captivity captive; He brought joy to the many millions that were waiting in prison, for His coming, who were there because at one time they had rejected the Gospel. They belonged to the antediluvians, and when Noah preached the Gospel to them they rejected him; hence they had a long time to wait, but finally the joyful tidings came to their prison house. Jesus went and preached the Gospel to them, and salvation was offered to them once more. They had learned by sad experience what it meant to reject the Gospel. 

This doctrine of salvation for the dead docs not have the effect, as some f=ay, to make men neglect the present opportunity, thinking that there will always be a chance for them. For there is punishment meted out to those who reject the Gospel. It was a long time for the antediluvians to wait before the door of grace was opened unto them. We endeavor to impress upon the hearts of men the necessity of repenting and of living according to the commandments of God in this life. We want all men to understand that there is a law which must be obeyed by every one who shall enter the kingdom of God. Jesus laid it down to Nicodemus when he said that no man can enter the kingdom of heaven, except he is born of the water and of the spirit. The many millions that have passed away without having obeyed this ordinance, if they shall enter the kingdom of heaven, must be born of water and of the spirit, and as this cannot be done in the spirit world, God has provided that that ordinance may be performed for them here upon the earth. We cannot avoid obedience to this law and still be permitted to enter the kingdom of God. Here is the mercy and grace of God manifested unto His children, in that He has devised means whereby they can receive the blessings even after they have departed from this life. You who have entered the Temples of God and performed ordinances for your dead, know what a glorious work it is. Tou have unselfishly labored for your relatives, and you have been blessed in doing so, for your testimonies have been strengthened, and you have felt that you were in the presence of departed beings, and that you were bringing blessings unto them. 

The reason why I dwell on this subject this morning is because many of the Saints who are imbued with a love for their relatives, and who would like to enter the Temples and do work for them, cannot do so because they have not their genealogy. Now, my brethren and sisters, we want you to be diligent in your search for genealogies. For this is a day in which the hearts of the children are turned unto the fathers. As soon as the Prophet Joseph brought this doctrine before the world and the necessity arose of searching for the fathers, the hearts of the people were turned that way. The Lord worked on the hearts of men, genealogical societies sprang up everywhere; men began to search for the the names of their forefathers, and many works have been published on this subject. Those who put forth these efforts had no idea of salvation for the dead, but the work of these devoted men has come to the Saints as a very great blessing. We want to gather up all we can in this regard. Many of the Saints are not acquainted, perhaps, with the fact that we have a genealogical society in our midst. We have some four hundred volumes on genealogies, and we want to get more. We would like to get all that is published, both in England and in this country, that can be of any aid to the Saints; and as the same spirit works upon the hearts of men in Germany, Denmark and other countries, we want to gather the information collected there. They are working now in those countries in this direction. In Denmark, Sweden and Norway it will be a difficult task to gather genealogies, on account of the change that formerly took place in names, the children being called after the first name of the father. This changes the surname from one generation to another, like it was in olden times. In the Bible we read of Simon Bar-jona. "Bar" means son — Simon Jonason. Hence it is hard to trace the names of families in those countries. Yet there are several archives in Denmark where we can obtain genealogy, and as the opportunity opens' in Sweden and Norway we want to have brethren there to work in this line. We have agents in Germany and Switzerland, so that our German and Swiss brethren can be helped in getting names of their relatives. The same may be said concerning New England. The society is trying to open communication with all the countries from where the Saints have come. Now it costs a little to get work of this kind done, and we would like our brethren who are interested in obtaining genealogy to become members of the society. It requires only a small entrance fee, and you will get  back in paying less for your names and in having the chance to visit the library and search the books that are already on hand. All that is paid in will go toward increasing our library of genealogical works. I hope that this matter will be remembered by the Saints. If you write to the Genealogical Society at the Historian's office, you can obtain all the information we can give you and we will help you to get more. 

I want to say a few words in regard to records. We advise our missionaries to keep diaries on their missions and to jot down the events of their lives. These by and by will be very precious. Many of our brethren from the early decades of the Church have kept records. We would like to get hold of these daybooks at the Historian's office, sq that if there is any new matter or anything that might give a sidelight upon events already known, we may obtain the information. We have men at the office, such as Andrew Jenson and others, who are well .acquainted with the events of our Church history, and who can soon gather out of such day-books things that are not known and that will be a help to us. We would not ask children who have possession of their father's records to give them to the office; but if they would lend them to us, we would gather from them what would be of use in our Church history. There may be some who would like to have them deposited in the Historian's office, and we would be glad to take them, mark them, and keep them safely. We are a people that make history every day; but we want this history written by ourselves. When you read history you find many a character that is described to you far different from the reality, because his history has been written by an enemy. Many of the sects that have sprung up since the days of the Apostles have been represented to us in a very unfavorable light, because their histories were written by their enemies. We do not want coming generations to read our history in a different light from the real truth. 

Before I sit down there is another matter that I would like to lay before our brethren. It is now time for school. During the summer months our religion classes have not been maintained, except in a few places. Now that the school year has commenced we hope that the superintendents and teachers of religion classes will see to it that the classes are again started and that renewed interest is taken in this good work. We have just issued a new edition of outlines, explaining the religion class movement and the procedure, and any of our superintendents or teachers can obtain this by writing to Superintendent Maeser. "We hope that this work will not lag, but that we will all see the necessity of giving our children that kind of education that they cannot obtain in our district schools, and that we cannot give at home because we have not the time. This religion class movement has been established in order that our children may be trained religiously as well as mentally and physically, and I trust that we will not neglect it. May God bless you, brethren and sisters; may our conference be a feast indeed unto all present, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

"My Shepherd is the Lord my God" was sung by Sister Luella Ferrin. 

ELDER M. W. MERRILL. 

Proper care of Ohildrer — The duties of Teachers — Consequences of neglecting the people — The duty of paying tithing — Promise of a man like utto Moses. 

I have heard it remarked that it paid a good many people to come to conference to hear the singing alone. But a great many things are treated upon in the general conference which supply many wants and answer many inquiries among the Saints. We are here for mutual improvement and for instructions which will apply to us when we get home. There is no doubt in my mind that if the Latter-day Saints throughout the Church were fully up to their duties we would have conditions superior to what they are now. There is a laxity on the part of many of the Latter-day Saints. I believe, however, the Saints are improving. Still there is room for more improvement in the affairs of our lives. We have an organization in this Church which the Lord has given us. It was not instituted by man, but by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. This organization has  multiplied somewhat in the last few years, and no doubt will be multiplied more in the future as we advance and become better acquainted with the Gospel. There are a great many of our young people born and reared in these mountains who need our care and attention as well as that of their parents. 

I have thouerht sometimes that many fathers and mothers do not give that attention to their children which they ought to have. They turn them over to the organizations of the Church; in the first place, to the Primary, and then to other associations as they grow older; and they neglect them at home. I have heard young men say that their fathers never asked them to pray in the family, and I have heard girls say the same. This shows a lack of attention on the part of parents. I am quite confident that many of the organizations in the Church are neglected. Take for instance, the Teacher's quorum. Every ward in the Church is supposed to have efficient men to labor as Teachers among the people. I believe that this important organization in the ward is in many instances, materially neglected. If the duties of Teachers were carried out as the Lord designed they should be, we would see a marked improvement in the midst of the peonle. These Teachers are not confined to spiritual things. They can talk and advise about temporal things also. In many instances, however, Teachers' visits are hurried over while in others they are put off. If the Teacher is expected to visit once a month, he puts it off till the last day before the Bishop requires him to report, and then he hurries around and does not take the time that ought to be taken. I know whereof I speak in regard to this matter, because in the early days I was trained under Brother Jedediah M. Grant. When the Teachers in the district where he labored all did their duty, it was called a reformation. We had quite a reformation in all the Church at that time. I remember very distinctly in the ward where I lived, Brother Grant on one occasion called all the Teachers to the stand. We met in the bowery, and had a board about sixteen feet long, put on some posts for the stand. There were twelve of us in the ward, and we had to stand up there in a row. He wanted us all to pray, each one in his turn, commencing on the right and going to the left. Someone asked Brother Grant afterward why he did that, and he replied that he wanted to see whether those young men had the spirit of prayer, so that he could judge if they prayed in the households of the Saints. I was quite a boy at the time, and when it came to my turn I hesitated a moment or so. Brother Grant happened to be kneeling right behind me, and he turned around, grabbed me by the leg with his hand and said, "Now, you pray." Well, it nearly scared all the pray out of me. But it was an object lesson and one that was very profitable to me. How many of the Teachers who go into your homes, gather the family together and pray with the family or ask some of the family to pray? I question whether this is very strictly attended to. Now, it is the Teacher's duty to talk about all matters of interest to the Saints, connected with the kingdom of God. It , is their business to inquire of the family if they pay their tithes and offerings, that the poor may be sustained and the hands of the Bishop upheld. In going into the congregations of the Saints it is very seldom that I hear an Elder pray for the Bishop, or for his counselors, or for the Teachers. Teachers need not discuss the condition of the weather, for this is not part of their duty. They should go into the houses of the Saints enjoying the Spirit of the Lord, that they may have a refreshing from the Lord with that family. They go there to bless the family and to do them good, and in order to do this successfully they must concentrate their minds on the object of their labor in the midst of the people. By these means the Saints are instructed in their homes. When we find invalids in the households of the Saints who are unable to attend the gatherings of the people we can comfort and bless them. If this were carried out as the Lord has designed it, the people would become more and more united, and they would be determined to do their duty in paying their tithes and offerings and in attending their meetings. If the tea'chers did  duty in every ward, people would feel that they ought to go to meeting. I have heard people say, "We have not seen a Teacher in our house for a year,' r or for six months, as the case may be. This is not as the Lord designed it and there is some responsibility resting upon the presidents of Stakes and their counselors in regard to this matter. The Lord gave a revelation to President Taylor in his time on this subject. It does not matter how isolated the Saints may live, they are in somebody's ward, and they should be sought after if it takes two or three days to find them. I can remember when Brother Preston was president of the Cache Stake and I was one of his counselors, it took us just one month to get around the Stake and visit the Saints, and then we could not get to all the wards. The Stake at that time ran from Logan to the Montana line. Stakes now are smaller, and they are within the reach of every President. The wards are within the reach of every Bishop, and the teachers can find the people, if they are so inclined. Bishops and Presidents of Stakes should be aroused to the importance of this matter, because when the people are neglected, the Church is neglected, the poor are neglected, the tithes and offerings are neglected. Hence we cannot afford, as officers in the Church, to neglect our duty. If we do the Lord will hold us to account for it. 

I believe that a president of a Stake should have a meeting with his counselors at least every week. They should sit down together, sing and pray together, and see what the Lord will suggest to be done in that Stake of Zion. I think Apostle Lyman has advocated this idea. I do not know how far it is attended to, but I say to you, my brethren, it ought to be attended to in every Stake of Zion. Then, following in the same line, every Bishop in the Church should meet with his counselors and talk over matters pertaining to the ward. Just as sure as you do this, you will always find something to talk about that will be of interest and benefit to the ward. If we do not come' up to the expectations of the Presidency of the Church, it is because we fail to some extent. We may not fail as individuals, but we  collectively. If we all did our duty the Church would be improved and the tithes and offerings would be increased. I understand they have increased; but they have not increased enough yet, because the Saints throughout the Church do not all pay their tithing. We call upon all, whether in the Church or not, to pay their tithing. Some who are not in the Church will do it if you call upon them and ask them. Represent to them that they are living upon the land of Zion and that this is the principle upon which the land is to be sanctified and to bring forth of its strength, and you would find that peopje who are not in the Church would pay their tithing and it would be the means of bringing them into the Church, because the Spirit of the Lord would work upon them and He would manifest Himself to them by dream and by vision, until they would see the propriety of joining the Church. 

These are questions that have my attention from time to time, and I think they are of importance to the Church. You will read it in the Doctrine and Covenants that the Lord at some time or other wa s going to raise up a man like unto Moses, to lead the people out of bondage. Well, that man may be President Snow, for aught I know. The Lord seems to be working upon his mind to try and lead His people out of bondage. President Snow is working at it all the time. He wants to get the Church and the people out of bondage. Therefore, I say, the man like unto Moses may be President Snow, for aught I know. I do not know who it is. If it is not President Snow, it will be some man a great deal like him, whom the Lord will raise up in a natural way. 

I was much delighted with the remarks of Brother Clawson and Brother Lund in regard to Temple work. I can bear testimony that they are true. The Lord manifsts Himself unto His Saints in the Temples. These manifestations are private. They are not talked abroad, but many of the Latter-day Saints who have entered into these sacred places have had manifestations :from God in approval of the work they were doing for their kindred dead. Let 

us not neglect this important thing, in  with the other duties that pertain to our calling. 

I pray that the Lord may bless the Saints and fill all our hearts with love toward one another; that we may put away our bickerings and our faultfinding, and turn unto the Lord with full purpose of heart, that He may endow us richly with His Spirit; that our mission on the earth may be filled up in usefulness, so that when we get through it may be said of us, Well done good and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. God bless you. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

Blnd h I oo g d 8e pitrf :l r n H, ble ^ Sing p0wer of th ° MeatMy dear brethren and sisters: I hum bly pray that our Father who is in Heaven will bless me with a portion of His Holy Spirit this afternoon, that what I shall say may be in accordance with His mind and will. I feel to bear testimony to the truth of all that I have heard during this conference. I have felt so much like we always feel, I suppose, at our conferences— that this, is one of the best conferences that I have ever attended. 

There is a question that I would like to speak to you upon a little. It seems to be very much in line with the remarks of several of the previous speakers. To commence with, I desire to make a quotation that was made by Elder Clawson yesterday. It is the words of our Lord and Savior to Peter (Matt. 16, 13-19.) the presiding Apostle! after Peter had received the revelation from God that Jesus was the Christ Jesus said: 

"Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? 

''And they said, some say that thou art John the Baptist; some Elias; and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. 

"He saith unto them, but whom sav ye that I am? * 

"And Simon Peter answered and said thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. 

"And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonafor flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. "And I say also unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. 

"And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven; and whatsover thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven." 

It is the latter remark I wish to refer to more particularly. Peter at that time held the same position that President Lorenzo Snow holds today, and this was a very great endowment that he received from the Lord Jesus Christ, to bind on earth and it should be bound in heaven, or to loose on earth, and it should be loosed in heaven. This same power has been bestowed in these days. It is our custom when we marry a wife to go to the man who holds this great power and by His authority we are sealed together in the holy bonds of matrimony for time and for all eternity, according to the promise of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we will be husband and wife in eternity. There are many other eternal blessings that have been given unto the children of men. I wish to refer to a great promise that the Lord made unto Abraham, our forefather. The Lord was very much pleased with Abraham and his course in life. But Abraham would be a very unpopular man today. Out of all the millions of people that dwelt upon the earth then, the Lord saw fit on one occasion to visit His servant Abraham, and while He was there He gave him commandments. He said unto Abraham: 

"Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will shew thee; 

"And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing; 

"And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curseth thee; and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed." 

Here is another instance of a man whom the Lord visited and conferred divine authority upon, to bless the children of men, and they should be blessed, or to curse them and they should be cursed, in accordance with the authority, Abra blessed his son Isaac; Isaac blessed his son Jacob; Jacob blessed his twelve sons from his four wives, and they became the founders of the house of Israel. In this Jacob officiated as a Patriarch, and he not only blessed his sons, but he prophesied what should befall them, even unto the latest day. 

I refer to these instances that we may have before our minds the fact that it has been the custom in various ages of the world to exercise this divine authority for the benefit of the children of men. Enoch, the Prophet of God, also officiated in this Patriarchial order, and Enoch was a friend of God. The Lord our God talked unto him as one man talks to another, and Enoch became so familiar with the mind and will of the Father that he not only led his people out of bondage, but he brought them to see eye to eye. They became of one heart and of one mind, and the Lord was so pleased with them that He took Enoch and his city unto Himself. 

I wish to draw your attention especially to the Patriarchial order that has been revealed in these last days for the benefit of the Church and kingdom of God. We have a man who stands at the head of the patriarchal order in our Church. That man is Brother John Smith. He always sits here with the First Presidency of the Church. Why is it that he occupies this exalted position when sitting before the people in their general conferences? It is because the Lord acknowledges a Patriarch as a man who is endowed with a very high office in the Church and kingdom of God, and who has a special endowment given unto him for a special purpose. If there is any man in this Church who has a special calling for life it is a Patriarch. I have sometimes thought, however, from remarks which I have heard from men bearing the holy Priesthood, that the ignorance regarding the Patriarchal order is extremely dense among the Latter-day Saints. 

In order that you may better understand my remarks, I wish to refer to a conversation that I had the other day with a gentleman in one of the Stakes of Zion. One of the Twelve Apostles had been around in that locality, mak some changes in the ward. What is the duty of the Apostles? We are informed by the Apostle Paul that they are placed in the Church for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, and to bring the people to a unity of the faith. All these men on my right and on my left are engaged in this kind of a calling from one year's end to another. As I was saying, one of the Twelve had been around and he found a certain Bishop presiding over a ward. He felt impressed that it would be well to make a change in that ward. The Bishop was quite aged, but he had been a faithful man all his days; so faithful indeed that this Apostle felt impressed that if he could get the consent of the First Presidency this man should be ordained a Patriarch. The change was accordingly made. What was the result? This Bishop began to complain immediately that he had been laid upon the shelf, and that he had been dropped from his calling as a Bishop without receiving any special notice that this change was going to take place in his ward. 

Before proceeding any further, let me explain a moment. As I understand the order of this Church, a man who is called to be a Bishop is called to that office for the especial purpose of looking after the business affairs of that ward, and when through old age, sickness or incapacity he becomes disqualified to perform the duties of that office, or when through his faithfulness he is called to a greater ordination in the Church, it is right and pleasing in the sight of God that this change should take place. When the First Presidency of this Church informs a Bishop that he is released from presiding over a certain ward, there is just as much propriety about it as there would be if that man were presiding over a mission and he were released from that mission by the Presidency of the Church. I am now called to preside over the Colorado mission. I do not expect that I shall stay there all the balance of my life, and if I receive a release from the First Presidency of this Church at any time in the future, I assure you I shall never enter any complaint against them, or anybody else, rc>r being released. I want  say to the Bishops of wards, you are not called there for life; but when you are released from your Bishopric your Priesthood is never taken away from you, except through transgression. 

Now to return to this Bishop of whom I was speaking. The Apostle had felt inspired of God to recommend to the First Presidency of this Church that said Bishop be ordained a Patriarch. Did that man appreciate that patriarchal order which was bestowed upon him? No, he did not. Now, let me make a auotation to those who are laboring in this calling: 

"The rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and the powers of heaven canrot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness." 

This man, I understand, said that he had never received the spirit of the patriarchal order. I want to tell you that there never was a man in the Church of God that received the spirit of any calling whereunto he was called until he started to administer in that calling. If I am called on a foreign mission and expect to get the spirit of that mission, I must go to work and prepare myself and begin to seek after the Lord. It is the same with a Patriarch or any other officer in the Church of God. Now regarding this change being made without any notice to the Bishop, which seemed to give him so much offense. There is no man under the sound of my voice that can cite me to an instance where the Lord has ever said, "I will come and tell you when 1 will need you for some other kind of a work." I have heard this kind of talk until I am tired of it. To me its always an indication of men's ignorance concerning the glorious promises connected with the Holy Priesthood. I have heard of an instance where a man said that he had been laid upon the shelf. I have heard of others who have actually been offered the privilege of being ordained a Patriarch and have refused it, because they felt like they were being degraded rather than exalted in the Priesthood. I say again that the Lord never informs people when he is going to make a change. In his own time he comes and makes the change. Let us see what one of the greatest men that e'»r lived, m my opinion, said when a change of this kind was made with him. He was a man whose character I have always admired. I have loved his memory, and I love his descendants today. As I remember, he was occupying the position next to the Prophet, Seer and Revelator to this Church — exactly the same high and exalted position that President George Q. Cannon occupies in the Church today. I refer to Hyrum Smith. The mind and will of the Lord came unto him without any notice whatever, and he did not complain about it, he did not feel like he had been laid on the shelf. The word of the Lord is as follows: 

"And again, verily I say unto you, let my servant William be appointed, ordained, and anointed, as a counselor unto my servant Joseph, in the room of my servant Hyrum, that my servant Hyrum may take the office of Priesthood and Patriarch, which was appointed unto him by his father, by blessing and also by right. 

"That from henceforth he shall hold the keys of the patriarchal blessings upon the heads of all my people, , "That whoever he blesses shall be blessed, and whoever he curses shall be cursed: and whatsoever he shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever he shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven; 

"And from this time forth I appoint unto him that he may be a Prophet, and a Seer, and a Revelator unto my Church, as well as my servant Joseph." 

The last paragraph contains a special appointment unto Hyrum Smith and does not refer to Patriarchs in general, without they receive a similar commission from the Lord. But the power to seal on earth and it shall be sealed in heaven belongs to every Patriarch in the Church of Christ. 

Did Hyrum Smith stand up and tell his brother Joseph that he was occupying the position of one of the First Presidency of the Church and stood as the second man in the kingdom, and he did not wish to be released from that position to become the Patriarch of the Church? No, he did not. Why? Because he realized it was the mind and will of God ,and instead of being a step backward in the Church, it was a step forward; in other words, it was a step into another department which was equally honorable. More than that, it  the mind and will of God, and this should always be considered above all other things. Hyrum Smith went forth and officiated in that calling, and here is his descendant today, the Patriarch of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Another thing. When I received my patriarchal blessing there was a clause in it which has always been a warning unto me. My blessing concluded like this: "I seal these blessings upon your head according to your faithfulness in keeping the commandments of God." I advise all you Patriarchs when you bless the children of men to put in a clause of this kind, because, as I have said, the blessings and powers of heaven are inseparably connected with the Priesthood, and they can only be controlled and handled upon the principle of righteousness. The young man said to Jesus, "What shall I do to be saved?" Jesus told him to sell all his goods, give them to the poor, and follow him. That was the condition. When Jesus promised a blessing to the individual or the people he always added something that they should do to secure the blessing. Said he, "Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 'Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." If you will notice, Jesus always put in a condition upon which the blessing could be received by the children of men. I suggest to + he Patriarchs that in your blessings you also add a condition. As we were told yesterday by President Lorenzo Snow at the opening of the conference, God will judge us by what we do and not merely by what we say I have known people to receive Patriarchal blessings which have not been fulfilled, and their sons and daughters have stood up in reproach and made it known that their father's or their mother's blessing had not been fulfilled. But I want to tell you that there would be very few Patriarchal blessings unfulfilled, if those who received them would remember that no blessing can be vouchsafed unto the children of men,  through their faithfulness in keeping the commandments of God. God bless you Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Jesus, I My Cross Have Taken." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Rulon S. Wells. 


