Overflow
07 10 1900



ELDER J. W. McMURRIN. 

The Latter-day Saints a free people — A word to the Missionaries — Danger of becoming "rusty" in the service of the Lord — An age of opportunities for the young — How to sustain authority. 

I am pleased, my brethren and sisters, to be with you on this occasion, and to have the opportunity of lifting up my voice in your presence in testimony of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as it has been revealed in this age of the world. And I sincerely trust that while I occupy this position I may be blessed of the Lord and have the inspiration of His Spirit resting upon me; for without that Spirit I know that my words would be as a sounding brass or as a tinkling cymbal in the midst of this great body of people. But on the other hand I also know that when men speak by the promptings of the Spirit of the Lord their words are of great worth to the children of men, not only to those who may hear the words that are spoken, who are in the congregation, but to the person that does the speaking as well. For all men are instructed by the Spirit of the Lord. I feel that the people who have attended our Conference and who have listened to the testimonies and instructions that have been imparted by the Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, know in their hearts that the brethren have been inspired and that they have not been giving them anything that has been cunningly devised, but that they have been delivering the word of the Lord, and the power of God has been made manifest in the utterances of His servants. There should be with us as a people a disposition to receive the counsels that have been imparted, and an anxiety that we may be in harmony with the servants of the Lord who have been chosen to direct the affairs of His Church in these times. It is a glorious thing to have the feeling in our hearts that we are in accord with the authority of the Lord and to feel, inasmuch as we have put our hands to the plow and have entered into covenant with the Lord to serve Him and to keep His commandments,that the keeping of His commandments is the greatest desire that we have, and that we have no other God before the Lord, our God; that we have not set our affections upon any other thing, but that we have an eye. single to the keeping of the commandments of the Lord and a determination to sustain and uphold His Priesthood. I take it that this is a very grave responsibility, and that men and women who have entered into covenant with the Lord should examine themselves and seek to put themselves in such a condition that they would have the Spirit of the Lord, that when we hear the voice of the Good Shepherd we will be able to understand it, and have a disposition to be in line with the authority that God has upon the earth. . The rights, independence and liberty of no man can be infringed upon in the keeping of the commandments of God. We hear when we are away from home as missionaries among the nations many things concerning the bondage of the people, that we are priest-ridden, and that we are not allowed to do the things that we desire to do; but we know by our own experiences that this is not the case. I know as an individual, having been born and reared in the midst of this people, that no man, no authority, no priest, or apostle, or president has ever attempted in the slightest degree to interfere with the liberty that God has given me. I have had as g^eat liberty in the midst of the Latter-day Saints as any man could possibly enjoy upon the face of the earth. When I bear this testimony I realize and understand that in this great congregation of people every man and every woman who has received the Gospel and who is acquainted with the spirit and doings of the wonderful work in which we are engaged know that what I say is true. Tou all know it, because you have all had the same experience, every member of the Church knows that we are a free people. 

I have thought in listening to the remarks that have been made by some of the brethren, that there might be some said to the missionaries. A good many things have been said regarding the teaching of the Gospel and the sending of men abroad to lift up their testimonies in defense of the truth; and it falls to my lot occasionally, in fact quite often, to travel among the people and to associate with missionaries and to be in the company of men who have received authority to preach the Gospel, and whose special calling it is to administer words of salvation to the nations, as they are directed by the Twelve Apostles. I often listen to the testimonies of returned missionaries. I have met a number during this conference, and their faces have been aglow with joy and happiness and with testimony concerning the work of the Lord, and they feel that they have spent a good and a profitable time while they have been away from home acting as ambassadors of the Lord Jesus Christ. And they have spent a profitable time, have been filled with the power of God, and have been instruments in the hands of the Lord of accomplishing a great deal of good. They have removed prejudice from the minds of the people, through the blessings of the Lord. Others have been converted to the truth, and have been made to know, by the Spirit of God, that messengers of salvation, holding divine authority, have ministered in their midst. It is a good thing to fill a mission. It is a good thing to have it to our credit that we have gone abroad in the world and that we have returned in honor without bringing disgrace upon our name, upon the name of our parents, or upon the name of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

But the performance of a mission to the nations is a small thing in the winning of the race upon which we are now set out for eternal life. Many a man returns from a mission who has valiantly maintained his position, who has stood up in the presence of opposir~ multitudes and with the power of God resting upon him has borne testimony to the truth of the glorious Gospel, and his words have pierced the hearts and intellects of the people, and they have been made to feel that they were listening to the truth. Many a man has filled a mission of this charac and has done honor to the cause that he represented, but has returned home feeling, in a little while, that he ought to rest from the ministry that someone else should take up the labors here at home. I desire to lift my warning voice to returned missionaries. I desire to plead with them in the name of the Lord, as I feel it to be my duty to do, and that it pertains to the responsibilities that rest upon me to lift up my voice and cry aloud to the missionaries, the Seventies of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that they shall not seek for rest, that they shall not feel that they have accomplished their salvation, or that they are secure, merely because they have filled a mission in the preaching of the Gospel. I feel when I greet a young Elder returning from abroad that the gravest period of his life stands before him when he returns, when there is fear that he may become a little careless, that he may have a disposition to seek after the rest that many have sought after, and in seeking after that rest they have found not only rest but rust. They are becoming rusty in the service of the Lord, and they are not willing to labor at home as they did abroad. What a glorious feeling we have had, when we have gone away from our homes, impelled by the spirit of truth, to preach the Gospel among the children of men. I suppose that every missionary that responds to an appointment, goes away from his family and friends with a determination in his heart that he will do honor to his calling. I have met hundreds of missionaries in the old country, sometimes boys who have beep indifferent to the responsibilities of the Priesthood at home; but I do not now recall having ever met one in all the hundreds with whom I have been brought in contact v/ho reached the missionary field with a feeling of indifference, with a disposition to oppose authority, with a feeling in his heart that he would question the counsels of the men who presided over him. You who have filled missions know that you go into the world with these thoughts uppermost from the very moment that you respond, that you will be obedient, that you will hearken to , that you will be zealous in carrying out counsel, and that you will keep yourself clean and pure, and tweet before the world. What is the result? Men return who have never had experience before, and they are filled with the power of God, filled with the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ and it is this testimony and this vigor, and this life that I feel anxious that the brethren should preserve within them after having returned home. It can be preserved, it can be maintained through their entire lives, if they will only return with a determination to hearken to counsel and be obedient to those who preside in the Church and be diligent in the discharge of the duties that rest upon them. In traveling and visiting among the people, when talking to the Bishops about returned missionaries with whom I have been acquainted, asking how they were doing in their callings at home, the answer has often been given, "they are not doing anything." Brother So and So "will not act as a Teacher, he will not act in the Sunday school, he will not act in the Improvement associations. He returned and bore us a good testimony, but we have seen but little of him since that time." 

I plead, in the name of the Lord, with young men. Great and glorious opportunities are before them. This is an age of opportunities for young men. The Priesthood, the Apostles, the Presidency of the Church, are conferring honois upon the young men of Israel, paths are opening on every hand in which we can labor, opportunities are being made everywhere wherein we can work for the advancement of the work of the Lord and for the salvation of the souls of men and women here at home. When we are abroad we sometimes travel ten miles to attend a meeting, and would a hundred miles, if need be, that we may meet with some one that would be willing to listen to the testimony we have concerning the Gospel, that we might explain the principles of the Gospel. And how our hearts are aglow, and we are filled with the Are of the Holy Ghost when men listen, when we see that they are convinced of the truth. What a dreadful thirg it is after being abroad and being filled with this happiness, that we should return home to smoulder away and die, become indifferent and cold to the duties that rest upon us! I plead with Bishops, and I plead with the presidents of Quorums and with the presidents of Stakes, to throw their arms around returning missionaries, young men; to point out the troubles that are in their paths, the temptations that will beset them, the fearfulness of turning away from the path of duty and of becoming careless and neglectful concerning the things of God. We ought not to return and feel that we have given to the Lord two years or more of our time, and that now we will be justified in seeking after the things of the world to the exclusion of the things pertaining to our duties. But we should be more anxious, if anything, when we return to set a goodly example before the people, that when the young men and young women, who have known us when we have not been so careful and so diligent, look upon us in a year after our return — in ten years after our return — they will say, "Surely the power of God came to that man. The testimony of the Lord Jesus was given him, and when he returned and bore record that he knew this work to be true, it was a solemn truth, and God had given him that assurance, for his whole life and his conduct before us, ever since he has returned, has testified all the time that he had a knowledge of the truth of the Gospel." And we should not have to bear the responsibility of testifying to the truth before the people and then turning away from the path of duty. 

God bless the missionaries at home find abroad wherever they may be; bless those who have returned and who are returning, that they may be filled with the missionary spirit at home, for there is need of the missionary spirit in all the wards and stakes of Zion. There is need at home for men who are devoted to the work of the Lord, and who feel that it is of the utmost importance all the time. It is a glorious thought that we are given to the Lord, that we are given to the accomplishment of His work, and that we have the courage and determination to hearken to  counsel of the Lord, and honor the Lord by the observance of His laws upon the earth and by sustaining the authority of His holy Priesthood. We cannot sustain the Priesthood by the mere lifting of our hands. The man who sustains the Priesthood is the man who responds to the appointments that are given him, the man who says "yes" to the Bishop, and to the president of the Stake, the man who responds in his quorum. The man who is always work^g willingly and dutifully, is the man who sustains the authority of God. There is no other way to sustain that authority. 

May the Lord help us to seek after His spirit and to be filled with His power, that we may magnify our callings and accomplish much righteousness, is my prayer through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JONATHAN G.KIMBALL. 

My brethren and sisters: One thing I specially like about our conference' is the plain talk that has been given to the Latter-day Saints. I realize that some of you have fairly crawled in your seats for fear the brethren would say something. It is a spirit that is creeping into the hearts of our people. My father once in preaching prophesied that goods would be as cheap here as they were in the streets of New York; and after the spirit subsided a little, he turned to President Young and said, "Well, President Young, I have done it now." President Young said, "Never mind, Brother Kimball, let it go." He didn't believe it either. But it came to pass. I want to ask you Latter-day Saints if. when men are inspired of God and you exercise faith for them, as you have done in this conference, they are to be always held accountable for what they say under the influence of the Holy Spirit. It is bad enough to be held personally responsible when a man is not under the influence of the Spirit. I have been fearful that some of us have become cowardly in our hearts in advocating the principles of the doctrines of Christ. I remember in laboring among the Elders in the Southern States, the question came up, shall we go when they tell us to go? Well, I said, if you  you will all be home in three weeks. You ought to go when you feel impressed by the Spirit to go, and when you are not you are to hold the fort and let God take care of you. That is the kind of doctrine I believe in; I don't know whether I live up to it or not. I have a little boy at home. I didn't know how to train children, and when he was a little fellow we made him give up to every little child that came in to visit us, till today he hasn't got grit enough to take his own part, and we have him come home crying because somebody has whipped him. And now I have to go to work and train that boy to fight, if he ever gets on in this world. I have another little boy growing up, and I tell you I don't bother myself about these things. I believe in being loyal and true to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I believe in doing right. And I believe in men being under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and women, too. I don't know that I can tell you how I feel during this conference, any better than to tell you how I felt whenil_was down to the Chicamaugua Park, when they were mobilizing soldiers for the war. They mobilized forty thousand soldiers at that place, and one day I saw there nine thousand soldiers under dress parade, and I heard the martial music, and I saw them pass under the great flag of the United States, and every one of them doffed his hat when he came to the flag. My blood coursed rapidly through my veins, and I felt as if I was eight or ten feet tall, and that I would like to so to the war and see how it felt. I don't know how long the feeling would have lasted, but I never felt better in my life. I never felt more inspired with that kind of inspiration and loyalty to the United States than I did on that one occasion. It has been the occasion of my life, and , I learned that I was patriotic, that I was loyal, that the blood of the revolutionary fathers coursed through my veins, and I was mighty glad to find it out I felt just the same way during this conference, and I wouldn't be afraid of all the world, all the devils in hell, if I could always have the same soirit of  that has actuated me during this conference. 

It is getting so a man dares not to open his mouth for fear he will say something, for fear he will tread on what they term holy ground. I think we ousht to be wise, and I think that during the times that are coming the Latter-day Saints ought to keep their feet warm and their heads cool. 

I remember a time not long ago, during our troublous times, a very nice, prominent Gentile — he was very much aroused and excited about matters — who raised his hand in indignation (I guess he thought I would run), and he roared like a lion: "Keep your hands off from the State, and you see to it that your authorities do the same." I said look here and I wasn't very cool either — I don't think I had an overload of the Spirit myself. I said, look here, my friend, you were not born here like I was, in these mountains. I was brought up in the mountains. I don't know anything else but liberty, like the birds that fly in the air, and I love this country because my fathers and my noble loved ones are buried over here on the hill, over sixty of them. I love this country because I have been with my father as a child when he walked around the site of this great tabernacle before it was built. My father's oxen and his mules and his wagons hauled rock for that temple when I was a child. My father and my mother, whom I loved and venerated, came to this country as pioneers. I can't tell you about our temples, about our worship, about our marriages, about the Holy Ghost, about the Priesthood— I can't tell you, no man can tell you, unless you have the Spirit of God; but I want to tell you now, I shall not be cowardly and stop my tongue, but you must keep your hands off the Church, and you must respect the men that I honor, or you and I will no longer be friends. A man is a cowardly craven that will sit by for fear of trouble and allow men to be-little and abuse him and call the authorities of the Church everything under heaven. I don't believe in war. I believe in loving the souls of the children of men. But I tell you when you respect the authorities yourself, other people will respect them, and the world widl. The Gentile world and the people of this city and State would have respected the authorities more than they do had our own people set the example. That is what I want to tell you, and I have told you, and I am not going to take it back either. ' I am not going to make any apologies because I have made that statement. It is true, just as true as the Lord lives. If you honor your wife and speak well of her, other people will do so. If you do not honor your children and you have a hired girl in the house and you do not treat them kindly, the girl herself will treat your own children unkindly. 

Now I feel that we ought to honor God. "We ought to be loyal to our country, and I believe that honest men ought to rule this nation, that honest and good men ought to rule this country. It is a mighty poor time for us now to sit down and feel bad about it, if any mistakes are made. I want to tell you that while I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I have my franchise, and my citizenship, and I have my vote, and I have a right to cast it. And if every single man and woman that is entitled to their franchise, instead of going and howling after the trouble is over, would shake themselves and realize that they are members of this great nation and great State, and go to their primaries and cast their ballot, I tell you mighty few dishonest men would find their way into our State and into the offices. But it is your fault, because we do not do our duty as American citizens. I claim that every man and every woman in this nation that has the franchise — that own property, that pays taxes — has a right to go to the primaries and see to it that honest men go into the convention, and then you leave the matter in their hands and let them do the rest, and hold them responsible. 

Now I pray God to bless you. I feel to be loyal, I feel to be true to the cause of Christ, and I want to be saved in the kingdom of God; and I want to go where my father went and where my mother went. I want to be with this people. I want to see all the world , and I want to see the Gospel preached to every tongue and people as a witness, anl I will be mighty glad when the end comes. May the Lord bless you. Amen. 

Sister May Young sang a solo. 

ELDER ABRAHAM O. WOODRUFF. 

I desire, my brothers and sisters, that the words that I shall speak may be dictated by\the Holy Spirit. I have rejoiced exceedingly in this conference in the words that have been spoken to the Latter-day Saints, and I feel that the Lord has greatly favored the Latterday Saints in giving them the instructions that He has given through the mouths of His servants; and I pray that we may be faithful and true in carrying out these instructions that will be for our good and blessing. 

1 desire to raise my voice in warning to the fathers and mothers of young men and young women, who come to this city to attend school or to find work. I desire to caution them to see that they are under proper influences, and know something of the families that they are living with, something of their environments, for we are all influenced to a great degree by our surroundings. It is a -reat deal better or easier for us to do right and keep the commandments of the Lord when we are under good influences; and it is a great deal easier to do wrong: when we are under conditions of wrongdoing, or where others set the examples. And especially are the youth, the young men and maidens of Zion, or of any community or of any people, inclined to be influenced by conditions which surround them. I feel that this is a very important matter. There are things that are of more importance to the Latterday Saints' parents than the mere earnin*g of dollars and cents by their sons and their daughters; and the question ought not to be, when their sons and daughters come to this city, or to any other city, to obtain employment, "How much money can they get?" The consideration ought to be, in part at any rate, what are the conditions that will surround them in this position or in this employment? I feel that great evil has come  a lack of observance of this counsel, and through parents sending their sons or their daughters, or permitting them to go, to the larger cities to obtain employment in hotels and in families that are not good, or in other places where they have not been under proper restraint. It is a very good thing for us all to be placed under proper restraint. It is a good thing for us to have good influences thrown around us. Is it possible that fathers and mothers can, in view of these conditions that will surround their daughters, permit them to come into these cities, leaving their homes and natural guardians to obtain employment without knowing of their surroundings and knowing that these shall be good? There are very many Latter-day Saints that cannot get help, either girls or young men. They cannot get the assistance they need on their farms and in their families because they do not live handy enough to Main street, or because other conditions are not satisfactory to those who are seeking employment. I feel that it is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to know in what kind of a family their sons or daughters are living, where they are found at night, and what conditions and influences they are under. It would be a great surprise to many of the fathers and mothers, perhaps, if they were to walk down our Main street here some Saturday night about 11 o'clock and find, to their astonishment, that there were more young men and young women upon the street at that hour than can be found at any time of the day during any of the week days. Now, my brethren and sisters, many of you who have allowed your sons and daughters to come to this city to go to school or to obtain employment and think they are all right, that they are keeping proper company, you would be surprised, perhaps, if you personally would take a stroll down Main street and find some of your sons and daughters upon that street in an unseemly hour of the night, and not in proper company either. Young people who frequent the streets of this city, or any other city, at a late hour, with no other view than simply to walk up and  to be seen or to see, if they are not very careful, will lose their standing in the Church of Christ, they will break away from the restraint of the parental home, and they will lose their virtue that is ten thousand times more dear to them than all the money they will ever be able to earn in their life. 

This is something that parents ought to give their attention to, for we realize that the devil is not opposed to immorality. He is not even opposed to prostitution. The sanctimonious of the world are not opposed to these things. We have never heard in all our lifetime the great cries raised against prostitution and such like vices practiced in the world that we have heard against patriarchal marriage. It was because this principle is of God; but the works of the devil are not found fault with by the agencies of the devil. There are very many in the world that are opposed to conditions of restraint placed upon young people, but there is a large majority of the sons and daughters of God upon the earth that consider laxity in these things to be of a very grave character, because the devil is pleased with such as yield to such things. We are told that we are the servants of whosoever we list to obey. If we list to obey the teachings of God and His counsels, we are the servants or the handmaidens of God. If we list to obey satan, we are satan's servants. I feel that the conditions that are arising in some quarters in this city and in other cities, are alarming, and fathers and mothers ought to give their attention to these things. They ought to try to keep their sons and daughters under * a proper influence and from improper associates. You may feel that they are all right, that you have trusted them, and probably many of them can be trusted; but it is not a good thing to expose them to conditions that bring them into temptation and danger, that are against morality, virtue, honesty and truth. 

I believe that sorrow will be brought to many of the homes of the Latter-day Saints if they do not give these matters proper attention. Your sons and daughters had a thousand times better stay at home, if their clothes are not quite so good, than go away from home to be exposed to the conditions which are found in the cities, and wreck their lives and make themselves miserable and useless in the service of their God. I feel that the Latter-day Saints ought to see to it that their sons and daughters find employment and lodgings in the Latter-day Saints' homes. And this is not boycotting either, for the protestants and the Catholics do it, and no fault is found with them. And we are just as free as any other people to advise people what to do, and I do advise the Latter-day Saints to see to it that, their sons and daughters find employment or lodgings in the homes of Latter-day Saints, when they come to the city to spend the winter or look for work. 

I pray God to bless you and give us the spirit of this work in which we are engaged, and help us to do right and live faithfully before Him, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Sister Lucy Grant and the choir sang "Beautiful City." 

ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR. 

Dear brethren and sisters, I would have preferred to have heard from Elder Grant the remainder of this meeting, but he insists that I shall occupy a portion of the time, and I humbly pray that our heavenly Father will bless me with the light of His holy Spirit that I may have something to say to you that shall be appropriate to the occasion. 

If there is one thing above another that impresses itself upon my mind at the present moment, it is the obligation that is placed upon the Latter-day Saints to preach the Gospel in all the world. A short time ago I was in Canada. While the weather looked pleasant, as we were passing along over the prairie a thunder shower came up before we reached the village of Cardston. I believe it was a little more severe than anything I ever saw or heard. During the progress of the storm it killed eight or ten head of cattle and a similar number of horses, knocked senseless Brother Jenson and all hie family, set his house on fire, killed his dogs, knocked to pieces a few telegraph poles and scared everybody pretty near to death. I was out in the buggy, and I know what my feelings were. How , I thought, it would be for one of those bolts of lightning to strike us. We could see the electricity running along on the barbed wire as we passed by a ranch, and a great many places the lightning struck. 

Now, I say to you young men who are under the sound of my voice, lightning is going to strike all through this country. The next day when we were in a public meeting, getting up a subscription to furnish a few farmers with teams — they having lost theirs during the storm — I asked the people if they would not subscribe and give a few cattle and horses; sufficient were obtained in a few moments, and arrangements were made to furnish teams to those who had lost theirs. Lightning is going to strike all over this country in a short time. 

In regard to preaching this Gospel, I will tell you how I look at it. The Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith, "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature, to every nation." He had renewed unto him the same commission that was given unto the ancient Apostles. How far have we obeyed this commandment? We have spent most of our time in Scandinavia and in the British isles, and more recently in the United States. There are hundreds of millions of people that have never heard the Gospel. How long will it be before the Lord comes? I don't believe He will ever come until the sound of this Gospel goes into all the world, to every creature. How long will He have to postpone His coming if we do not make faster progress than we are making at the present time? 

I feel to continue in the strain of Elder McMurrin's remarks for a few minutes, and speak of the Elders of Israel here at home. I would say to you, Elders, do not be surprised if you are called again. President Snow announced to the Twelve the other day that he expected them to open up the doors of the Gospel unto other nations of the earth where it had not before been. What does that mean? It means that where only one of the Twelve goes there will hundreds — possibly thousands — of Elders go.sooner or later. While the brethren were  over the various nations where the Gospel had not been preached, they spoke of Russia, of Prussia and of Hungary, and they spoke also of Persia and of Austria and of those nations that are in central Europe. Besides, we have all South America, which is being settled up by the white races to a very great extent. "We have all of Africa. The Gospel must go to Africa just as well as to the white people wherever they are. We have all of the numerous nations of India to preach the Gospel to. And I may say that in the southern part of Africa today there are many millions of intelligent people to whom the Gospel must be preached. And some of the best families of theLatter-day Saints were gathered from South Africa in early days. It is true we are preaching a little in Australia and in New Zealand, and upon the Pacific Islands, and have made considerable progress in those places, but we have only made a start. That you may comprehend the importance of doing our duty in this respect, let me show you the value that our Lord and Savior placed upon the preaching of the everlasting Gospel. On one occasion there were certain young men who had been faithful in keeping the commandments. I refer to several of His Apostles. And they came to Him and they wanted to get their reward, and He said to Peter, the Apostle: "Peter, what desirest thou of me?" And Peter said: "I would that I might return speedily with Thee into Thy Father's kingdom." And He asked John, "What desirest thou?" John answered, "I would that I might tarry upon the earth to bring souls unto Thee until Thou comest again in Thy glory." Then Jesus turned again to Peter and said, "Blessed art thou Peter, for thou hast desired a good thing, and it shall be given unto thee even in accordance with thy desire." But, turning unto John He said, "More blessed is my servant. John, because he desires to tarry upon the earth to bring souls unto me, and to do a greater work than he has yet done, and verily, I say unto you, I will make him a flaming sword of fire and a ministering angel unto all those who shall be heirs of salvation to them that dwell upon the earth, and to you 

(referring to Peter) and your brother James, will I give the keys to minister unto him," and He committed this ministry unto these three men. Here is a good example, showing that the preaching of the everlasting Gospel was greater than to go into the kingdom of our God and to dwell with Him with the Father. Why? Is there any reason given for this? Yes, we have a reason here in a revelation given to Oliver Cowdery through the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Lord says: "I would have you remember how great is the value of souls in the sight of God." For he says God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son that whosoever believeth on Him should not perish but have everlasting life. And He says, "If it so be that you labor all your days preaching repentance unto this people and bring save it be one soul unto my Father's kingdom, how great will be your joy with that one soul in the kingdom of my Father; and if your joy shall be great with one soul, how great shall it be if you bring many!" Here is shown the value our Father and our God places upon the souls of of the children of men. Outside of proving for the Latter-day Saints that are at home, and choosing men of wisdom to guide in the affairs of His kingdom, there is that great and mighty work to preach the everlasting Gospel to all nations, kindreds, tongues and people; and you are promised your reward. The Apostle Paul has said: "Eye hath not seen nor ear heard, nor hath it entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath in store for them that love Him and keep His commandments." 

We have been told by Brother Kimball that he saw the soldiers of the United States marching forth to war against other nations. It filled him with a desire to go himself in the armies of his country. I want to say to the Elders, there is a music that is prepared for the Elders of Israel in preaching the everlasting Gospel; yea, there is music which is prepared of God. He says: "I will send my holy angels before your face to prepare your way before you. They will be upon your right and upon your left hand to bear you up, and I will go before your face. The music of the angels is sung unto those who are in the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

I heard Elder Golden Kimball say in the city of Ephraim, Sanpete county, that many of the Latter-day Saints are worrying about their sons for fear they will never return to the land of Zion. I would rather have every son that I have lay down his life in the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ abroad, if it was necessary, than in any other field of labor that I can possibly think of, especially if they were laboring under the direction of the Presidency of this Church. But when a man is in the service of the Lord he is safer than in any other service. You may imagine you are safer here at home, attending to your daily avocations, but when you are in the service of God, our Eternal Father, all is well with you. 

Now, young men, prepare yourselves to preach the Gospel of repentance unto the children of men, for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ is near at hand, and it will require renewed diligence on our part to go forth and fulfill our missions and be in readiness for the coming of our Savior. He said he would cut short His work in righteousness. It is said that He will come as a refiner's fire and as fuller's soap, to purify the sons of Levi. We have been reminded here of the judgments and the miseries that are coming upon the nations. It is true as God lives. He says: "I will burn them, saith the Lord of hosts, by the brightness of my coming, and I will leave them neither root nor branch; yea, all those that are proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble, for the day that cometh shall burn them up." Take all those that are proud and all those that do wickedly from among the children of men, and there will be but few men left, and the words of Jesus Christ will be fulfilled in his prophecy in the 24th chapter of Matthew, wherein he says, "as in the days of Noah so shall it be in the days of the coming of the Son of Man." How many men and women were there that would listen to the Prophet Noah? There were but few, and I say that today, compared with the inhabitants that live, but few men will receive the; therefore, be humble and put away all pride, all vanity and nonsense of every kind, serve the Lord, and devote yourselves to His service. 

I testify to this congregation, that these men who have gone forth and fulfilled faithful missions, have not feared the world nor the things of the world, but the Lord has led them to the honest in heart, and the honest in heart have received the testimony of the Holy Spirit, and the gifts and blessings have been poured out upon them as a stream of living fire, for truly the promise was made, as said John the Baptist, "Behold I baptize you with water, but there is one coming after me who will baptize you with fire and the Holy Ghost. I have seen when your sons, the Elders of Israel, have preached the Gospel, promising the Holy Ghost to the people if they would repent of their sins and laid their hands upon their heads; I have seen people stand up and prophesy and testify that God lives and that Jesus Christ is His Son; I have heard them speak in tongues, and others have interpreted, not by the power of man tut by the power of God, and the signs have followed the believers. I know that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. I know that Lorenzo Snow has the inspiration of the Lord, and he is a Prophet, Seer and Revelator of this Church to guide us on to salvation; and I pray that God will bless him and lengthen out his years upon the earth, that he may live to see Zion redeemed from its bondage, and that we may be blessed and prospered as a people. Joseph Smith gave a definition in regard to those who understood the Spirit of God. He said: Show me a man or a woman who has the Spirit of God with him or her, and I will show you a man or woman whose greatest desire is to build up the Church of God upon the earth. Is this out desire, my brethren and sisters? I pray that the Spirit of God may rest upon this congregation, and that Elder Grant may be filled with the fire of the Holy Ghost, that He may speak as a man having authority and not as the Scribes and the Pharisees, that he may deliver the word of God unto us here this afternoon, and I pray that it may sink into good and honest 

"hearts and bring forth fruit to the honor and glory of God. May God bless all under the sound of my voice. And if there are any strangers here, I invite them into the waters of baptism, and I will promise them that they shall know that God lives, and that He has sent us, His people, to gather His Israel from the four Quarters of the earth, and that the little stone that Daniel saw is rolling forth. Daniel said he saw a stone that was cut out of the mountain without hands, and it rolled forth and became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. He spoke of those who would oppose the progress of this rock, that they should be as the chaff of the summer's threshing floor, and there should be no place found for them. 

Blessed are the honest in heart. Rlessed are they whose hearts are to build up the kingdom of God. My testimony is, and it will always be, if you will sustain the authorities of this Church, God will bless you. If you do your duty, God will bless you and prosper you in the land of Zion. If you do not do your duty, the Spirit of God will not be with you, and you will not be prospered. I say to the ungodly, Do not oppose the work of the Lord. It is not the work of Joseph Smith. It is not the work of Lorenzo Snow. It is the work of God, the Heavenly Father. He can raise ud a nation; he can cast it down. He can raise ud an individual, or he can cast him aside. I say unto you, my brethren and sisters, the words of Jesus will be applied unto them in their fulfillment, Whosoever shall fall upon this stone shall be broken, but whomsoever this stone shall fall upon shall be ground to powder. Show me a man that has ever lifted up his hand against the Church of God that today is prospered in the earth. May God bless us that we may be as our fathers, for the building up of the kingdom of God and for righteousness and virtue and purity and for the spread of the principles of righteousness to the ends of the earth, which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HEBER J. GRANT. I have rejoiced exceedingly in the conference we have had the privilege  attending. I have been much pleased with the remarks that have been made in this overflow meeting this afternoon; and trust that the remainder of the time I may occupy, I may do so under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. 

I love the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I love to minister among the Latter-day Saints, and have had exquisite joy in this labor, and particularly have I rejoiced that upon some occasions I have been the instrument in the hands of God in touching the hearts of those who have grown careless and negligent in their duties, and they have seen fit to reform their ways and to be more diligent in His service than they have ever been. It requires a constant warfare on the part of every Latter-day Saint, for him to make a success. We cannot measure the work of God by the things of this world. God tells us in the Doctrine and Covenants there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation. We as Latter-day Saints have all started out for the gift of salvation, and we should so order our lives that when we have finished our work we shall be worthy to go back into the presence of our Father, and be worthy not only to receive exaltation ourselves, but also to receive our wives and our children that have been sealed unto us that we shall possess them. No amount of testimony, no amount of knowledge, even knowledge that this is God's work, will ever save a man so that he will have his wives and his children, but the keeping of the commandments of God will entitle him to that blessing. That is the only way that they can possess them in the next world, for those they have will be taken away, unless they keep the commandments of God. 

I wish to call your attention to the. many failures that have been made because of failure to keep the commandments. The Lord told Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer that if they labored all their lives in brin^ins; but one soul to the knowledge of God they should have great joy. Notwithstanding this revelation, these men did not remain faithful, notwithstanding these men saw the an^el of God; notwithstanding they gave their testimony to the Book of Mormon, in which they declare that they knew that the plates had been translated by the gift and power of God, for "His voice hath declared it unto us; wherefore we know of a surety that the work is true." And again they testify that the angel came down and they beheld and saw the plates and the engravings thereon, and they say: "It is marvelous in our eyes, nevertheless the voice of the Lord commanded us that we should bear record Of it; wherefore, to be obedient unto the commandments of God, we bear testimony of these things. And we know that if we are faithful in Christ we shall rid our garments of the blood of all men, and be found spotless before the judgment seat of Christ, and shall dwell with Him eternally in the heavens." Notwithstanding all this, they failed to keep the commandments of God, and fell by the wayside. Take Sydney Rigdon, who was with Joseph Smith when he received that great vision and revelation wherein it is declared that they saw Jesus Christ who came into the world to bear the sins of the world; and the testimony which they bore of Jesus was: "After the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we zive of Him, that He lives, for we saw Him, even on the right hand of God, and we heard the voice bearing record that He is the only begotten of the Father." And they testify that they saw the angels and those that were sanctified singing praises to God. I say, notwithstanding they saw. the Savior and bore His testimony, this man Sidney Rigdon, fell by the wayside. I say to the Latter-day Saints, no amount of knowledge, no amount of testimony, no amount of sealing in the temples of God to our wives and children will save us; but the keeping of the commandments of God, being honest in our dealings with God and with out fellow men, paying our tithing, obeying the Word of Wisdom and doing our duty as Latterday Saints — these are the things, and the only things that will save us. 

What does the Lord say? "Although a man may have many revelations, and have power to do many mighty works, yet if he boasts in his own strength and sets at nought the counsels of God and  after the dictates of his own will and carnal desires, he must fail and incur the vengeance of a just God upon him." It is easy for us to fail to be honest with Almighty God in the payment of our tithes and offerings, and to follow the dictates of our own wills. The devil is ready to blind our eyes with the things of this world, and he would gladly rob us of eternal life, the greatest of all gifts. But it is not given to the devil, and no power will ever be given to him to overthrow any Latterday Saint that is keeping the commandments of God. There is no power given to the adversary of men's souls to destroy us if we are doing our duty. If we are not absolutely honest with God, then we let the bars down, then we have destroyed part of the fortifications by which we are protected, and the devil may come in. But no man has ever lost the testimony of the Gospel, no man has ever turned to the right or to the left, who had the knowledge of the truth, who was attending to his duties, who was keeping the Word of Wisdom, who was paying his tithing, who was responding to the calls and duties of his office and calling in the Church. 

May God bless us! May the teachings of this conference abide with us, and may God help all of us to be true to Him, is my prayer and desire. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Singing by the choir and congregation. 

Benediction by Elder Karl G. Maeser. 


