Morning
02 10 1937

Conference reconvened Saturday morning, October 2 at 10 o'clock. 

Musical numbers for this session of the Conference were given by the Nebo Stake Choir, under the direction of Elder Carl Nelson. 

"The Lord is My Shepherd," was sung by the Choir as an opening selection. 

 Elder James L. Hatch, President of the Panguitch Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir sang the anthem, "Consider the Lilies." 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

PERILOUS TIMES 

We are living in perilous times. The conditions in many parts of the world are as uncertain and disturbed as they could be without armed conflict. Spain is involved in civil war at the present time. That is not far from where the Savior of the world lived in mortality, where the Gospel of peace was preached by him and his disciples, and where thousands of people undoubtedly heard the truth from the lips of the Master himself or from those whom he sent when he told them to go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature, and they that believed and were baptized would be saved and they that believed not would be damned. Nearly two thousand years have passed since that warning was delivered and the great majority of the inhabitants of the earth are not yet converted to the message of love, but the destructive power of the adversary intensifies as the years roll by. 

I stand before you exceedingly nervous, realizing what a responsibility is mine, and pray for the inspiration of the Lord that we may all be edified by what we hear and feel. 

REPENTANCE AND HUMILITY NEEDED 

As we analyze the situation we must come to the conclusion that there never was a time in the world's history when there was greater necessity everywhere for men to repent of their sins and seek the guidance of our Heavenly Father. There has never been a time since the Church was organized when there was greater need for us to humble ourselves before the Lord and seek his guidance. 

There are many people who think themselves competent to lead us out of our difficulties and without hesitation they come forward with suggestions to try this or that as an experiment. And yet our Heavenly Father has advised us that the only plan that will produce satisfactory results and take us back into his presence is the plan of eternal life, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as advocated by his beloved Son. 

The wisdom of the world is not sufficient. What we need in the midst of our distresses is the wisdom of our Heavenly Father. And how shall we obtain it? Will it be by selfishness? I think not. Will we obtain it by arrogance, unmindful of the rights of others? Certainly not. Will we obtain it by fault finding and criticizing those who are seeking unselfishly to bless mankind? No, never. The Lord has told us that we may obtain the inspiration that we always need by living righteous lives and by .prayer and thanksgiving. He has said that when even two or three shall meet together in his name he will be there to bless them. This great audience of thousands of people has met in the name of the Lord and I have no doubt that he will bless us. 

This is a glorious autumn day. Outside the sun is shining, birds are singing, flowers are blooming, and inside this great Tabernacle there is peace and quiet and the spirit of worship. With all my heart I feel to thank my Heavenly Father that I am here. 

THE PATHWAY TO THE CELESTIAL KINGDOM 

The Lord, when he placed our first parents on the earth, gave them instructions and from time to time he has sent his prophets to counsel their descendants. We have in the Old and the New Testament the teachings of the Lord, not of man, but the advice of our Heavenly Father intended to direct us along the pathway that will eventually terminate in the celestial kingdom. How wonderful it is to know that there is a pathway leading to a glorious kingdom. 

The Ten Commandments given to ancient Israel are a guide to safety and eternal happiness. Whenever we violate any of them we are not in the narrow way. We are told that strait is the gate and narrow the way which leadeth unto life, and if we would be in that narrow way we must keep his commandments. 

When Jesus of Nazareth was upon the earth he pleaded with men to live righteous lives in preparation for immortality, and he gave his life, demonstrating that he was not afraid to die and that the resurrection was a reality, and after he was raised from the dead he continued to advise the people how to live and when they have followed that advice they have rejoiced in the blessings of mortal life and in the assurance of eternal life. 

THE PRICE OF PEACE AND HAPPINESS 

The Book of Mormon tells us that there was one long period of time when the people were righteous and that was the two hundred years after the appearance of our Savior on this western hemisphere. They repented of their sins, turned to the Lord and were prosperous and happy. 

When the Gospel of Jesus Christ was established in this dispensation the Lord repeated what he has said so many times in the Old and New Testaments, that the price of peace and happiness is righteousness. Notwithstanding that knowledge there are many who appear to think that we can obtain happiness in some other way but we should all know by this time that there is no other way and only sorrow and disappointment will result from disobeying the Father of our spirits. We live in a day when there are. many temptations to evil and each one who submits himself to any of them loses a blessing. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation from our Heavenly Father called the Word of Wisdom in which we are advised not to use stimulants and narcotics. There are some among us who ignore the advice given in that revelation and drink liquor and use tobacco, knowing that the penalty must be paid and the blessing forfeited that would follow obedience. Why is it that it is so difficult for some people to comprehend that there is no happiness or benefit in violating the wise counsel of our Heavenly Father ? 

He has taught us that we must observe the Sabbath Day to keep it holy. One day of the seven he has set apart as his day, and in consideration of all his blessings bestowed upon us on the other days it would appear to me that we ought to find joy in doing the things that he asks us to do on his holy day, and I believe that unless we do we will find no happiness that is worthy of the name. He wants us to be happy and has told us how we may earn that happiness. 

FLYING IN A FOG 

One day I boarded an airplane at Los Angeles. It was foggy and they held us on the ground for some time, but finally word came that we might start. The plane taxied down the field, left the ground, soared up into the air and ascended above the fog into glorious sunshine. We could see the top of a mountain that gave the pilot our direction toward Salt Lake City. 

We were soon crossing Nevada. The view from the plane was delightful. Near Milford, Utah, we suddenly flew into one of the worst fogs I have ever seen. I tried to look out of the window of the plane but could not see anything through the fog. Not a thing could be seen in any direction outside the plane. 

I knew that we were approaching the mountains at the approximate rate of three miles a minute, that we were compelled to pass over them  get into the Salt Lake Valley. I was worried and asked myself, "How can the pilot find the way when he cannot see a thing ?" He had his compass but the plane might drift off its course. He had instruments indicating our distance above sea level but he had no way of knowing how far we were from the ground. I thought he might fly high enough to clear the mountains between us and the Salt Lake Valley and try to find the landing field by the flash of the beacons if we got close enough, but I chilled when I thought of the danger of losing our way and missing the beacons and the airport. 

AN ELECTRIC HIGHWAY 

In my anxiety I went up into the space that was occupied by the pilot and the co-pilot to see how they knew where we were going. I could not tell whether we were a hundred feet, a thousand feet or ten thousand feet above the ground and I did not know how they could tell, except approximately. I noticed that the pilot had a little device over his ear like operators in telephone offices use to receive with. I inquired of the co-pilot how they could tell whether we were flying in the right direction or know if we were off course. He replied, "When we cannot see we are guided by the radio beam." "What is that?" I asked.. He explained that the beam might be likened to an electric highway between two points and in our case the points were Milford and Salt Lake City. He said that the device over the pilot's ear operated so that when the plane was in the beam a low, purring sound continued to be heard, but if the plane goes to the right or left the sound changes and the pilot is warned by a clicking as of a telegraph key. If he hears two dots and a dash he knows he is leaving the beam to the right; if two dashes and a dot he is leaving the beam to the left and he immediately pulls back to the beam or highway, on to the path of safety, the clicking ceases and the purring resumes. If we continue on the beam we will arrive at our destination in safety. 

' I returned to my seat greatly comforted to know that notwithstanding we were enveloped in fog and darkness and could neither see nor feel where we were the pilot was receiving information constantly that we were on the highway and he knew that we would soon arrive at our destination. A few minutes later I felt the plane descending. We had passed over the mountain tops and were nearing the airport. When we were nearly down we could see the powerful lights of the field indicating where to land and the plane with its precious cargo touched the ground gently as a seagull lights on water, slowly came to a stop and we stepped from our conveyance to the ground, happy to be at home again. 

Not long after the trip I have described to you another passenger plane flying from Los Angeles to Salt Lake over the same course became lost in the darkness. For some unknown reason the pilot failed to follow the radio beam. They crashed on a granite peak about twenty-five miles south of here and it was months before any of th; bodies were recovered. FOLLOWING THE CHARTED COURSE 

I have thought many times of the lesson I learned on the plane and have applied it to experience in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. We are passengers on the good ship Zion. Jesus Christ, our Lord, is the real pilot. He charted the course; he knows every island and rock on the way and has placed beacons to guide us safely to our destination. 

Notwithstanding the fact that we are members of his Church we will not obtain an inheritance in the celestial kingdom except on condition that we follow the course that he has charted. Each of the Ten Commandments is a beacon warning us of danger. The Word of Wisdom is a beacon for our guidance and protection, as are all the counsels of the Lord to us. If we are living as we know that we should we are entitled to the whispering of a still small voice calling attention to danger saying this is the pathway of safety, walk ye in it. We are not in that pathway when we profane, when we disobey the Lord's command to keep the Sabbath Day holy or when we are unjust to one another. If we have erred in our conduct the voice will whisper to us "turn back, you have made a mistake; you have disregarded the advice of your Heavenly Father." Turn from the error of your way while there is yet time, for if you go too far from the right path you will not hear the voice and you may be hopelessly lost and be wrecked, even as the pilot and his precious cargo were when they lost their way. 

Because of his love for us our Savior has done everything to protect us from the effects of evil, even to the giving of his life, but he will not take from us our agency. 

As members of this Church we may not excuse ourselves as the people of the world may who have not been properly taught and do not understand. Millions of God's children have not charts and compass as we have, but he organized his Church and offers membership and invites all to come into it and to be with him on the good ship Zion, with the promise that in obedience to his commandments there will -flow peace, happiness and eternal life in his celestial kingdom. 

Shall we be careless ? Shall we use things which God has forbidden ? Shall we dishonor his holy day ? Shall we neglect our prayers ? Shall we take advantage of our neighbors ? Shall we do the things that the Lord has told us not to do, when we know that by so conducting ourselves we may lose his spirit and we ourselves be lost ? 

THE PILOT OF THE CHURCH 

Not only has the Lord given us the advice already recorded in the scriptures to guide us but he has placed as a leader in this Church, one of his sons who has been chosen and ordained and set apart to be the President. He is our pilot and he will be directed by a voice that will enable him to lead us where we should go. If we are wise we will not set up our judgment against him but will be happy to honor him in his place as long as the Lord sustains him. We have had  souls in the Church who have, in their ignorance, opposed the advice of the pilot, not sensing the fact that they were opposing the Lord and they have fallen into darkness and sorrow, and unless they repent they will not find a place in the celestial kingdom. 

Let us remember that the President of this Church has been officially designated as the pilot of the Church here in mortality to represent the Master of heaven and earth. 

THE PATHWAY TO PEACE 

My advice to you is to get the Spirit of God and keep it and the only way we will retain it is by living near him, by keeping his commandments and in these days of uncertainty when men are running to and fro seeking for some new plan by which peace may be brought into the world know this that the only way to peace for this world is the pathway of the Gospel of Jesus Christ our Lord. There is no other. We have the instruments to operate the ship. We have the information including a map with every danger charted and if we will go forward day by day rejoicing in the companionship of one another, winning by our upright lives the love and confidence of our families and neighbors until the time comes when we have completed the period assigned to us here we will arrive at our heavenly home and be made welcome by our Heavenly Father. To possess a knowledge of the truth is worth all the wealth of the world, to know that we are on the safe highway when we are in the pathway of duty as defined by our Heavenly Father, and to know that we can continue there if we will, regardless of the influences and inducements that may be offered by those who have not been appointed to be our leaders, is a blessing that is priceless. 

AVOIDING THE PITFALLS 

God bless you, my brethren, who are presidents of stakes and bishops of wards, you who preside over quorums, you who are called to take charge in the auxiliary organizations, both men and women. Be humble and prayerful, that you may avoid the pitfalls that the adversary prepares for your feet. Listen to the still small voice that will always direct you if you are worthy of it in a path that means eternal happiness. My soul is filled with gratitude this day to know that as we continue our membership in the Church we do have a pilot who knows the way, and if we will follow his direction we will not land on the side of the mountain to be crushed nor descend to the depths to be drowned; we will not meet the spiritual disasters that the world is meeting but we will go about doing good, blessing mankind, and rejoicing in the companionship of those we love. 

That the Lord will -continue to bless the man who stands at the head of this Church together with his counselors and those that associate with them, that they may be inspired to see eye to eye in righteousness, and that we who are members may be wise enough not to jump overboard but that we may stay with the good ship Zion as it follows its course and help keep that course where the Lord would have it to be to the end that we may all find our place in the celestial kingdom when our labors in mortality are completed, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We have thirteen returned presidents of missions from whom we have not heard in one of our Conference sessions. We have brethren presiding over missions who have not yet spoken, and those who are presiding in the mission field who have spoken in these Conferences, numbering fourteen; so that as usual we have not time sufficient to hear from every one from whom we would like to hear. We shall not call on mission presidents who will have an opportunity later to speak to us in Conf erence, and will call on those only who have been released and are with us. We shall ask them, as there are thirteen of them, not to exceed ten minutes in their remarks. There is a clock directly in front of them — I have been looking at that clock now for fifty-odd years, and I have always been able to see it — and I should like the brethren to remember that every time they exceed their time, some one will have less than his share of time. If they should accidentally stop a minute too soon there will be no complaint. 

ELDER DON B. COLTON 

Former President of the Eastern States Mission 

During the last four years I have had the wonderful experience of laboring as a missionary in and president of the Eastern States Mission. That experience has been the most satisfactory of my life. I appreciate it sincerely. 

Soon after reaching the mission field we dedicated the Washington chapel. It has been one of the main centers since then for the advancement and for the preaching the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have built and dedicated other chapels, and I feel that the mission in a material way has made substantial progress. We are building a chapel now in Philadelphia. 

One of the outstanding developments of that period has been the work at the Hill Cumorah where the Church has erected a beautiful and impressive monument and has also erected a Bureau of Information. During the last summer, an open air theatre has been erected. I mention these only in appreciation of the fine work that has been accomplished in creating and providing for us the agencies that are so necessary in aid of the preaching of the Gospel. 

The finest experience, however, that has come to me has been the opportunity of- working with the groups of fine young men and women who have come into the mission field from the various wards and branches and stakes of Zion and other missions. They have been an inspiration to me, and if Mormonism may be judged by its fruits, we are not ashamed  have people know that these boys and girls represent the homes of the Mormon Church. 

I should like to say a word to my brethren, the Bishops. Thank the Lord for a Bishop who can find work for his returned missionaries, particularly in the work of the Church. I rejoice also in this great movement to provide work for our people. I can endorse fully the words uttered by the President yesterday morning. Most of our boys and girls who return are anxious to work. I pray that the Lord will open the way and help them that they may find employment. In the main they return full of the spirit of the Gospel, fine, clean young people. I hope that they shall not become discouraged nor soured in life. They have learned the greatest lesson of life, namely, that God lives. Their hearts have been warmed and their souls attuned to the Spirit of God. They have seen life in a different way. I hope that they shall not be disappointed, but shall find a place in the world and continue to make good. 

And now, just one word with reference to the Gospel of Jesus Christ. In the papers the other day it was announced that several noted divines had made the statement that during the last two thousand years Christianity had been failing. With all due respect, I cannot subscribe to that doctrine. Christianity has not failed. The failure, if any, has been due to the fact that people have not interpreted Christianity properly and have not lived it. God does not fail; his works do not fail; they succeed. God succeeds; man only fails when he does not interpret the word of God correctly, and does not translate it into his own life. 

The evidence, therefore, clearly shows that during these two thousand years whatever failure has come has been due to men not accepting true Christianity. So, my brethren and sisters, the last four years have taught me that there is in the world a true Christianity, and I say this humbly and without the spirit of boasting. I recognize that good men and good women everywhere are trying to live Christianity, as they understand it, but the fact that it has not succeeded ought to be notice to them that somewhere along the line they have missed the charted course of the Gospel of Christ. 

I bear solemn testimony that there is a Christianity in the world that takes hold of the lives of men and women and makes them over, so to speak; that turns them from the paths of unrighteousness into the paths of truth and rectitude, and that God is directing the work of his Church. The Christianity that recognizes that everywhere the Gospel is in the world for the world's good, and that men and women who embrace it are " made better. So far as it is translated into their lives there is no failure, and when we find that it is failing, let us look to ourselves or to the doctrines that we have embraced. God's work is right. His truth never fails. It is always right. God is always right. May we seek to find his light and may we walk therein. I do know as I know that I live that God lives. It is the most precious thing in my life. I rejoice beyond my power to express that there has come to me the overwhelming conviction that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, the only name given under heaven whereby we must be saved. I rejoice that his truth has been restored, and pray that God will help us to live it always, in the name of Jesus, our Savior, Amen. 

ELDER NICHOLAS G. SMITH 

Former President of the California Mission 

My brethren and sisters, I am happy to stand before you this morning and bear testimony to the divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I love our Church because of the opportunity it gives each of us to do unselfish service. 

I spent the most glorious two and a half years of my life in the California Mission, and recently returned from that mission loving it and loving the people there. To associate with your boys and girls in the mission field, to see them grow and develop in their testimonies and in their ability to mix with other' people and to convince them of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, was a great joy. 

California is a great country — the land of sunshine they call it. I love it, not because of its sunshine, but because of the people who are there. Goodness knows that had I been seeking sunshine I would not have needed to go away from Salt Lake City in August and September of this year. 

Since coming here I have been assigned to a new task, to labor as a counselor to President Stephen L. Chipman in the Salt Lake Temple, and I have been surprised at the things I have discovered there. Do you know we have some sixty thousand names that have been sent into the temple from the mission fields of the world that should be taken care of and. the work done for them? The President of the French Mission wrote to me and told me that he had sent in some lists of names — several hundred — two years ago and had not yet received the papers back, and he desired to know whether the names had been lost. When I looked into the files I discovered that not only those from the French Mission were there, but there were thousands and thousands from other missions that were there waiting to be taken care of. I feel it would be a glorious thing if the people would consider this great work, this charity work, that is to be done for the missions of the world, and when they come to the House of the Lord take the names from some of these missions and help us to clear them out of the files. I hope the new Security Plan will work out this very thing. 

I was astonished to learn that for the month of August the temples ran about 29% capacity; that is, we could have done 71% more work in the Salt Lake Temple than was done during the month of August; and I am wondering how temple-conscious we are, and whether or not we should not consider this great mission that all of us have been called to that are in the Church. You will remember that the Prophet bore down heavily upon this one point —  we cannot be made perfect without our dead — and assigned to us a special activity, a missionary work if you please, and while I will candidly admit that up until now this missionary work has not been so interesting to me as the missionary work for the living has been, I recognize the fact that it is essential, it is a work that all of us should be thinking about; and I hope that throughout the winter months the Salt Lake Temple and all the temples will be running one hundred per cent capacity, instead of 29%. 

God bless the Latter-day Saints. Wherever I have been amongst our people I have found that they were living the Gospel, and their example has been a strength and a help to me, for their homes have been opened, and I have been fed and clothed and blessed through the Saints. 

May the peace of our Heavenly Father be in the hearts of each and every one of us, and may our desire be to uphold the General Authorities of the Church in all that they do, is my prayer, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH QUINNEY, JR. 

President of the Logan Temple 

My dear brethren and -sisters: This is a surprise to me, to be asked to say a few words to you. I sincerely pray that God my eternal Father will bless the words I shall say so that they will be of truth and benefit not only to myself, but to you to whom I shall speak. 

It has been my privilege to serve the Church as a missionary four different times in different parts of the world. Each time I have responded to the call has brought joy and satisfaction and given me an increased testimony concerning the divinity of this great and mighty work. 

I have now been called into a new division of the Gospel of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ — to preside over the Logan Temple. It is a very important calling, one of trust and confidence and I appreciate it beyond measure. It is indeed a blessing. It is our aim, our objective, to beautify life both from a physical and a spiritual point of view. Inasmuch as my present calling has so much to do with the development of spirituality, I discover that it requires more concentration, more thought, more prayer and more humility to understand the significance of the saving graces of the Gospel of our Lord and Master Jesus Christ. This temple work reaches back to the beginning of time and touches the life of every human soul and gives him an opportunity to embrace the Gospel. 

It has been my privilege during my entire life to associate with young men and women, and one of the joys connected with this association has been to witness the growth and development that take place in the hearts and the minds of these fine young men and women. Many of them are occupying positions of great responsibility in the wards and stakes of Zion. They are measuring up to their responsibilities in a way that not only brings them into great prominence, but also brings credit to the cause that they represent. I believe in the youth of our Church. I believe that the great majority of them who have been in the mission fields carry a testimony concerning the restored Gospel. 

We have had excursions of returned missionaries many times visiting the Logan Temple, doing work not' only for themselves but their kindred dead. It is glorious indeed to meet them. It has been my privilege to marry many of them for time and for all eternity, and I am convinced that those who assume this obligation in the Temples of God and remain true and firm to the covenants they have made with their Eternal Father are fine members of the Church and are contributing to its development and growth. 

Gratitude, my brethren and sisters, is just a little more than thankfulness, and I often feel as I approach my Heavenly Father in prayer that I not only thank him for his goodness and the many manifestations of his blessings and for the benefits that have come to me from time to time, but there is also a deep feeling of gratitude that comes into my heart concerning my relationship to him. 

I know that this is the work of God. I know Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was the instrumentality through which God operated in bringing to pass the saving graces of the Gospel in this day and time in which we live. I humbly pray that in our lives we shall be able to place such interpretations upon these precious truths that we shall always find ourselves upholding and sustaining those who have been called to lead this great work, President Grant and his counselors and the quorum of the Twelve, and all those who are leading the different wards and stakes of Zion. I leave my humble testimony, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER ROY A. WELKER 

Former President of the German- Austrian Mission 

Once upon a time I was asked to give a toast, and the toastmaster said: "In front of you is a green light. When that green light flashes on, you are to stop." My excuse was that I was color blind and did not know when the green light was to be flashed. I have no excuse this morning, however, so I will try to stop within the range of ten minutes. 

A little over three years ago, I with my family left Salt Lake City for Germany, where I went to preside over the German-Austrian Mission. I knew at that time there was a tremendous task to be performed; conditions were uncertain, many of the Elders were feeling that perhaps they would be banished, or that war would soon break out or some other conditions would prevail by which they would be called home. 

But conditions began to settle down and before many months they had tremendously improved. We saw then an opportunity to work harder than we had been working or the Elders had been working. We did our best to make friends with the officers of the German government, both in a general as well as a local way. We discovered that they were in a transition period themselves, and feeling their way along. Many of their regulations were private laws that were being passed nearly every day by the Diet, and there was a group of police regulations that was never published.These were the conditions that gave us greatest anxiety. In various cities police were given power to act under given circumstances. We soon found that it was our business to make friends with these local authorities and not to ask them whether we could do this or that, but to do everything that seemed reasonable to us, and if we were forbidden to do that again, we would make our excuses and go about doing something else. It worked out very well. 

We also played strongly upon our twelfth Article of Faith, declaring that we meant it when we said that we believed in sustaining and upholding the government. They seemed to believe us, for there were something like thirty-four small religious denominations forbidden in that country, and yet we went on doing work that others who like us were not forbidden, could not do. 

There is a law in Germany that the small religious denominations should not scatter their literature from door to door. We debated for a long while whether we should stop tracting, but we had been tracting; in most of the places we had never ceased tracting, and we felt that inasmuch as we had been doing it we would continue, and we did continue. And in only a few places were we prevented from tracting, and in only a few places are the Elders forbidden to tract now. 

As President Grant said yesterday, in Berlin we may advertise our meetings freely. 

I rejoice to be able to testify to you today that the testimony of President Grant in the city of Berlin left a wonderful influence upon the people who attended that meeting. The newspapers that had refused us the opportunity of printing matter concerning us for a long time before, themselves wrote up articles of that meeting and of the President's speech. I have since learned from somewhat of an authoritative source that Mr. Hitler has learned of us and has said that the Mormon people are doing the German government no harm and he wants them let alone. 

I believe perhaps that may be true, for I can testify that during the past six months particularly we have had a friendliness shown us in that nation that has been splendid, and a matter of considerable comfort to us as well. 

Not only in Germany are the people tremendously receptive to the influences of the Gospel of the Master, but I believe with all my heart that the blood of Israel flows in the veins of the peoples of the northern European countries. Our missionaries whose business it has been to go into Poland and Lithuania have found responses there that have convinced me that before long the Lord will see to it that those fields are opened up for the promulgation of the Gospel. Likewise in the great country of Russia. I believe that Europe is a rich field for the harvest of the work of the missionaries in the near future. 

My heart did rejoice yesterday when the President said that he will see to it that in the future the Authorities of the Church go to Europe more often. I have been praying for that sort of thing, for the inspiration of our leaders in the hearts of those people is tremendous. 

There is a professor in the Halle University in the school of religion who invites the Elders to come to his study once a year. In 1934 the local Elders and missionaries were asked to his study or department in the school, and there he kept them until four o'clock in the morning, finding out what he could from their side of Mormonism. About six months ago two young men from this city were called into his study in the evening and kept until three o'clock in the morning. He had them deliver a lecture with illustrating films before a class of his advanced students. This man said : "There has been but one great religious leader arise in the world since the time of Christ, and that man was Joseph Smith." 

When our learned men can come to appreciate that there is not only a simple plan in the Gospel for people to follow, but a plan that will last through the eternities, these thinking men will adopt this plan that will give them eternal comfort as it gives us who have adopted it eternal comfort. 

My testimony is that Jesus is the Christ, that the prophets who surround us this day — fifteen of them- — are spokesmen for almighty God, and are engaged in the service of our Heavenly Father, and we who give our time and our tithes to assist them in carrying this message not only will make people happy in the world today, but give them eternal satisfaction. 

May the Lord help us to realize this and study it, and not be content with our membership alone, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "O Ye Mountains High." 

ELDER T. EDGAR LYON 

Formerly President of the Netherlands Mission 

Words fail to express the joy I experience, my brethren and sisters, in being allowed to occupy this position this morning, and especially in being allowed to attend the sessions of this Conference. 

This is the first time in seven years it has been my opportunity to be present in the sessions of the General Conference, and I am thrilled beyond any power I possess to express my gratitude to the Lord for this privilege. 

For nearly four years it was my lot to preside over the mission in the Netherlands. During those years, I am convinced that the Church has gained a stronger foothold in that country than at any other time in the past. 

While the number of converts in recent years is not quite so great as the number made in the years immediately following the World War, nevertheless, for the past three years we have had increases in our converts as compared with the years before that, and the Saints are manifesting a finer spiritual attitude as proved by the fact that they are paying their tithes and their Fast offerings, and attending their meetings better than they have done heretofore. 

We rejoice in the fact that the members in this foreign land have been realizing the responsibility resting upon them, and throughout the period of our administration — as was the case during that of our predecessor — we have been endeavoring to train the local people to assume and bear all responsibility in conducting their affairs in the branches and districts. I am thoroughly converted to this policy inaugurated by President Widtsoe when he presided over the European missions. While there have been many difficulties connected with the transition from missionary leadership to that of local leadership, nevertheless, churches and branches in the mission field are securing a certain stability which they never had before, and there is a sense of permanence creeping into the organizations that was never the case with the constant change of missionary leadership. 

It was our opportunity while laboring in the field to celebrate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the founding of the Netherlands Mission, and at that period of time it appeared that the Lord had commenced to pour out his Spirit in richer abundance upon the people of that land than ever before. We had a most successful year during our Jubilee and one of the things that was gratifying to us was the fact that the newspapers commenced to come to us for news and published all that we would give. At conference sessions and commemorative meetings they had reporters in attendance who wrote accounts better than we could have done — favorable accounts — which were given wide circulation throughout the land. I rejoice in this change of attitude that has come in the press of the Netherlands with regard to our Church. 

Another objective that I think will perhaps be realized within the near future will be the recognition of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by royal decree in the Netherlands, as an official church on equal footing with all other ecclesiastical organizations of that land. 

We have been endeavoring to develop the auxiliary associations in that land, and, under local leadership and local boards, that compare very favorably with our own stake boards here at home, we have seen our Mutuals, our Relief Societies, our Sunday Schools, Primary and Genealogical Associations grow and advance. We have found that the Primary and the Sunday Schools are perhaps two of the best means we have had in the field for giving our Elders contacts with strangers, and later bringing people to a knowledge of the Gospel. We get the children of the non-members in the Primary, and then the Elders visit their parents and succeed in getting the children in the Sunday Schools. We try to take the children by the hand and the parents by the heart and bring them to the Gospel. To give you an illustration: At one period during a year and a half the only converts we made in the large city of Rotterdam were people who became acquainted with the Church through the fact that their children had been brought into the Primary first. So we rejoice in this work. Also the work of our Genealogical Association has been organized and placed on a permanent basis under local leadership, and I think that the papers on file in the Temple and in the Genealogical office will indicate that perhaps we have achieved an organization that is better than any other genealogical organization in the missions in Europe. The people are industriously engaged in doing their genealogical research at the present time. They have a system of exchange not only with our own mission, but with the local groups working here in Salt Lake, as well as groups in other missions where there are many' Hollanders who have emigrated. 

We rejoice also in the fine contacts .we have had with the Elders laboring in the missions. They are fine young men. We are pleased to report at the present time that so far as we know all of them are enjoying excellent health. We have had some serious illness among our Elders — two cases that were so serious that we despaired of their lives — but through the goodness of the Lord in ways that I think are nothing short of modern miracles, these men have been restored to normal health and strength and have been allowed to complete their labors. 

I rejoice in the testimony of the Gospel that I have. I rejoice that the Lord has been so good to allow me to have this opportunity, and I hope and pray I may go forth to raise my voice to preach the truths of the everlasting Gospel restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know that he is a prophet of the Lord, and that in the passing of the years he will be recognized by the leaders of all mankind, both within and without the Church, as the greatest prophet of the latter-days, a real leader, who will take his place with the passing of the years alongside of the prophets of old. 

That we might go forth striving to serve the Lord and walk in his paths, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

My dear brethren and sisters : This has been a very profitable and pleasant Conference. We have all enjoyed it greatly. It has been a witness to me that the Spirit of God is still available to his servants here upon earth; not only that, but as I have looked at this congregation I have felt impressed that the simple truths of the Gospel, plain, easily understood, still sound good to latter-day ears. 

REJOICES IN REMARKS OF PRESIDENT GRANT 

I was stirred by the remarks of our President yesterday. My soul responded to all that he said. As one who was born in Europe I need not tell you that my heart leaped in response to his statement that the Church  give continuing and increasing attention to the people in the lands from which we all have come, either directly or by descent. The blood of Ephraim, the blood of Israel, runs strong in European countries, and I believe that the time has come, as predicted by the prophets of old, in the Book of Mormon, that in the latter days groups of the faithful shall be found throughout the earth, serving as centers of inspiration to those with whom they come in contact. 

So I rejoice in all that our President said, and I would be greatly tempted to comment on his remarks were it not for the fact that for some time I have had in mind a subject that I would like to present to the Latter-day Saints. In fact I have gone so far as to make some notes dealing with this subject, which I shall follow if I can. 

THE LORD GIVES SPIRITUAL LAWS ONLY 

The subject, I think, will appeal at first sight as not one of deep spiritual import, yet I feel free to use it, for in the philosophy of Mormonism all things pertaining to man's life have a spiritual meaning. This was plainly stated by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith : 

Verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given a law which was temporal, .... for my commandments are spiritual, they are not natural nor temporal. From the beginning of its history, the restored Church of Christ has been concerned actively with the temporal welfare of its members. It has fostered city-building, business and farming as well as education and the erection of meeting houses, tabernacles and temples. Our present attempt in behalf of economic security is but an evidence of this ideal of the Church. 

In this day of world-wide unrest, it has become evident that a major cause of depressions and contentions has been and is the declining emphasis placed upon the productive activities of mankind — the activities which lie as foundations of a contented, progressive civilization. 

HAPPINESS IN HUMBLE PURSUITS 

Agriculture and the crafts are being spoken of as the "humbler" tasks of life, and by this false valuation enterprising youth looks to socalled "higher" pursuits, too often to his own lesser happiness and always to the diminished welfare of humanity. 

There was a time, not many generations ago, when craftsmanship, the power to shape articles useful to man from wood and fibre, stone and metal, from the raw materials of earth, was held to possess a noble dignity, second to none. Today, through a distorted vision of life, youth hesitates to train mind and muscle, nerve and sinew, for the necessary trades of the world. There is a scarcity of really skilled workers in the trades. Yet, the competent artisan has an income not much inferior, if any, to that of the average so-called "professional" man. Those among our people who have the natural mechanical endowment should not hesitate to enter the trades as a means of livelihood. AGRICULTURE A BASIC INDUSTRY 

The tilling of the soil has ever been recognized as the basis of national welfare. It is the basic industry of humanity. Without it mankind could not survive. The physical toil which formerly accompanied farming could, if farming were managed properly, disappear with the invention and introduction of farm machinery. Work is not undesirable; it accompanies all success. The drudgery charged against farm life may in our day be eliminated by proper planning and systematic approach to farm tasks. Advancing science has accumulated a body of knowledge concerning the production of plants and animals, which has raised agriculture, from the point of view of organized knowledge, to one of the best established of professions. Our institutions of learning, notably the agricultural colleges, give unsurpassed training for life on the farm. A person should train for agriculture as for any other profession. 

It was J. W. Sanborn, first president of the Utah State Agricultural College, who went back to his native New Hampshire, and converted, by modern methods, worn out, deserted farms into prosperous, money making enterprises. And he assured me that he won unsurpassed joy in the labor. 

My spirit thrilled to the young missionary who said to me, "My brother and I are poultry producers. The flocks of poultry are keeping me on this mission. When I am released, I shall go back to that business. It is good enough for me." It is a source of satisfaction to me to know that perhaps two-thirds of the Latter-day Saints are farmers, tillers of the soil, keepers of flocks, producers of the world's first necessity, food. We may get along without many things but food we must have. 

FOOD THE FIRST NECESSITY 

Hunger is a prime factor in the social and economic ills of mankind. One needs only spend an hour in the congested, poverty-ridden sections of the world's great cities to understand that the cause of human convulsions, often resulting in bloodshed, is the lack of bread. Disease of body and mind as of spirit travels in the wake of hunger. A nation in which all citizens are well-fed is a nation of prosperous peace, of courage to undertake the conquest of natural forces for the good of man. Fear departs from the man whose food for himself and his family is assured. He faces the world and its problems fearlessly, courageously, trustingly. He may use his powers to the full. 

The farmer, though he use but a modicum of farm wisdom, may be freed from hunger. Let that be remembered by all whose tastes lead toward the land, but who, because of the erroneous ideals of the age, are tempted to look elsewhere for a life pursuit. Indeed, it would be well if those following other pursuits would maintain a kitchen garden. The professional or business man would find release from many troubles, if he devoted a few hours a week to the cultivation of a garden. And the income in food produced is not to be ignored. During the summer of 

1918 the war gardens of Salt Lake City, covering only a part of the vacant lots and backyards of the city, produced crops valued at more than one-half million dollars. May we never forget the ideal of our pioneer fathers : the home with its home garden. May the majority of Latter-day Saints continue to be tillers of the soil and keepers of flocks and herds. 

The woman often determines the career of a man. Again it must be said that farm life may be made to yield happiness for the man and the woman, and confer a real boon upon the children who may be born to them. But the woman, as the man, should receive some preparation for life on the farm. In the modern Palestine, schools are maintained for the training of farmers' wives, and with most excellent results. 

AGRICULTURE AND SCIENCE 

The farmer and the farmer's wife may receive today the same training of mind and emotions given to those of other pursuits. The spirit of culture, of trained intellects and awakened emotions, may be enjoyed perhaps most fully under the natural conditions surrounding farm life. 

In our imperfect social-economic structure, it is true that the farmer . has not always had a fair deal. But, a new day for the farmer is dawning. Thinking men recognize as never before the importance of maintaining a sound, prosperous pastoral foundation of the world's commonwealths. And science, the wonder-worker, is finding outlets for the farmer's products not dreamed of before. Eminent farmers, industrialists and scientists, the foremost in the nation, have combined to help find new markets for the farmers' products. Formerly, the farmer was only a food producer. Today with the aid of modern science, the products of the farm may be used to build houses, to furnish them, to paint them, to drive automobiles, to make artificial silk and plastics to compete with stone and metal, and hundreds of other things useful to man. A new applied science known as Farm Chemurgy is being established — which means the use of chemistry in the service of agriculture, by which the farm, the factory and the scientific laboratory join in benefiting themselves and the world. 

LIFE ON THE FARM CAN BE MADE RICH 

Even under present conditions who shall say that the farmer and the farmer's family cannot live life richly. Thereby hangs the whole matter. Our life pursuit must be only in part a business; it must be more a mode of living, else we cannot win happiness. Life is bigger than the parts of which it is made. From that point of view, agriculture leads the many pursuits of man. It is a mode of life under the open sky, in contest and collaboration with the genial forces of nature, near in feeling to God, who made the earth. It produces; it does not destroy. It gives; it does not take. It adds true wealth to the world's storehouse; it enlarges the soul of the farmer. 

Read the history of our day. Crime is not bred in the fields of growing grain. Strong men are called from the farm, from the earth as the Lord gave it, from honest creative toil, to correct the world's mistakes. 

My plea this day is that the Latter-day Saints give increased attention to the production of food and the winning of physical and spiritual health from the cultivation of the soil. 

May God help us always to have our feet firmly upon the soil, to be owners and tillers of the land, and to follow the great example which we have had set for us in the past, showing us that strength, vitality and power and a rich form of living come to those who deal with the earth as the Lord gave it to man. 

May God bless us in all respects. I have enjoyed immensely this conference, and I feel that the Lord is with us and blessing us. If time permitted I would like to add my testimony, by actual recount of experiences, the manner in which the world now looks to us as never before for leadership; and how we are explaining, making clear to the nations, the mysteries which must be solved if mankind is to move forward into a day of happiness and perfect joy. I pray that we may all be blessed according to our needs, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I feel profoundly impressed to endorse the remarks by Brother Widtsoe. I have often remarked that but for the splendid characters that come from the farms to the cities, the cities would die of their own immoral weight. The larger the city, as a rule, the greater the amount of crime. The more a man loves the farm and lives on it, the healthier in spirit and body he is. I longed as a young man to live on a farm, but I have never cultivated' an acre of land, so of course I cannot talk from experience; but I can say that the majority of our missionaries come from the farms, notwithstanding the farmers do not produce a majority of the money. This shows where the real, genuine faith is. 

I am going to bring something from a great statesman to read to you this afternoon. 

ELDER JAMES M. KIRKHAM 

Former President of the East Central States Mission 

I am very grateful to the brethren who gave me the privilege of going into the mission field and presiding for a little more than three years over the East Central States Mission. I had never had such an experience before in all my life. It is invaluable, and I am very grateful for that privilege and opportunity. 

The mission is progressing. There is a change of attitude in that country. I recall an instance that happened when I first went there. Elders were invited to leave a home, with a very definite statement not to return. Before I left the mission they were invited back to that same place. This one incident is but representative of a general improvement in the attitude toward our people. 

The newspapers there are very much more friendly, as they are everywhere, and the people in those states are looking to us. I want to emphasize with all the power that I have that we must not fail in the great project of the Security Program in this Church, any more than we should fail in any other of the things we are called upon to do. 

I know that that mission will continue to progress, because I have learned from friends since my return home of the splendid leadership being exhibited by President William Tew who succeeded me in that mission. 

Since coming home I have been laboring in an activity in which I was very much interested before I went on my mission — that of genealogical work. Recently I have visited a number of stakes in connection with convention work. I would like to emphasize to you here today that while I am interested in the living, having a large family of grown children and being selfishly interested in them, I am also interested in the dead. I would like to emphasize to you the privilege that is yours to go into the Temples of the Lord and there become saviors upon Mount Zion. 

In my youth I was given a blessing and told that I should become a savior upon Mount Zion, and I wondered how that promise could ever be fulfilled. Today I know how it is being realized and fulfilled. I want to say to you that we should seek our own dead, that we with them might be made perfect. We must not seek only those having the same surname as our own but we must seek our own kindred dead. I realize when I make this statement that many of you are having difficulty in doing this, but the words of Nephi remind me that the Lord will require at our hands no service save he will provide a way to perform it. 

Oh, he will test us, he will try us, but the Lord will open the way. He tells us that if it is necessary, the time shall come when we will go to the Temples of the Lord and there will have the names given to us. I hope that the prayer that was offered by Brother Joseph Fielding Smith last night can be realized, when he prayed to the Lord asking him to touch the hearts of the presidents of stakes and bishops of wards, that they would assume their leadership and discharge their responsibility in this great work. 

The time is short and we have much to do. We must seek our dead. My experience from careful study and observation, has taught me that the Lord is touching the hearts of the people of the world, and they are doing a most wonderful work in preparing genealogical records. 

To illustrate in one particular, it may be interesting to you to know that in the one hundred and ten counties in Tennessee last winter from three to five W. P. A. workers in each county were copying vital statistics, deeds, and marriage records, and they are now available to the public in the city of Nashville. Is the Lord at work? The Lord is way ahead of us, brethren and sisters, in paving the way for us, and it seems to me our duty is to take advantage of the manner in which the Lord is opening up new and easy fields for research. The people of the world are actually gathering records for us. 

May the Lord bless and help us to realize our responsibility, our opportunity, our leadership, and then the world will be led to glorify our Heavenly Father because of what we are doing and the way we are doing it. 

May the Lord help us and bless us to this end, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

The religious census of 1926 reveals the fact that there are in the United States two hundred and thirteen denominations of Christians, "presenting a more complicated religious pattern than exists among any other people." The total membership of these denominations is nearly 55,000,000 souls. What a power all these denominations and their following might have to bring peace to this troubled world! 

I wish to speak on a subject in which we are all vitally interested, the Re-idealizing of the World. I was impressed with the words of Elder Widtsoe, for they become so fundamental in their teaching. An old oriental said once: "He who sows corn sows righteousness." And the farmer does sow righteousness. 

In one of our books of holy scriptures, namely the Pearl of Great Price, is a majestic message contained in the words of the Lord to Moses : 

For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man. 

A spiritual message from on high, it involves the recognition of Jesus as the living Lord, and religion as an actual experience, and a living union with God. It sums up the purposes of God in his relationship to his children, and is a vision and a light directing to a spiritual ideal. The world is in need of turning again to the Savior of the world, for he taught that in order to find life, we must turn in service to the kingdom. 

It is hard for the modern world to grasp this divine truth today, for our civilization is in the throes of all kinds of commotion. It creaks and groans in labor disputes; the home and the sacredness of family life are being destroyed; and again are the nations crashing in world war. The Church of the living God does not stand for these things. It is man that causes them. We are pleading for the preservation of our civilization. If the world could only be taught to turn to the Savior, civilization would take care of itself. If civilization is overthrown, it will be because we have thought too much of the rights of property and wealth. It will be because civilization has turned from God and has built its life on another than the Lord's commanded basis. 

If Christianity is to have a message today for this war-torn world, it must first learn that the Lord is ever revealing his message of love with ever increasing clearness, just as he did two thousand years ago. For his message is eternal, and when the prophet of old first declared that you and I must do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly with our God, he spoke the foundation that becomes the fundamental divine duty of man. And Jesus declared that we should love the Lord with all our hearts, minds and strength, and this involves loving our neighbors as ourselves. Are we losing our spiritual values? The values that have been made manifest to mankind by the revelations from on high. No greater religious teachings have ever risen to equal those of Jesus in power and in grace. In days of yore, in the ages before the coming of the Son of man, the name of God was always referred to as the power that transcends the grasp of our finite minds. Men strove for a vision that they might understand reality. It was to obtain an illumination, an insight to the divine purposes. 

What we need today is more religion, but let it be real religion, with God as the supreme ideal, who is approached in deep humility. Let us not seek him for the purpose of preserving civilization, but because we have lost our way. He is our lost treasure. We have too long put our faith and confidence in the institutions of men, and have lost the divine faith which was given us in the beginning of history, and which we have given up for the ways of human kind. 

Our homes must become again centers of the way of divine life. Children should pray; parents should pray. Children should be brought not so much by word as by divine thought to the altar of God every day, and there find more illuminating purposes. Our churches should be what all sacred houses should be — houses of prayer — where men and women should gather and in deep humility and with hungry hearts lift themselves up to him whom, to truly know, is the only life that matters. David of old said that the holy temple is not for man, but for the Lord God. That God is all for whom we are seeking; to know him and to find him forever is not superstition. It is religion. 

I wish that we might teach the youth of the world to hold fast to the teachings of the fathers; and to provoke the consciousness of things spiritual. I wish we might read the scriptures more and more in all our walks of life, that the youth might be brought into contact with truths significant and profound; that they might be affected with the thought of revelation. There -is a subtle beauty to all truth, and it requires no learning to feel its force. But it admits of much learning for its aesthetic quality is so high. Why are certain great truths so appealing to every soul today, if they are read and visionized ? Take for example the divine words : 

In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. 

And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. 

And God said, Let there be light : and there was light. Why were these truths so appealing in our childhood days? It was because they were exalted; because they appealed to the spirit of man. We did not find so much of a story in these words, as a doctrine. It is a great truth, a truth everlasting. A man wrote the words t but it is man's speaking glorified. 

I am not depreciating any line of human endeavor that has brought mankind to its present condition in our onward march of knowledge. What would the world be today without its learning ? Without its men of genius and vision? No one ever gave a more exalted view of justice in human society than did Plato of old; and the truths of William James of Harvard discovered by years of study and calm reflection will always be illuminating mile posts, for the uplift of humanity. But the point is this : If the Lord in his holy purposes is to bring about the immortality and eternal life of man — and this is his sole purpose — then it will be clone as mankind turns to him in that sublime and holy faith which was the basic teaching of the Master. 

We are marching on to glorious things in a material way; inventions have changed the social and economic life of man, but have they made us see more and more the vision of the divine purposes of God ? Speaking of the contributions to progress of the engineer, Sir Alfred Ewing, President of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, recently said : 

Beyond question, these gifts are benefits to mankind, making life fuller, wider, healthier, richer in comforts and interests and in such happiness as material things can promote. But we are acutely aware that the engineer's gifts have been and may grievously be abused. In some there is potential tragedy and present burdens. Man was ethically unprepared for so great a bounty. In the growth of morals, he is still unfit for the tremendous responsibility it entails. The commands of nature have been put into his hands, before he knows how to command himself. 

Humanity must turn if the world will go on. The vision of God must be made clearer; the vision of the kingdom must be the impelling thing in life, and a recreated society must come by a re-idealizing of the world. Civilization must be better unified by a divine faith in the "divine purposes." 

Yes, we have seen this old world beginning to crumble; signs of social chaos, class struggle and revolt; the rumblings of coming war. But the Christian world is able, if it will, to bring about a new world; a new stirring of conscience and idealism in men of good-will, some of whom are intellectuals, some of them workers — all dreaming of something finer, juster, and nobler, dreaming of a time again, when men will leave their lower selves and march hand in hand toward the deeper and richer life, when the war-drum sounds no longer and the battle flag is furled in the parliament of man, the federation of the world. The forces which are to make the world, the world it ought to be, are now within it, and every sign of the presence of God in the world is of help to us. The Gospel of our Lord and Savior has been restored and the past and the future meet within it as it bears witness to the truth that God is carrying forward his ministry which entered the world when Christ  born in Bethlehem. So I bear testimony to you, my brethren, holding the Priesthood of God: "They that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever." 

In conclusion let us think of the words of the prophet Moses and then of the admonition of Jesus our Lord : 

Be strong and of a good courage, fear not, nor be afraid of them : for the Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. 

* * * 

These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you. 

But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. 

Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you : not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. 

May the Kingdom of God triumph in all the world, I pray in his name. Amen. 

An anthem, "O Holy Father," was sung by the Choir. Elder Leland E. Anderson, President of the South Sanpete Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


