Afternoon
03 10 1937

The concluding session of the Conference was held Sunday afternoon, October 3, at 2 o'clock. 

Once more, the great Tabernacle was filled to capacity with people, and again throngs of people congregated in the Assembly Hall and on the Tabernacle grounds to listen to the 'services as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

The Tabernacle Choir sang an anthem, "Send Forth Thy Light," after which the opening prayer was offered by Elder Samuel G. Dye, President of the Ogden Stake. 

An anthem, "Beautiful Savior," was sung by the Choir, Jessie Evans, soloist. PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

As I listened to the broadcast this morning and looked out upon this great congregation of people, I was nearly swept off my feet; I think I would have been had I been standing. It was a wonderful meeting. 

This is also a great gathering of Latter-day Saints, filling the entire Tabernacle, a congregation that is eager for the word of the Lord and are here now to wait upon him. 

A REMARKABLE BOOK 

I have in my hand a most remarkable book. There is nothing exactly like it in all the great libraries of the world. This book is distinctive, it is different from any other record under the heavens. In fact, it contains one hundred and thirty-five revelations given to Joseph Smith the Prophet for the instruction of the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, given by the Master himself. 

And yet in our day and time it is declared by Christians generally that the voice of revelation has ceased being heard in the land. This book is not to be handled with the spirit of indifference. It justifies the deepest consideration and study. Three or four or five years of intense application in the study of this book, the Doctrine and Covenants, would be the equivalent to a university education in the higher brackets. 

We cannot speak lightly of a book with such solemn and important instructions as are given in this volume which covers every phase of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. In a matter so extremely important, my brethren and sisters, would we not be justified in pausing for a few moments to consider and reflect upon some of these great commandments of the Lord. 

REVELATION ON THE THREE GLORIES 

I refer you now to Section 76. In this section the kingdoms of glory of the other world are set forth in great force and beauty. I would like to read to you the introduction to this particular revelation given by the Lord: 

Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof, for the Lord is God, and beside him there is no Savior. 

Great is his wisdom, marvelous are his ways, and the extent of his doings none can find out 

His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay his hand. 

From eternity to eternity he is the same, and his years never fail. 

For thus saith the Lord — I, the Lord, am merciful and gracious unto those who fear me, and delig-ht to honor those who serve me in righteousness and in truth unto the end. 

Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their glory. 

And to them will I reveal all mysteries, yea, all the hidden mysteries of my kingdom from days of old, and for ages to come, will I make known unto them the good pleasure of my will concerning all things pertaining to my kingdom. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Yea, even the wonders of eternity shall they know, and things to come will I show them, even the things of many generations. 

And their wisdom shall be great, and their understanding reach to heaven; and before them the wisdom of the wise shall perish, and the understanding of the prudent shall come to naught. 

For by my Spirit will I enlighten them, and by my power will I make known unto them the secrets of my will — yea, even those things which eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor yet entered into the heart of man. 

Are not these words, being the preface to a revelation, great and mighty words ? The Lord describes himself and his power and greatness and ability to bless and save in these few introductory lines. 

Now, this revelation sets forth three great kingdoms of glory, and the people in the Church, yes, and those of the world at large may choose therefrom their destiny for the hereafter. And, should one step forth the following question might consistently be put to him: "What destiny do you aspire to ?" The answer might be, "Well, I would like a Celestial glory, which I understand is the highest and best." The sun, moon and stars are pointed to in the revelation as being typical of the three kingdoms of glory, and as the sun differs from the moon in brightness so is the Celestial kingdom of glory; and as the moon differs from the stars in brightness so is the Terrestrial glory, and as the stars differ one from another in brightness so it is in the Telestial kingdom of glory. If you can abide the law of the Celestial kingdom, why, then you can abide a Celestial glory and that glory will be given you. Otherwise, you must look for some other kingdom of glory such as the Terrestrial or Telestial, but remember that if your worthiness should entitle you to a Telestial kingdom only it is due to the fact that you are able to abide the law of the Telestial kingdom. 

Permit me to read a few words from this section to show what is required of those who will be saved in the Celestial kingdom of God : 

And again we bear record — for we saw and heard, and this is the testimony of the gospel of Christ concerning them who shall come forth in the resurrection of the just— 

They are they who received the testimony of Jesus, and believed on his name and were baptized after the manner of his burial, being buried in the water in his name, and this according to the commandment which he has given— 

That by keeping the commandments they might be washed and cleansed from all their sins, and receive the Holy Spirit by the laying on of the hands of him who is ordained and sealed unto this power; 

And who overcome by faith, and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which the Father sheds forth upon all those who are just and true. 

They are they who are the church of the Firstborn. 

They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things — 

They are they who are priests and kings, who have received of his fulness, and of his glory; 

And are priests of the Most High, after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son. 

Wherefore, as it is written, they are gods, even the sons of God. 

Wherefore, all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ's, and Christ is God's. 

Now, brethren and sisters, you see what is before you; you see what it will require upon your part to obtain the Celestial glory. If you cannot live up to the requirements of this law that governs in the Celestial kingdom, though you may have membership in the Church, you cannot abide that glory. That is the edict. The Lord tells us that in Section 88. 

Section 76 is a great revelation. We can sit down by ourselves and determine just which glory will satisfy us and how we can obtain it, and we are left without excuse. This great revelation appears in the book, and it is worthy of study and deep reflection. Each one must determine whether his life squares with the conditions; and this is only one of the many great revelations contained in this book of Doctrine and Covenants. 

REVELATION ON PRIESTHOOD 

In Section 84, a revelation on Priesthood, we find the duties that go with the Priesthood, the duties of the Presidency of the Church, the duties of the Council of the Twelve, and the First Council of Seventy set forth in clearness. It defines the duties of Patriarch, High Priest, Seventy, Elder, Bishop, Priest, Teacher and Deacon. The whole field of official standing in the Church comes within the purview of this important section. 

We had a great body of Priesthood here last night. This building was filled to its utmost capacity. Some were standing. It is the duty of the Priesthood of the Church to study these great revelations, particularly Section 84. Are you familiar with it? Have you a Doctrine and Covenants within reach? Not in the library case, but on the table where you can get at it handily? You ought to give time to this matter and to the importance of the Priesthood, the necessity of magnifying it, because it represents divine authority, and brethren, we cannot trifle with divine authority. When the Lord speaks we must take notice, and when he commands we must obey, because it is the Lord who is the law-giver, and he who becomes a law unto himself, if he does not repent, is lost. 

REVELATION ON THE ETERNITY OF THE MARRIAGE COVENANT 

And then there is Section 132 — a revelation upon marriage. It speaks of the eternity of the marriage covenant. I wonder if our young people who are thinking of marriage are thinking about that feature of it ? Here is an opportunity for the young people to use great discrimination. Marriage should be approached in a prayerful spirit. We should pause and consider  this matter. Sometimes it happens that a couple will pass the Temple door and go and get a civil marriage, and I have wondered sometimes if such a couple had weighed the matter fully. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

There is as much difference between a Temple marriage and a civil marriage as there is between the sun and the moon. A civil marriage is a good marriage because it has the authority of the United States government behind it. The law protects it, and we cannot condemn it. All we can say about a civil marriage is that it is good as far as it goes, but it may not go very far. That is the trouble. It may last a month, it may last six months, it may last ten years, or twenty years, or thirty years, or forty, or fifty years, which is just a moment of time. 

Now, there is the Temple marriage which covers time and all eternity. There is going to be a good deal of sorrow, a good deal of anxiety come into the lives of those who accept the inferior marriage because there is bound to be a separation of loved ones. A civil marriage applies only to this life and holds good until death parts them. If the husband dies, the bond is broken. If the wife dies, the bond is broken; and if both die the bond is broken. It does not reach beyond this life. That is a matter that should have our deepest consideration, because after all, the rewards that come from marriage are governed by law like other things, and we are living under the operation of law in all things. 

REVELATION ON TITHING 

There is the law of finance, the divine law of finance given to the Church. Somebody might say : "I have not seen that law, Brother Clawson. I have not read very much of the book of Covenants, but I have not seen that law, or any law entitled the law of finance." 

Well, it may not have that title. Nevertheless the revelation on tithing is the law of finance in the Church of Christ. That is the way the Lord deals with us in relation to some financial things. 

It is wonderful, this law of finance. When the Church was in great distress some years ago, was upon the verge of bankruptcy, the law of finance was put into operation and stressed by the Authorities, and it brought the Church out of its difficulties. It must needs be that we give attention to this law of finance. And there is a reward that goes with it too. 

THE WORD OF WISDOM 

Then there is the great law of health. "Well," someone might say "I have not seen a revelation entitled the great law of health, Brother Clawson." 

"No, of course you have not. But you have seen the revelation that is entitled the Word of Wisdom, haven't you ?" "Yes." 

"Well, that is the law of health, given by the Lord many years ago. It is wonderful what it has done for the people, and it is surprising that it has not done more for them, but that is the fault of the people who have failed to obey this law." THE APPEARANCE OF THE SAVIOR IN THE KIRTLAND TEMPLE 

And then there is an account in Section 1 10 of the great vision that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple at the time of its dedication, when the Lord Jesus Christ appeared standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit. His appearance was glorious, but his words were more glorious, and his particular word upon that occasion was grand and beautiful. He said to them : 

I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. Behold, your sins are forgiven you; you are clean before me; therefore lift up your heads and rejoice, etc. 

Marvelous were these divine words of comfort and mercy given to the Saints of God by the Lord himself. They were fully rewarded for the great sacrifices they had made in building the Kirtland Temple. 

STUDY OF STANDARD WORKS URGED 

I must not take any more of your time. Brethren and sisters, let me plead with you to give more attention to the standard works of the Church. There is so much literature that comes into our homes, I am sure, that we can hardly reach the standard works of the Church, yet the standard works should come first, and other literature afterwards. 

Of course, we must keep track of daily events, things that are going on in the world, but when it comes to reading books of interest and value, let us give preference to the Church works because they are more precious than any other books in the world. If they were wiped out entirely and not one standard Church book left, it would be a calamity, a great misfortune to the Church 

God bless you, brethren and sisters, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amea 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I desire to express a word of appreciation and thanks to and for this wonderful choir. My faith and prayers are with the members. 

A PERFECT ORGANIZATION 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a wonderful organization. In the year 1829 the Lord said that a great and marvelous work was about to come forth among the children of men. That was a few months before the organization of the Church. In the branches, wards and stakes, all presided over by properly appointed officers, we have a perfect organization in theory. I wish I could say that in regard to the practice. 

We have a perfect order of Priesthood, because it is divine. It is GENERAL CONFERENCE  man-made. The Bishop in the ward holds the keys of presidency, and the power to direct and set in order all things within his ward. Likewise the Presidency of the stake hold the keys of presidency, and it is their duty to set in order and regulate all things pertaining to the stake over which they preside. The President of the Church holds the keys of authority for the whole Church. He is the mouthpiece of God. It is through him that revelation comes for the guidance of the members. 

OUR DUTY TO HONOR PRIESTHOOD 

The Priesthood, being divine, should be honored. It should be honored by those who hold it, and it should be honored by those who are under the jurisdiction of it. When these men holding this divine authority speak, it is the duty of the members of the Church to give heed to their words and counsel. We fail in our duty if we do not do this thing. Brother John H. Taylor, in his remarks on Friday, stated that there were some members of the Church who said: "Why do the Authorities of the Church keep admonishing and teaching principles to this Church which they know the members will not follow ?" I may not be quoting him accurately, but that is the substance of it. I want to answer that question. It is the duty of the Authorities of the Church to speak by inspiration and revelation. If the membership, or any part thereof, should fail to heed the warning or accept the counsel, the instruction which these men in authority give, and especially the one who holds the keys of authority, still it is the duty of these men to give that instruction, even though they may feel it will not be followed, and then the responsibility rests upon the shoulders of those who hear it, and if they refuse to receive it the sin is upon their own heads, and they will- have to answer for it. 

The Lord said : "Whether it be mine own voice or the voice of my servants, it is the same." I read in the preface to this wonderful book President Clawson has been telling us about: 

The arm of the Lord shall be revealed, and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people. 

Those members of this Church who criticise and say we hear too much of this or that, and thus confess their sins, should take heed and repent, for if they refuse to accept the counsels that are given, then the responsibility of that disobedience is theirs, and they will have to answer for it. 

Short though my memory may be, I can remember not so very far back, when the President of this Church gave counsel and advice and pleaded with the membership of this Church to do certain things, which a large percentage of them refused to do, and I say the Lord is not pleased with the inhabitants of Zion. He said that once in the early days of the Church. I think we can truthfully repeat it now. I believe in the Word of Wisdom. I believe in the law of tithing and prayer and faith, and the keeping of the Sabbath Day holy, so I endorse all that we have heard on these questions during this conference. 

SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES 

One year ago it was my privilege to travel through the Eastern States Mission with Elder Don B. Colton, who then presided in that field. Our duties took us to the city of Boston, in Massachusetts, and in the afternoon we went into an eating house for the purpose of getting a meal, shortly before meeting should commence. It was a clean, respectable place. As we sat down to a table we noticed that upon the four sides of every table was the following: "Please do not smoke in this room. The majority, including those who smoke, appreciate a clean atmosphere in which to enjoy their meals. Thank you for complying with this request. Pure food and tobacco smoke do not mix." It struck me that some of these institutions that cater to the public here in Zion might profit by that example. 

I do not go into certain eating places for a mid-day meal, because I do not care to sit down at a table, and have some empty-headed girl at an adjoining table puff tobacco smoke in my face. That is why I am not seen in such places. I think that the semi-respectable places — I say semi-respectable, because if tobacco using is permitted in an eating house it is only semi-respectable — if they could adopt this notice in the eating houses that I speak of, I think it would be an excellent thing. This place in Boston was crowded. It did not seem to hurt their business. I do not think anybody stayed away because they were offended; the notice was not offensive. Why can it not be adopted here? 

I want to read to you a statement that was made from this very stand by the President of the Church at the Conference in October, 1913. Now, this is a pretty strong statement. He was the mouthpiece of God. He spoke by inspiration, and it is good counsel, it seems to me, today. He said: 

President George Q. Cannon often said to me and to others that he would rather be shut up with a skunk than to be shut up in a smoking car with smokers. 

I will pause to say that in the day when this was said they had smoking cars. Now all cars, practically, are smoking cars, so are all buses and everything else. To continue the quotation : 

What right has a man to befoul with his nauseous breath the air that I breathe? What right have I to make noxious the air that you breathe. I have no right to do it, and you have a right to protest against my doing it, and to show those who are in the habit of doing these things your contempt for their practices, if you have any respect for them. You should show, at least, your contempt for that which they do foolishly, for the practice is wrong, pernicious, and they are unmindful of the rights of others. I have thought seriously that a boy or man who has become addicted to the use of tobacco in any form, to the extent that he is unable to resist his appetite for it, or who has practiced it until he is unable to GENERAL CONFERENCE  or overcome it, is a man who is so mentally weakened, so morally degraded that he is not competent to perform, and would not be worthy to be entrusted with any responsible duty. Why? Because a man who has become so weak-minded, and irresolute that he cannot overcome the temptation to do wrong, or resist the power of an acquired, vicious appetite for poison, how can he be trusted ? It is a weakness, a degradation that sinks far below the ordinary weakness of mankind, and therefore, the person who is so enslaved to vitiated appetites for poisons, hurtful things, that he cannot overcome them, being a slave to a pernicious habit, a degrading practice, that he cannot rise above it, how dare you trust him? How can you entrust to one whose mind is become so weakened, so vitiated and so degraded, that he is not his own master, but an irresolute slave to unholy passion, any trust that requires honor, strength of manhood, determination and will-power to resist evil and temptation to do wrong ? You can't do it! You can't trust a man who has not the power of will to say "No" to temptation to do evil, or to that which entices to evil. He is only worthy of condemnation, and you cannot safely trust him, and you ought not to trust him. 

charles c. Goodwin's editorial 

A few days following the Conference where this was said, Mr. Charles C. Goodwin, who for many years was a very bitter opponent of the Latter-day Saints, but a very keen editorial writer, and who performed that service for many years on a morning paper in this city, took up the refrain of President Smith's remarks, and I want to read to you what he had to say, because he confessed that he was guilty of the habit : 

In a broad and general way I am for the anti-tobacco doctrine promulgated by President Joseph F. Smith at the opening of the October conference. And I am unprejudiced, because I use the weed. One can be pretty patient with the various weaknesses of human nature, but here is a habit which God never planted in any human being. It is unnatural for a man to chew or smoke tobacco. 

No habit is acquired at such expense of pain and discomfort, or against so positive and emphatic an opposition of nature. The man who smokes can remember when he began self-administration of nicotine poison, and he can remember no other convulsion of his frame which equalled that following his first cigar. The deadly sickness, the battle of normally clean tissues against the rank enmity of the weed, whether smoked or chewed, surpasses any other illness known to man. Seasickness is a horror, but it is a dream of Paradise and the Peri as compared with nicotine poison for the beginner. Ptomaine poison hurts, but it is colic compared to convulsions. There is no protest of the healthy body possibly approaching the physical warning against tobacco. And if the user of tobacco — the confirmed slave today — would supply to any useful endeavor the resolution, the persistence, the indifference to suffering, the courage, the power of will, the sacrifice of comfort, which he has devoted to acquiring the tobacco habit, he would have won — though the winning meant fame or fortune, love or leisure! 

President Smith is right. Smoking is foolish. There is not one word to be said in sanity to defend it. Chewing tobacco is beyond all expression filthy. It is vile, vicious, self-contaminating, offensive to companions, and repulsive to the community at large. 

And while neither he nor I will make an end of the custom, it is fair to say he told the truth, and it is a thing for patriotic men to applaud, because his word in that meeting will save some man from the one habit which has nothing to defend it and every consideration of cleanliness to oppose. 

Now, there is the statement of a man who has had the unsavory experience. 

CLOSING INSTRUCTION 

Brethren, sisters, keep your bodies clean. They are eternal, and the Lord expects us to keep them clean if we shall enter into eternal life, which is God's life, to be like him. Hearken to the counsels of the Priesthood. Keep the commandments of God. Follow the instruction President Clawson has given; read these revelations and make yourselves familiar with them, that you may not fail nor be led astray by the teachings of the world and the philosophies of men. 

So I pray, in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

In the first chapter of the first book of Moses, which is commonly known to us as the Book of Genesis, we will find — what I have always considered it to be — an account of the spiritual organization of the universe. 

The next chapter, the second, deals with the natural creation after, however, first confirming the spiritual creation. It reads like this : 

These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens, 

And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. (Genesis 2:4, 5) 

This narrative is also given to us in the writings of Moses as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. In these writings Moses, who is also the writer of Genesis which is known as the First Book of Moses, gives us a more elaborate account, or I might say a fuller rendition of the same narrative. Although the account in Genesis clearly indicates both the spiritual and natural creation I will quote the passages from the Pearl of Great Price in which the narrative is given even in greater clarity and more in detail : 

And now, behold, I say unto you, that these are the generations of the heaven and of the earth, when they were created, in the day that I, the Lord God, made the heaven and the earth; 

And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth. For I, the Lord God, had not caused it to rain upon the face of the earth. And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air. (Moses 3:4, 5) GENERAL CONFERENCE 

My purpose in calling your attention to these paragraphs is to show the dual nature of all created things; that we lived in another world before this world was made, as the children of God, the spirit children of God. 

Let us visualize, if we can, the scenes in heaven in that first estate of man, before the world was when the Lord had looked out upon this great expanse, and darkness covered the face of the deep; and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters, and God said, "Let there be light," and there was light, and the universe was ablaze with it. — First, the creation spiritual, which of necessity must precede the natural creation. 

The second chapter then goes on to relate this remarkable phase of our life, the second estate, as the spirit enters into the body. 

And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul. (Gen. 2:7) 

How marvelous that is! See how many things are explained in these scriptures, how many questions are answered! The Lord tells us, in one revelation given to Joseph Smith, that "The spirit and the body are the soul of man." (D. & C. 88:15) How completely that harmonizes with this dual nature of things — The spiritual creation and the natural creation! 

And now let us visualize the Lord standing in the midst of his assembled sons and daughters, unfolding to them his almighty purposes with regard to the salvation and exaltation of his children, the plan covering both their spirit life in heaven and the natural life on earth in bodies of flesh and bones; the two estates of man. 

All this was shown unto Abraham and is recorded in the Book of Abraham which was translated by the gift and power of God from papyrus by Joseph Smith, the prophet. Let me quote : 

Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; 

And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said : These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me : Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. 

And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; 

And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; 

And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever. 

And the Lor~d said : Whom shall I send ? And one answered like unto the Son of Man : Here am I, send me. And another answered and said : Here am I, send me. And the Lord said : I will send the first. 119 

And the second was angry, and kept not his first estate; and, at that day, many followed after him. (Abraham 3:22-28) 

What a flood of light is thrown on the scriptures through this marvelous revelation. How many questions are answered. 

The New and Everlasting Covenant was first made in heaven; and afterwards renewed on earth — all through the Bible references are made to it. This Covenant is the very essence of God's dealings with his children. This also explains why the children of Abraham were called God's chosen people. 

Abraham was known unto God as one of the great and noble ones for his integrity, and God knew that he would teach his children after him; therefore, he was chosen before he was born to become the father of the faithful through whom the knowledge of the true and living God, even the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, or Israel's God as he is variously called, should be maintained upon the earth among the children of men; and those who were permitted to come through his lineage were among the great and noble ones, or in other words, among those who had been valiant in their first Estate. 

Thus it will be seen it was a "natural selection" or we might say "a survival of the fittest." It may also be said that through this lineage have come the prophets and apostles, the "morning stars" who sang together in the primeval days before the world was. Judah held the scepter through whom many kings among the nations came, and through the tribe of Levi the Aaronic Priesthood during the Mosaic dispensation was preserved; but last and greatest of all through this lineage came the "Only Begotten Son of God" in the flesh, but also the son of Mary a literal descendant of Abraham. Thus it is seen that through this lineage "all of the nations of the earth have been blessed." 

Notwithstanding all this it is still true that God is no respecter of persons and all that filled their first Estate are now to pass the second trial. 

There will be many of Abraham's seed who, on account of their wickedness, will be cast out, and still many others who are not of his lineage who by reason of their obedience will be grafted into the Olive tree and become known as the children of Abraham— the "chosen people of God." 

From these quotations from the Pearl of Great Price we also learn that God created this earth expressly for the habitation of his children in their mortal bodies which were to be made out of the elements of the earth — our mother earth — out of the dust of the ground, and that too for our second trial — our second Estate — the span of human life — the probationary period. 

But, before placing us here on earth, he first made covenant with us that if we kept our first Estate we shall be added upon. In other words, there shall be added to our immortal spirits these bodies of flesh and bones. And if we keep our second Estate then "glory shall be added upon our heads for ever and ever." No wonder then that the sons and daughters of God, especially those who were valiant in their first GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Estate — the great and the noble — "the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy." (See Job 38:4-7) 

This passage from Job, which even now is a mystery to the world, is fully explained by this marvelous revelation from the Book of Abraham. 

Then the question arose: "Whom shall I send? And one answered like unto the Son of Man: Here am I, send me." (Abraham 3:27) 

"Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." (Moses 

4:2) 

But another one arose and he said : "Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor." (Moses 4:1) 

But God said: 

"I will send the first." (Abraham 4:27) 

And Satan rebelled against God, so there was war in heaven, and the war begun in heaven has been continued here on earth. 

And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. (Rev. 12:9) 

The Gospel of Jesus Christ embodies within it "all things whatsoever the Lord our God shall command us." If we render obedience to this, and remain true to our covenants unto the end, we shall have glory added upon our heads for ever and ever. 

May the Lord bless us that we may attain to this exaltation, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

The Choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying, what think ye of Christ? 

As deep answering deep, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints affirms : 

We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. 

We believe that through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

"the richest hill on earth" 

A few months ago, while visiting the Northwestern States Mission, accompanied by its capable mission president, Preston Nibley, I entered the city of Butte, Montana. I beheld on a large board this inscription : "The Richest Hill on Earth." 121 

Butte derives its name from the old French word "butte" meaning a rounded hill. The hill is pierced by a hundred shafts from which has been hoisted to the surface $2,500,000,000 of mineral wealth. But values are relative. What men call treasures God calls dross. The truth still remains : "For the love of money is the root of all evil." 

When I read that inscription, I said to myself, "There is a small and solemn hill outside the ancient city of Jerusalem which has yielded no mineral treasures, nevertheless it is reverently regarded by true Christians as the richest hill on earth." 

For on sacred Calvary took place the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, which Canon Farrar declares was "the most stupendous and moving scene in the world's history." 

BANISHED FROM GOD'S PRESENCE 

Spiritual ruin came by the fall of man. This is the sad story told in the Holy Scriptures: "Because that Adam fell we are; and by his fall came death; and we are made partakers of misery and woe. And men have become carnal, sensual and devilish, and are shut out from the presence of God." 

Man, by sin, brought himself into the captivity of sin. His nature, by reason of the fall, became evil continually. He was shut out from the presence of the Lord. What a terrible sentence! Imagination cannot conceive a more dreadful judgment. It was not in man's power to escape from the misery that never dies. This judgment mortal man could not reverse. There was no appellate court. It was to be of endless duration. Hope seemed to have bade the world farewell. In despair man stood helpless. 

Against this dark background, God, who is love and with whom there is forgiveness, caused to shine brightly, the three graces, Faith, Hope and Love. He told Adam that Jesus Christ, the righteous Judge, would come in the meridian of time and atone for original guilt. 

Down through the ages this living faith and hope sustained those who believed in the heavenly promises. The Messiah became the consolation of Israel. "God had turned away his judgments because of his Son." 

THE ATONING SACRIFICE 

God himself came down from heaven and made the Divine Sacrifice. The God of Nature suffered and died on the Cross. The Apostle Paul said : "We shall be saved by his life, * * * by whom we have now received the atonement." (Romans 5:10) 

"The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world." (John 1 :29) 

On the Cross our Savior paid the debt that made mankind free. He bought us with the price of his precious blood. We are not our own for we are bought with a price. His blood atones for all our sins, through obedience to righteousness, but it shall not cleanse those who GENERAL CONFERENCE  not his commandments. The manner of our redemption calls forth our love and affection. 

Through the infinite atonement and resurrection of our Lord we receive forgiveness of sin, immortality, a glorious resurrection and eternal life "which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God" provided we walk before Him, "in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless." Death lost its sting, the grave its victory. The Savior's death was the door to the glorious resurrection. 

Yes, Calvary is the richest, hill on earth. 

THE INFLUENCE OF THE CHRIST 

A Roman ruler was dying. With relentless cruelty he had sought to destroy the sect that was everywhere spoken against, but in vain. He had been found fighting against God. Pointing with trembling finger in the direction of Calvary he said feebly : "O Nazarene, Nazarene, thou hast conquered mightily." 

The sublimity of the Christ is manifested in many men, softening the hearts of statesmen and generals. The Savior is a very present help in time of need. He pitieth the poor. 

General Lee and General Grant met in Appomattox, near the famous apple tree, where General Grant wrote the terms of the surrender of the Confederate Army. He says in his own simple account of the event, "The question of the disposition of the Confederates' horses arose. I thought they would need them for the spring plowing." Then the General magnanimously permitted the Confederates to retain their horses. He had a vision. The spirit of Isaiah rested upon him. Swords were to be beaten into plow shares. He beheld the battlescarred fields of Dixie blooming in incomparable beauty with corn and cotton. I believe that he heard the voice of Jesus saying : "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." The great soldier decided to turn into plow horses those war horses, which had hauled the Confederates' artillery to points where death and devastation could be poured into the Union ranks. 

Oh, that our foreign statesmen, diplomats, and generals could see the vision of farms instead of battle fields. Then fields which are now running red with human blood would soon bloom with life saving harvests. Someone has said that a sword is a misshaped plow. God hasten the day when in this war-torn world there will be more plows than swords. 

SPIRITUAL RICHES FROM CUMORAH 

Another hill, old in story, is ancient Cumorah. Out of that hill came truth and spiritual riches that will never fade nor perish — a volume of Scripture, the Book of Mormon. For many long centuries the people whom Columbus found when he stepped on the shores of America had no recorded knowledge of their forefathers, or the will of God con123  them. Without scripture which would make them wise unto salvation through faith in Jesus Christ they "wandered as strangers in sin." The deep darkness of ages had rested like a pall over their buried past. But God said, "Let there be light; and there was light." The Prophet Joseph joyfully exclaimed: 

And again, what do we hear. Glad tidings from Cumorah. Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfillment of the prophets, the book to be revealed. 

The Book of Mormon, like the Bible, is holy because it testifies that the Savior is the Son of God. The Nephite record contains the account of the Messiah's marvelous ministry to his "other sheep" on the western hemisphere, after his resurrection and ascension into heaven. To be a witness that Jesus is the Christ and to the truth of the Bible, is the chief mission of the Book of Mormon which ancient prophets, notably Isaiah, predicted would be brought forth to magnify the name of God. 

America's destiny foretold 

Behold the destiny of the United States in the light of Book of Mormon prophecies : 

The Gentiles shall be blessed upon this land. And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles. There shall be no kings upon the land who shall raise up unto the Gentiles. 

For I, the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king. And I will fortify this land against all other nations. 

These glorious predictions shall be fulfilled upon this people upon the unchangeable condition that "they will serve the God of the land who is Jesus Christ." 

It cannot be said truthfully that Mormonism is intolerant or unpatriotic. In the hearts of this people is the essence of true political faith, true patriotism for God and country, for which they would shed the last drop of their heart's blood. 

Our wonderful Republic. May we revere our heaven inspired Constitution and keep it foursquare with the plan of its inspired architects, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen. 

BISHOP JOHN WELLS 

Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I desire to call your attention to an incident in the life of the Master. The last day of the Master's life had come. His apostles had met with him to commemorate the Passover. The spirit of Jesus was troubled, no doubt, because of his impending betrayal and sacrifice. After he had designated the traitor and Judas Iscariot had left the room, Jesus felt free to speak, as though he had been GENERAL CONFERENCE  of a burden. He said in effect : "Now is the Son of Man glorified and God is glorified in him. A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another as I have loved you; that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another." 

To be a true follower or disciple of our Savior we must demonstrate our love for God, for our Savior and for our fellowmen. The Apostle John states : "And this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God loveth his brother also." We can show our love one to another by brotherly kindness, neighborliness, service in both spiritual and temporal things, and by the spirit of benevolence and forgiveness. We manifest our love for one another by our righteous precepts and by our good example, that others knowing our teachings and feeling the influence of our good example, may be induced to follow in paths of rectitude. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith received several revelations from the Lord containing this new commandment of the Master. The ideal and practical application of this commandment "to love one another" is found in the system the Lord revealed to the Saints known as the United Order. An epitome of these revelations gives the spirit of this economic system : It is not intended, in this heavensent plan, that one person should possess that which is above another. Every member of the Church was to have an equal claim for his just wants and needs, these claims to be exercised for the benefit of the Church as a whole; every member to improve his talents and use them for the common good; every member to seek the interest of his neighbor. The purpose of this order was to bring about equality in wealth; there would be no rich, no poor, ample for everyone and funds to build up Zion. Under this system there would be no waste, no idlers; industry would be dignified; all would work for the common good. With this equality in temporal things, we find a foundation for equality in spiritual things. The word of the Lord is "If ye are not equal in earthly things, ye cannot be equal in spiritual things." The Lord never intended the Latter-day Saints to be in bondage to others, nor in the bondage of debt. 

Let us consider our present situation : Ours is a rich nation, the richest in the world. However, statements have been made to the effect that there is more unemployment and that there are more dependents on charity in the United States than in all Europe. During the past fifty years the number of farmers who own their own farms has decreased; the number of mortgaged farms has increased; the number who are living on farms has decreased. The conditions in the world today of poverty, lack of employment and our competitive method of doing business indicate that there is a crying need for a re-statement of the commandment of the Master that "ye love one another." 

I am thankful for the Church Security Program, which has as some of its objectives : to help us "seek the interest of our neigh125 ;" to promote the spirit of service and brotherly kindness; to promote equality in temporal things, to care for the poor and needy; to eliminate want and suffering; to find employment for Latter-day Saints; to encourage the return to farms; to assist unemployable members to do Temple work; to locate Latter-day Saints on land where they may become independent; to encourage quorums of the Priesthood to develop useful quorum projects; to stimulate the beautification of homes and places of worship; to have canning and sewing centers; to take care of surplus food, or in other words to develop brotherhood and cooperation. This plan has been inaugurated by the First Presidency of the Church. Its efficacy and purpose can never be doubted. It is for our benefit and our blessing. 

George Holyoake, the author of books on Consumers' Cooperation, made a statement which I think can be applied to our Church Security Plan. He said : 

Cooperation touches no man's fortune, seeks no plunder, causes no disturbance in society, gives no trouble to statesmen, enters into no secret associations, contemplates no violence, subverts no order, envies no dignity, asks no favor, keeps no terms with the idle, and will break no faith with the industrious. 

I want to express my appreciation for what has been done under this security program of the Church. As I see it, it is the beginning of higher and nobler things. The Lord intends his people to be equal in all things, both temporal and spiritual. 

My brethren and sisters, let us get back to simple methods of living — of helpfulness, each Latter-day Saint doing his share in the community, cooperating in all useful efforts and for the good of all. We are ideally situated to carry forward cooperation in temporal affairs, for we are accustomed to cooperating in spiritual matters. I sincerely hope we will give study, thought and consideration to "seeking the interest of our neighbor and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God." Remember always the words of the Master, "By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another." May we apply the spirit and meaning of this commandment in our daily lives. 

My heart is filled with thanksgiving for the Gospel and for the privileges and blessings I enjoy. I appreciate my membership in the Church and the opportunity which is mine to labor in the ministry, to give service in the Church. I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the Living God, and that through his instrumentality this great latter-day work has been established. It will continue to increase, gathering power and influence as it grows in years and numbers! 

May we follow the counsel and admonitions given to us in these latter-days for our spiritual and temporal welfare, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

BISHOP DAVID A. SMITH 

First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric 

I rejoice this day, my brethren and sisters, in my lot. I am happy to have the privilege of laboring with these, our brethren, whom we sustain as the Authorities of the Church. 

I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for permitting me to hold the holy Priesthood, the power of which I have seen manifest in unmistakable manner. I am grateful for the privilege that comes to me of visiting with you in your homes, in your wards, in your stakes, where I receive blessings and encouragement. 

I want to say to my brethren who feel to criticise the President of this Church for repeatedly calling your attention to your failure to keep the commandments which God has given, especially you who have had the Priesthood conferred upon you — when you feel this desire coming upon you, think what you would do under the conditions we face in this day, were you in the position of the President of this Church, and felt the responsibility as he feels it. Then perhaps you would change your mind and your attitude. I have no word of censure for you, only pity, and in a spirit of love I call upon you to repent, for you are walking in the shadow of darkness and in danger of becoming lost, for so the Lord hath spoken. 

To me it seems that there has been no time in the history of the Church when it was more necessary that we should arm, not with the implements of modern warfare — and may I say the cruel implements of modern warfare — which are a menace to the world in this day, but with the authority of the holy Priesthood, clothed with the power of the Holy Ghost, which is promised to us as a guide, and which will, through our faithfulness, lead us into the path of light and truth and righteousness and on to eternal life and exaltation. 

It is a great privilege to go into the world to preach the Gospel. It is a greater privilege to preach it in our home, in the home of our neighbor, our friend, our kindred. This is our mission. This is our work, as the army of the living God, clothed with his power and authority. Are we using it to the fullest? Are we neglecting it? Do we appreciate it? 

I constantly pray that I shall not be found at any time belittling this great work which has been entrusted to our care, or making light of those who I know are heart and soul in this great work, full of faith and knowledge and honesty of purpose. 

I thank my God for his blessings, for his plan of salvation, his Gospel message, and that I find in my soul harmony therewith. May his blessings be upon us. May we, in the power which he intends that we shall have, go forward to accomplish his purposes, that his blessings shall rest upon us in abundance, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 127 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented for the vote of the Conference the General Authorities and General Officers of the Church as follows, all of whom were unanimouslysustained : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency. David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Richard R. Lyman 

Reed Smoot Melvin J. Ballard 

George Albert Smith John A. Widtsoe 

George F. Richards Joseph F. Merrill 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L. Richards Albert E. Bowen 

ACTING PATRIARCH TO CHURCH 

George F. Richards 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Jonathan G. Kimball Antoine R. Ivins 

Rulon S. Wells Samuel O. Bennion 

Levi Edgar Young John H. Taylor 

Rufus K. Hardy 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor GENERAL CONFERENCE 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants : Andrew Jenson and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant John A. Widtsoe 

J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Adam S. Bennion 

David O. McKay Joseph F. Merrill 

Rudger Clawson Franklin S. Harris 

Joseph Fielding Smith Charles A. Callis 

Stephen L Richards Franklin L. West Richard R. Lyman 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Franklin L. West 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Orval W. Adams John F. Bennett 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

David A. Smith, President; J. Spencer Cornwall, Conductor; D. Sterling Wheelwright, Assistant Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander Schreiner 

Frank W. Asper 

Wade N. Stephens, Assistant 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Kate M. Barker, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

George D. Pyper, General Superintendent Milton Bennion, First Assistant Superintendent George R. Hill, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 129 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Q. Morris, General Superintendent Joseph J. Cannon, First Assistant Superintendent Burton K. Farnsworth, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent Isabelle S. Ross, First Assistant Superintendent Edith Hunter Lambert, Second Assistant Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I am very pleased indeed to express my deep appreciation of our Conference, from start to finish. 

I am grateful for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I am thankful for the devotion of the Latter-day Saints as a whole. 

CONSCIENTIOUS OBSERVANCE OF LAWS REQUIRED 

I announced here at the Priesthood meeting last night and I decided to announce it again that we expect all the General Officers of the Church, each and every one of them, from this very day, to be absolute, full tithepayers, to really and truly observe the Word of Wisdom; and we ask all of the officers of the Church and all members of the General Boards, and all Stake and Ward officers, if they are not living the Gospel and honestly and conscientiously paying their tithing, to kindly step aside, unless from this day they live up to these provisions. 

We have undertaken a most stupendous work and there will be no difficulty whatever in carrying out that great work. We will have an abundance to take care of every living Latter-day Saint who is in distress. Mind you, when I say Latter-day Saint I mean Latter-day Saint. I am not talking about idlers. I am not talking about people that want to lie down and let somebody else take care of them — I am talking of Latter-day Saints. If the people will pay their tithing and if they will keep the Word of Wisdom, and will actually, really, and for a fact, fast two meals once a month and give the equivalent, we will be able to carry forward our Security Plan without any trouble whatever. 

It is simply marvelous that people can live on eleven cents, some of them — two meals a day once each month for twelve months in the GENERAL CONFERENCE  — twenty-four meals on a half a cent a meal. (Or at least, so their fast offerings would indicate.) 

We feel that in all the stakes of Zion, every stake president, every counselor to a stake president, every stake clerk, and every high councilor, standing at the head of the people in the stake — we ask them to kindly step aside unless they are living up to these laws. They are given the responsibility of presiding, and every officer who is a presiding officer should say from today: "I am going to serve the Lord, so that my example will be worthy of imitation." 

No man can teach the Word of Wisdom by the Spirit of God who does not live it. No man can proclaim this Gospel by the Spirit of the Living God unless that man is living his religion; and with this great undertaking that we have before us now we must renew our loyalty to God, and I believe beyond a shadow of doubt that God inspires and blesses, and multiplies our substance when we are honest with him. We do not want in this day a repetition of what the scriptures tell us was the condition in years gone by, wherein the Lord declares that he had been robbed, because of the failure of the people to live the financial law that God has revealed. 

Now, I pray from the bottom of my heart that God will give each and every man and woman who holds an office in any stake or ward the spirit and the feeling and the determination from this day, to renew his covenants with God, to live his religion; and if we are too weak to do these things, we should step aside and let somebody else take our place. 

THE MIND AND THE WILL OF THE LORD 

The Word of Wisdom, we are told, is such that it can be kept by "the weak and the weakest of all Saints." 1 have heard that some of the members of Boards, after the law was passed legalizing beer, said : "Well, I do declare, now I am entitled to have a glass of beer." No Latter-day Saint is entitled to anything that is contrary to the mind and the will of the Lord, and the Word of Wisdom is the mind and the will of the Lord. 

I want you to know that this will make no difference to me personally, but as the shepherd of the flock, the day has come, in my judgment and in the judgment of my associates, that we must live up to and be loyal to this work and serve God with all our heart, might, mind, and strength, if we are to accomplish what the Lord wants us to do. 

BLESSINGS INVOKED 

I thank you all for your presence here. 1 thank the Lord for the splendid Conference we have had. In so far as God has given me the power to do so I pray God to bless you one and all. I pray God to bless all the Latter-day Saints. I pray God to bless every soul that has good intentions, and to strengthen him and her in their determination to keep the commandments of the Lord. I love the Lord; I love the Latter-day 131 

Saints; I love the honest the world over; I have no animosity against any living soul. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is one of forgiveness of wrongdoing. It is a part of the Gospel to forgive those who have done wrong, when they repent, but "By this ye. may know if a man repenteth of his sins — behold, he will confess them and forsake them." He will do them no more. 

The time has expired. 

May God's blessings be with each and all of you, and with all the Saints, and with all the honest the world over, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen. 

The Choir sang the "Hallelujah Chorus" (Handel). Elder Paul C. Child, President of the Pioneer Stake, offered the benediction. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

The singing at the two Friday sessions of the Conference, by the Relief Society Singing M others, was under the direction of Sister Charlotte O. Sackett; Elder Carl Nelson directed the singing of the Nebo Stake Choir at the Saturday morning and afternoon sessions; J. Spencer Cornwall led the congregational singing at all the sessions and conducted the singing of the Tabernacle Choir on Sunday. 

Accompaniments and interludes on the great organ were played by Frank W. Asper. 

Stenographic notes of the Conference were taken by Frank W. Otterstrom and Joseph Anderson. 

Joseph Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities, Presentation of 127 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 20 

Encouraged as to Security Program, 20 — Appeal to Members, 20— Problems Solved in the Lord's Way, 21 — Keeping of Word of Wisdom Urged, 21 — Standards should be Maintained, 22 — Opportunity now to Get Ahead, 22 — Surroundings Preach the Gospel, 23 — A Religion that Sustains, 23 — Joy In Achievement, 24. 

Bennion, Elder Samuel O 81 

Bowen, Elder Albert E 84 

Pioneers Laid the Foundation, 84 — A Rich Heritage, 85 — Conviction Comes Through Endeavor, 86— Spirituality within Reach of All, 87 — The Rich and the Poor Warned, 88 — Tithes and Offerings, 88— Conviction Gave Courage, 89. 

Broadcast, Choir and Organ 99 

Broadcast, Church of the Air 99 

Callis, Elder Charles A 120 

"The Richest Hill on Earth," 120 — Banished from God's Presence, 121 — The Atoning Sacrifice, 121 — The Influence of the Christ, 122 — Spiritual Riches from Cumorah, 122 — America's Destiny Foretold, 123. 

Cannon, Bishop Sylvester Q 42 

Larger Crops and Better Prices, 43 — Effect of Farm Products Prices on Economic Conditions, 43 — Wages and Industrial Progress, 43 — Improvement in Financial Conditions, 44 — Responsibilities of Church Officers, 44 — Fasting and Fast Donations, 45 — Statistics on Relief, 46 — Church Building Program, 46 — Training in Building Construction, 46 — Counting the Cost, 47. 

Changes in Church Officers 95 

Choir Broadcast 99 

Church of the Air Broadcast 99 

Clark, President J. Reuben, Jr 104 

An Outstanding Scout Leader, 104 — Tribute to Choir, 104 — Simplicity of Worship, 105 — A Living Faith, 105 — Grateful for our Country, 106 — Security Program is Successful, 106 — Gives Admonition, 107 — Our Mission, 107. 

Clawson, President Rudger 109 

A Remarkable Book, 109 — Revelation on the Three Glories, 109 — Revelation on Priesthood, 111 — Revelation on the Eternity of the Marriage Covenant, 111 — Revelation on Tithing, 112 — The Word of Wisdom, 112 — The Appearance of the Savior in the Kirtland Temple, 113, Study of Standard Works Urged, 113. 

Colton, Elder Don B - 54 

First Day, Afternoon Meeting 24 

First Day, Morning Meeting 2 

INDEX 133 

General Authorities of the Church 127 

General Authorities Present 1 

General Auxiliary Officers 128 

General Officers of the Church 128 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Report of European Tour, 2 — Profitable Meetings in Switzerland, 2 — Cordial Reception in Czechoslovakia, 3 — Liberty in Germany, 3 — Buildings Dedicated in Great Britain, 4 — Centennial Celebration in Preston and Rochdale, 5 — Visits Holland, 6 — Experiences in Scandinavia, 7 — Impressed by Change in Attitude, 8 — Story of Interview with Editor, 8 — Idleness not to be Encouraged, 10 — Revelation to Hyrum Smith, 11 — The European Saints To Have More Attention, 13 — A Financial Savior, 13 — The Word of Wisdom, 14 — Joy in Bearing Testimony, 16 — Success Follows Keeping of Commandments, 16. 

Grant, President Heber J 54 

Released Presidents of Missions to be called upon to speak, 54. 

Grant, President Heber J 66 

Endorses Remarks of Elder John A. Widtsoe, 66. 

Grant, President Heber J 93 

Expensive and Injurious Habits, 93 — Regarding Tillers of the Soil, 94 — A Favorable Magazine Article, 94. 

Grant, President Heber J 95 

Changes in Organizations since Last Conference, 95 — Auxiliary Board Members, Bishops and others who have Passed Away since Last Conference, 97. 

Grant, President Heber J 97 

A Choice Land, 97 — Faith in Divinity of the Gospel, 98 — Skilful in Use of Cement, 98 — The Inexplicable Explained, 98 — Grateful for Growth of Church, 99. 

Grant, President Heber J 104 

Announces Number of People in Tabernacle, Assembly Hall and on Grounds, 104. 

Grant, President Heber J 108 

Asks to be excused from attending Conferences other than the General Sessions, 108. 

Grant, President Heber J 127 

Presentation of General Authorities, 127 — Officers of the Church, 128 — General Auxiliary Officers, 128. 

Grant, President Heber J. . . . .* 129 

Conscientious Observance of Laws Required, 129 — The Mind and Will of the Lord, 130— Blessings Invoked, 130. 

Hardy, Elder Rufus K 28 

Ivins, Elder Antoine R 77 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden 30 

Kirkham, Elder James M 66 INDEX 

Lyon, Elder T. Edgar 60 

Mallory, Elder LeRoy 91 

McKay, President David 100 

Applied Christianity, 100 — Denote Obligation, 100 — Standards Violated, 101 — Violations at Home, 101 — Willingness to Serve, 102 — Simple Principles, 103. 

Merrill, Elder Joseph F 71 

Need of Greater Faith, 72 — Faith Based Upon Intelligence, 72 — Evidences of Joseph Smith's Inspiration, 73 — Some Achievements of Joseph Smith, 75 — Josiah Quincy's Tribute, 76 — Results of Faith, 76 — Advice to Young People, 77. 

Quinney, Elder Joseph, Jr 57 

Richards, Elder George F 25 

Testimony, 25 — Gospel the Power of God unto Salvation, 26 — Responsibility Towards Others, 26. 

Richards, Elder LeGrand 89 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 34 

Faith Brings Humility, 35 — Stimulation Through Recognition of Higher Power, 35 — The Highest Order of Intelligence, 35 — Faith a Divine Gift, 36 — An Important First Step in Acquiring Faith, 36 — Merely Arguments, 37 — A Declaration of Faith, 37 — Spiritual Exercise, 38 — Thoughts Must Be Disciplined, 39 — A Caution and Promise, 40. 

Second Day, Afternoon Meeting 71 

Second Day, Morning Meeting , 48 

Smith, Bishop David A 126 

Smith, Elder George Albert 48 

Perilous Times, 48 — Repentance and Humility Needed, 49 — The Pathway to the Celestial Kingdom, 49 — The Price of Peace and Happiness, 50— Flying in a Fog, 50 — An Electric Highway, 51 — Following the Charted Course, 52 — The Pilot of the Church, 52 — The Pathway to Peace, 53 — Avoiding Pitfalls, 53. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding .- 113 

A Perfect Organization, 113 — Our Duty to Honor Priesthood, 114 — Smoking in Public Places, 115 — Charles C. Goodwin's Editorial, 116 — Closing Instruction, 117. 

Smith, Elder Nicholas G 56 

Smoot, Elder Reed 17 

Obedience to Laws of the Church Brings Honor, 17 — Dr. Karl G. Maeser's Sayings, 17 — Change Wrought by the Gospel, 19 — Service is Joy, 19. 

Taylor, Elder John H 40 

Third Day, Afternoon Meeting 108 

Third Day, Morning Meeting 94 

Welker, Elder Roy A 58 

Wells, Bishop John 123 

INDEX 135 

Wells, Elder Rulon S 117 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 62 

Rejoices in Remarks of President Grant, 62 — The Lord Gives Spiritual Laws Only, 63 — Happiness in Humble Pursuits, 63 — Agriculture a Basic Industry, 64 — Food the First Necessity, 64 — Agriculture and Science, 65 — Life on the Farm can be Made Rich, 65. 

Young, Elder Levi Edgar 68 

SddL 

The Deseret Book Company is headquarters for all L. D. S. publications, as well as for general books of every kind. We especially call your attention to the following books, on sale here: 

Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of 

Latter-day Saints, by John A. Widtsoe..$1.25 (plus 

postage) 

A Century of Mormonism in Great Britain, 

by Richard L. Evans $1.25 (postpaid) 

Romance of the Book of Mormon, 

by Josiah E. Hickman $2.50 (postpaid) 

Progress of Man, 

by Joseph Fielding Smith $1.50 (postpaid) 

Whatever your book needs, consult us first. We have the most comprehensive stock of books in the intermountain region, and we specialize in books about the Mormons and the West. We invite your inquiries. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 

A Few of the Books that will Help You to Understand "Mormon ism" 

The Book of Mormon 

The latest edition comes to you in four different bindings. Of course the text remains the same but there are added features which make the edition more complete 

Missionary Edition $ .50 

Cloth binding, embossed 1.50 

Full Morocco . 3.00 

The Gospel and Man's Relationship to 

Deity 

BY B. H. ROBERTS 

"It is to place within their reach a brief and simple exposition of the first principles of the Gospel that this work has been prepared, and is now presented to the youth of Zion; and it is the earnest hope of the author that by a patient perusal of these pages those who now believe the Gospel will find their faith strengthened and confirmed; and those who do not believe it will be convinced of its truth." 

Price $1.25 

The Story and Philosophy of "Mormon ism" 

BY JAMES B. TALMAGE 

Comprising "The Story" as told in addresses at Cornell and Michigan Universities and elsewhere, followed by an address delivered at the Panama-Pacific Exposition, entitled "The Philosophical Basis of 'Mormonism.' " 

doth * .75 

In Search of Truth 

BY ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE OF THE QUORUM OF THE TWELVE 

Bound in Art Cloth $1.00 

This new book answers the questions, "What is Science" and "How does the Church view Science." A practical book for our THINKING, young people. 

DESERET BOOK COMPANY 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







