Morning
03 10 1937

Long before time to commence the Sunday morning session, the great Tabernacle auditorium and galleries were crowded to capacity, every available space being occupied. In addition, the large Assembly Hall immediately south of the Tabernacle was filled with people, and other thousands congregated on the Tabernacle grounds, where by means of amplifying equipment that had been installed, they were enabled to listen to the Conference proceedings as they were broadcast from the Tabernacle. 

Conference reconvened promptly at 10 o'clock. President Heber J. Grant, who presided, opened the meeting and announced that the 

Tabernacle Choir and the congregation would sing the hymn, "Oh, Say, What Is Truth?" 

After the singing of this hymn, the opening prayer was offered by Elder H. Clay Cummings, President of the Wasatch Stake. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Read the following report : 

CHANGES IN CHURCH, STAKE, WARD, AND BRANCH ORGANIZATIONS SINCE LAST APRIL CONFERENCE 1937 

New Mission Presidents : 

Gilbert R. Tingey appointed president of the Samoan Mission to succeed Wm. M. Waddoups. 

Franklin J. Murdock appointed president of the Netherlands Mission to succeed T. Edgar Lyon. 

Hugh B. Brown appointed president of the British Mission to succeed Joseph J. Cannon. 

Mark Garff appointed president of the Danish Mission to succeed Alma L. Petersen. 

William Thomas Tew, Jr., appointed president of the East Central States Mission to succeed James M. Kirkham. 

Merrill Daniel Clayson appointed president of the Southern States Mission to succeed LeGrand Richards. 

Frank Evans appointed president of the Eastern States Mission to succeed Don B. Colton. 

David A. Broadbent appointed to preside over the North Central States Mission to succeed Wilford W. Richards. 

W. Aird Macdonald appointed president of the California Mission , to succeed Nicholas G. Smith. 

Thomas E. McKay appointed to preside over the Swiss-German Mission to succeed Philemon M. Kelly. 

Philemon M. Kelly transferred to Berlin to preside over the GermanAustrian Mission to succeed Roy A. Welker. 

Alfred C. Rees appointed to preside over a proposed division of the German-Austrian Mission. 

Joseph Jacobs appointed to preside over the Palestine-Syrian Mission to succeed Badwagan Piranian. 

Carl F. Eyring appointed to preside over the newly organized New England Mission. 

New Mission Organised : 

New England Mission created by taking Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island from the Eastern States Mission, and Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick from the Canadian Mission, with headquarters at Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

New Temple President: 

President Stephen L. Chipman appointed to preside over the Salt Lake Temple to succeed President George F. Richards. Other Special Appointments: 

Apostle George F. Richards appointed acting Patriarch to the Church and Supervisor of all Temples. 

D. Sterling Wheelwright appointed organist and director of Music at the Washington, D. C, Chapel. 

New Member Appointed to General Committee — Church Security Plan : J. Frank Ward. 

New Stake Presidents Appointed: 

Eugene Hilton appointed president of the Oakland Stake to succeed President W. Aird Macdonald. 

Thomas E. Winegar appointed president of the South Davis Stake to succeed President James H. Robinson. 

Leland Erastus Anderson appointed president of the South Sanpete Stake to succeed President Lewis R. Anderson. 

Paul C. Child appointed president of the Pioneer Stake to succeed President Harold B. Lee. 

Samuel E. Bringhurst appointed president of Cottonwood Stake to succeed President Henry D. Moyle. 

Samuel G. Dye appointed president of Ogden Stake to succeed President Thomas E. McKay. 

Henry Clay Cummings appointed president of Wasatch Stake to succeed President David A. Broadbent. 

Stayner Richards appointed president of Highland Stake to succeed President Marvin O. Ashton. 

New Wards Organized : 

Stratford Ward, Highland Stake, created by a division of Highland Park Ward. 

Elko Ward, Nevada Stake, taken from California Mission. Carlin Ward, Nevada Stake, taken from California Mission. Wells Ward, Nevada Stake, formerly independent branch. Firestone Park Ward, Los Angeles Stake, taken from Matthews, Manchester and Walnut Park Wards. 

Hartley Ward, Alberta Stake, formerly independent branch. Tremonton 1st Ward, Bear River Stake, and 

Tremonton 2nd Ward, Bear River Stake, created by a division of the former Tremonton Ward. 

Rosemary Ward, Lethbridge Stake, formerly an independent branch. 

Ward Re-named : 

Park View Ward, Long Beach Stake, formerly Long Beach East Ward. 

New Independent Branches : 

Woodland Branch, Sacramento Stake, formed by a division of the Sutter Ward. 

Colton Branch, San Bernardino Stake, created by a division of the San Bernardino Ward, was formerly a dependent branch. 

Wendover Branch, Tooele Stake, formerly a dependent Sunday School Branch. 

Wards Disorganized : 

Oakley 4th Ward, Cassia Stake, consolidated with Oakley 2nd Ward. 

Cedarville Ward, Franklin Stake, disorganized and annexed to Weston Ward of same stake. 

Auxiliary Board Members Deceased : 

Inez Knight Allen, Relief Society General Board member. Elise Benson Alder, member of General Board Relief Society. Lenore Cornwall, Assistant Secretary General Primary Board. 

Bishops Who Have Passed Away : 

Albert Frank Hanny, Bishop of Firth Ward, Shelley Stake. 

Quimby Roundy, Alton Ward, Kanab Stake. 

Andrew N. Seitz, bishop of Veyo Ward, St. George Stake. 

Others Who Have Died: Mary Teasdel, artist. 

Elizabeth J. Kooyman, wife of Frank I. Kooyman, former president of the Netherlands Mission. 

Frank Moreland Dunf ord, musician. 

Horace H. Cummings, Church leader and educator and former member Deseret Sunday School General Board. 

Ethel G. Reynolds Smith, former member of Relief Society General Board and wife of Apostle Joseph Fielding Smith. 

Emma Louise Stayner Richards, mother of Apostle Stephen L. Richards. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There are only five minutes left until time for us to turn the Conference over to the Choir recital. I do not want to ask any one to occupy that short period of time, so I shall do so myself. I am happy indeed to see this marvelous congregation. Not only are all of the seats taken, but people are standing up in the galleries and in the aisles below. It is a great evidence to me of the growth of the work of the Lord in our day. I think it is perhaps the largest audience that I remember to have seen crowded into this building at a Conference session, and I am grateful for this. 

A CHOICE LAND 

I am very thankful that I am not in the least pessimistic or at all alarmed about the work of the Lord. I am a firm believer that this country, both North and South America, is the choice land of the world, a land choice above all other lands, according to the words of the prophets in the Book of Mormon. I believe in its final destiny. I believe that there is an over-ruling Providence protecting this country. I believe that this is the only place in the United States of America where the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints could have been established and continued without the most terrible persecution, worse than anything we ever had. 

FAITH IN DIVINITY OF THE GOSPEL 

I am very thankful indeed for the remarkable men and women that we have in the Church, who are devoting their lives without hesitancy to the advancement of the kingdom of God on earth. I am very thankful indeed, in my eighty-first year (I will be eighty-one years old in a little more than a month), that from my childhood days till now I have never found anything that has in the least degree weakened my faith in the divinity of this work. I am very thankful that faith is a gift from God, and that gift came to me in my young manhood. There came into my heart at that time an abiding testimony that the Book of Mormon is exactly what it purports to be. I read that book through as a boy, prayerfully and numbly, and there came into my very being — that part of me that will exist when my body is placed in mother earth — an absolute assurance that that book is exactly what it purports to be. To my mind, the Book of Mormon is the greatest tract, the greatest preacher of the Gospel of Jesus Christ of all the literature that we have. That book has stood the test for over a hundred years, notwithstanding the abuse and ridicule that have been brought against it; year after year additional evidences are coming regarding the divinity of that book. 

I remember when first they said, "Oh, it is a falsehood because it says the people who lived on this continent anciently had horses, and no remains of horses have been found." Since that time we have found in the great oil fields of California remains of horses. 

SKILLFUL IN USE OF CEMENT 

People ridiculed me because I believed that those people had erected cement nouses; they said that there had never been a cement house found. Since that time cement houses have been uncovered by the score. A great monument upon which my Counselor J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and my former Counselor Anthony W. Ivins, stood, covers eleven acres of ground — ten per cent more than this Tabernacle block, and as I remember it, is is one hundred and fifty percent higher than this building. The outside of this great monument is cement, and people have dug down into the earth in front of this monument and have found a fine cement road, showing a skill in the use of cement equal, if not the superior, to what we have today. And additional evidences are coming all the time. 

THE INEXPLICABLE EXPLAINED 

When I was in England, presiding over the European Mission, I was entertained by the assistant manager of the great New York Life 

Insurance Company in London, and one of the guests at that dinner was a man who had been connected with the British Legation. He had been to Canada a number of times and to United States many times. He said to me: "Mr. Grant, I saw the most inexplicable thing in my life when I was way up in Canada beyond the bounds of civilization, among those heathen Indians. I found an exact copy of a Holy Land rug, woven in small beads, the exact pattern of what I had seen in the Holy Land. How under heaven those Indians up there who had never heard of Jerusalem could duplicate a Holy Land rug is beyond my comprehension." 

I said : "I will give you a copy of the Book of Mormon and you will find that the forefathers of the American Indians came from Jerusalem." "What?" he said. "That explains the inexplicable." 

GRATEFUL FOR GROWTH OF CHURCH 

I rejoice beyond my powers of expression for the growth of the Church of Jesus Christ. I am grateful for this magnificent audience. I am thankful for the opportunity that our Choir has each Sabbath of broadcasting their splendid music, and it is doing more, I believe, to create good will for the Latter-day Saints than any of the missionary work we have established. 

May the Lord bless every one of us who has a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged to so order our lives that our integrity, upright devotion to the work of God will preach the Gospel, is my prayer and I ask it in the name of our Redeemer and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. 

TABERNACLE CHOIR AND ORGAN BROADCAST 

During the period from 10:30 to 11 :00 the following program of choral and organ music was presented by the Tabernacle Choir and Organ, which program was broadcast by radio throughout the United States and Canada through the courtesy of the Columbia Broadcasting System, originating over Station KSL, Salt Lake City. 

"Lord, Thou Alone Art God" (Mendelssohn) Choir 

"Devotion" (Mascagni) Choir 

"Pilgrim's Chorus" (Wagner) Organ 

"Come Soothing Death" (Bach) Choir 

"The Holy City" (Adams) , Organ 

"Worthy is the Lamb" (Handel) Choir 

The singing of the Choir was conducted by J. Spencer Cornwall. Organ accompaniments and Organ solo presentations were played by Frank W. Asper. 

CHURCH OF THE AIR BROADCAST 

Immediately after the conclusion of the Tabernacle Choir and Organ Broadcast, as part of the proceedings of the Conference of the Church GENERAL CONFERENCE  Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the following program was presented on the Columbia Broadcasting System's regularly scheduled Church of the Air series : 

The Choir and congregation joined in singing the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a Fire is Burning." 

"Prayer," (Hansel and Gretel) was sung by the ladies of the Tabernacle Choir. 

PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 

Second Counselor in the First Presidency 

APPLIED CHRISTIANITY 

What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him. — (James 2:14.) 

In this significant passage, James decries the impotency of faith as a merely intellectual perception, and implies the importance of the application of truth to daily life and conduct. He teaches that "faith is dead and useless unless it expresses itself in a true life and true Christian activities." There has been, and is today, too much discrepancy between belief and practice, between the proclamation of high ideals and the application of these ideals to daily life and living. 

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, accepting Christ as the revelation of God to man, believes that Jesus in his life and teachings reveals a standard of personal living, and of social relations, which, if fully embodied in individual lives and in human institutions, would not only ameliorate the present ills of society, but bring happiness and peace to mankind. 

If it be urged that during the past two thousand years so-called Christian nations have failed to achieve such a goal, we answer that all failure to do so may be found in the fact that they have failed to apply the principles and teachings of true Christianity 

DENOTE OBLIGATION 

To every sincere follower of Christ religion should denote not only a sense of relationship to God, but also an expression of that feeling in actions with respect to right and wrong, and obligation to duty. 

This was undoubtedly the kind of religion Patrick Henry had in mind when, in the closing scene of his life, he said: "I have now disposed of all my property to my family. There is one thing more I wish I could give them, and that is the Christian religion. If they had that, and I had not given them one shilling, they would be rich; and if they had not that, and I had given them all the world, they would be poor." 

Pure religion gives one power to rise above the selfish, sensual, sordid life of what Eucken calls "pure nature," and enables one to "experience a divinity in life above and beyond the world of sensible reality." 

"Without this religion," this philosopher continues, "no true civil101  is possible. A civilization declining all contact with a supernatural life and refusing to establish those mysterious inner relations, gradually becomes a parody of civilization." 

STANDARDS VIOLATED 

For six thousand years and more the human family has suffered from unrestrained expressions and manifestations of selfishness, hatred, envy, greed — animal passions that have led to war, devastation, pestilence, and death. If the simplest principles of the Savior's teachings had been observed the recent world war, for example, could have been averted. The nation or nations that began that holocaust violated some standard or standards of the Christian religion — with what result ? Seven million men killed. Five million more dead of starvation and disease. Twenty million wounded, five million of whom are maimed and crippled for life. Six million men imprisoned. Twenty million women in Europe deprived of a home of their own. Countless millions who suffered privations in the trenches, and in lonely homes of the poor. Fifty billion dollars worth of material and property destroyed. One hundred billion dollars to provide for the cost of the war and interest. 

And even now as the passing of time dims the memory of that terrible experience, we again hear rumblings of threatened and deadly conflict. Indeed, actually today in some parts of the world horrors are being enacted that make the soul shudder. Innocent human beings, noncombatants, helplessly, desperately fleeing to save their lives, are blown to pieces by death-dealing missiles from the air. Children left homeless, maimed, and slaughtered indiscriminately; starving mothers seeking to give away their famishing babes if by so doing they can save their lives. Because these atrocities are 6,000 or 8,000 miles away, we fail to sense fully the horror of it all. But imagine if they were here, and your boy or girl, your mother, wife, or babe were subjected to such peril! If there be a means of averting such calamities, plain common sense, to say nothing of religion's appeal, would prompt its acceptance. These things but emphasize the truth of what Hayden writes : 

Today, as seldom if ever before, human society is threatened with disintegration, if not complete chaos. All the ancient evils of human relationships, injustice, selfishness, abuse of strength, become sinister and terrible when reinforced by the vast increase of material power. The soul of man cowers, starved and fearful, in the midst of a civilization grown too complex for any mind to visualize or to control. Joy and beauty fade from human life. Yet life, abundant, beauteous laughing life, has been our age-long labor's end. What other conceivable worth has the mastery of the material world, the exploitation of the resources of nature and the creation of wealth, except as a basis for the release of the life of the spirit ? 

What he says merits careful consideration. 

VIOLATIONS AT HOME 

But we need not cross oceans to see the effects of violations of Christian ideals. Crime in our own country is costing about fourteen GENERAL CONFERENCE  dollars a year — all in disregard of Gospel teachings and ethics. "Can you imagine," says the author of The Builders of America, "what this country would be like if ten or twenty billion dollars a year were added to our national income? Even if you can imagine the result do you realize what it would be like to feel no need of locking doors and windows, no fear of leaving your car unprotected, no danger that your wife or daughter would be insulted, or you yourself sandbagged if you went out at night; no fear that you would have any uncollectable bills except through accident or unpreventable misfortune; no fear that in a political election there would be any bribery, or in politics any graft, and no fear that anyone anywhere was trying to 'do you' — Can you imagine all that? It would be heaven on earth! Of course, it cannot happen. Yet if all the destroyers of civilization could be eliminated, and if the traits of the rest of us that come from destructive strains could be eliminated, an approach to such a state some hundreds of years hence is by no means inconceivable." Let me again emphasize that such a desirable state of human society is possible through obedience to Gospel principles. 

If you are now thinking that the application of Christ's teaching is impracticable under modern conditions, let me ask you to bring to mind a few specific examples of people who have devoted themselves to the common good. Recall the life of Florence Nightingale, and a million others like her, unheralded and unsung. Think of the Red Cross, a comparatively .recent organization among Christian nations. Think of Abraham Lincoln, consecrating his life to his country. 

If still you are doubtful, consider the humble life and great achievements of Dr. George Washington Carver, "who has done more than any other living man to rehabilitate agriculture in the South," refusing a proffered salary of $100,000, preferring to devote his talents and energy to the benefit of his fellowmen 

Christianity applied to daily life! 

WILLINGNESS TO SERVE 

This willingness to serve others is ready for expression in the hearts of millions, if only nations or groups in nations will but point the way. Here is a recent illustration : September 19, 1937, the Salt Lake Region of the Church Security Plan, finding itself in need of a new store house, held a special Fast Day for the purpose of raising funds with which to make the first payment. The committee asked the people to go without two meals on that day and contribute the equivalent in cash for the project. The leaders anticipated raising about $4,000. The people contributed over $15,000 — realization exceeding anticipation nearly four times! 

The Church worshiping in this renowned Tabernacle today accepts as literally true the saying of Jesus : 

I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly 103 

We believe, however, that this abundant life is obtained not only from spiritual exaltation, but by the application to daily life of the principles that Jesus taught. 

SIMPLE PRINCIPLES 

These principles are few and simple and may, if desired, be applied by every normal person. The first of these, and the foundation upon which a true Christian society is built, is: 

Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, mind and strength. A belief in a Supreme Being who lives and loves his children — a belief that gives power and vigor to the soul. An assurance that he can be approached for guidance, and that he will manifest himself to those who seek him. 

Another is : The acceptance of the truth that life is a gift of God, and therefore divine. The proper use of this gift impels man to become the master, not the slave of nature. His appetites are to be controlled and used for the benefit of his health and the prolongation of life. His passions mastered and controlled for the happiness and blessing of others, and the perpetuity of the race. 

A third principle is: Personal Integrity. By this I mean, plain, everyday honesty, sobriety, and respect for others' rights, such as will win the confidence of one's fellows. This recognition applies to nations as well as to individuals. It is as wrong for a nation, because it is powerful, to steal from another and oppress it, as it is for an individual to rob and kill his neighbor. 

A fourth essential is: Social Consciousness that awakens in each individual the realization that it is his duty to make the world better for his having been in it. The very heart and spirit of this standard is expressed in the statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith — "If my life is of no value to my friends, it is of no value to me." 

Some day intelligent human beings will realize the importance and benefit of living in right relations one with another. When that time comes the Savior's prayer will be in people's hearts — "Make them one, as thou Father and I are one" — Then when that time comes "the wardrum will throb no longer and the battle flags be furled in the Parliament of Man, the Federation of the world." 

This condition can be achieved not alone from mere belief, nor from oratorical exhortations, but by the application in business, social and national life of the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

A male chorus sang the hymn, "I'll Go Where You Want Me to Go, dear Lord." 

The hymn, "High on the Mountain Top," was sung by the Tabernacle Choir and the congregation. 

At the conclusion of the Church of the Air broadcast, at the request of President Heber J. Grant the congregation arose and joined with the Choir in singing two verses of the hymn, "God Moves in a Mysterious Way." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

There have been counted inside the Tabernacle today 11,213 people. In addition, there are 1,800 in the Assembly Hall, and 3,000 on the grounds — a grand total of 16,013. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

My brothers and sisters, I am indeed blessed with you in the opportunity to be at this great Conference and at these wonderful services this morning. I glory with you in the ringing, honest testimony of President Grant. I rejoice with you in the wonderful message of President McKay, embodying in it those principles which would bring into the world, if practiced, peace and joy unexpressible. 

I again rejoice with you in the great work of this choir of ours and of our other musical organizations, the Singing Mothers, the Nebo Stake Choir who entertained and edified us yesterday, and the male chorus. I am sure I express your gratitude as well as my own and that of the Authorities when I thank Brother J. Spencer Cornwall for his untiring efforts and Brother Frank W. Asper and also, and perhaps especially, Brother Richard L. Evans. Sunday after Sunday, year in and year out, he prepares what is called the "continuity" to these broadcasts. His versatility arouses my admiration and my gratitude. 

AN OUTSTANDING SCOUT LEADER 

I would like to say a word about another man whom Brother Grant has mentioned and whom I think we do not fully appreciate. I am thinking of Brother Oscar A. Kirkham. Sometimes I wonder if he does not all too much indicate the truthfulness of that old saying, "A prophet is not without honor save in his own country." I do not know how Brother Oscar Kirkham stands with the superior officers of the Boy Scout Movement, but I suppose he stands well. I do know how he stands with the Boy Scouts of America. I saw him recently at the Jamboree in Washington. After the officers of the organization had attempted in vain to bring to silence and order 25,000 boys assembled there under the shadow of the great Washington Monument, I saw Brother Kirkham go forward on the platform, raise his hands, and bring silence to those 25,000 boys in less than half a minute. His influence for good in this world and in the Boy Scout Movement cannot be overestimated and I honor him and respect him for the work which he is doing. 

TRIBUTE TO CHOIR 

This choir of ours, I think, is the greatest missionary unit which we have. Wherever I go, on both sides of the Atlantic, I hear praiseworthy reference to their efforts. I am grateful to the Lord for them. It is rather an interesting fact to me that on this block should be the two great missionary units of the Church. I am thinking of the choir and its work and I am thinking of the work of Brother Joseph S. Peery in the Temple Block Mission. We are planning and hoping to intensify the work of hoth of these agencies. After listening to this congregation sing this morning, I think I am entitled to say that also the body of this Church assembled in these Conferences is a center from which radiates the Spirit of the Lord and the Spirit of righteousness. No base community or people could, sing as you sing. Your songs are filled with a feeling of righteousness. They come, do these songs, from a God-fearing, faithful people. God grant that always shall we be able to sing the songs of Zion and radiate the spirit which has come from this great audience this morning. 

Along with Brother Grant, I had the pleasure of attending some of the meetings of the Saints in foreign lands. Sister Clark and I made some tour of Europe. We come back to you, I am glad to say, enriched in our spirit and increased in our knowledge. No one can appraise the beneficial work which President Grant did in Europe. I am happy to add my own feeling to the expressions which he gave voice to yesterday — that too long have we remained somewhat aloof from those organizations of ours on the other side of the water and in the islands of the sea. I rejoice in his determination that from now on we shall bring them nearer to us and shall strive for a fuller realization of the fact that they are part and parcel of us. 

SIMPLICITY OF WORSHIP 

I return to you filled with gratitude for many, many things. I am grateful for the fact that our services are simple and in the line of the services which the Savior himself inaugurated when he was on the earth. I rejoice beyond my powers of expression that our worship is not one of great magnificence. I rejoice that our Church calls upon the individuals of its membership to carry on all of its activities — that there is nothing which is withheld from him or from her who is righteous. 

I rejoice in the fact that our buildings are simple and that we come into them for the purpose of worship and not for the purpose of admiration. I hope I shall not be misunderstood, nor that I shall be thought to lack charity or respect for others, but I hope the time will never come when we shall have a St. Peter's or a St. Paul's edifice connected with this Church. They would lead us away from the simplicity which keeps us humble. 

A LIVING FAITH 

Above all, I am grateful for the simplicity of our faith. We do not believe in, nor live in, a morgue or graveyard of Christian principles which have supposedly been tried and found wanting, nor of blasted hopes. On the contrary, we have a living faith; a faith that guides us day by day and hour by hour; a faith that will lead us, if lived, back GENERAL CONFERENCE  the presence of our Heavenly Father; a faith that, lived here, will bring us a joy and a contentment that is beyond the power of any human pen or tongue to describe. 

GRATEFUL FOR OUR COUNTRY 

I am grateful, also, as I return to this country, for our country itself. I am grateful for its territorial aloofness from the rest of the world. Even with the most modern, destructive weapons of war, we are almost immune. I am grateful for our political international aloofness and I pray our Heavenly Father that we shall never lose the security which comes from minding our own business and remaining aloof from the quarrels and the pettiness of the politics of the world. 

I am grateful for our economic sufficiency — that we can, within our own borders, produce all that we need for our daily lives, and the most of what we need for our luxury. The need of other great powers for this sufficiency threatens to bring sometime in the future another devastating struggle. 

I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for our free institutions, for the liberty which we have, the freedom of the press, the freedom of religion, freedom to do as we wish within the law. I am grateful that the great principle behind our system of government is that we may do anything which the law does not forbid. There are other systems in the world in which the individual may do that only which the law permits, and between those two great principles lies the difference between freedom and slavery. I am grateful for this, my brethren and sisters, far beyond my power to tell. 

SECURITY PROGRAM IS SUCCESSFUL 

I want to say a word about our Security Program. I want to say to you brothers and sisters that the Security Program is highly successful. Bishop Cannon has furnished figures to show that during the first six months of this year almost 25,000 Latter-day Saints were helped directly or through work and there is no letting up. There are still a few who must be taken care of, off the government relief. If government projects shall be abandoned, there will be more. But if we shall do in the future as we have in the past we shall meet the task that lies ahead. 

Over and over again the last four and one-half years I have told you what I firmly believe — that we, if we put into practice the principles of our religion and if we utilize the organization which the Lord has provided us for taking care of our own, we should become an ensign and an example, a city upon a hill pointing the way to the rest of the world. If you read your papers and your magazines, you know that this has come to pass and people now are asking — they ask me on all sides : What is it in your organizations that brings you the ability to do these things ? That, my brethren and sisters, brings up the next great point which we wish the world to look at. 

What is the source of this unifying power that motivates this great 107  ? And when that question is answered, it will be understood and known that it is the power of the Lord and the power of the Priesthood among this people that- does draw them together; that does unite them as a single man. I want to say here that I am very grateful to all who have taken part in carrying on this security program — the men and the women who have worked in the Relief Society, and all the auxiliary agencies, the Priesthood, and particularly those men o'f the central committee who so willingly give their time, without compensation, to the supervision of this great and vital undertaking. We thank you all for your cooperation and for your support. Without it nothing at all could have been done. 

GIVES ADMONITION 

May I add again an admonition : Live within your means. Get out of debt. Keep out of debt. Lay by for a rainy day which has always come and will come again. Practice and increase your habits of thrift, industry, economy, frugality. Remember that the parable of the ten virgins, the five that were wise and the five that were foolish, can be just as applicable to matters of the temporal world as those of the spiritual. 

My brethren and sisters, our revelations are filled, revelations ancient and modern, with the statement that this work of the Lord is to roll forth as the stone cut out of the mountain without hands, and fill the whole earth. This Gospel of ours, my brethren and sisters, is not merely for us. It is, said the Lord, in his time for every creature in the world. The Lord has given to us the responsibility of trying to bring home to humanity the truths of this Gospel, not by exhortation alone, because exhortation has failed and that is why men tell you that the principles of Christianity are dead. But we are to bring this home to humanity by living it. This great responsibility the Lord has placed primarily upon us in America. But this is not an American Church. This is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and its destiny as well as its mission is to fill the earth and to bring home to every man, woman and child in the world the truths of this Gospel of which I have spoken. 

OUR MISSION 

My brothers and sisters, that requires not only devotion to duty of the very highest character but it requires sacrifice. There is no good comes into the world, there is no good comes to the individual which in some way does not demand a sacrifice. Righteousness must pay the price. 

May the Lord bless us. May he bring into our hearts an understanding of the mission of the Church and beyond that of the mission of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. May he particularly bring into our hearts an understanding of our own responsibilities and duties, because if we fail to meet them, not only shall we ourselves suffer and fail to get the blessings that come from obedience, but someone in the world somewhere will hold against us the charge that we did not meet our duty and bring to him the principles which we believe. 

And so may God be with us at all times and help us in all ways that we may do his will; that we may spread the Gospel; that we may point to all humanity the way to temporal salvation, not only, as we are trying to do now, but spiritual salvation and exaltation also, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I have been invited to attend conferences of the foreign-speaking peoples. I want the Dutch people to know that I am Dutch when I go far enough back on my mother's side, so I am interested in the Dutch people. There are some Scandinavians in my family through marriage, so I am interested in the Scandinavians. The German people have given to us some of our most stalwart and outstanding people, and I am deeply interested in them; but I beg these dear friends of mine to please remember that in a little more than a month I will be 81 years of age, and that when a man my age attends each of these General Conference sessions he is doing all that he should. You are all praying for the Lord to prolong my life. Please do not ask me to do things that will shorten it. 

"Doxology" was sung by the Tabernacle Choir and the congregation. Elder Arnold D. Miller, President of the North Davis Stake, offered the closing prayer. 

Conference adjourned until 2 o'clock. 


