Afternoon
09 10 1927


PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

HEARD BY RADIO 

We have received word from Elder David A. Broadbent of the Wasatch stake presidency, that the Heber tabernacle is filled with Saints who are getting perfect reception of the conference services. 

We have a telegram to the effect that there is a large gathering of listeners at Ephraim, who wish to express their appreciation of the KSL broadcast of the conference services. 

It is only fair to say that the interruption that occurred during the opening meeting of our conference, at which time the broadcast of baseball news came into our meeting, was by reason of the fact that the KSL radio service is rented by the hour, and our time expired at ten minutes after twelve o'clock. They, therefore, thought we had adjourned our meeting. 

ELDER REED SMOOT 

I crave a double portion of the Spirit of the Lord while I stand before this magnificent audience of Latter-day Saints this afternoon. 

THANKS TO GOD 

I thank my heavenly Father for all his mercies in the past, and above all I thank him that I know that my Redeemer lives. I also thank him, at this time, for the wonderful care he has had over Sister Smoot. Over seven months ago I was directed by a man of science, a great doctor, that if I intended that she should be buried in Utah, I should at once arrange for the care of her body and make plans for leaving Washington within forty-eight hours. I have to acknowledge, not only to the Latter-day Saints, but to all the world, that it is not science that has kept her alive so long, but it has been the prayers of God's people, which have safeguarded her so far. God's will be done, not mine. 

THE INFLUENCE AND POWER OF GOD 

I have been more than pleased at this conference. It is so often said at the close of conference that it was the best conference that was ever held. I have never before attended one in all my life where I have felt the influence and power of Almighty God as I have at this conference. The Spirit of God has been with us, and no man, no matter what his belief may be, could stand before an audience of this character and listen to< what has been said and not admit in his heart that there is something in "Mormonism" which ino other religion on earth has. THE CATHOLIC FATHER MISTAKEN 

On the 22nd day of September last I was thinking of an experience that came to me forty-five years ago last July. I was then a young man of twenty years and was superintendent of the Provo Coop. I decided that I would go to Leadville and Denver, with a view GENERAL CONFERENCE  opening up a market for the products of the farm that we handled in Utah county. I made that trip and was successful. On my return, coming over the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad, we had scarcely left Denver until a gentleman approached me. He was a Catholic father, a splendid type of physical manhood, a well educated man, one whose appearance would attract the* attention of people anywhere. I had been conversing with one or two men. As I left them and took my seat he came and sat by me. Said he : 

"I understand that you live in Utah." 

"I do." 

"Are you a 'Mormon'?" "I am." 

He then began to discuss the question of "Mormonism," and among other things he said : "I tell you, young man, that no matter whether the Church has grown in years past or not, it will never live a hundred years." 

The reason assigned was that it was a fraud, that God did not reveal himself to man in these days; that the testimony of Joseph Smith was a falsehood upon its face; and an institution based upon a falsehood never lived a hundred years, 'and therefore "Mormonism" would not live that length of time.. 

The thought came to me as I have looked over these vast audiences gathered here in this general conference, of what has happened during the last forty five years, and O how mistaken that father was. 

AN ANSWER FROM THE BOOK OF MORMON 

There were a number of things that impressed me greatly in what he said. I suppose many of the people of Utah and particularly my neighbors knew that I had up to that time not taken much interest in Church work. I was wrapped up, body and soul, in commercial affairs. I had no testimony that this was God's work. And so when I got home the first thing I did was to tell my mother of this circumstance. Among other things that he called to my attention was this, that there must be something wrong with the Church, with the organization, with the people, because the whole world was in opposition to them, and therefore the Church could not be true. Of course he gave his reasons why the great Catholic church was the only church of God. I told my mother this, and in her quiet way she said : 

"I wish you would read the second chapter of II Nephi, in that wonderful book, the Book of Mormon, and I think it will answer the statements made by the father or anyone else as to opposition." 

I took occasion to read it, and I want to call your attention to it today. Not the whole of it, by any manner of means. I wish I had the time to do so, but I am going to content myself after reading just a few of the statements regarding opposition, by asking you all to read that chapter in the Book of Mormon. It is an account of Lehi addressing his son Jacob, and in it Lehi says: 

"And behold, in thy childhood thou hast suffered afflictions and much sorrow, 139  of the rudeness of thy brethren. * * * 

"And he [speaking of God] shall consecrate thine afflictions for thy gain." 

And as to opposition Lehi says, in the eleventh verse of the chapter : 

"For it must needs be that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, my first-born in the wilderness, righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. Wherefore all things must needs be a compound in one; wherefore, if it should be one body it must needs remain as dead, having no life, neither death, nor corruption, nor incorruption, happiness nor misery, neither sense nor insensibility." 

NEED OF OPPOSITION IN ALL THINGS 

Lehi goes on to explain why there must be opposition in all things. When you stop to think about it, it is absolutely as God's servant, Lehi, predicted. If there were no opposition to business it would run to dry rot. And, brethren and sisters, if there were no opposition to the Church of Christ, it never would make the headway it is making. Its foundations never would be so strong as they are without the opposition it has encountered. Many of the hardships and evils that come to us, come as blessings in disguise. People wonder why weeds grow on the farm, why disease comes to the body, why the wicked among the peoples of the world, why evil exists upon every hand? Evil is a challenge to good. The fight is between evil and good, and God intends to have a people who know the difference between good and evil, and follow in the footsteps of the teachings of the Master. And nothing but good ever was uttered by him in mortal life. Why do we have the poor among us? Suppose we did not have any poor. I have always considered poverty a challenge, and it does challenge our sympathy and generosity, and do you know that that is a wonderful thing to broaden a man or woman? And I know of no other pleasure in all the world equal to that which comes to one whose generosity and kindness helps one of God's children. 

BELIEF IN REVELATION 

One of the things that the Catholic father complained most bitterly about was that we claim to have had revelation in this day direct from God, and that Joseph Smith received revelations for the establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That I think, my brethren and sisters, is pretty well found to be one of the great criticisms of the Church. I know that in my own case, when there was an effort made to unseat me as a Senator of the United States, after all the testimony had been given and I think most everyone of my witnesses had testified to the effect that revelation was given to the founder of the Church, and I myself testified that I believed it with all my heart, Mr. Taylor, in summing up the arguments of the case to present to the Senators of the United States with a view to unseat me as being unworthy of a seat in that great body, made this statement : 

"Several hundred thousand sincere men and women have believed and now believe, as they believe in their own existence, that Joseph Smith, Junior, received GENERAL CONFERENCE  direct from God, and if anyone ever believed that, we must believe that Senator Smoot believes it. Now a Senator of the United States might believe anything else in the world but that and not be ineligible to a seat in the body to which he belongs. He might believe in polygamy; he might believe that murder was commendable; he might deny the propriety as a rule of life of all the ten commandments; he might believe in the sacrifice of human life; he might believe in no God or in a thousand gods;  he might be Jew or Gentile, Mohammedan or Buddhist, Atheist, or Pantheist; he might believe that the world began last year and would end next year, but to believe in the kind of conviction that Reed Smoot possesses, that God speaks to him or anay speak to him is to admit by the inevitable logic of his conviction that there is a superior authority with whom here and now he may converse, and whose command he can no more refuse to obey than he can will himself not to think." 

My time has expired, but I want to tell you today that I haven't any more doubt in my mind than that I live that God did reveal himself to Joseph Smith, that this Church is founded upon the great principle of revelation from God. He is the author, the one that we worship, the one into whose presence we hope in time to return and give a report of the stewardship that he granted to us, such that the Father would say, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." 

God bless the people, God bless our country. Instill in the hearts of the American people a greater love, if possible, in the future than in the past, of the great Constitution of this land. I feel in my soul that the time will never come in all the history of the world, be it short or be it long, that this people will deny that the Constitution of the United States came from God himself through men raised up for the purpose of establishing it and building upon it the greatest nation on earth. God be with us, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

I have been made very happy while listening to the remarks of the brethren who have spoken, for the nature of the testimonies and instruction has been very timely. 

A WARNING VOICE AGAINST EVIL 

It is pleasing to know that the Latter-day Saints are loyal, as a people, to the Government, to the Constitution, and that they observe the law. Moreover, it is well to have our attention called to the duties and responsibilities that are ours as members of the Church, and to have the warning voice raised, from time to time, against the evils that prevail in the world that we may be prepared to resist them. 

WE LIVE IN PERILOUS TIMES 

I take it for granted that every member of the Church sincerely believes that we are living in the last days, and that most of those who are not of us who profess to believe in the scriptures and in our Redeemer hold the same view. This being true, I think we will have to agree also that we are living in perilous times, for the prophets of old who had their vision opened so that they could see our times have spoken of these conditions. 

PROPHETS HAVE FOREWARNED THE PEOPLE 

Isaiah, Peter, Paul, and even the Savior himself, have spoken of these things. Paul when writing to Timothy of the last days had this to say: 

"Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils; 

"Speaking lies in hypocrasy, having their conscience seared with a hot iron; "Forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats." And again he says: 

"This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. 

"For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy. 

"Without natural affection, truce-breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, 

"Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God; 

"Having a form of Godliness, but denying the power thereof." 

It appears that there is very little lacking, in this prophecy that might have been said of the evils of our times; and the Savior declared that the days before his second coming were to be like the days before the flood. The prophets who dwelt on this continent had the same knowledge revealed to them and have proclaimed it in the Book of Mormon: : 

"But behold," said Nephi, "in the last days, or in the days of the Gentiles —  ' yeai, behold all the nations of the Gentiles and also the Jews, both those who shall come upon this land and those who shall be upon other lands, yea, even upon all the lands of the earth, behold, they will be drunken with inquity and all imanner of abominations — 

"And when that day shall come they shall be visited of the Lord of Hosts, with thunder and with earthquake, and with a great noise, and with storm, and with tempest, and with the flame of devouring fire." — 2 Nephi 27:1-2. Then he adds this : 

"Woe unto them that turn aside the just for a thing of naught and revile against that which is good, and say that it is;of no worth! For the day shall come that the Lord God will speedily visit the inhabitants of the earth; and in that day that they are fully ripe in iniquity they shall perish. 

"But behold, if the inhabitants of the earth shall repent of their wickedness and abominations they shall not be destroyed, saith the Lord of Hosts. * * * 

"For the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which belong to it must needs be stirred up to repentance, or the devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be stirred up to anger, and perish; 

"For behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good. 

"And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security, that they will say : All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well — and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell. 

"And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell; and he saith unto them : I am no devil, for there is none — and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance."— 2 Nephi 28:16-22. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

NEPHI SPOKE FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PEOPLE OF OUR DAY 

I have read these Scriptures to show that these ancient prophets, who saw our times, have spoken, not particularly for the benefit of the people of their day, but for the benefit of the people living in the days of which these prophecies speak. The world now is in just that condition declared by Nephi and by Paul. The people are denying the Lord and his atonement and the resurrection of the dead, and they are declaring that there is no personal devil, who is Lucifer who was cast out of heaven for his rebellion. Nor are the Latter-day Saints altogether free from these evils and these false teachings that prevail so generally in the world. We must not think that these things do not apply to us, for unless we walk in paths of righteousness and in harmony with the revelations from the Lord, we too will be under condemnation. It is in Zion, according to this prophecy, that people are to feel the "carnal security," that all is well, and Nephi has spoken to us words of warning : 

"Therefore, woe be unto him that is at ease in Zion! "Woe be unto him that crieth, All is well! 

"Yea, woe be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men, and denieth the power of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost." 

Nephi further predicted that in these days there would be churches which are built up, not unto the Lord, and "they shall contend one with another; and their priests shall contend one with another, and they shall teach with their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost, which giveth utterance. 

"And they deny the power of God, and the Holy One of Israel; and they say unto the people : Hearken unto us, and hear ye our precept; for behold there is no God today, for the Lord and the Redeemer hath done his work, and he hath given his power unto men; 

"Behold, hearken ye unfo my precept; if they shall say there is a miracle wrought by the hand of the Lord, believe it not; for this day he is not a God of miracles; he hath done his work." 

Does it not appear that this prophet has truly depicted the conditions in the world today, both in the churches and generally among mankind ? 

MODERN CONDITIONS MAKE FOR UNRIGHTEOUSNESS 

It seems to me as I reflect upon these things that it is perhaps a little more difficult for a man to be righteous today than it has been in some other periods of the world's history. I think this because of modern conditions with all the temptations and evils that now confront us at every turn. If this is the case then Latter-day Saints should be just a little more prayerful, a little more diligent, and seek the Lord just a little more closely, that we might be kept free from all the evils that now prevail. The fact that we are baptized and have a standing in good fellowship in the Church will not insure for us our salvation. Evils may come upon us, for the Lord has said by way of warning. "Therefore, let the Church take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation." 

Our Duties Pointed Out 

During the meetings of this conference some of our duties as members of the Church have been pointed ou{. It would be impossible in the limited time that is ours to mention all the duties and responsibilities which rest upon us, and the remarks we make have to be more or less of a general character. 

Our attention has been called very forcefully to the keeping of the law of tithing, and the observance of the Word of Wisdom. I would like to call attention in a general way to the fact that we have received many commandments, and it is our duty to keep them all. I wonder if we are all faithfully paying our tithing and observing the Word of Wisdom? I wonder if we are praying in our homes, if we are teaching our children in the spirit of prayer to approach our Father in heaven; if, in the family circle, we remember this obligation and are faithful to. this great commandment? For it is a great commandment. I wish each would ask himself the question, "Am I seeking the Lord in secret chambers, and thanking him for the many blessings I receive ?" I wonder if we faithfully observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy? There are very few among the people generally in this land who do, and the Lord will not forget the breaking of this law. I wonder if we have forgotten the fast-day which has been set apart to be observed by the members of the Church? And if we remember the fast offerings for the poor ? There are so many things I cannot take time to mention all. 

We are to be judged according to< our works, and we have before us the law. If we fail to observe it, if we reject it. or prove ourselves unfaithful, we shall not receive the blessings, for the Lord has said it. We have the Gospel as it has been restored in its fulness and if we do not observe the commandments of the Lord we are without excuse, "For of him unto whom much is given much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation." We should be most diligent in our observance of the fast meetings, the Sacrament meetings, and our Priesthood meetings. I regret to say that in many of the wards of the Church there is a falling off in the attendance at the Sacrament service, which is, in my judgment, the greatest and most important meeting in the Church. We cannot afford to fail in this important duty and in the other important duties which are upon us. Our light is set upon a hill, which gives light to all the. world, and we should let it shine so that people can see our good works and glorify our Father in Heaven. 

I pray that all Latter-day Saints will prove themselves to be humble, faithful and willing to serve the Lord, keeping all his commandments as they come to us through those who have the right to speak. This I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The choir sang: "O awake, my slumbering minstrel." GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 

Two difficulties confront the ordinary speaker at a general conference of the Church. One is to select a theme suitable to the occasion; the other is to present that theme in some degree of completeness without overrunning the allotted time. 

I recognize, of course — we all do — the wisdom and the necessity for time limitations, where so many speakers are to be heard from; and I try to conform to the regulation. But it is not the easiest thing in the world to lose one's self in a subject and keep an eye on the clock; to talk about eternity and all the while be thinking about time — the time to close. "No man can serve two masters." 

This is my reason for using notes on some occasions. I can speak without them, and generally do, but cannot condense my thoughts so well when speaking impromptu, as when I have committed them, in part at least, to paper. 

THE WORTH OF KNOWLEDGE 

Knowing just what to say, on any occasion, is very important. Knowing how to say it, or having the power to say it in a way that appeals, is equally so. A machine in a big plant broke down, and an expert was called in to fix it. He gave two taps with his hammer, and the machine started. The bill was $250. The superintendent, as soon as he could get his breath, demanded an itemized statement. It came, and read as follows : "Tapping with hammer, $1.00; knowing where to tap, $249." 

It is just so with the speaker. He must know where to tap and even then must leave it to the Lord to do the tapping. Our Heavenly Father knows our needs, and he alone can supply them. He knows where to tap, and the speaker is the hammer that he taps with. The sledge-hammer blows struck during this Conference are samples of his handiwork. They ought to be sufficient to set any machine going — in the right direction. 

FIRST PRINCIPLES 

Daniel Webster, in his great reply to Senator Hayne upon the necessity for the preservation of the Union, counseled a return to first principles. Our own Brother Roberts, equally eloquent, gave similar advice at one of our recent general conferences. I find myself in much the same mood today. I desire to speak upon the first principles of the Gospel. 

One of our Articles of Faith reads as follows: 

"We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are : First, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; Second, Repentance; Third, Baptism by Immersion for the remission of sins; Fourth, Laying on of Hands for the Gift of the Holy Ghost." 

I learned these principles in Sabbath school, when I was a boy, and they have served me all the days of my life. I took them with me when, as a youth of twenty-one, I went out into the world to preach the gospel. I found them as effectual in combating error, as did David the stone 



ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 145 

and sling in his encounter with the Giant. I have never met the man or woman who could gainsay them. 

UNPROFITABLE QUESTIONS 

And our missionaries today can say the same, when they preach these principles in the power and demonstration of the Holy, Spirit, testifying to the Restoration of the Gospel, and letting alone such unprofitable questions as, Who wrote the Book of Genesis? Was Job a fictitious or an historical character? Does God save man or does man save himself? 

This Church was not established, nor are its missionaries sent forth to quibble and contend over these or any other questions. With a world's salvation trembling in the balance, it matters very little which was first — the chicken or the egg, or whether a house burns up or burns down. 

BRIGHAM YOUNG'S COUNSEL 

Fifty years ago, when I was a young missionary in the State of Ohio, I received a letter from President Brigham Young, containing these golden words : "Never condescend to argue with the wicked. The principles of the gospel are too sacred to be quarreled over. Bear your testimony in humility, and leave the result with the Lord." 

That is all we can do. This is God's work, not man's, and He is doing it in his own way, and using men and women as his instruments. No man can say, of any part of the Lord's work, "I did it." No flesh can glory in his presence. The missionary does his whole duty when he bears a faithful testimony by tongue or pen, by word and deed, and leaves the result with the Lord. 

CONTENTION AN EVIL 

Contention is "of the devil," the Lord says, and the time is so precious and so short between Now and the End, that we need every minute of it to deliver our message, to cry repentance, and warn the world of divine judgments that will follow the rejection of the gospel. 

WHAT THE GOSPEL IS AND WHAT IT DOES 

The Gospel of Christ "is the power of God unto salvation." It is more than that — it is the power of God unto exaltation. It redeems, saves and glorifies all "who yield obedience to its requirements. It is the Pathway to Perfection, and was instituted as such by the wisdom of the Gods before, this world was formed, before man had fallen, before he had need of redemption and salvation. There is only one gospel, but there have been many gospel dispensations, and this is the greatest and the last. There never will be another upon this planet. It is the last time that God will so speak to man. But he will speak in other ways, by other tongues, and the world will have to listen : 

, OTHER TESTIMONIES 

"For after your testimony" — the Lord says to the Elders of Israel— 

146 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"cometh the testimony of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground, and shall not be able to stand. 

"And also cometh the testimony of the voice of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the sea, heaving themselves beyond their bounds. 

"And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people; 

"And angels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding the trump of God, saying, Prepare ye, prepare ye, O inhabitants of the earth; for the judgment of our God is come : behold, and lo! the Brfdegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him." (D. and C. 88:89-92.) 

ETERNAL PRINCIPLES 

The Gospel's fundamental principles are eternal. They never were created. They are self-existent. Divine wisdom, recognizing certain laws and ordinances as essential to human uplift and advancement, placed them in the gospel plan and made them available and effectual unto man's redemption, salvation and eternal glory. 

And how were they made available and effectual to those high ends? Here we touch the question of whether God saves man or man saves himself. , 

A SINISTER SPIRIT 

A sinister spirit is creeping over this world — a spirit of arrogant self-assertion, a disposition to do away with God, to shut him. out from his own universe, to strip the Divine One of his divinity, deny his miraculous power, and regard him as nothing more than a superman, a good and wise Teacher who points out the Way in which men should walk — and that is about all. Even in the pulpit such things are said at times. In current literature divinity is below par. Any writer who makes a sensational assault upon religion, robbing Christ of his Christliness, finds a willing publisher and a ready sale. One who stands up stalwartly for God and Truth — his manuscript goes begging. 

NO MARKET VALUE 

Pure religion has no market value. It's the humbug that prospers. Ah religion is looked upon by many as old-fashioned fogyism, something out of date, and it is deemed progressive and even heroic to get along without it. Dr. William B. Riley, in a recent address in this city, said : "The idea has been put forth in some of our secular institutions, that a person should make his own moral decisions, without regard to divine law." Heaven forbid that such a spirit, or anything like it, should ever invade the Church of Christ — the Church of the Latter-day Saints! Says Riley again: "Make man believe that he is responsible only to himself, remove all belief of higher power, and it is certain that a state of anarchy will prevail." 

Let me now read to you a very splendid poem: 

ELDER ORSON F. WHITNEY 147 

INVICTUS By William Ernest Henley 

Out of the night that covers me, 

Black as the pit from Pole to Pole, I thank whatever gods may be, 

For my unconquerable soul. 

In the fell clutch of circumstance 

I have not winced nor cried aloud, Under the bludgeonings of chance 

My head is bloody, but unbowed. 

Beyond this place of wrath and tears 

Looms but the horror of the shade, And yet the menace of the years 

Finds and shall find me unafraid. 

It matters not how straight the gate, How charged with punishments the scroll, 

I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my soul. 

We all admire courage, fortitude, and the power to patiently endure. We recognize such traits as essential to success, both in spiritual and in temporal pursuits. But these heroic qualities, admirable though they be, and desirable -withal, cannot lessen one jot or tittle the need for a Savior, to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. In this wonderfully virile and powerful poem, there is no recognition of any need for divine help. That, to me, is a defect. Of course, a man must know God before he can recognize him, and this poor man evidently did not know him. 

A BROKEN REED 

A reasonable amount of self-reliance is a good thing, is a pillar of strength in any human character. But when a man relies wholly upon himself and seeks no help from the divine Helper, he is leaning upon a broken reed, however mighty he may think himself. 

David was self-reliant when he met Goliath of Gath; but it was because he knew God was with him. "He will give you into my hands," said the shepherd boy. And it was his simple faith, his sublime trust, his absolute confidence in the Almighty, that overthrew the Giant — not merely a sling with a stone in it. 

"I am the captain of my soul," is true only to a very limited extent. Man is a free agent, with a will of his own, with the power to achieve, to succeed or fail. That much is true. But there is a Greater Captain of our souls, to whom we all owe allegiance, for He redeemed our souls from death, and they are his; he purchased them with a price. Selfreliance is a good thing, if not carried too far. But self-assurance, selfsufficiency, self-conceit, is a bad thing. There is no such thing as absolute independence. We depend upon one another, and all are dependent upon God. 

FALL AND REDEMPTION 

Answering now the question : How are the principles of the gospel made available and effectual for man's salvation and exaltation? It is through the Fall and the Redemption. "Adam fell that men might be" — that a race of spirits might tabernacle in ithe flesh, and thus become souls, capable of endless increase, of eternal progression and exaltation. But the if all brought death — eternal death, which had to be overcome before these spirits, these souls, God's sons and daughters, could fulfil their heaven-decreed destiny and go on to perfection. 

Christ overcame death — conquered hell and the grave — died and rose again; and because he lives we shall live also. He gained this great victory, not by slaughtering his enemies, but by forgiving them, by allowing his own blood to be shed for them and for all, thus paying a debt that no one else could pay. "Greater love than this hath no' man, that he will lay down his life for his friends." But here was One who laid down his life for his enemies as well as his friends. No mere man could do that. It required the love and the life of a God. 

THE DIVINE AGONY 

It took a Being capable of enduring pangs that no mere mortal could endure — pangs of the body and of the spirit, so terrible, so poignant, so far-reaching and fathomless that the finite mind stands aghast in contemplation of the infinite and awful mystery; pangs that caused him, "even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore." 

And he "suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer, if they would repent." But if they would not repent, then they must suffer even as did he. (D. and C. 19:16-18.) 

"For behold, he suffereth the pains of all men, yea, the pains of every living creature, both women and children, who belong to the family of Adam. 

"And he suffereth this that the resurrection might pass upon all men, that all might stand before him at the great and judgment day. 

"And he commandeth all men that they must repent, and be baptized in his name, having perfect faith in the Holy One of Israel, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. 

"And if they will not repent and believe in his name, and be baptized in his name, and endure to the end, they must be damned : for the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, has spoken it." (2 Nephi 9:21-24. See also D. and C. 18:11, 12.) 

Can anyone read that, and believe that all Christ did was to point out the Way of Salvation and bid men walk therein ? What about the construction of the way ? There was no way till he made one. Walking in it, however difficult at times, is a mere bagatelle by comparison. 

MACHINERY AND THE POWER ' 

Adam's fall placed man on earth and made available for him the plan of salvation and exaltation. Without the fall, the spirit would have no body, and consequently no claim upon the resurrection. And it was Christ who brought about the resurrection. He is its Author. It 149  his death, his sacrificial offering, that gave vitality to the gospel plan and rendered effectual man's faith and works in his own behalf. Without the Atonement, to offset and nullify the fatal effects of the original transgression, all man's self-help would count for nothing, and the very iGospel itself would be mere machinery without the power. 

IN AND OUT OF THE PIT 

When Adam fell, it was as if the human race had fallen into a pit, from which they were powerless, by any act of their own, to emerge; having no means whereby to climb up and out, and not even knowing how to climb. But a Friend, all-wise and all-powerful, comes to the mouth of the pit, compassionates its wretched inmates, and proposes to rescue them from their unhappy situation. He makes of his own life a ladder; lets it down into the pit and says: "Now climb!" They who climb, get out of the pit. They who refuse to climb, remain in the pit — and who is to blame but themselves? 

The Crucifixion on Calvary, the self-immolation of a God, is the Rock upon which the gospel rests — the Everlasting Gospel, the ladder unto life eternal. 

"Faith without works is dead." We work out our salvation. There is no question about that. But we work it out through Jesus Christ, and not independently of Him. We do not save ourselves. We but avail ourselves of the means of salvation provided by our Lord and Savior, the God who died that man might live. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

Presented the General Authorities and Officers and Auxiliary Heads of the Church, who were voted upon and sustained by unanimous vote of the congregation, as follows : 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson Joseph Fielding Smith 

Reed Smoot James E. Talmage 

George Albert Smith Stephen L. Richards 

George F. Richards Richard R. Lyman 

Orson F. Whitney Melvin J. Ballard 

David O. McKay John A. Widtsoe 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH 

Hyrum G. Smith GENERAL CONFERENCE 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. Brigham H. Roberts 

Jonathan G. Kimball Charles H. Hart 

Rulon S. Wells Levi Edgar Young 

Joseph W. McMurrin Rey L. Pratt. 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester O. Cannon, Presiding Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor John Wells, Second Counselor 

TRUSTEE IN TRUST 

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee in Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund, Junius F. Wells. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant Joseph Fielding Smith 

Anthony W. Ivins David O. McKay 

Charles W. Nibley Stephen L. Richards 

Willard Young Richard R. Lyman 

Rudger Clawson John A. Widtsoe 

Orson F. Whitney Adam S. Bennion 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

SUPERINTENDENT OF CHURCH SCHOOLS 

Adam S. Bennion 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp John C. Cutler 

Peter G. Johnston 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor 

George C. Smith, Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball Alexander Schreiner 

Tracy Y. Cannon Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Edward H. Anderson NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Clarissa S. Williams, President Jennie B. Knight, First Counselor Louise Y. Robison, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Gen'l Supt. George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Gen'l Supt. with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES'- MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Martha H. Tingey, President Ruth May Fox, First Counselor Lucy Grant Cannon, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, President Sadie G. Pack, First Counselor Isabelle S. Ross, Second Counselor with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

ELDER DATUS E. HAMMOND 

President of the Pioneer Stake 

My brethren and sisters: I have enjoyed the privileges and the blessings of this conference, and I feel perhaps more than at any other time in my life that I have appreciated my membership in the Church, the blessings that come through it, and the wonderful associations that come with this privilege. My testimony has been increased, my desire to labor and do good have increased, and I have prayed that my heavenly Father would give me strength to be able to build up myself and to carry into my life some of the resolutions that I have made as a result of the inspiration of this conference.' I am very much concerned and interested in the welfare of the young people of this Church. I feel that our greatest strength should be given more particularly to them. I feel that our greatest concern is with them. Those who have grown old in years and in service, and have a testimony of the divinity of thfs work, can't be changed very much; and, while we must labor with them, we are not nearly so much concerned as with the 

152 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

youth of Israel. Our young people in our auxiliary organizations, the youth of the Church in our Lesser priesthood work, gives our greatest anxiety. I have been grateful indeed that there has come such activity and such a program and such organization in the Lesser priesthood work to more carefully direct and teach and inspire the young men of the Church. As one associated in this work with the young people, and connected with the Mutual Improvement organizations, I have been greatly interested in the work for young boys. I have been happy indeed that all of my time for a number of years past has been spent with them, with the Boy Scouts of America. 

May the Lord bless our young people. May all of us, who are responsible for their welfare, in all our organizations and priesthood quorums, give them all we have to direct their work, their thought and their actions. May our greatest desire and ambition be to instil in their hearts a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged, and if they enjoy this testimony, we may feel assured as to their welfare and the outcome of their lives. May we thus be concerned, and have as an objective in every contact, in every activity and program the putting into the hearts of our young people an appreciation and a testimony of the divinity of this work, I sincerely pray, through Jesus Christ, Amen. , 

ELDER MILTON H. WELLING 

President of the Bear River Stake 

I have attended every one of the sessions of this conference. The conference began with the admonition of the Presidency of the Church, and those who followed in the early meetings, with warnings to the people of the Church against a spirit of lawlessness that seems to be abroad in the land today. I do not feel that it is my responsibility or my business to stand as a watchman upon the tower, so far as giving general direction to the thought and activity of the Church is concerned. When those warnings were given on Friday morning and Friday afternoon I thought of myself as being among the great multitude of people in this Church, and in the world, who were being warned, and as I thought of that I reflected upon the things that had occurred in my life which were useful to me, a help to me in receiving the warnings of my brethren who had addressed the conference. I thought of the time when, as a boy, I was taught to repeat the Sermon on the Mount, in connection with one of my brothers who is down here now somewhere among the bishops of this Church. We were taken into the meeting house and stood up on a bench. He would recite one verse and I would recite the next until we had finished it. We received from our father twenty-five cents between us, as I remember it, for learning Christ's Sermon on the Mount. I don't believe that any other money that I ever earned in the world was more useful to me than that. 

There is one verse in the Sermon on the Mount which was always 153  to me. It is found near the end of the 6th chapter of St. Matthew. In that verse the Savior of the world spoke of the fact that we were to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all else would be added unto us. I want to testify, in the moments that I occupy this afternoon, that every good thing that has come into my life has come through following the admonition and the advice of the servants of God, and through seeking to live the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have been inspired by the teachings of this conference, and my one hope is that I can go back home to my own people, hundreds of whom are not here this afternoon, but who are listening in to these services, and bear testimony to the inspiration of the Spirit of God which has directed his servants in this conference, and which is directing the Church of Christ. I know that the gospel of the Redeemer of the world is true,' and I pray God the eternal Father that that testimony, and a- disposition to bear it to the world, will remain with me forever, in the* name of Jesus .Christ, Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE H. ROMNEY 

President of the Fremont Stake 

I am deeply grateful, my brethren and sisters, that the Lord has so blessed me in this life that I am counted worthy to stand in this pulpit and speak to the Latter-day Saints in general conference, but I am more grateful that he has blessed me with a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which has been restored to us in these days, through Joseph Smith the Prophet and those who have followed him. I feel particularly grateful that my fathers heard the sound of the gospel and were thrilled by it, inspired by it, to come to Zion. I am glad for the privilege of being recognized as worthy of representing our people in Idaho. I shall be very glad to carry back to them, if the Lord will give me his Spirit, the messages of this conference. I have been thrilled by the inspiration that has come to us. I remarked, at the close of the first session of this conference, and the instructions of the brethren in regard to keeping sacred the laws of the land and of being true and faithful and full of integrity, that the statements made impressed me very much, and I believe that the instruction is needed to be given to the people in Idaho, the Latter-day Saints who live there as much as it is to the people throughout all the world. I believe that our brethren are inspired. One of the problems of my. life has been to understand how it is that the Lord can prompt the thinking of men and inspire them so that they can say his mind and will, so that they can give his words instead of giving the product of their own thinking. It became a question at one time in my life how to exercise faith, what attitude to take. What is the proper attitude that a person must be in, in order that he can be inspired, and that he can hear the voice of the Lord and speak his words to the people? GENERAL CONFERENCE 

I realized, as a boy, that it was necessary for one to receive something by direct contact; that is, for his mind to be guided in such a way that he was not speaking of himself. I afterwards learned through some of the experiences which I had that if a person will have perfect faith and trust and confidence in the Lord, that if he will believe with his whole heart that the Lord will guide and direct him in what he says, he is bound to go forth and do the best he can, and the Lord will see that he makes no mistake in judgment when he is acting in the performance of the duties of his calling. This is my faith and my confidence in the Lord, that he will guide and direct. I do not believe that the judgment of man or the wisdom of man is sufficient to perform the duties of the priesthood in this Church. I believe that it is not possible for men to know what is most needful for the people; but I believe, my brethren and sisters, that if in humble prayer and thankfulness they approach the Lord, that he will guide them. I have perfect confidence that that has been the case in this conference. May the Lord bless us and help us to accept it in that spirit, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

CLOSING THOUGHTS 

I rejoice in the very splendid testimonies that we have heard during this conference, and in the advancement of the work of the Lord. I rejoice, as I look into the faces of this body of men who are here before me, the presidencies of stakes, the bishops of wards, the men who have dedicated their lives to God, all that they have, for the advancement of his kingdom; men who are seeking first the Kingdom of God. I rejoice as I look at these sisters, on my left, who are as devoted as mortals can be, for the advancement of this work. When I think of our auxiliary organizations and the integrity and devotion of the men and women who preside over them, my heart goes out in gratitude and thanksgiving to God for such men and such women. 

BLESSINGS UPON THE PEOPLE 

I pray God's choicest blessings to attend each and all of you, that every blessing which your hearts can desire may be yours. I pray for all Zion, for God's people in every part of the world, at home and abroad, for every soul that is laboring for the salvation of the souls of men and women. I beseech God to' give to each and all of us who have partaken of the inspiration of this conference his Spirit, that we may be- representatives of him, to labor particularly among the youth of Zion, that they may not get into that broad way that leads to destruction, but may the Lord help you and me and every soul having a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged to so order our lives that we can bring the wayward back into that straight and narrow path that will lead them back into the presence of God and our Redeemer. I thank the Lord for the inspiration of his Spirit during this conference, and I leave my blessing upon all who are here 



PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 155 

assembled, all who are listening in, and upon the honest the world over. May God help the Saints to be in very deed a shining light to the world, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen. 

The choir sang, "Worthy the lamb." 

The benediction was pronounced by President Anthony W. Ivins. The conference adjourned to meet again in six months. 

Professor Anthony C. Lund conducted the singing, assisted 'by Brigham Cecil Gates. Accompaniments and interludes were played on the great organ by Edward P. Kimball, Tracy Y. Cannon, Frank W. Asper and Alexander Schreiner. 

Stenographic notes were taken in the Tabernacle by Frank W. Otterstrdm and Joseph Anderson, and in the Assembly Hall by Frederick G. Barker. 

Edward H. Anderson, 

Clerk of the Conference. Authorities Present 1 

Authorities Presentation of 149 

Allred, Elder John G 37 

Assembly Hall, Morning Meeting 104 

Assembly Hall, Afternoon Meeting ...122 

Bennion, Elder Samuel 32 

Ballard, Elder Melvin J 63 

Threatening Dangers Foreseen, 63 — The Gospel, a Key to the Solution of all Problems, 64 — Dangers Ahead, 64— Establishing the Work that shall not Fail, 65 — Every Individual to be Tried, 65 — How to Gain Strength to Resist, 65 — A Warning of Danger, 66 —  Solving the conflict between Capital and Labor, 66 — Government's Strength Lies in the People's Observance of Law, 66 — Civilization Rests upon Self-control of people, 67 — Dangers that Threaten our Civilization, 67 — Kind Words for the Latter-day Saints, 68 — Eternity of the Family Relationship, 69 — The Kernels of Life in Gospel Teachings, 69 — We are the Children of Joseph, 69 — We should therefore Rise to the Lord's Expectations, 70. 

Browning, Elder George E 82 

Cannon, Elder Sylvester Q 15 

Callis, Elder Chas. A 30 

Clawson, President Rudger 101 

A Large Priesthood Meeting, 101 — The Word of the Lord to the Apostles and Seventy, 102 — The Labors of these Councils, 102 — Testimony, 103. 

Clerk of Conference 155 

Daynes, Elder Joseph J 110 

Grant, President Heber J 2 

Visits to Stakes and Wards and Missions, 2 — Stake Presidents Appointed, 2 — Mission Presidents Released, 2 — New Wards Organized, 3 — New Stakes Organized, 3 — Bishops who have Died, 3 — Number of Stakes, 3 — Statement by the U. S. Attorney General, 3 — On Observance of Law, 3 — The Doctrine and Covenants on the Subject 4 — Loyalty to the Constitution, 5 — Word of Wisdom, 6 — A Call for Help to do Right, .6. ' 

Grant, President Heber J 24 

Elder James E. Talmage Released, Elder John A. Widtsoe Succeeds as President European Mission. 

Grant, President Heber J 28 

Introducing Mission Presidents. 

Grant, President Heber J '. 61 

Introducing General Charles P. Summerall. 

Grant, President Heber J 62 Grant, President Heber J 80 

Introducing Stake Presidents. 

Grant, President Heber J 137 

Heard by Radio, 137. 

Grant, President Heber J 149 

General Authorities Presented, 149 — General Officers Presented, 150 — Auxiliary Officers Presented, 151. 

Grant, President Heber J 154 

Closing Thoughts, 154 — Blessings upon the People, 154. 

Gardner, Elder Clarence 81 

Gardner, Elder Henry A 113 

Hart, Elder Charles H 70 

Hinckley, Elder Bryant S 104 

Hammond, Elder Datus E 151 

Ivins, President Anthony W 6 

Uphold and Sustain the Civil Law, 6 — We Occupy Similar Position to Israel of Old, 7 — A Government Designed for all Mankind, 7 —  Civil and Religious Laws are Separate, 7 — Gladstone on the Constitution of the United States, 8 — The Need of Emphasizing Law Observance, 8 — Officials Beset with Vexatious Law Suits, 9 — Calling of the Church to Uphold Right and Oppose Crime, 9 — Destiny of Nations Foretold, 9 — An Appeal to Citizens to Uphold the Law, 9 — Nation's Salvation Rests with its Citizens, 10 — Teach and Practice Purity of Life, 10 — Progress of the Church — What it Stands for, 

11. 

Knight, Elder John M 36 

Kimball, Elder J. Golden . . . '. 50 

Little, Elder George A 83 

Lyman, Elder Richard R 95 

We Know no Party, 95 — The Book of Mormon, 96 — The Three Witnesses, 96 — They were not Deceived, 96 — Eight more Witnesses, 97 — "We have Seen and Hefted," 97 — Testimony of the Spirit, 97 — Teachings of Me Book, A Perverse Generation, 97 — Cycles of History, 98 — How to Build Men, 98 — A Call From Lincoln, 98— Iniquity Brings Ruin, 98 — Prohibition and Prosperity, 99 — How Stands the Law, 99 — Lawlessness and Disrespect for Law, 99 — God Give us Men, 100— The Day of Efficiency, 100— A Perilous Time, 100— Appeal to Citizens, 100 — The Hour Has Come, 100 — The Price of Liberty, 101. 

McKay, Elder David 11 

The Mission of the Latter-day Saints, 11 — The Most Beautiful Picture, 12 — The Responsibility of Parenthood, 12 — The Value of Integrity, 12 — Mr. Babson's Comment, 13 — The Application, 13 — Latter-day Saints Must Uphold the Law, 14 — Translate our Religion into Perfect Social Conditions, 14. 

McMurrin, Elder Joseph W 58 

Maycock, Elder George R 107 

Meeks, Elder Heber J 132 

Music Directors 155 159 

Nibley, President Charles W 86 

Progress of the Work of the Lord, 86 — We are all Missionaries, 86 — Building Meeting Houses, 87 — Room for Improvement in Payment of Tithing, 87 — The Lord's Requirement, 88 — The Savior's View on Tithing, 89- — Have Faith to Prove the Lord, 89 — Sanctify the Land of Zion — Keep the Commandments, 90 — How the Tithing is Expended, 90 — Prove the Lord in the Proper Spirit, 90. 

Pratt, Elder Rey L 29 

Palmer, Elder William R ' 127 

Roberts, Elder B. H 19 

Rolapp, Elder Henry H 40 

Richards, Elder Stephen L 91 

Message of the Word of Wisdom, 91 — Sent by Way of Greeting, 91 — Spirit and Body Closely Related, 92 — Teach Purity and Cleanliness of Life, 92. 

Richards, Elder George F 93 

Salvation an Important Question, 93 — Why so Many Creeds? 93 — Repentance Necessary, 94 — Our Mission to Make Plain the Way of Salvation, 94 — Testimony, 95.  

Romney, Elder George H 153 

Sloan, Elder Wm. R 43 

Smith, Elder George Albert 46 

The Joy of the Work, 46 — Seek First the Kingdom of God, 47 — Obedience and the Spirit of Unselfish Service Needed, 47 — Sacrifice and Labors of the Prophet Joseph Smith, 47 — The Gospel the Power of God Unto Salvation, 48 — The Cause of Happiness, 48 — The Gospel Mission Proclaimed in Love, 49- — Testimony and Gratitude, 49. 

Summerall, General Charles F 62 

Smith, Elder Hyrum G 78 

Smith, Elder David A 117 

Smoot, Elder Reed 137 

Thanks to God, 137 — The Influence and Power of God, 137 — The Catholic Father Mistaken, 137 — An Answer From The Book of Mormon, 138 — Need of Opposition in all Things, ,139 — Belief in Revelation, 139. 

Smith, Elder Joseph Fielding 140 

A Warning Voice Against Evil, 140 — We Live in Perilous Times, 140 — Prophets have Forewarned the People, 141 — Nephi Spoke for the Benefit of the People of Our Day, 142 — Modern Conditions Make for Unrighteousness, 142 — Our Duties Pointed Out, 143. 

Stenographers 155 

Taylor, Elder John H 34 

Taylor, Elder Lee R 123 

Udall, Elder Levi S 82 

Widtsoe, Elder John A 24 

Our Obligation to Preach the Gospel, 24 — God Overrules All Things for His Purposes, 25 — The Spirit of God the Strength of Zion, 25 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

— Obedience to the Gospel Will Solve All Difficulties, 26 — Internal Evidence of the Truth of "Mormonism" Most Convincing, 26 — Eternal Value of the Book of Mormon, 27 — Keys to Solve Our Present Problems, 27 — Testimony, 28. The Worth of Knowledge, 144 — First Principles, 144 — Unprofitable Questions, 145 — Brigham Young's Counsel, 145 — Contention an Evil, 145 — 'What the Gospel is and What it Does, 145 — Other Testimonies, 145 — Eternal Principles, 146 — A Sinister Spirit, 146 — No Market Value, 146 — "Invictus," 147— A Broken Reed, 147 — Fall and Redemption, 147 — The Divine Agony, 148 — Machinery and the Power, 148— In and Out of the Pit, 149: 

Wells, Elder Rulon S, White, Elder John H, Wells, Elder John . . . 

125 133 144 

Welling, Elder Milton H. Young, Elder Levi Edgar Can you answer all of the questions that are put to you about the Church? 

THE OFFICIAL 

History of the Church 

Will answer many of these questions for you. 

IN SIX LARGE VOLUMES 

Compiled by the Church Historians and published by the Church. Completing the First Period. 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set. 

Cloth— Embossed, per vol $2.50 Postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per vol 3.S0 " 

Full Morocco — Full Gilt Edge, per vol 6.00 " 

The above work is suggested as reference in connection with the study of Church History in all of the activities of the Church. 

iiiiiiiiillillliiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiHiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiii uiuiiMimimiiiimiiiimimi 

For the reader who does not want this exhaustive history, we recommend the one volume book entitled 

Essentials in Church History 

BY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

"As the title of the book implies, the vital and essential points of history and doctrine have been selected, and as far as possible arranged in chronological order." 

PRICE, CLOTH BINDING— $1.75 

Deseret Book Company 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 

WHENCE THIS GOSPEL WE TEACH? 

Read: 

"Restoration of the Gospel" 

BY OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE 

"This book prepared by Elder Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, dealing with the important subject of the Restoration of the everlasting Gospel, should be read and its contents carefully considered by those who are seeking after truth." Joseph F. Smith, Jr. 

PRICE $1.00 POSTPAID 

JUST OFF THE PRESS! 

A timely book by a competent writer in commemoration of the One Hundredth Year since the Angel Moroni delivered the plates of the Book of Mormon to the Prophet Joseph Smith 

the DESERET BOOK COMPANY offers the First Edition of INTRODUCTION 

to the Study of the 

BOOK OF MORMON 

BY J. M. SJODAHL 

This book is something new. Is highly recommended Many unanswerable arguments for the Divinity of the Book of Mormon Many splendid illustrations by courtesy of the National Geographic Yale Expedition to Peru, Etc. 

INSTRUCTIVE SCIENTIFIC NEW 

Price $3.50 Over 500 Pages 

ARTICLES OF FAITH 

BY JAMES E. TALMAGE 

A consideration of the principal doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

This book will be helpful to all who desire a clear and concrete exposition of the beliefs and attitudes of the "Mormons." 

PRICE $1.00 

Deseret Book Company 

44 EAST ON SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH P. O. BOX 1793 







