Second Overflow
09 10 1927

ELDER LEE R. TAYLOR 

President of the iNebo Stake 

I certainly trust that the prayer offered shall be answered and fulfilled in my behalf. I feel a very weak instrument at this time in attempting to proclaim the gospel of bur Lord and Master to you, but nevertheless with Paul, "I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God unto salvation" to all those who accept its principles and live them. If considerable time and care were taken in the preparation of a questionnaire, scattered very generally, and collected, and the results tabulated, and if the main question in that document were this, "What is the great aim of life?" I am sure that the answers compiled, and the meanings boiled down to their last stages, it would be something like this, especially to the non-members of the Church, that the great object of life is to have a rich, full, abundant life. The answer of the Latter-day Saints could possibly be something like this, "To be saved and exalted in God's kingdom is the prime aim and object of life." 

If we were to outline the plan whereby this aim could be accomplished, I think it would well come under three heads or divisions : first, to develop right attitudes — proper ideals, if you please; second, to develop knowledge, or the intellect; and third, to develop proper habits or to do the will of God. 

With our first proposition, then, we must develop right attitudes or the proper ideals in life. We must know and teach our children to know that what we are to be, each day, each moment, each hour, we are becoming. And in the words of Thackeray, we must also know that "we sow an act, we reap a habit; we sow a habit, we reap a character; we sow a character, and we reap a destiny" in life. I sometimes wonder if our attitude in life does not depend very much more upon faith than it does upon reason. Please do not misunderstand me; as important as reason is in this life, and it is the power to reason that chiefly distinguishes man from the lower animals, yet there are too many people in the world today who- accept this doctrine alone and quit at the point that it discontinues. That, it seems to me, is one of the tragedies of life, to accept only reason. Accepting only that, I doubt if one can have the proper ideals or proper attitude toward life; because faith begins largely where reason ends. Reason may be said to be finite, while faith has no limits. Think of a person who tried to live, who does live, only in the realm of reason, who has shut out from his existence the great field outside of the field of reason—faith. No  Latter-day Saint could possibly stop with reason alone. I am sure that testimonies generally are not gained by reasoning them out. We go as far as we can by reason, and then we depend upon a higher source, and that higher source takes us into the realm of faith and makes possible the proper ideals and the proper attitudes of- life. 

Our second proposition : we must develop knowledge, the intellect. Herein comes the great battle against ignorance. Intelligence is the GENERAL CONFERENCE  of God. To know what a wonderful thing that is in life, to know, not to be driven by every wind of doctrine but at all times to be able to make decisions, to reach conclusions, through reason and through faith and thereby reach our second great aim to our salvation and exaltation in life. And I sometimes wonder if we take the time that we should, as true Latter-day Saints, to teach our children, in order that they may know. How many evenings, how many Sunday mornings, or Sunday afternoons, when the hours are long, do you call others about you, your children particularly? I am most interested at this moment in the children, in the young people of our Church, for next to creating a human soul, the divinest thing is to educate it aright. How many times do we call them around about us and teach them to pray? How many boys and girls can repeat from memory the Lord's prayer, the Beatitudes, the Articles of Faith, and can give a reason for the hope that is within them regarding each of these? How quickly they grasp them! You would be surprised how they drink them in. And I sometimes think that as teachers of this Church, and as exponents of the great gospel of Christ, we overlook a valuable opportunity in teaching our boys and girls so that they will know, will have the power to decide in the hour of temptation. 

Our third proposition is that of developing right habits. This, the power to do, is the most important, I'm sure, of the three; because it is not a matter of what we say or what we know but what we do in life that is going to determine our happiness, our destiny, our salvation, and our exaltation. Would that somehow we had the power, that we knew the process, the formula, if you please, of transferring or working over that which we know so that it will be a guide to that which we do. I believe the nearest formula that we have, and which will insure the greatest success, is to start in life young, always to do the right and to keep in mind that that which we are to be, every moment, every hour, we are becoming. 

.And last, we must, in order to gain our aims and objectives in life, enrich the lives of others. How often others may be about us who would like to know the things that we know, who perhaps do not have the peace of mind that we possess regarding some of these eternal principles. And yet we are fearful that we might offend, or we are fearful that someone else could do it better, and as a result some of our near neighbors, some of our friends in life, go through without the proper perspective of this gospel. 

It was a joy in our stake, quite recently, to have a veryxievout Christian man come back into the Church after an absence of 37 years. Through lack of understanding, largely through the lack of a kind word, a warm handclasp, a sympathetic and confidential chat, as others met him upon the corner,, he felt that the Saints, that the Church were against him. Let me implore you, my brothers and sisters, not to let any opportunities pass in life to enrich the lives of others, to make them conscious of the great purposes of life. As to how it may be accomplished : first, by our attitudes, our proper ideals; second, by the knowl125  that we gain; and last, by our habits or the things in life we do. 

In conclusion, let me read the words of one who has said something . that appeals to me very much. 

"One ship drives east and another drives west With the self-same winds that hlow. 'Tis the set of the sails and not the gales 

That tell the way to go. Like the winds of the sea are the winds of Fate; 

We may joy along through life, But 'tis the set of the sail that decides the gale; And not the calm or the strife." 

It is a pleasure, at this time, to tell you that I feel very deeply the truthfulness of this gospel, and I bear you this testimony, and I do it in humble prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN H. WHITE 

President of the Yellowstone Stake 

My brethren and sisters : I feel indeed humble in occupying this position, and most sincerely trust that the Spirit of the Lord may come to my aid. This is one position where one is solely dependent upon the Spirit of God, if he shall utter the things that are most profitable. I have been interested in the remarks of President Taylor in giving us the principal keys, motives, the attitude that should direct us in life. I was thinking about the words of the Lord to the children of Israel, "The Lord hath chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself." Living in this age of the world there is ofttimes a. tendency among Latter-day Saints to try to be so much like those of other churches that there appears to be no means of determining whether they are Latter-day Saints or members of some other church, or of none at all. I think it is well that we try to impress the world and our associates that we are a distinct people — not that we hold ourselves as better than they, except as we may do better, but principally for the fact that we bear a message which no other people is in possession of. 

How may we obtain a testimony of the gospel? No doubt a number of those whp heard the teachings of Jesus doubted the divinity of his calling, and he read their thoughts and said, "My doctrine is not mine, but his- that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself ." We Latterday Saints say to the people of the world, that if they will accept of the doctrines of "Mormonism," in faith and in the spirit of true repentance and humility, they, too, may obtain such a testimony. 

There are certain features or blessings that characterize faith and obedience to the gospel. The Savior in commissioning his disciples, before sending them out to preach, gave them promises that certain blessings should follow those who would obey. Among those promises were the gift of faith, and the gift of prophesy. My attention is now directed to some incidents that have been of peculiar interest to! me 



126 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

coming from the Snake River valley. Many, many years ago, when most of the section now comprised in the Yellowstone stake was in its rough state, there was one section covered with large sagebrush lying level and beautiful. No water had yet been taken out of the river, and just a few people resided there, struggling against adverse conditions and almost discouraged because of the dryness of the soil. One of the brethren of .the Council of the Twelve was present with a little body of Saints in our stake. A brother remarked to him, as the visitor was being entertained at his home, "I have dug a hole here in the hope of getting water, but I suppose it is hopeless." The visiting brother, being inspired of the Lord, said to the brother, "Do not fill up the well; you will yet have water in the well, and that within a short time." They had already gone through a few years of trial and had made similar attempts but without success. But within a year following that prophecy, water appeared in that well. Since that time everyone who desired it has obtained water. Water is plentiful. That section, then so barren and uninviting, is the paradise of the upper Snake river valley, the famed Egin bench. 

Another incident > comes to me. In 1909, when our stake was organized, two of the brethren, shortly after the selection of the presidency, and a few other stake officers, proceeded with the new presidency to different parts of the stake to set the wards in order. They went into one ward, which previous to that time had been a part of the Fremont stake. There was a vacancy in the bishopric, one counselor. These brethren made the visit to .select the other counselor. As they sat in the little ward chapel, with its pulpit in the west and the entrance at the east, they went over the matter, trying to determine upon the right man to fill the vacancy. But they could hardly find one who seemed, according to the judgment of the bishop, to be the right man. While they were yet discussing the matter, a brother opened the door to the east and called out across the room to one of the brethren sitting on the stand, "Brother, you are wanted on the outside." Our visiting brother beckoning to him said, "Brother come in, come in." Turning to the brethren behind, he said, "Brethren, there is your man." He had no knowledge of having ever seen that man before. Who told him that that was the man to fill the place in the bishopric ? What spirit told him that that man was even a member of the Church? The man was selected, and I am a living witness to the fact that he served in that capacity faithfully and well for a number of years, even up to his death.   

I could enumerate a number of such incidents as proof of the fulfilment of the promise made by the Savior that these signs shall follow them that believe. ' 

I wish to support most heartily the remarks of President Taylor with reference to teaching in the home. I fear, brethren and sisters, that we arc not giving enough attention to the training of our children in the home. Too often parents thrust the entire responsibility of training their children upon the organizations of the Church, forgetting that at the hearthstone, where the family may assemble and have their 127  prayer and devotion, is the place where the most important training and the greatest impression may be given. 

Let me say further, that I sometimes feel that our people trust their children too much — not that we wish to lack faith in our children, but remember they are human. With the many temptations about us, sometimes those children, and perhaps we as well, do things that are not always in keeping with the Spirit of the Lord., Sometimes some friend would feel to give us warning of dangers that beset our children, and we turn them aside and say, "I do not believe a word of it." I think it is well to give heed to any kind word that may come from our neighbor. I invite it ^rom our good neighbors. If they can help my wife and me by offering us a suggestion of how dangers may be avoided, with which our children are confronted, we will thank them for it. 

Another thing, brothers and sisters, that impresses me. I believe that the important factors that contribute vitally to the development of our children and to the advancement of the Lord's purposes is the education of our children in our Church schools where they may be prepared to go into the world as ministers of the word of God. We note that when they return home they seem to bring life and spirit into our wards. I hope, brothers and sisters, that we will look upon the privilege granted us of sending our sons and daughters abroad as a very important opportunity; it means so much to the lives of these young people even aside from the great good they may do in carrying the truth to the people of the earth. 

I wish before closing, to bear you my humble testimony. I know the gospel which we have embraced is the gospel of Jesus Christ, that it possesses all the saving principles that will protect and preserve us, make us happy in life and prepare us for a future in the eternities. 

iMay the Lord give us faith. , May we always have the spirit of humility and a desire to do his will, I humbly pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

Florence Higgs sang a soprano solo : "Lead, kindly light." 

ELDER WILLIAM R. PALMER 

President of the Parozvan Stake 

It is a bit disconcerting, I assure you, my brethren and sisters, to be called out of the congregation and asked to occupy a portion of the time of these meetings, at which the Saints have gathered from almost the ends of the earth to be fed the bread of life. I am tremendously impressed with the responsibility that rests upon the elder who presumes to occupy even a few brief minutes of this precious time, and I desire very much the support of your faith and prayers, to the end that the Lord will bless me with his Spirit, and draw from me those things which he would have you receive. I believe that it is quite as much the privilege of the congregation to receive the blessings of inspiration and to GENERAL CONFERENCE  it through the speaker as it is the privilege of the speaker to have that inspiration. 

I have been impressed with the strength and the growth everywhere evident in the Church. When we see the Saints gather at these great conferences, the young people mingling with the old, it is evidence sufficient that faith is not dead, but that the Church is growing in strength and in power and in influence. 

I was impressed this morning with the talks that were given by President Charles W. Nibley and by Elder Stephen L. Richards on - those two somewhat commonplace principles of our faith, tithing and the Word of Wisdom. They expounded those principles much better than I could ever hope to do, but in the few brief moments of the time  allotted to me; I desire to hear my testimony to you of the blessings that accompany the living of those principles. I like to find some logical connection between the promises of the gospel and the experience of my every-day life. I am not one of those who look for the mysterious, the mystic, and the miraculous. I like to read of the blessings, the promises, and their fulfilment, in the every-day affairs of my life and in every-day experiences. And it is in this light that I desire to interpret to you my understanding of these precious principles of truth. 

The Word of Wisdom is given to us as a principle with promise. The promises that we have in that great revelation are these, that we shall have strength of body, that we shall walk and not be weary, that , we shall run and not faint, that the destroying angel shall pass us by as the children of Israel and not slay us; and that there shall come to us through the observance of that principle, treasures of wisdom and of knowledge, yea even hidden treasures. Some time ago a brother came to me with a somewhat visionary and impractical proposition which he wanted me to support, and said to me that this had come to him as one of the hidden treasures of knowledge through the observance of the Word of Wisdom. Now, just what is the meaning of these promises? Does it mean that if I keep the Word of Wisdom, abstain from tea, coffee and tobacco and strong drink, that 1 can walk and never get weary, or that I can run all day and never get faint? I do not understand it so. I see this in it, it is a simple law of health. If I have been a violator of this law of health and then repent of that and keep the law of health, I will have an increased capacity to walk and not be weary, to run and not faint. In other words, my capacity, my physical strength, will be increased to me so that I can accomplish more in a day's work. And that is the realization of the blessing to me. And this promise of hidden treasures of knowledge — we know, brethren and sisters, and we knew it as a people, those who had faith in the word of the Lord, long before the scientific world knew it. But the scientific world knows it today, perhaps better than we know it, that tobacco and tea and coffee and strong drink does inhibit our mental processes, shuts down and restricts our capacity to reason, to analyze. Now, if I have been breaking the law and then 1 repent of it and keep the commandments of the Lord, my mind expands and there is opened to me a whole world of treasures of knowledge and of wisdom that before had been hidden from me. And so I see in the observance of this law. of the Lord an increase of wisdom or an increase of capacity to work and receive wisdom; because my mind can analyze and penetrate farther in its mental processes. 

Now that other promise of the Word of Wisdom, that the destroying angel shall pass us by as the children of Israel and not slay us. Where is the fulfilment of that? You can read it in the statistics of the Church, the mortality rate among the Latter-day Saints is lower than even among the picked risks of the insurance companies of the world. Now, what is the meaning of those statistics? It means that the Lord is lengthening our days. We do not keep this law 100%. We are not as faithful in it as we should be. But just in proportion as we do keep it, just in proportion as we have been faithful in the observance of that law, the Lord has blessed us, and as a people our days are lengthened. 

And so with this principle of tithing. It also is a principle of promise, a promise of temporal blessings. "Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing that there shall not be room enough to receive it." I have faith in that principle. Now, I know there are always those who say, "Here is this brother who does not live his religion, who seems to care nothing about his faith, and yet everything he touches seems to turn to gold; and here is this other brother, who is as faithful as can be, but can hardly keep the wolf away from the door.". The thing that is wrong in that analysis seems to me to be that this is a principle given to a people, as well as a principle to individuals. There are always exceptions to the rule, and these are the exceptions to the rule. I do not regard this promise as a promise of great wealth to us. I do not ask the Lord to send me great wealth for the reason that I keep the law of tithing. I take it that his promise to me is that if I keep that law I shall have plenty, I shall not want. pVIaybe, if the Lord showered wealth upon me it would be a curse rather than a blessing. 

Now, brothers and sisters, if we have faith in that law and observe it and have the assurance in our souls that we will not want, is there any more to worry about ? We strive, scheme and work to build up a bank account, and to create a large estate of houses, lands, cattle and so on, just so that we may not want and that our loved ones who are dependent upon us may not come to want. Brothers and sisters, if we keep this law of the Lord, we shall not want. We are not as a people observing the law of tithing 100%. We are not, perhaps, keeping it 75% or 50%, but to some extent we are observing that law. And are we a blessed people? I look over this congregation, I have observed people on this square. We are a well fed people, a well clothed people, there is no evidence of want among us. The Lord has generously fulfilled his promises to us. And it is my humble faith and testimony to you that if we keep these laws, the blessings that are GENERAL CONFERENCE  upon them and that are promised ,to us will be ours. I bear you this testimony humbly and in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH K. NICHOLES 

President of the St. George Stake 

My brethren and sisters: I have listened with great interest to these services, and to the other services which I have attended throughout this conference. 1 have had greater interest during the short time that I have occupied a leading position in our stake, for the reason that I desire to take home to our people the messages of the conferences which I attend. I have tried to analyze the message given by each speaker, with the hope that when I return I may take that home. 

I am more particularly interested, as President Taylor has said he is, in the young people of our stake; because I believe that the hope of Israel resides in them. And I believe, too, that if we can inspire these young people with a testimony of the gospel which we have espoused, that no greater good can come to them than through this source. I recognize that, in general, we have the motive powers of life — the great joys and pleasures of life, the sympathies of our lives, have their sources in our religious services. 

I believe that the opening services of this conference are more easily analyzed than the later services. I believe that I can appeal to the young people to recognize the necessity of law enforcement easier than I can give them the desire for a testimony, the kind of a testimony which men of long years of experience bear before our people. 

I have tried to analyze this problem of a testimony, and I agree that it is not an easy matter. There is not as much evidence of a reasoning character to appeal to as we might think. And yet the greatest things of life lie beneath the certainty of this testimony. I think this is also paralleled in the fact that the greatest forces in nature are those we are not able to measure. It is not easy to analyze the strength that is in men which we call personality. It is not easy to analyze the fact that the greatest joy in life comes through parenthood. And especially it seems to me that it would be difficult to have a young unmarried man or woman believe, in this day and age, that possibly the greatest joys in life do come through parenthood. And yet those who have become parents and who know this great source of joy and satisfaction will testify that this is the case. These are facts. In the midst of an economic drive like we live in today, and unknown in the world before, the fact might be against a testimony that the greatest joys in life come through the family. A great teacher in the University of Chicago, Dr. Cope, has said that the family is the sure way to walk the path of the cross. We who are parents can testify of the truthfulness of this. 

Now, it is not easy to analyze any fact, and obtain through the reasoning powers alone' the great force of a testimony of the divine authenticity of our religious doctrine, and yet those of us who have 131  sufficient experience know that this is the case. After our services the other day when the missionary presidents spoke, I wondered if we could pass before us the essential doctrines of all the creeds in the world — and they would number hundreds — if we had the power to analyze the essential doctrines of all these creeds, and through our intellect determine which of all these things were right, whether we would not have great difficulty indeed. I believe, though, that the student, through the general processes of reasoning which are applied to him, in his daily life, through his training in high school, in the district school, and through his college days, would adopt that as the natural recourse, and he may challenge you and me, when we bear testimony that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, to know the reasons upon which we base that assertion. This student might say, "Have you reviewed all the doctrines in the world and know through this examination that yours are true ?" I would have to say that I have not. "Do you know through travel the world over that the gospel of Jesus Christ which we have espoused is true?" And with many I would have to say that I have not so traveled, but it is the testimony borne by the Spirit of the Lord that is allessential. 

I had an experience once sitting before Brother Ballard, which gave to me one of the finest evidences of the divinity of this work that I know of. I heard him speak upon the redeeming power of Jesus, the redemption of his atoning blood. This subject to me had never been interesting, but in the light in which he placed it, it became so. Without much analysis he proceeded to testify, through a period of about one hour, of the divinity of Jesus, the fact that he had lived and died for us, and I saw men -and women on every side of me weep with joy and satisfaction, and I said to myself that if I ever knew anything, if. I knew that I lived, I knew that what this man said was true. 

Sometimes when I have been called upon to bless little children I have tried to question myself as to what was the most important' thing to present in a blessing upon the head of a child. As a father I would say that the most important thing in the world is faith, faith to believe, faith to see, faith to hope, faith to understand, faith to desire to do the right thing in the world, faith necessary to cause a man and a woman to serve each other. One of the finest things that I have learned in the Church is the continued sacrifice of men and women in this wonderful service, the great quantity of unpaid labor in this Church. I sometimes wonder how a man or woman can give so much time and effort to the common service of all the Saints. 

Brothers and sisters, I rejoice in this wonderful gospel of ours. The finest thing that has come into my life is an opportunity to serve. I rejoice because of the people that I live with, who make my life happy, who help me to see the joy in each day. I rejoice in the message of the gospel. I pray that we shall all learn more and more as we live. How wonderful it is to know that Jesus lives, that he is the Christ, the son of the living God, and that in him there is life and light and hope and wisdom and salvation and all that life holds near and dear GENERAL CONFERENCE  us. May we rejoice in the privileges that we have to serve one another and the great Master of all, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

Elder J. Robert Smith sang a tenor solo : "I think when I read that sweet story of old." 

ELDER HEBER J. MEEKS 

President of the Kanab Stake 

I have been coming up to the general conferences of the Church for sixteen years. In that length of time I have missed only three conferences, and during all the conferences that L have attended I have been thrilled by the spirit and teachings of the brethren. During the sessions of this conference ,1 have been thrilled. My heart has been made to rejoice. I have seen many situations arise in the Church, but the Lord has provided a way by which every situation has been met. He has placed inspired men at the head of the Church, and he is wielding an unseen hand and power over this people. 

I rejoice that we have a progressive Church, an organization which provides for the service of all its members, that they may all find work to do and thereby enrich their own souls and help to enrich the souls of their brethren and sisters. It seems to me that without inspiration it would be difficult to organize a church that would meet the needs and requirements of the present day. This Church was organized under the direction of a youth, but the foundations were laid so well and ,so deeply that it has provided not only for the present day but for the future, and we will find the Lord providing a means for this people to accomplish the work they have set their hands to do. I am grateful that I was born in the Church, that my father knew the Prophet Joseph. He has told me many times that the Prophet called at his house at Nanvoo only a few days before his martyrdom and said, "Brother Meeks, the Saints will yet go to the Rocky Mountains, and you will go with them," and told him many things that would transpire' after the Saints came to the mountains, and especially to my father and his family — all of which came true. After the Prophet's death, the Saints were in great distress of mind and anxiety regarding the future of the work, and my father testified that when the Saints were called together and Sidney Rigdon made claim to the guardianship of the Church and spoke in behalf of his claims for something like two hours to the assembled Saints, that he was there and heard him, and when President Young arose when Sidney was through, my father testified that Brigham Young spoke with the voice of Joseph Smith, that the mantle of Joseph fell upon him. He witnessed it, and he bore testimony to that truth. And it seems that it was burned into my soul to, honor and revere those two great men. 

Those who have succeeded have also been prophets of the living God and have been rightful successors to the Prophet Joseph and to Brigham Young. These brethren have each been given a period 133  presidency. The Prophet's presidency has passed away, gone into eternity, and he is there giving an account of the years when he presided over the Church. President Young likewise has passed beyond. His administration has gone by, but he stands at the head of ' that time and will stand there throughout all eternity, and he must give an account of his stewardship, of his presidency. And their successors have been given their presidencies, just as every president of a stake and every bishop of a ward has been given a period of presidency. They must account for that not only here but in eternity; for we will be [associated with this great organization there, and the kindred spirits with whom we associated here will be associated with us there, and (if there have been 'differences, errors, creep in during our administrations, they must be corrected, and we must be responsible for the part that we play. Therefore, I feel the great responsibility that rests upon me in presiding over a stake of Zion. 

I am grateful, as I said before, for the organization that provides for the service of all its members, and in analyzing the teachings of this gospel and what it means, what priesthood means to us, it seems to me that it may be summed up in these words, "It is the pref ect plan of (service. " There can be no better plan devised for people to serve, both young and old, and the Lord has inspired this wonderful organization, and it bears the stamp of divinity and is recognized by those who study it. There is no human organization to compare with it. I appreciate the fact that it is the power of God unto salvation, not only spiritual salvation but temporal, and if we will observe the simple teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ, we will be saved, both spiritually and temporally. 

May we be given strength and power to withstand the temptations that come to us. May we be given strength and power to live the simple truths of the everlasting gospel, that we may grow in love, that we may grow in knowledge of the truth, and that we may have  the favor and the approval of our Father in heaven, I humbly ask, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN WELLS 

Of the Presiding Bishopric 

We have listened this afternoon to testimonies of the truth of the gospel, also to advise, counsel and instructions dealing with our temporal and spiritual affairs. We have appreciated the wonderful music rendered by the choir, appointed for this meeting. One of the soloists sang the hymn, "Suffer little children to come unto me." The remarkable incident of the blessing of children occurred in the little village of Ephron, in the district (of Perea, on the east side of the Jordan valley, just before the Master started his journey to Jerusalem to be crucified. 

The speakers at the tabernacle session have urged us to obey the laws of the country, to sustain the constitution, and to observe the Word GENERAL CONFERENCE  Wisdom and the law of tithing. Our faith has been strengthened by marvelous stories concerning the Book of Mormon and the Prophet Joseph Smith. One of the brethren speaking in the tabernacle quoted the statement of Jesus : 

"Cohie unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. "Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart : and ye shall find rest unto your souls." 

This thought occurred to me : Were the Master here today thousands in this building could say : "Master, we have come to thee. We have listened to the call of thy servants. We have obeyed the gospel. Testimonies have been given us of its truth. The burden of doubt concerning you has left us. We have found rest for our souls." The gospel of Jesus Christ will give rest and contentment to any person who will obey and live it. 

THE SABBATH DAY 

I want to use the remainder of the time allotted to me to call to your attention one subject that has not been spoken on during this conference, and that is, the observance of the Sabbath, or the Lord's day. During the last few years many changes have occurred in the social life of the people, caused by the automobile, motion pictures and the great world war, which has had a detrimental effect on the observance of the Lord's day of rest. In addition to these conditions, a habit is growing to hold football and baseball games, Sunday concerts with or without pay, Sunday railroad excursions, etc., and places of amusement and resorts are open on the Lord's day, and even some places of business. 

LAW OF MOSES 

The great law giver, Moses, at one time gathered the Hebrews around Mount Sinai so that they could see the manifestations of the power of the Lord. At that time there was delivered to him that remarkable series of laws known as the Decalogue, or the Ten Commandments. The opening of this remarkable series of commandments says: "I am the Lord thy God which hath brought thee out of the land' of Egypt; out of the house of bondage," and among those ten commandments he gave these : 

"Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. "Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work : 

"But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God : in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates." 

Later the Lord re-stated this law to Moses, and he said : 

"Verily my sabbaths ye shall keep; for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. * * * 

"Wherefore, the children of Israel shall keep the sabbath. It is a sign between ime and the children of Israel forever." 135 

To the credit of the Hebrew people they did observe the Sabbath. Even in their captivity and when in bondage to foreign nations they did their best to rest on the seventh day. Before the advent of the Messiah two great religious and political parties arose in Palestine. They added to the Sabbath day law many trifling and irritating restrictions. No Jewish army would attack on a Sabbath day; no Jewish army would march on that day; the people were forbidden to bake or cook; to build a fire or to prepare food, etc., and they could only'walk a certain distance with a friend on that day. Some of their restrictions were rebuked several times by the Master and at one time he said: "The Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath." 

The Master was crucified on a Friday. He was hurriedly buried before the Sabbath day, which commenced on Friday at six o'clock. His body laid in the tomb until Sunday morning, the first day of the week, when he arose from the dead. On that day he was seen by several women, then by Peter, and then by Mary Magdalene. He accompanied two of his friends to Emmaus and then appeared to his disciples and their friends in an upper room, and on the following first day of the week he again appeared to his disciples and others, and from that time on the Christian church observed the first day of the week as the Lord's day in remembrance of his resurrection. 

The Lord has definitely placed the responsibility of the Latter-day Saints concerning the day of rest. On the 7th day of August, 1831, he gave a revelation to the Prophet Joseph known to us as section 59, Doctrine and Covenants. The part of the section which I wish to call to your attention is as follows : 

"And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day. For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High. But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt 'of fer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren and before the Lord." 

President Brigham Young called the observance of the Lord's day to the attention of the Saints in his time, and these instructions can be found in the Discourses of Brigham Young, as follows : 

"All Latter-day Saints should observe the Sabbath by resting from all labor, except those who must be- detained to take care of children or perform some work of mercy. Now remember, those who go skating, buggy riding, or on excursions on the Sabbath day are weak in the faith and gradually, little by little, the spirit of their religion leaks out of their hearts and their affection. When I see a man gathering in his crops, or cattle, or making repairs on the Lord's day, I pount him weak in the faith. At least he has lost the spirit of his religion. We should devote our time as the Church requires it, on the Lord's day, for the express purpose of renewing our mental and physical powers and getting our spiritual food." 

The late President Joseph F. Smith was equally as emphatic on this subject as President Brigham Young, and in his writings contained in Gospel Doctrine, he has said : GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"Men are not resting from their labors when they plow, plant, dig or do work of any kind. Men are not resting when they work around the house all day doing odd jobs. Men are not honoring the Lord when they go to places of amusement. Men are not honoring the Lord when they loiter around ice cream places, go to ball games and witness these games. It is a reflection on any Latter-day Saint community to patronize a ball game on the Lord's day." 

LATTER-DAY SAINTS AND THE SABBATH 

Not Latter-day Saint can feel in full fellowship with the Holy Spirit who uses the Lord's day for recreation and pleasure, who visits pleasure resorts, picture shows and theatres, who goes to baseball or football games, who goes on picnics, fishing or hunting trips, or on railway excursions on the Lord's day, or who uses that day in automobile riding for pleasure. 

Experience has shown that those who remember the Lord's day and keep it holy are in harmony with the spirit of the gospel. The keeping of this law will affect our 'lives for good, and, if we disobey it it will affect our lives for evil. The Lord has designed this day so that we may rest from our labors, attend to our religious duties in a spirit of thankfulness and appreciation for the gospel, and obtain spiritual comfort and spiritual food. I am wondering if, in the rush and whirl of life, we are overlooking some of the fundamentals of the gospel. Are we making this, day a day of rest and devotion or a day of recreation and pleasure? I hope the Latter-day Saints will follow the word of the Lord given to us in these latter days and that we shall strictly observe the day of rest. 

I testify to you that "Mormonism," as it is called, is true. That it is the power of God unto salvation to the believer. It is a living force which will make us better every day we apply its truth and principles, and will take us back to the presence of our Father in heaven from whence we came. Amen. 

The choir sang, "The day is ended." 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder David R. Lyon, of the Ensign stake. 


