Morning
09 10 1927


PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY 

This is a glorious day for the Latter-day Saints. We live in aglorious land; for in spite of all the crime that is committed — and it is shameful that there is so much of it — this is the land of Zion spoken of by the prophets; and this country, especially this intermountain country, this western country, is the place for Latter-day Saints. We are a God-blessed people. If you don't think this is a goodly land, and a blessed country, go down into Mexico, our neighbor on the south, or over to Europe; go to Russia, to China or Japan, and you will return here and say this land, which the Lord in his mercy has given to us, is the best in all the world. 

PROGRESS OF THE WORK OF THE LORD 

We have heard during the sessions of this conference concerning the progress of the work of the Lord. I have been much encouraged and thrilled in my soul by the remarks that have been made, showing the evidences of the growth and development of this great latter-day work. We are commissioned to preach the gospel. Every elder of this Church has that mission. He should feel, as St. Paul expressed it, that "a dispensation of the gospel has been committed unto me, and woe unto me if I preach not the gospel." 

WE ARE ALL MISSIONARIES 

We are all missionaries in that sense, by the power and authority of the holy priesthood, and we ought to be filled with the spirit and determination /to extend this work and to build it up. From almost every part of the earth come calls for more and still more missionaries. We can't get enough to meet the demand. Then along with the spiritual side, the necessity for more preachers of righteousness, there is a growing demand also on the material side for more meeting houses, for means to extend the work. 

We say — and we prove it, too, by our works — that we do love this great latter-day work of the Lord. But do we do all that we should for it? The test of love, after all, is what will you do for the thing you love, the person you love, the institution you love, the country you love? How much will you do for it? , Will you give your life for it? Will you give up your means for it ? . To what extent will you help to build it up in a material way? This tabernacle, for example, was not built simply by preaching and praying. It was built by hard labor. It took material, it took work, it took means. 


BUILDING MEETING HOUSES 

We have heard from the president of the Church" down through the presidents of stakes and presidents of missions, of the wonderful development that has occurred in the building -of meeting houses in the Church. Let me just give you some figures. I will read first the expenditure for meeting house purposes in all the Church for the year 1917. That is ten years ago and the people were doing well then, according to the means they had. The entire appropriation for meeting houses for that year, 1917, was one hundred sixty-eight thousand dollars. Now, in nine months of this year, just to the end of September, the trustee-in-trust has paid out in appropriations for stake and ward meeting houses, seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars. For the same period last year, 1926, it was four hundred thousand dollars. So you see the amount appropriated for that activity alone, the building of meeting houses,' has been enormous. , . 

I hope the time will never come when there will not be a call for more meeting houses, because if such a time should come, there would be no more growth.' Since we expect to grow and expand and to keep on growing and expanding, there will necessarily be additional calls for more meeting houses and more elders to preach the gospel. 

ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT IN PAYMENT OF TITHING 

One other item : Comparing the tithing of 1926 with that of 1917, it shows an increase in nine years of about forty per cent only, whereas the appropriation for meeting houses increased in the same period between four and five hundred per cent. I have not included the appropriations that have been made for meeting houses built in the missions. That is additional. I will not take the time to go into the details of the figures, nor in the increase of Church population, etc; it would take too long. But the point is that all this requires means, and I am under covenant, and you are under covenant, to furnish the means to build up this Church. How? By tithes and offerings. In the observance of this principle nearly every member of the Church can improve, can't we? How many hundreds are there, not thousands, but how many hundreds are there in the whole Church who pay strictly and exactly one- tenth of all their interest? The revelation says one-tenth of all your interest annually. How many of us do it? There are some, of course, but there are not many who cannot improve and perform more fully this duty in respect to this matter. 

The Lord commanded the law of tithing in ancient times. He has revealed it to us in this dispensation. You may read in Genesis that first of all, Abraham, Jacob's grandfather, paid tithes of all that he had to Melchizedek; and then Jacob, the father of the twelve tribes of Israel, made this covenant with the Lord : "Of all that thou shalt give me, I will surely give the tenth unto thee." In Leviticus 27 :32, the Lord says this concerning the tithe of the herd and of the flock, "the tenth shall be holy unto the Lord." Solomon, in Proverbs, 3rd chapter, 9th verse, says : 

"Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the first fruits of thine increase. So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine." 

In the last book of the Old Testament the Lord, speaking through the Prophet Malachi, reproved the Saints in that day. I don't think we need such a stern rebuke as he gave them, but these were his words : 

"Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. * * * Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." 

THE LORD'S REQUIREMENT 

Here was a challenge to them to prove the Lord. That same challenge is open to every Latter-day Saint today. 

"And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the field, saith the Lord of hosts. 

"And all nations shall call you blessed, for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the Lord of hosts." 

You can read the revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith with respect to this principle of tithing, and that same thought occurs in it, namely, that if you will pay your tithing the very land shall be sanctified and shall be made holy. Let me take occasion to read a little of this revelation to the Prophet Joseph, given in July, 1838: 

"Verily, thus saith the Lord, I require all their surplus property to be put into the hands of the bishop of my Church in Zion. 

"And this shall be the beginning of the tithing of my people. 

"And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever ior my holy priesthood, saith the Lord. 

"Verily I say unto you, it shall come to pass that all those who gather unto  land of Zion shall be tithed of their surplus properties, and shall observe this law, or they shall not be found worthy to abide among you. 

"And I say unto you, If my people observe not this law, to keep it holy and by this law sanctify the land of Zidn unto me, that my statutes and my judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, behold, verily I say unto you, it shall not be a land of Zion unto you. 

"And this shall be an ensample unto all the stakes of Zion." 

THE SAVIOR'S VIEW ON TITHING 

We have the commandment from the prophets of old, and here also is the command through the prophet of the last dispensation. I know it is contended by some people that the Savior in restoring the fulness of the gospel in his dispensation did not insist on the law of tithing, and that it was done away in the law of Moses, etc. Anyone who takes that position is entirely wrong, for here is the word of the Savior rimself, in the gospel according to St. Luke, 11:42: 

"But woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye tithe mint and rue and all manner of herbs, and pass over judgment and the love of God; these ought ye to Have done, and not to leave the other undone." 

In other words pay your tithing, ,of course, but don't go around boasting about it as you do. This ye ought to have done, said he, and the other ye ought not to have left uundone. So there is the positive injunction of the Savior of the world that the principle of tithing shall be observed. 

HAVE FAITH TO PROVE THE LORD 

My brethren and sisters, my testimony is that I could always get along better and be more prospered, more blessed and " certainly more satisfied in my heart and soul, at the end of the year, if I got along with 90 per cent and gave the Lord his ten per cent. I have tried to do that;! not perfectly, not as I should, but I have done it well enough to prove the Lord. I accepted the challenge which he made through Malachi : 

"Try me and prove me herewith, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour out j& blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." 

I have proved the truth of it in my own experience and to my own satisfaction. I know there are those who quibble about it and say: "Will 90 pounds of flour go as far as 100 pounds of flour? Will $90 go as far as $100? If you are spending a dollar a day, will not the one amount last 100 days and the other last only 90 days ?" 

Yes, mathematically you are correct, but, spiritually and counting faith in God and in his promises, you are all wrong. For "without faith it is impossible to please God." You may take as a sample a couple  of men working— I have in mind two such men now. One spends all his means, and hasn't enough to pay tithes, he thinkjs. The other struggles along and pays his tithing. At the end of the year the one who has paid his tithing is better off somehow or other. He has had less sickness, less of what we call bad luck, and a better "break" as they phrase it, than the other man has had at the end of the year. 

90 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

SANCTIFY THE LAND OF ZION KEEP THE COMMANDMENTS 

I bear witness before you, my brethren and sisters, that if we keep that law, the Lord, just as he has promised, will sanctify the very land, and it shall be the land of Zion to us. It is a land of Zion to the man who has paid his tithing honestly before God. He feels it in his soul. He feels that he is dwelling on a blessed, happy, prosperous land. He knows that he is keeping the commandment of the Lord. Do you not think the Lord, by his Spirit, will sanctify and bless the very land for us according to his promise? I know he will, I feel that way when 1 come on this block. Time and again, especially if I am alone, my hat goes off in reverence as I step inside the wall. Why? Because I feel in my heart and in my soul that the very ground upon which I stand is holy, sacred unto the Lord. It has been blessed by the ppwer of the holy priesthood and it is sanctified, so that the spirit of reverence, the spirit of thankfulness to God comes over me, and off comes my hat, in token of that reverence. 

I know, too, that in our homes, with our farms, in our merchandising and all that we have, if we keep this law, we will sanctify to the Lord the land upon which we dwell, the homes in which we live, and all that we engage in; and we will feel the influence of his spirit and know by the power of the living God that we are helping to build up his work, far more, of course, than we would if we fail to obey this commandment. 

HOW THE TITHING IS EXPENDED 

I repeat, means are called for as well as prayers. Prayers are necessary, preaching is necessary, but it takes work, it takes means to build up the kingdom of God. 

I have just given you enough figures to illustrate how the means are expended. I could give a great many mbre items. In closing, I just want to take occasion to say that the funds that you give to the Trustee-in-Trust of the Church are honestly and wisely expended with absolute integrity and sincerity of purpose, supplemented by the wisdom that the Lord gives. No man or set of men could expend them with greater care. I know that. I have known it for twenty years, for I have been in the Presiding Bishopric and with the President of the Church since that time. You can strust these men implicitly. They have not the first selfish thought for themselves with respect to any of the means. Every penny is as sacred as if it were held by any of your own family. You can depend upon that. President Grant is almost an exception among men in this regard. He almost leans over backwards in the strictness of his integrity and honesty. 

PROVE THE LORD IN THE PROPER SPIRIT 

Now I have taken all the time I should. The Lord bless Zion, bless latter-day Israel. May we as members of the Church resolve now once again in our hearts and souls that we will prove him, not in the way  of challenge, not in the way of saying : "Here, I am giving you some, and I want a whole lot more in return." No, that kind of spirit itv paying tithes will not get you any blessing. The Lord loveth a cheerful giver — one who can go to the bishop and say : "Bishop, I feel all right. I want to help the Church. I am going to do all I can. Here is my tithing, my full tithing. I want to build up this work and be the means of helping it." If he goes in that spirit, thankful for what he has received, he will obtain the blessing. But let him not give something merely in the hope of getting more in return, for that spirit will not do at all. Let him give in this spirit : "Lord, thou hast blessed me. Here is thy portion. Of all that thou wilt give unto me, I will surely give a tenth unto thee." The Lord bless you. Amen. 

The choir sang an anthem : "The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof." 

ELDER STEPHEN L. RICHARDS 

MESSAGE OF THE WORD OF WISDOM 

I know of nothing wiser than the Word of Wisdom. I regard this great message from the Lord as being one of the most distinctive and one of the, most vital contributions coming to the world through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Like all great messages and documents it connotes even more than it denotes. It is given in sufficient detail to obviate all ambigtiilty, and at the same time it is sufficiently general to have application to many phases of life and to all of those items which enter into clean living. It proceeds upon the assumption that the greatest thing, in life is living, and that the most indispensable thing, to good living is health — bodily, mental and spiritual. 

We cannot contemplate a good man who does not have respect for the sacred institution of his body. God has given to us in this dispensation a new conception of the body of man. It is something more than earth and the elements of earth. We believe that the spirit is the literal child of God, that it comes to earth in divine providence to take on mortality, that while here it is housed in a tabernacle, that that tabernacle itself is made through the beneficient provision of the Creator in his own likeness. In that conception no one may" defile the tabernacle, wherein dwells the spirit, without offering affront to God who gave it. He cannot pollute his body with poisonous or disintegrating substances without committing an offense against his God and his Creator. 

SENT BY WAY OF GREETING 

The Word of Wisdom has come to us in what seems to me the most excellent, the most pleasing manner possible to give a message. It came by way of greeting to the Saints, not by way of constraint — so it states — in which respect it has seemed to me to be comparable to the greatest messages which came from the Redeemer of the world when in the flesh he spoke to mankind. It rings with the same spirit as do the Beatitudes, wherein the Christ said, not by way of constraint, not in the thunder of commandment, but in that lovely spirit which characterized his ministry : "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy." So he gave to us this fundamental message of life and health and strength and purity, "as a' principle with promise." 

Is it less binding upon us; does it constrain us the less, because the Lord has said that it is pleasing unto him that we should do; the things here enumerated and avoid the things here enjoined? 

SPIRIT AND BODY CLOSELY RELATED 

Within it comes to me the very genius of the philosophy of the gospel. Where is the man, impure in body and defiled, within whom may dwell the Spirit of the Most High? Is there not the closest of relation between the condition of our tabernacles and the spirits which . therein reside? I take it that one of our supreme messages to the whole world is the word which comes from this transcendent statement of the fundamentals of our very faith : Keep clean your bodies and undefiled, in order that you may serve God and work out your destiny in mortality. 

We have heard considerable during this conference relative to the. disorders of society and the great iniquity which prevails in the land. If it were possible to make a survey of all those who' have been quilty of infraction of the law, and who have perpetrated crimes against society,, we should not find that the perpetrators of these offenses were men and women who have had sacred regard for the tabernacle of their spirits and kept clean their bodies which God gave to them. 

The most serious, the direst consequences which follow an infraction of the Word of Wisdom in my judgment, are spiritual, rather than physical; for while the body may be impaired, the spirit suffers most. When the boy begins to smoke he usually ceases to pray, and when he ceases to pray he loses contact not only with our Father in heaven and his uplifting influence, but he often becomes estranged from his family and the best people and is thrown into environment which frequently brings his downfall. 

TEACH PURITY AND CLEANLINESS OF LIFE 

So, my brethren and my sisters of theChurch, I charge you to go forth among the youth of Zion and give to them the lofty conception that we have of the bodies which God in his kindness has given to us. Do all that lies within your power to keep them from polluting these sacred institutions. Exhort them to preserve their purity for efficient service in the kingdom of our Father, for if they keep clean they will be fit instruments for the working out of the great purposes of our Lord. Let us devote our time and our energy, our preaching and our teaching, to the cleanliness of life that follows the keeping of the Word of Wisdom. I pray also that the message which comes from this great and remarkable statement given to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith may go beyond the confines of the Church into all corners of the earth, that men and women may understand that they are created in the image of God and have sacred obligation to preserve that image in all respects. 

"We love God. As we love him we will do what he asks. He has asked us in the most kind and affectionate way to do these things for our own welfare, for our prosperity, for our spiritual growth and de, velopment, for the preparation we need to make to carry forward his great work, to preach the gospel in its fulness, and to give to mankind proper conceptions of life. Surely as we love him we will follow his admonition and yield to his kindly persuasion. I pray that his spirit may attend us in the keeping of our bodies pure and immaculate, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE. F. RICHARDS 

It is exceedingly gratifying to those who have responsibility for the - conduct of this great latter-day work to witness the large attendance at ' this conference, this large Tabernacle being filled to overflowing, as well as the Assembly Hall, and great crowds of people on the grounds, perhaps thousands. And this, notwithstanding the fact that a great many people in their homes today are hearing the proceedings of the conference through their radio sets. 

SALVATION AN IMPORTANT QUESTION 

I have been edified and built up by what I have felt and heard during the sessions of this conference. My heart has been made to rejoice exceedingly. Every speaker has spoken upon some one or more phases of the gospel, and the gospel is given us that we might know what salvation is and how we may attain that boon and blessing. There is no other question of such great importance to mankind as that of salvation, of what it consists and how it may be attained. There is no other question that has engaged the attention of so many people as that of salvation, and perhaps there is no other question upon which there has been such a diversion of views and opinions. As I understand it, this is the cause of there being so many religious sects, creeds and denominations upon the earth today, and this fact is strange when we think that all these religionists have based their views and established their creeds and denominations upon a belief in the Bible, and its doctrines. 

WHY SO MANY CREEDS? 

It seems to call for an answer to the question: Why'is it so? And I am reminded of the sayings of the scripture that prophecy came not in olden time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost. The contents of the Old and New testaments, then, are the things of God given to the children of men by the inspiration of the Hbly Ghost. The trouble with men today, and the cause of this spiritual darkness that is found everywhere throughout Christendom is that men lack that spirit, the power of the Holy Ghost, that was enjoyed by the prophets who wrote and spoke t:he things contained in that sacred book, the Bible. If we had the same spirit, the same measure of that spirit, we would understand as they understood, and we would all understand alike. REPENTANCE NECESSARY 

Why do we not get the Htjjy Spirit, the measure necessary to understand these things aright? The answer is that we have not taken the course that is indicated by the gospel, by the scriptures, to obtain it. A man must be born again in order to even see the Kingdom of God. He must be born of water and of the spirit, to receive the Holy Ghost in the measure that it was enjoyed by the prophets who gave us the word of the Lord contained in the holy scriptures. We must be born again, first of the water and then of the spirit, but before we can receive these ordinances and these great blessings, our faith in God must be such as will be approved of him, that will lead us to do the things that he would have us to do, as fast as, they are made known unto us. We must have that faith that will lead us to forsake evil and wrong-doing of every kind, tp repent of our sins, to right the wrongs which we have done, as far as it lies in our power, and to forgive our fellowmen who have trespassed against us, even as we desire to be forgiven. Then when we receive the ordinance of baptism by immersion, by one having authority, and have hands laid upon our heads for the bestowal of the Holy Ghost, and confirmation to membership in the Church of Christ, our sins are washed away, the Holy Spirit comes upon' us, even the Holy Ghost, whose office it is, and his mission is to bear witness of the Father and of the Son, and of the truth of all things. 

OUR MISSION TO MAKE PLAIN THE WAY OF SALVATION 

Our mission as Latter-day Saints is to the world to make plain the way of life and salvation. With us what salvation is and how it may be obtained is no longer a question. That question has been solved. We know the way. God our Father, because of his love for us, desires above all other things that we shall have salvation in his kingcjpm, exaltation where he and his Son Jesus Christ dwell, and that we might have salvation he has made the provisions of the gospel, including the atonement wrought out by his Son Jesus Christ. He has also given us the organization of the Church. One might ask why all this religious activity in the Church, and all that we see of the auxiliary associations? It is necessary; the salvation of man depends upon it. These children of Zion are to have their faith established, and they are to become so educated in the work that they in turn may be able to take responsibility and labor for the accomplishment of God's purposes. Why all this effort and this expenditure of means in the pre'aching of this gospel, as it is done by the Latter-day Saints? The answer is, the salvation of man depends upon it. Why the building of temples and the work that is accomplished therein at such tremendous effort and expense? The salvation of man depends upon it; and the salvation of man is the end in view that our Father in heaven has. All his works of which we have any account are but a means to that end, and it is because he loves us. The sacrifice made by the Savior — for he gave  willingly as such — is the result of love for us, because we are the children of his father, because we are his brothers and his sisters. What a glorious truth, what a glorious principle, that we are born sons and daughters of God. That is why he loves us with a perfect love, because we are his sons and daughters. We ought to love him with all our hearts, with all our minds, and with all our souls, and serve h'im and keep his commandments, seeking to know his will concerning us and doing it at all hazards. 

TESTIMONY 

Brethren and sisters, I know that this is the work, of the Lord. I rejoice in the light that has come to us through the everlasting gospel. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I am not afraid to bear this testimony. I never have been. It is my responsibility, and it gives me the greatest of pleasure to have the opportunity to testify of these great facts. I know just as well that Brigham Young, who succeeded the Prophet Joseph Smith in presiding over this Church, was inspired of God, that he held the place the Lord prepared for him, and that his work was acceptable unto the Lord. And so I know of each of the succeeding presidents of this Church. They were the mouthpieces of God unto this people, inspired of the Lord for their work, and the work has grown and prospered; and today he who stands at the head is an inspired man of God. We know him because he is mortal, and we see that which is mortal of him perhaps more apparent than that which is divine, but we who have association with him so closely bear witness to you as Latter-day Saints and to all the world, that Heber J. Grant has uppermost in his heart the desire to know what the will of our Father is concerning this great latter-day work and this people, and to do the thing that our Father would have him to do. He is inspired, has been and ever will be, and under his administration this work will go on and prosper. I know that this,work will triumph, that it is our Father's work, that he is at the helm. Men cannot accomplish this. There is nothing that we can do without his help, but with his help, his purposes will be accomnlished, and his name will be glorified in the earth. 1 bear this testimony to you, brethren and sisters and friends, in the name of the Lord Jesus' Christ. Amen. 

ELDER RICHARD R. LYMAN 

WE KNOW NO PARTY 

In time of war we know no party; all come to the defense of the country. In this hour, when Constitution and laws are being ridiculed, there ought to be no Democrats and no Republicans, no Prohibitionists and no Socialists, but only the one great party — the party of those who stand for law and' order, for the Constitution of our country and the liberties for which we have paid so great a price. 

* Surely this, the greatest country in the world, is not bringing up a generation of young folks who carelessly, recklessly, and thoughtlessly break the laws and trample the Constitution under foot, shouting in drunken laughter that this sacred document is "only a scrap of paper." 

Four things I desire to mention in the few moments' that I stand before you : First, the coming forth of the Book of Mormon; secondly, a brief reference to the teachings of this book; thirdly, the greatest problem that confronts the people of the United States at this moment — lawlessness and disrespect for law; and fourthly, in a few words, I desire to make an appeal to you, here in the tops of these everlasting hills, to come to the defense of the Constitution of the United States. 

I. THE BOOK OF MORMON My lifetime has been devoted to the study and the teaching of mathematics and engineering. I think I am not regarded as one given - to hysteria. I have asked many scientific men to offer a solution for Joseph Smith and the work that he accomplished. I have not found anyone able to give any other explanation than that which we give; that is, that Joseph was directed in his work by divine Providence. One man might be deceived; but can you deceive three or four together? 

THE THREE WITNESSES 

"Be it known unto all nations * * * and people, unto whom this work shall come : That we, through the grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, have seen .the plates which contain this record. * * * We know that these plates have been translated by the gift and power of God, for his voice hath declared it unto us. * * * And we also testify that we have seen the engravings which are upon the plates. * * * And we declare with words of soberness, that an angel of God came down from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes, that wc beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings thereon; * * * And it is marvelous in our eyes. Nevertheless, the voice of the Lord commanded us that we should bear record of it; wherefore, to lie obedient unto the commandments of God, we bear testimony of these things." 

THEY WERE NOT DECEIVED 

Let us consider that testimony. Is it not remarkable, odd, strange — something new in the world ? One man might be mistaken; but can three or four ? Here are the Prophet and three witnesses. They say : > "And we declare with words of soberness" — three sane men, mark you — "that an angel of God came down from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes, that we beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings thereon; and it is marvelous in our eyes" — marvelous to me, marvelous to you, marvelous to all the world for an angel in these days to come down from heaven. 

"Nevertheless, the voice of the Lord commanded us that we should bear record of it; wherefore, to be obedient unto the commandments of God, we bear testimony of these things." 

In this skeptical age when the world doubts nearly everything, men might not be satisfied with the testimony of the Prophet himself  these three witnesses; so there are eight more, twelve in all, who bear also the same testimony : 

EIGHT MORE WITNESSES 

"Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto whom this work shall come : That Joseph Smith, Jun., the translator of this work, has shown unto us the plates * * * which have the appearance of gold.". 

Does anyone suppose that these witnesses were deceived in that respect? They say the plates had the appearance of gold. People may object: "All that glitters is not gold; the witnesses may have been in error." But their testimony is : "They have the appearance of gold; and as many of the leaves as the said Smith has translated we did handle with onr hands." Can eight men be so deceived? Can they come along, one after another, and handle with their hands plates which have the appearance of gold and be deceived as to their reality? 

"we have seen and hefted" 

"As many of the leaves as the said Smith has translated we did handle with our hands; and we also saw the engravings thereon, all of which has the appearance of ancient work, and of curious workmanship. And this we bear record with words of soberness, that the said Smith has shown unto us, for we have seen and hefted, and know of a surety that the said Smith has * * * the plates of which we have spoken. And we give our names unto the world, to witness unto the world that which we have seen. And we lie not. God bearing witness of it." 

I want someone who thinks these testimonies are not true, to account for them. 

TESTIMONY OF THE SPIRIT Those who were in the Assembly Hall this morning listened to the reading of the sixth chapter of Jacob in a silence as profound as I have ever observed in an audience. When you go to your homes, open that book. If you can read the sixth chapter of Jacob as it was read this morning, and can be impressed as was this audience, I believe that a light of heaven will shine into your souls, and bring to you the conviction which we call a testimony, that this is scripture. 

II. TEACHINGS OF THE BOOK 

A PERVERSE GENERATION 

From Helaman, 13th chapter — that odd number 13 — I shall read from the 38th verse, a few words spoken by Samuel the Lamanit^ prophet, as he stood upon the walls of the city of Zarahemla : 

"O ye wicked and ye perverse generations * * * how longwill ye choose darkness rather than light?" Does not that sound like scripture? — like the gospel of Jesus Christ? It seems to me that, generation after generation, as Samuel explains, the human family "will choose darkness rather than light." CYCLES OF HISTORY 

Nations go around in a cycle. Out of poverty comes religion; out of religion come character, honor, industry and dependability; the result is faith. Then come success, prosperity, riches — all the bright lights; but with these, temptation and that darkness spoken of by this prophet arise. Sin, iniquity, wickedness, follow this darkness, and thus again, the causes of poverty return. Within a few generations, we begin with poverty, rise into riches and success, then go back to poverty. Speaking to the people in Zarahemla, Samuel says : "In the days of your poverty you shall cry unto the Lord, saying, O Lord, canst thou not turn away thine anger from us?" Then he continues : HOW TO BUILD MEN 

"But behold, your days of probation are past; ye have procrastinated the day of your salvation * * * ye 'have sought all the days of your lives for that which ye could not obtain; and ye have sought for happiness in doing iniquity." 

And does not the world, at this minute, seem to be seeking for happiness in doing iniquity? It is character, it is honesty, it is integrity, sincerity, dependability, that will bring stable success. This Church is struggling to bring up a generation of people having these qualities. The Relief Society conference, just adjourned, was struggling to learn what to do before and after children are born, to make them young men and young women with the qualities of Abraham Lincoln, upon whose life and character no limelight has yet been turned that is strong enough to find a flaw. 

A CALL FROM LINCOLN 

In a proclamation, March 30, 1863, Lincoln said : 

"We have been the recipients of the choicest bounties of heaven; we have bedn preserved these many yfears in peace and prosperity; we have grown in numbers, wealth, and power as no other nation has ever grown. But we have forgotten God. We have forgotten the gracious hand which preserved us in peace and multiplied and enriched and strengthened us, and we have vainly imagined, in the deceitfulness of our own hearts, that all these blessings were produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own. Intoxicated with unbroken success, we have become too self-sufficient to feel the necessity of redeeming and preserving gra*e, too proud to pray to the God that made us. It behooves us, then, to humble ourselves before the offended power, and to confess our national sins, and to pray for clemency and forgiveness." 

INIQUITY BRINGS RUIN 

Can doing iniquity bring happiness? Iniquity is the absence of character, honesty, integrity, virtue, sincerity, genuineness and dependability. It is the want of rectitude and uprightness; it is injustice, unrighteousness, and wickedness.' Some of its fundamentals are drunkenness, immorality, gambling, crookedness. When I speak against these, I am teaching not only the doctrine of my dwn Church,  that of every church, of every philosopher. Educators agree that these vices will bring ruin not only to individuals, but to nations and peoples. 

PROHIBITION AND PROSPERITY 

I shall here refer to only one of these types of evil — the use of intoxicating liquor. The United States is enjoying unprecedented prosperity. The savings of the country in 1926 were five times those of 1914. In that year the savings amounted to but $6.71 per capita, while in 1926 they were $33.00 per capita, an increase of 390 per cent. 

Many attribute this unprecedented prosperity to prohibition. The' late Wayne B. Wheeler has said that since the war we have had hundreds of thousands fewer arrests and jail commitments per annum for drunkenness; that our drink-caused poverty has decreased 74 per cent, and that we have reached the lowest rate of pauperism that has been known in the United States. 

John G. Cooper of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers says that prohibition is making a capitalist out of the worker; that when the saloon closed, the "Poor Man's Club" vanished, that it is being replaced by comfortable homes. He adds that labor is getting greater satisfaction out of an automobile and a decent home than it ever did out of the corner saloon. 

No less an authority than Herbert Hoover says that our prosperity is due to the elimination of industrial waste and to the advent of prohibition. When prohibition was adopted we had in the United States 507 distilleries, which produced annually 288,000,000 gallons of distilled spirits; 130,000,000 of these were made' into whiskey. We were maintaining 1,300 breweries, which made annually two billion gallons of beer. There was a saloon in nearly every business block of our larger cities. 

HOW STANDS THE LAW ? 

Today, anyone who buys, drinks, gives, sells, or has in his pos- ' session intoxicating liquor is doing so contrary to the provisions of the Constitution and contrary to both federal and state laws. 

III. LAWLESSNESS AND DISRESPECT FOR LAW. 

The National Economic League which is composed of leading and influential men from all the States of our Union, has concluded that the greatest problem confronting our country today' is "lawless- . ness and disrespect for law," due, they believe, first to indifferent public sentiment on prohibition, and secondly, to lax enforcement of the law. 

Hoover says it is time for all good citizens to give attention to the following by-products of our prosperity : One, weakening of moral fiber; two, loosening of family and home ties; three, youthful criminality; four, easy breaking of the law by adults. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

"god give us men/" 

We need in official positions, more men like John Wanamaker. To the end of his days, this man, perhaps the world's greatest merchant, regarded as one of his most valuable possessions a notebook in which were recorded the names of those with whom he had taken the temperance pledge. 

When Postmaster General, he passed through the gay life of the Nation's capital without partaking of wine and without serving it upon his table. This unusual conduct brought censure and ridicule; but this broad-minded citizen passed without flinching through this fire of criticism. 

Not infrequently young men were taken into his presence, while millionaires impatient for an audience with him paced his waiting rooms. When wealthy men expressed surprise at his neglect of them, he explained that those who came on spiritual or religious matters had come on the King's business, and that he always attended to the King's business first. 

THE DAY OF EFFICIENCY 

Not many years ago a lawyer would hardly think of standing before a jury without a few jolts of liquor behind his belt. It is no! long since it was the rule to close a business deal with a drink. But that day has passed. In this age of efficiency, no man can trust himself to do business if his mental machinery is impeded by liquor. Competition is so keen that, other things being equal, he who drinks will fail. 

In all seriousness I ask if the United States, or the people thereof, have partially lost the old-fashioned virtues of honesty, sincerity, sobriety, virtue; and dependability. 

A PERILOUS TIME 

Is it a time to look with indifference upon leading citizens and young people whoiare breaking the law? 

In Salt Lake City recently a national officer in one of the social fraternities of the country said that all good citizens ought to be aroused to the seriousness of the situation. "Most of the young men who are in college today," he declared, "are drinking liquor." If so, what may we expect in years not far ahead? ' This subtle menace threatens the very foundations of our constitutional freedom. 

IV. APPEAL TO .CITIZENS 

I appeal to you as good citizens to go to the primaries, to do your duty at the polls, and elect to office men who are concerned with the wishes and hopes of the people, not heeding the bidding of men whose principal interest is money-making. 

THE HOUR HAS COME 

The hour has come when a call ought to be issued for citizens 101  stand with the Boy Scouts and pledge allegiance anew to the Flag of the United States and to the Republic for which it stands. 

A resolution of the judicial section of the American Bar Association explains that the United States has undertaken to suppress the age-long evils of the liquor traffic; that when, for the gratification of appetite or for gain, lawyers, bankers, manufacturers, merchants, and social leaders disobey and scoff at the prohibition law, they are aiding the cause of anarchy, promoting mob violence, encouraging robbery, and increasing homicide. Is it not time for us to call out for those who can save our country from lawlessness and ruin; time for us to exclaim with J. G. Holland, "God grve us men" ? Do not the times demand strong minds, great hearts, men whom the lust of office will not kill, whom the spoils of office cannot buy? 

THE PRICE OF LIBERTY 

American liberty has been purchased by the blood and lives of our ancestors. My own brother's son gave his life in the recent World War in defense of that liberty. The body of my own brother lies buried in the sacred soil of France, where he gave his life in the same cause. 

Have such lives been given in vain? Are we losing respect for the Constitution, that document which Gladstone has called "the greatest state document of all the Christian ages" ? Must voices be raised in the tops of these everlasting hills, calling to the people of the United States to come to the defense of the Constitution? Our forefathers, and our own loved ones have spent their lives for its principles. Are we unwilling to cast our votes for those who will honor it? PRESIDENT RUDGER CLAWSON 

My brethren and sisters: We have had a most glorious conference. I have enjoyed every moment of it up to this hour. The teachings of this conference have been equal to any that I have heretofore listened to. 

A LARGE PRIESTHOOD MEETING 

Last evening a great multitude of men bearing the holy Priesthood of God gathered in this tabernacle. It was a time of interest and instruction, and perhaps as largely attended a priesthood meeting as we have ever had in the Church. Represented there were all the orders and degrees of the priesthood of God. The duties devolving upon the priesthood are quite well defined in the revelations of God. You will pardon me if I refer briefly this morning to the Council of the Twelve Apostles and the First Council of Seventy, since I am quite closely identified with these councils. As to whether the Council of the Twelve and the First Council of Seventy enjoy the spirit of their calling, you Latter-day Saints are perhaps well able to judge. They are .very close to you and you know them. 

102  GENERAL CONFERENCE 

THE WORD OF THE LORD TO THE APOSTLES AND SEVENTY 

The word of the Lord to Joseph Smith the Prophet, respecting these councils, will perhaps be appropriate at this time. In section 107 of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord says : 

"The Twelve are a Traveling Presiding High Council, to officiate in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, agreeable to the institution of heaven; to build up the church, and regulate all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the Gentiles and secondly unto the Jews. 

"The Seventy are to act in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Twelve or the traveling high council, in building up the church and regulating all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the Gentiles and then to the Jews; 

"The twelve being sent out, holding the keys, to open the door by the proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and first unto the Gentiles and then unto the Jews." 

This is repeated in section 124, where the following language occurs. Remember, these sections disclose sacred revelations of God to Joseph Smith, his servant: 

The "Twelve hold the keys to open up the authority of my kingdom upon the four corners of the earth, and after that to send my word to every creature." 

And in respect to the First Council of Seventy, the "Quorum is instituted for traveling elders to bear record of my name in all the world, wherever the traveling high council, mine apostles, shall send them to prepare a way before my face." 

THE LABORS OF THESE COUNCILS 

You will remember that it is said that the Twelve is a Traveling Presiding High Council. Such is actually the case. They are not expected to preside directly in the Church, but are also required to travel, and so that has fallen to the lot of these two councils since the Church was organized. They are constantly on the road, so to speak, going or coming, whether at home or abroad, going into the stakes of Zion, when at home, to regulate the affairs of the Church in the stakes, under the direction of the First Presidency; to visit by rotation, some ninetynine stakes of Zion. And you will perceive that it requires some time to get around and visit these stakes. At least ten, eleven oir twelve stake conferences are held weekly, and at most of the conferences members of the Twelve and the First Council of Seventy are represented. What are they there for? To preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, to organize and reorganize wards and stakes of Zion, and to set apart to the callings of the priesthood presidents of stakes, high councilors, etc. And, having accomplished this work at any one or all of these conferences, the apostles and the members of the first council of seventy return to report their work to the first presidency of the Church. And I may say that these brethren have very great pleasure and delight in the labor that is placed upon them. 

What about the nations ? Well, as the Twelve and the First Council are required to have a very considerable interest in the missions of the world, we have some twenty-seven missions, it is the particular duty of the Twelve, and so stated by the revelation, to open the door for the proclamation of the gospel to the nations, and perhaps also to teach the gospel, by first opening the door and then sending the word of the Lord to the nations. It gives me great pleasure to report here this morning that the Twelve have accomplished, in my judgment, a very great work in respect to this matter. The door for the proclamation of the gospel was opened up to America, our beloved country, by Joseph Smith the Prophet, and the keys to turn this door were also committed by Joseph Smith, the prophet, to members of the Council of the Twelve. 

The gospel was introduced into Great Britain in 1839 by Elder Heber C. Kimball, who was {hen one of the Council of the Twelve. He was accompanied by Orson Hyde, Willard Richards, and Joseph Fielding. They accomplished a great mission. The gospel was introduced into France in 1850 by Elder John Taylor of the Twelve; and in Italy in 1850, by Elder Lorenzoi Snow; in Scandinavia in 1850, by Elder Erastus Snow; in Japan in 1901 by President Heber J. Grant; in South America in 1925, by Elder Melvin J. Ballard, who was accompanied by Elder Rulon S. Wells and Rey L. Pratt. 

The Pacific Islands mission was opened in - 1844 by Elder Noah Rogers and others. Elder Rogers was not of the Twelve. Elder David O. McKay and Elder Hugh J. Cannon visited the Pacific Islands mission in 1921. It was a complete and extended visit. They also went to Ch;na, and while Elder McKay was there in that distant land, he felt impressed to bless the land that the gospel might take root in the hearts of that people. 

We are told in the revelation that the Twelve will not only take the gospel to the Gentiles, but also to the Jews. Perhaps the first step taken in this matter was the appointment, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, of Orson Hyde of the Twelve, who was despatched to dedicate and consecrate the land of Palestine for the gathering of Judah's scattered remnant, and also the scattered remnants of Israel. You will understand, my brethren and sisters, that since that time there has been a pronounced movement on the part of the Jews of the world to gather to Palestine, undoubtedly influenced by the sacred prayer that was put upon the land of Palestine and by the Spirit of God, who is directing in all these matters. 

TESTIMONY 

I rejoice in the integrity, in the faithfulness, in the devotion of my brethren and associates of the Council of Twelve and the First Council of Seventy. I know these brethren intimately. I think I have been able to looik into their hearts, and to know how they feel. I know what they are doing. I believe that their labors are approved of the Lord, and that his blessing is attending their activities. 

We members of these two councils rejoice greatly in the spirit of the gospel and are pleased to labor under the directiota of the First GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Presidency of the Church. We love one another; we uphold one another in our faith. I believe, in fact, I think I may say that I know that the Council of the Twelve and the First Coluncil of Seventy see eye to eye. 

Of course, there are other councils in the Church, and there are a great many important callings. I might be pardoned in closing my remarks by quoting from Paul the Apostle, who is regarded as a very eminent authority on things pertaining to the work of God. He said : 

"The Church of God is founded upon apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone." Now, the Apostle might very well have added — certainly he might have truthfully added — that the Church of God is founded, o!r built, upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, of high" priests, of seventies, elders, and of priests, teachers and deacons, because it must be very apparent to the Latterday Saints that, after all is said and done, the real meaning of the pronouncement of the apojstle was this : that the Church of God is built upon the foundation of the Holy Priesthood of God for that represents divine authority upon the earth. And it is by divine authority that the Church of God has been established and will be built up upon the earth. 

This is my testimony. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know it as fully and completely as I know that I live. I know that Joseph Smith was and is a true Prophet of God. Pie was a mighty man in Israel, and I bear this testimony in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

