Morning
08 10 1927


The conference continued on Saturday morning, 10 o'clock, October 8, 1927. The congregation comfortably filled the large tabernacle. President Heber J. Grant presided. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire." 

Invocation was offered by Elder David K. Udall, president of the Arizona temple. 

The congregation sang, "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord." 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

I esteem very highly the privilege of attending this conference and of listening to the instructions and testimonies that we have heard. There is in my soul a sincere gratitude for my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ. As I came down this morning, observing the sunshine, the changing tints of the foliage, and the beauties of this valley that surround us, I felt that surely the great pioneer leader made no mistake when he announced to that little band of pilgrims who had crossed the trackless plains, "This is the place!" 

THE JOY OF THE WORK 

I desire to be blessed by the Lord, that the thoughts voiced by me may be profitable to you. We are a small part of a great congregation that belongs to our heavenly Father. All the children in the world, are his, and upon us has been laid the responsibility of delivering to them the truth, much of which has been in the world before, some of which has been lost until the gospel was restored again in this latter day. We have listened to these good men who preside over our missions, have partaken of the spirit of the mission field, and have rejoiced with them and with those who labor under them, that our heavenly Father has given to us in this latter-day the duty to perform of proclaiming his truth to the children of men. Perhaps it might appear to the outside observer that there is among the Latter-day Saints an unusual enthusiasm. As one man recently said : "It is strange to me how joyfully you people carry your work forward. It matters not whether I speak to a youth or to a mature man, to a gardener or a policeman among your people, they are all happy and satisfied and confident that they possess the gospel of Jesus Christ." Everyone should possess the spirit of the work, a spirit of love, a spirit of kindness, a spirit of charity for the weaknesses and frailties of mankind, but with a pronounced  that the truth may be made manifest, that those who err in their lives may be led to forsake their folly and turn to the Lord our God. 

SEEK FIRST THE KINGDOM OF GOD 

We believe absolutely in the admonition that was given by the Savior of the world when he said: 

"Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all other things will be added." 

Therefore, we believe that if we can establish faith in the minds of the rising generation, if we can teach the truth in such a way that our Father's children will seek him and his influence first, that this world will begin to prepare for the Millennium, when there will be joy and peace and happiness, and when our heavenly Father will establish his kingdom, into which he has invited every child of his that has been born into the world. With that understanding in our hearts, and with that feeling in our souls, is it any wonder that there is enthusiasm in 6ur worship, that we have a disposition to be anxious to divide these glorious truths with our neighbors? Is it to be wondered at, that when the time comes that our sons are called into the mission field, or we are asked to lay aside our duties and go out as servants of the living God, endued with power from on high, possessing authority that has been conferred in this latter-day, in order that we may divide with all people this wonderful truth that has made our lives so rich, and that is preparing us to be desirable companions for all his children wherever we may find them, that we respond willingly and gladly? 

OBEDIENCE AND THE SPIRIT OF UNSELFISH SERVICE NEEDED 

It is this spirit of unselfish service that is needed in the world. Repentance of sin is also greatly needed by mankind. It is necessary that there be obedience to law, not only to the laws of God, but obedience to the laws of the land should be stimulated in the minds of men, if we expect this earth upon which we live to be the kind of a home that he desires us to possess. Our ministry is one of love and forbearance, and we desire to do good to all, and to assist all to understand the plan of life and salvation that the Lord revealed in this latter day. The assurance that God lives is most desirable and that knowledge may be just as fixed in the lives of the humble man and the humble woman in the ranks as it is in the lives of those who preside over us. I am not , dependent upon the testimony of my brethren arid my sisters by whom I am surrounded, and for whom I have an affectionate regard. And this is the testimony that I desire to leave with you, I may if I will know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that he is the Redeemer ot the world, and that he so loved the world that he gave his life in order that his gospel might be preached to all men. 

SACRIFICE AND LABORS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH 

Joseph Smith, the prophet, who was the servant of Jesus Christ, our Lord, was given an understanding of the gospel that was taught by the Redeemer, and in our day was inspired to perfect a church organization that is recognized as the most perfect in the world. 

This youth was so sure of the revelation that he had received, and was so anxious that his Father's children, all of them, should know of the truth, that from the time he received the plates of the Book of Mormon from the angel Moroni he devoted his entire life to the organization of the Church and disseminating the truth. Those chosen to carry the work forward received the holy priesthood and were prepared to carry on when the prophet said : "I go like a lamb to the slaughter, but I have a conscience void of offense toward God and all men, and it will yet be said of me, 'he died in cold blood'." So he went to his doom as he understood it, but there was burning in his soul a knowledge such as Stephen had, such as the Redeemer had, that our heavenly Father was at the helm, that it was his work that was upon the earth, that it was his power that would eventually control, that this life was but a part of eternity. He was prepared to give up a part of his earth-life, if need be, in order that he might enjoy eternally the companionship that he so .sincerely loved, and the association of good .men and women who have and do dwell upon the earth, and will again dwell upon the earth when it becomes the celestial kingdom. This testimony the humblest individuals of this Church may have, and know just as they know that they live, that these things are true. 

THE GOSPEL THE POWER OF GOD UNTO SALVATION 

This gospel of Jesus Christ is the power of God unto salvation, as the Apostle Paul declared. It is the Redeemer's work. It is the only way whereby we may attain the highest exaltation that the Savior of mankind intended that those who followed him should enjoy. I do not say that egotistically, I say it with all charity for our Father's children who belong to other churches. I say it with love for his sons and daughters who do not understand, but he has commanded that we should say this thing. It is his will that people should know. In no uncertain tone is the gospel being proclaimed among the children of men, and the message of life and salvation is being offered, without money and-without price, to all our Father's children, in order that they may avail themselves of the knowledge that will prepare them for eternal life in his celestial kingdom. That is why there is rejoicing in the lives of those who keep the commandments of God. 

THE CAUSE OF HAPPINESS 

The happiest men and the happiest women that you know in the world are those who are conforming their lives to the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. They are those who have the assurance of eternallife; they are those who understand the purpose of our being \ they are those who realize that to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, means for them all that men and women can enjoy in this life or in the life that is to come. With happiness and with thanksgiving, there departs into the world from his Church a group of men and women whose lives are devoted to proclaiming the truth. In the neighborhood of two thousand are in the world today, paying their own expenses, going from door to door, teaching what our heavenly Father has said must be known by the children of men before this world can be transformed into the kingdom of our Lord. These are your sons and daughters. After them shall go others who will carry this message forward to the honor and glory of our heavenly Father. As I have traveled to and fro in the world bearing this message, my soul has been filled with joy, and my eyes have been dimmed with tears, when I have seen how perfectly men's lives may be transformed by the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have seen those who were discouraged, those who were in darkness, those who questioned the purpose of their being, and when they have had taught to them the glorious truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ, they have changed, they have learned to be happy, to be contented, to be satisfied, to be enthusiastic in believing and teaching the gospel that was proclaimed by Jesus Christ when he dwelt upon this earth and traveled in Galilee. 

THE GOSPEL MISSION PROCLAIMED IN LOVE 

Brethren and sisters, the world does not understand that, but it is our mission to assist them to understand it, and it is not with egotism, it is not with arrogance, but with charity for all, with loving tenderness, that this message is sent forth. We do not say to the Presbyterians, to the Methodists, to the Baptists, to the Catholics, and those others who in their lives are striving to live the teachings of their churches, we do not say to them : "You must give up all that you have been , taught, you must turn away from the truth that has been deposited with you in order that you may come into the Church of Jesus Christ." But we say to them. "Keep all that you possess. Keep all the virtues, keep all the truth, keep all the goodness that has ever come into your lives, and then permit us to share with you the additional light that our heavenly Father, in his tender mercy, has bestowed upon the children of men in our day." That is our mission to our Father's children. It is a mission t of peace, of good will towards all men. It is an intense and enthusiastic desire to divide with all our Father's children the good things that he has so generously bestowed upon us; and it is with the hope that they may understand, that we go upon our bended knees, day after day, and pray that their hearts may be touched, that the spirit of God may come into their souls, that they may understand the truth as it is given unto them, and thereby make preparation for the time to come when our heavenly Father will gather those who have sought him first and who have prepared themselves thereby to be the eternal companions of Jesus Christ our Lord. 

TESTIMONY AND GRATITUDE 

This, my brethren and sisters, is what brings joy into our hearts. That is why there is peace in your home and in mine. Therefore, this morning, as one of the humblest among you, I thank him with all my heart for the assurance that has come into my life, for the privileges that have been mine, for the associations that are so desirable, that I have been permitted to enjoy while I have lived here these few years upon the earth. And above all, I thank him for the knowledge that has been burned into my soul; I know that my heavenly Father lives, I know that Jesus Christ is the Savior of mankind, and that there is no other name under heaven whereby men and women may be exalted, but the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. I do know that he came into the world in this latter day, that he bestowed divine authority upon a humble boy who was seeking the truth, and the result of that has been the organization of the Church with which we are identified; and there is with it the power of God unto salvation to all those who believe. Knowing that as I know that I live, I bear you witness of it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER J. GOLDEN KIMBALL 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

About the middle o>f September of this year I was taken by my son from San Pedro, California, to Hollywood. At that time I attended Grauman's Chinese theatre. They had printed on their program : "The . Glories of the Scriptures." The screen play was "The King of Kings." The prologue was enchanting and wonderful. This screen play has not yet been released. Thousands and tens of thousands of people have gone to Hollywood to this great theatre to witness this play, the "King of Kings." The cast O'f great actors — they tell me they are among the great actors — represented Jesus the Christ, Mary the Mother, the Twelve Apostles, Mary Magdalene, Martha, and Mary of Bethany, Caiaphas, the Pharisee, the Scribe, Pontius Pilate, the woman taken in adultery, satan, and hundreds of other characters as found in the story of Jesus. The characterization, costumes, life and surroundings must have been true to life. At times it was thrilling and pathetic. Many who were at all spiritual were brought to tears. It was the greatest sermon of Christ's life, sorrows and sufferings, ending with his crucifixion and resurrection, that could possibly be presented, and its effects 1 will be everlasting. To my mind it would almost immortalize Cecil B. De Mille and others. 

The actors, so I am told, signed a pledge, a contract, binding upon them to live lives that would be fitting to the characters they represented, for three years, for in doing otherwise' it would mar and destroy the effect and purpose of the picture. 

When I returned home I read the Life of Christ by Giovani Papini, to make clear my conception of men. I learned from this book this information : 

"What manner of men were the Apostles, chosen of Christ? 

"He chose them from among the Galileans; he chose them from  the poor; simple men, but of divine simplicity, transcending all philosophies. He knew these men were rough, but had integrity; were ignorant, but ardent, and that he could in the end mold them according to his desire and bring them up to his level." 

"These disciples lived with Christ and were fortunate to walk, to eat with him, to sleep in the same room, to look into his face, to touch his hand, to kiss him, to hear his words from his mouth." 

"We see them, hard of head and of heart, not able to understand the clearest parable of the Master; often lacking in faith, in lotve, in brotherly affection, eager for pay; envying each other, impatient for the revenge which would repay them for their long wait; intolerant of those who were not one with them. One of them denies him three times." They disputed among themselves to know who should have the chief place in the new kingdom. Jealous of their privileges, they denounced to Jesus one who was casting out devils in his name. Jesus said: "Forbid him not for there is no man which shall do a miracle in my name that can lightly speak evil of me. For he that is not against us is on our part." This is a hard saying; who can hear it? and they left Jesus. ' 

Peter, James and John are the only ones who accompany Jesus into the house of Jairus and on the Mount of Transfiguration and they are the ones whom he takes with him on the night of Gethsemane. But in spite O'f their long intimacy with the Master, they did not acquire sufficient faith and humility. 

At one time Jesus and some of his disciples started together towards Jerusalem. They were crossing Samaria and were badly received in a village. James and John said: "Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them." But he turned and rebuked them. It seemed in vain that they had heard the Sermon on the Mount. James and John wanted Jesus to grant them the right (one to sit on the right hand, and one on the left hand in his glory). Yet John was among the nearest and most loving of the diseiples. 

Jesus Christ trained, educated, and tried to mold, his disciples according to his desire to bring them up- to his level. To the Twelve much should be pardoned, because always they had faith in him, because they tried to love him as he wished to be loved. I would like to have myself and everyone feel and realize that God, too, is molding his servants in this day and age of the world. The gospel has been restored upon the earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith, with all of its gifts and blessings pertaining thereto, and I am a living witness, a Seventy and a preacher of righteousness who, standing before you without fear and , without doubt — for I have seen the power of God made manifest through the administration of those ordinances. So it was with these great apostles, and we love and cherish their memories. But what they needed was to be enlightened by the flame of the Holy Ghost for their transformation. Until the day of Pentecost they acted like natural men. They were then prepared to announce that the kingdom of heaven was at hand, to heal the sick and command men everywhere to repent; and they quoted the scriptures — as I have quoted- those passages of scripture in the South hundreds and hundreds of times, and they are being quoted all over the world by the elders who are preaching the gospel. 

"Behold I send the promise of my Father upon you;" that same promise is upon us. "Tarry ye," said the Lord, "Tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endowed with power from on high." I never place my hands upon an elder to set him apart that I do not think of that passage of scripture. It has been verified and fulfilled, fo<r elders have come back, young men of whom I have no remembrance, but they come back to the apostles and to those who set them apart and say: "Brother Kimball, you set me apart, and the promises you made have been realized." 

"And he led them out as far as to Bethany and he lifted up his hands and blessed them." Luke 24:49, 50. 

"But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto you." John 16 :26. 

"Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth; for he shall not speak of himself, 'but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak; and he will show you things to' come. 

"Nevertheless, it is expedient that I go away, for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you, but if I depart, I will send him unto you." 

After the crucifixion and death of their Master they go forth as witnesses to teach the truth and to speak without fear, and without hiding anything, and to cry out from the heights in order that all may hear it, in order that there may be no one to say on that day that he has not heard it. 

Now, brethren, I confess to you that I have been among this people for a considerable length of time, and have tried to fill my appointments as best I could. I have traveled among the people from Canada to Mexico, but I have never in all my labors felt the thrill and the flame of the Holy Spirit like I did when I was on my mission. It has been strange to me that I have not been able to reach the hearts, to reach the humility, the childlike simplicity, the perfect faith in God that I enjoyed in the Southern states, as an ignorant elder, perhaps, and with very little information. Yet I traveled without purse or scrip absolutely, and I had such perfect confidence that I never doubted but that I would be cared for. Now, I want to say to you that a while back I was sick, two or three weeks, with what they call the ''flu." I inherited that disease; I get it every little while. While I was there I wondered if I had exaggerated my experience in the South, so I hunted up my diaries which I had not read for forty years, and I discovered that I told the truth. The record is as correct as the record of the Bible, and I was astonished how God blessed me and how I enjoyed his spirit and the manifestations and testimonies that were given to me. Let me  your attention to an incident. It happened away down in Alabama. That was at a time in the '90's when I presided over the Southern states mission. The elders had been ask'ed to assemble themselves together. They were laboring in that low, marshy, malarial district that was scarcely safe for a human to live in, and they came straggling" in, suffering with malaria, rather low-spirited, because they had been traveling without purse or scrip through that section of the country. We assembled to hold a conference. After the conference was over, two days, we were to hold a priesthood meeting. We had no place to meet in those days except in the woods, but I had instructed the elders to clean some place off in the woods, a circle, where we could meet together and hold our priesthood meeting. On that occasion there was a young man whose mother was a remarkable woman, a Latter-day Saint. The father had left the Church years and years ago. He opposed the boy, "he stood out against him, he refused to assist him, but the mother's faith and the faith of the young man who was in that conference did not fail. I don't know what his trouble was, but one of his legs was as large as my body, and it looked like a great piece of raw meat. It looked like it would burst. The people there did the best they could for him. He had no physician. , We did not know what a physician was in the South, in my day. There may have been physicians there, but I never happened to meet any. So on this occasion I said to this elder : "Well, you will have to stay here with the people. You can't go up there." "Why," he said, "Brother Kimball, I have been dreaming about this, and I have been talking about it. It would ruin my whole mission unless I can be at that priesthood meeting." "Well," I said, "if yoy feel that way, two of the elders will carry you up there, one mile." We went there in order to get away, to a place where we would be secluded, and when we got into the woods in that little circle and sat down, as best we could, I 'looked those elders over. I was not very well myself, but I said: "Brethren, what are you preaching?" 

"We are preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ." 

"Are you telling these people that you have the power and authority, through faith, to heal the sick?" 

They said : "Yes." 

"Well, then, why don't you believe it?" 

This young man spoke up and he said : "I believe it!" He sat down on a stump and the elders gathered around him. He was anointed and I administered to him, and he was healed right in their presence. It was quite a shock; and every other elder that was sick was administered to, and they were all healed. We went out of that priesthood meeting and the elders received their appointments, and there was a joy and a happiness that cannot be described. The people gathered around, and the elders before their departure, got down and they cried. Those elders, many of them, had never seen one another until they assembled in that conference, and "Such love," those people said, "we have never known." My brethren and sisters, I realize that we at home are carried away in many instances with material things. GENERAL CONFERENCE 

It is spiritual first, and then temporal. My experience of late has been such, unfortunately, that I have had to hark back to find testimonies of the great healing power of God. 

I will tell i you a story and then I shall stop. I got a telephone message some time ago, I think a year ago, may be, that I had some relatives in the hospital. They wanted me to hurry up there and administer to them. They were two sisters. They were married, and they were not city people, and, by the way, their father and mother were good Latter-day Saints, and these young girls had been taught and they had been active, but they were not healed, so they came to the hospital. When I arrived I found one of them in one room, and she' had been operated upon, and getting along very nicely. The other sister jwanted me to bless her before she was operated upon. I asked her how much she was paying for her room. She told me. "And how much are you paying the doctor." 

"Three hundred dollars." 

"Well, haven't you got confidence in him? He is charging you enough. Why don't you trust him?" 

"Well," she said, "Uncle 'Golden, jl have been administered to, but I was not healed, and I felt forced to come to the doctor." 

I said, "I am a little jealous for God, and if I bless you, and you are healed, who is going to get the credit? If the doctor gets all the money and all the credit, and God heals you, I don't think that fair." 

So I blessed her as best I knew how, frnd I blessed the doctor. I made a full anointing and blessed the nurse, and asked God that his spirit might be there and the patient's life be spared. I realize that hospitals, physicians, and surgeons, do wonderful things, and that faith without works is dead. I want to bear testimony to you, and I know it, I don't think it, I don't imagine it: (I have seen God heal the sick. I know it isn't in me, but I know that where there is faith there is nothing impossible, and these young elders who are sent out now, it may not be wisdom to send them out as we went, but when we were in the South, God had to take care of us, whether, it was stormy or sunshine, as we had no choice. I know the Lord can take care of us and will take care of us if we have faith. 

I was in the South three years, presiding over the mission, under the greatest hardships; and the greatest difficulties I have ever endured in all my life were experienced in the missionary field, yet I have had the greatest joy and the greatest peace and happiness. During my three years of presidency there was only one elder who died. EHas S. Kimball presided over the mission for seven years, and he had seventeen hundred fifty elders under his presidency, and only two died. When the Spanish-American war was on, there were at Chickamauga Park, Tenn., forty thousand of the finest 5'oung men of America, and they were looked after, and yet they died by the hundreds. Don't tell me that God can't take care of his servants if they will have faith. 

I know this work is true. I pray God always to help me to sustain the work, to uphold the hands of the priesthood, and to overlook my weaknesses and help me to finish and complete my mission here upon the earth. I have no 1 fear of the hereafter. I am not afraid of God. I know God is a God of love, a Father who will look after you, if you will trust him. I sustain this work, and I sustain the brethren. I sustain all those who labor for God and his cause. All of which I humbly pray for, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

When President Grant announced the changes in the missionary field in his opening remarks yesterday. I whispered to Brother McMurrin who sat next to me: "Surely he overlooked the change in the European mission in the appointment of Elder John A. Widtsoe to succeed President James E. Talmage in the presidency of that mission." We were pleased, however, when the announcement was subsequently made, and I have been thinking : "How abundantly has the Lord endowed Brother Widtsoe to become the successor to that other defender of the faith (who is now honorably released to return home)  a good work in that great mission, which, however, is a mission comprising many missions located in various parts of the eastern hemisphere, where a great many different foreign languages are spoken; and in this particular Brother Widtsoe is especially fitted and equipped, it seems to me, for the great work unto which the Lord has called him. 

Not very many years ago I had the pleasure of attending the Canadian quarterly conferences in company with Elder Widtsoe. Previous to our conferences Dr. Widtsoe had been visiting the Northwest delivering addresses on agriculture, irrigation, reclamation, dryfarming and kindred subjects, and there were people including many not of our faith and living in outlying districts who desired to hear him, for his fame as an agriculturist had gone before him. Accordingly a meeting was arranged and some of the visitors at the Alberta conference, including myself, were also in attendance. He gave a most excellent talk. I have never listened to one where I received so much information regarding the principles of agriculture. He stated that there were five essentials to successful farming : first, soil. There must be soil. Second, there must be air. Third, there must be seed. Fourth, there must be water, and fifth, there must be sunshine. He went on explaining how it was necessary to break up the soil, to pulverize it in order that the air might get in, that it might be thoroughly aerated, fairly filled with atmosphere. He went on to show how it was necessary that seed should be planted in the soil,' thus prepared. He continued to show that it was necessary that water stiould be applied if that seed is to grow and that the sun must shine upon it before it can yield a harvest. He made it much more complete than I would be able to do here; but 

ELDER RULON S. WELLS 

Of the First Council of Seventy 

enable him to acwhat surprised me most was that, at the close of his remarks, he said : "Now, before we dismiss this meeting I would like to hear from my companion, Mr. Wells, who is a practical farmer." 

Well, I thought that was rather a strange introduction to give to me, as I had never held a plow in my hand in all my life. I had no horny hands of toil and my muscles were soft and had not become hardened to that kind of work, but nevertheless I responded to the invitation, and as I did so it came to me that perhaps after all Dr. Widtsoe was right, and that I was indeed a practical farmer, but the soil that I I have been endeavoring to cultivate is the soil of the human heart. It is sometimes an unwieldy soil, and full of hardness. It needs to be broken up and harrowed; it needs to be pulverized and softened before it is prepared to receive the seed. The seed that I have been planting has been the seed of faith. We do not call it farming; we call it sowing ihe seeds of faith — faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, that men shall believe that he is indeed the Son of God, who was chosen before the foundations of this earth were laid to create it and redeem it. For, let it be remembered, there had been a great council in Heaven, when the great plan of life and salvation had been proclaimed among the children of God before this world was, "When the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy;" and, in order to carry out the Lord's plan, the question arose : "Whom shall I send ?" There was one like unto the Son of man who arose and said : "Here am I, send me. Thy will be done 'and the glory be thine forever." This was the firstborn, even Jehovah, who became the Only Begotten of the Father, and was known as Jesus Christ in the flesh. I have been teaching men to have faith in him who came into this world, created and peopled it with the children of God, that they might have life in this world, this natural world where we should have the experience of an earth-life; to have faith in him who not only created the world, but who should redeem the world; who should redeem mankind from the fall which was to ensue, thus giving us the opportunity to prove whether we, with a knowledge of good and evil and in the exercise of our free agency, would do all things whatsoever the Lord our God should command; to have faith in him by whose almighty power mankind should be redeemed from death and the grave. 

But there was another who arose invthat primeval council who rejected that plan and led many away from God through his deception and insidious sophistries, and he said: "Here am I, send me. I will be thy son, and I will see that not one soul shall be lost and surely I will do it; therefore give me thine honor." And God said, I will send the first; and satan, for he it was who spake thus, became angry and was. cast out of heaven and with him fell one-third of the hosts of heaven. The one all important thing, then, is to teach men to have faith in Him whom God sent) and reject the other whom God cast out of heaven. The first was a plan of freedom wherein men should exercise their own volition; the other was one of compulsion and eventual subjection to the power of evil. To teach this fundamental truth has been the good seed which 

I have always endeavored to plant in the hearts of men, in this oftimes imwieldly. sour and hardened, but withal most prolific "and fertile soil. 

But other seeds were constanly being planted in this receptive soil — evil seeds. That war begun in heaven is continued here on earth. The evil hand that led so many away from God in that primeval conflict, with all his evil followers, continues , here to lead mankind astray by planting evil seeds, the seeds of hate, of greed, of avarice and lust, and these grow, too, along with the good seed. These are the weeds, the thistles and the thorns, hence the good farmer will pull them out or cut them clown, lest they overrun the good and hinder its growth. This we call repentance from sin or casting the devils out. 

Then comes the need for water, another essential in successful farming. So we preach not only faith and repentance but also baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, for the extinction of all the evil effects of sin, that the hearts and souls of men may be washed clean in the blood of the Lamb of God, by being buried with him by baptism into his death, and coming forth from that watery grave in the likeness of his glorious resurrection. 

Now let in the sunshine of God's Holy Spirit. How can the garden grow in darkness? How can the trees blossom and produce their luscious fruit? Or how can the fields grow and ripen into golden fiarvests, unless the sun shall shine upon them ? How can we know or understand the things of God without the light of his Holy Spirit? And yet, "This is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." Hence,- there is need to obtain the gift of the Holy Ghost which in the gospel of our Lord is bestowed upon repentant and baptized believers by the laying on of hands. 

These are the essentials in this practical farming which has engaged so many years of my life. There appear to be two kinds of farming and both are practical. How greatly and grandly do they resemble each other! I think it was Goethe, the great German poet, who said : "Alles vergaengliche is pur ein Gleichniss," — all things temporal are but symbols of things eternal. 

And now, Brother Widtsoe, so well informed in the science of agriculture — the reclamation of the waste lands of the desert — has also had a still greater experience as an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ in the cultivation of human hearts, in planting the seeds of faith, not only by word of mouth, but also by his convincing pen in this still wider field of human welfare, by applying, in their spiritual form these same essentials of practical and successful farming. 

May the Lord bless him in his ministry abroad. And, as he shall travel in the various missions of Europe, may he be able to speak forth the words of eternal life to every nation, kindred, tongue and people wheresoever he shall come, even to the convincing of the honest in heart and in a language which .they can understand. This is my humble prayer and sincere wish for Brother Widtsoe, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.  

58 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

ELDER JOSEPH W. McMURRIN 

Of the First Council of Seventy and President of the California Mission 

I have rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, in the proceedings of this conference, £nd feel that we have had a truly wonderful time together. I have enjoyed the testimonies and counsels of all who have spoken, from President Grant to my companion and fellow-laborer, President Rulon S. Wells. I would like to say that I know, by close association with President Wells, that he has been a successful farmer in the manner that he has indicated, in sowing the seeds of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Qirist in the hearts of the children of men. I joyfully bear witness to the good that has come to me as an individual through my companionship with President Wells, both at home and abroad, and I thank God for his example, for his patience, for his excellent teachings, for the love he has manifested for his fellow men, and for the blessings that he has produced in my own soul by his teaching and by his kind and loving companionship. 

If I caught aright the suggestion made by the President of the Church yesterday, it was his desire that the mission presidents should give information concerning the mission intrusted to their care. You have all learned from the remarks of President Grant that some things a little out of the ordinary have taken place in the California mission. Three stakes have been organized in that mission. I suppose I can say in the mission, although in a sense they are entirely outside of the mission, for the presidencies of the stakes, and those who are under their direction, control and manage and direct the organizations that are within the stakes, are entirely independent of any mission authority, and yet there are missionary districts covering some of the same territory that the stakes cover. The Los Angeles missionary district covers the territory that is embraced in the Los Angeles and Hollywood stakes. The San Francisco missionary district covers the identical territory now embraced in the San Francisco stake. I think there has never been just this kind of experience in missions before. It is true that stakes have been organized that have taken sections of missions, but the mission headquarters have not been maintained in the midst of those sections; so that, in California we have what might be termed a double line of authority, the authority of the mission and the authority of the various stakes. 

I am happy to say that the utmost goodwill has been maintained between mission authority and stake authority. At the present time in the San Francisco stake, President MacDonald and his associates, and Bishop Newman of the San Francisco ward and his associates, and the Relief Society organizations in that section, are all banded together to improve the quarters in San Francisco that are occupied by the missionaries. We thank the Lord for such men as are in the San Francisco stake presidency and other presidencies in California, and for their desire to honor and respect and build up the missionaries and  them opportunity to accomplish the work that belongs to them. I feel that that is just as it should be. The missionaries are sent forth by proper authority to proclaim the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they should be given in California, in every stake and in every ward, abundant opportunity to lift up their voices in proclamation of the truth, that they may magnify the callings whereunto they have been called. I am happy to say that this condition prevails. 

Then, outside of California the missionaries, under the direction of mission authority, have labored in the St. Joseph stake of Zion and in the Snowflake stake of Zion, and I think have been instrumental in accomplishing good in all of the stakes named. We have gone into those stakes by permission of stake authority, and have operated among the people under their jurisdiction, with their full approval and sanction. The mission has turned over to those stakes of Zion possibly some thirty wards, numbering about eleven thousand souls, and with the organization of the stakes there has gone to the stakes about two hundred thousand dollars' worth of chapel property that had been built up under mission authority. In the organization of the San Francisco stake, ten splendid wards went into that organization. I am happy to say that since the stake was organized, we have been successful in organizing four new branches in other parts of the mission, two of them being in Sacramento, the capital of the state of California. Instead of one branch in that city we now have three branches, and recently a branch has been organized in San Luis Obispo, the first Church branch ever' established in that city, and we have just recently organized a branch of the Church in Compton, right in the heart of the Los Angeles stake; and this has been done with the full sanction and approval of the presidency of that stake. We hope that under mission authority men and women will be developed in the branches and in the auxiliary organizations who in a time to come will be instrumental for the advantage and welfare of that and other stakes of Zion that I have named. I am reminded also that we -have labored in the Maricopa stake of Zion and have been given a most hearty welcome in that stake by President Price, who formerly was the bishop of the Phoenix ward. He has always given me to understand that when missionary tours were being made in Arizona, that he would like the Phoenix ward to be numbered, temporarily at least, in the California mission. We have had some wonderful times in Phoenix, and we have rejoiced very greatly in the testimony of Bishop Price and others that the ministry of the missionaries in that section of the country has been Very greatly to the advantage of the work of the Lord in that stake. 

We have, at present, outside of the stakes of Zion, nearly fifty Relief Societies, seventy Sunday schools, thirty Young Men's Mutual Improvement associations, thirty Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement associations, and thirty Primary organizations. All of these organizations are established exactly in the same manner as they are organized in the stakes of Zion, and are officered in that manner. They conduct their services strictly in accordance with the lessons outlined by the General Boards, and that are in use in the stakes of Zipn. In our mission, branch presidents carry practically the same authority carried by the bishops in the stakes of Zion. They stand at the head, they receive the tithings of the people, they ordain, according to their judgment, young men to the Aaronic Priesthood. Usually, if men are to be ordained to the Melchizedek Priesthood, before such ordination their names are referred to the mission president. 

We need more missionaries. I suppose it is impossible to get that into the minds of the men in authority, who are here in this congregation. I mean not the men behind me, but you men down in the congregation who make recommendations to the presidency of the Church. .We have discovered a way of getting missionaries that could be adopted. It is to call stake presidents into the mission field. They sent Stephen L. Chipman to the California mission, and there seemed to come to Brother Chipman a great revelation concerning the necessity of missionaries, and while he was" in the mission field he got more missionaries from the Alpine stake of Zion than he has been able to obtain since he returned. One of our missionaries intimated that it was because he had the missionary spirit upon him in the mission field, more than he had in the Alpine stake of Zion; but if we could have other stake presidents sent into the California mission, who would do the same work that President Chipman did in obtaining missionaries, one of our great problems would be solved. 

I was impressed yesterday with the testimony of President Henry H. Rolapp. He told us that when he was called to preside over the Eastern states mission he had some question in his mind as to whether that would be a satisfactory way in which to spend his time, and yet he declared that a wonderful revelation had come to him regarding the joy of missionary work. Well, that comes to every missionary who faithfully meets the obligation that rests upon him. I would not like to be misunderstood, or to give offense to anybody, but I say deliberately that in the mission field I have listened to trembling boys and trembling girls bear witness concerning the truth of the gospel, when my own soul has been pierced just as greatly as in listening to the testimony of any man of authority who has ever saluted my ears with his testimony. I thank God for that condition. Young men and young women do make the discovery by the power of God that they are engaged in the work of God; and I feel that when these weak vessels, for they feel that they are weak, can pierce and melt my own soul and bring tears of joy to my eyes with their testimonies, surely by the same spirit and by the same power they may reach the hearts of men who are not of our faith, and that the Almighty, by the weak things that he has called and sent forth to minister in his name, is actually accomplishing the work designed in the sending forth of these young men and young women who feel most intensely their own weakness. I thank God for their companionship. I am proud of them, I love them, I trust them, and I believe they love me. They gladly hearken to my counsel, and they carry out, generally speaking, without hesitation, and  great cheerfulness, the recommendations that are made to them. 

During this last month of September, we suggested to the missionaries of California that in honor of the one hundredth anniversary of the delivery of the plates of the Book of Mormon to Joseph the prophet, they should make an extra effort to place the Book of Mormon. They responded wonderfully. We do not know just how many were placed, but we believe that in September alone we placed in the California mission three or four thousand copies of the Book of Mormon. 

I am glad to say that about twenty-six of our branches are housed in comfortable chapel buildings, which they own and control. This has been brought about by the liberality of the presidency of the Church, and it has given me wonderful satisfaction to tell the people in the California mission that every dollar of the tithing paid throughout the California mission has been expended in helping to house the branches of California in proper meeting places. When I say that of California it includes portions of the state of Nevada, and portions of the state of Arizona. We have built during the season just closing a comfortable little chapel in Fresno, California. We are roofing at the present time in Prescott, Arizona, a wonderful chapel, built to endure, you would think to look upon it, forever and ever, built out of blocks of granite. And the preliminary steps have .been taken for the erection of- a chapel in Binghampton, Arizona, and in Palo Alto, California. So, little by little we are obtaining better foothold, and I am happy to say that I feel in my soul that it is not a liability, in any sense of the word, in the California mission, to be known as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I believe, with many of our non-"Mormon" friends, that the announcement that an individual is a member of the Church is a distinct asset to him, and we are held, generally speaking, in high esteem by our non"Mormon" friends in Nevada, in California and in x<\rizona. We feel that the purposes of God are advancing", and we know, thank God, that we are engaged in the Lord's service. May he help us to meet our obligations and magnify our callings, 1 humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

We are honored with the presence of General Charles T. Summerall, Chief of Staff of the United States Army, and some of his associate officers. He is visiting Salt Lake on a tour of inspection. We will ask our organist to play a selection in honor of these guests, and then we will be honored by listening to the General. 

An organ solo was then rendered by Edward P. Kimball. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I have very great pleasure in presenting General Summerall. 

62 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

GENERAL CHARLES F. SUMMERALL 

Chief of Staff, United States Army 

President Grant and friends : It is a very distinct honor to appear in this noble temple, the fame of which is known throughout civilization, and to look into the faces of the men and women who represent the sterling citizenship of this great state of Utah. While I am not a stranger to your people, this is the first opportunity afforded to bring to you, as a representative of the army of our country, a greeting and an expression of appreciation of what the people of your faith have done as patriotic citizens, throughout your history, in the service of our country. Many, many years ago, it was my privilege to number* among my friends and my comrades in arms, men who represented not only the high ideals of the faith of your Church, but the high ideals of officers and soldiers of the army of our country. 

Our nation is great, not because of any material development of the people, so much as by the lofty faith of the religious denominations throughout our great land. It is the religion of a people which ha/^ ever marked its civilization. One cannot traverse your state and sec its productive fields, its prosperous and happy homes, its attractive and rapidly growing cities, without realizing that there is a guiding hand and a great influence over the minds of its population. They have achieved great industrial development. Their educational system is second to none. This morning I was only a few minutes in your University, and yet I was profoundly impressed by the educational standards, under the dominant leadership of Dr. Thomas, which must make you indeed very proud. You are guiding the footsteps and the minds of the rising generation along the paths which you and those who preceded you have found to be essential to make a noble, a powerful, a pious and a God-fearing people. 

I stand before you, therefore, with reverence 1 at your 'accomplishments, with admiration of your ideals, and with a sense of pride thai I, too, am with you a citizen of this great land. We share love of country and the flag and patriotic loyalty with our fellow citizens wherever they may be found. It is a noble tribute to your faith and your convictions that we find today so many who have laid aside the burdens of their daily lives to come together for religious devotion in order that they might make better, not only their own lives, but the state and the country in which they live. 

Let me thank you, indeed, from the bottom of my heart, for this privilege, and to hope that I may continue to enjoy the friendship of your people, and the support that we need from you in carrying out the great mission of making our country safe for us and for those who come after us. Thank you. 

PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT 

I regard it as a great honor to have listened to the very splendid  that have been paid our people. I rejoice in knowing that there are no people in all the United States of America who are really more patriotic than the Latter-day Saints, or more willing to perform every duty that devolves upon them, and where the members of our people have been in the army or the navy they have made a record second to none. , 

The congregation sang, "Come, come, ye Saints." Prayer was offered by Elder George Whitehead of the St. George temple. 

The conference adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. , 


