12
Afternoon 
02 10 1931
Elder Charles E. Rowan, Jr. 
127
42-44

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice in this opportunity that I have of being here at this wonderful conference. Another evidence, to my mind, that God is still guiding his people, is the nomination of Dr. Merrill to become one of the apostles of our Church. 

I am happy to bring greetings to you people from the saints and missionaries in the Texas mission, and I am happy to say to you, brethren and sisters, that with but one exception all of our missionaries are enjoying health and strength, and so far as I know, every missionary in that mission is enjoying the Spirit of the Lord and enjoying the missionary work. I have had an opportunity of visiting with every one of them within the last sixty days, and I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, as I hear them bear their solemn testimonies to the people, and hear them expound the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is an evidence to me that there is still power in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I am happy to say to you that we are making many friends among those who have prestige and influence. I find that it is an advertisement to announce to the people of Texas and Louisiana that you are a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

I am indeed grateful to my Heavenly Father for his many blessings. If I should be called upon to spend all the days of my life in the mission field, or in his service, I would not be able to repay him for his kindness to me. I am indeed grateful to him, brethren and sisters, for the fact that I was called on a mission twenty-eight years ago; that I had the pleasure of learning the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in the Southern States, under President Ben E. Rich; that I had an opportunity to travel without purse or scrip, and that I had many things to be thankful for. I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for the testimony that I received at that time, and as I go forward now as a missionary in the great state of Texas, I find there is a different feeling, a different attitude among the people generally, and that very largely because we are becoming better understood. 

May I read to you just a moment from the scripture: 

"A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favor rather than gold and silver. 

"The rich and the poor meet together. The Lord is maker of them all. By humility and the fear of the Lord are riches and honor and life." 

I have yet one individual to meet, who has been out in this country as a tourist and met our people, that has not been friendly, because they have discovered that our people, in the main, are honest; and the good name that you are establishing is making it possible for us to get into the homes of the people in the mission field. 

So I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this great calling, and as I study the Book of Mormon, as I read the revelations contained in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, and as I read the Pearl of Great Price, my testimony becomes stronger, and I feel that there is abundant evidence to prove that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of God. I am happy to say to you, brethren and sisters, that your boys and girls are well and happy; that I am trying as hard as I can to protect and safeguard their health; that I am trying to stimulate them to see the possibilities of the great vision of life that is before them; and that I am trying to impress upon them the seriousness and sacredness of the call which they have received from the Priesthood to proclaim this Gospel. I have enjoyed myself immensely. Never before in my life have I done anything that I have enjoyed so much as I have laboring as a missionary in that part of the Lord's vineyard. 

I am happy to say, brethren and sisters, that these men whom we sustain as our Authorities are beloved by our people; that they respect them; that they reverence them. Our people generally are a praying people, and as they pray night and morning they pray that our Heavenly Father will guide and direct these men whom we sustain as our prophets, seers and revelators; and I feel confident in my heart that he is guiding them. I hope and trust that you people will recognize the important positions that you occupy here in Zion; that you will live your religion, so that when tourists and strangers come among you they will see that you are indeed a chosen people. As you treat them with honor and with respect, and as your lives are reflected in the things that you do, you will make it possible for your sons and daughters to reach their hearts. 

May the Lord bless you. May you realize the importance of a good name, and may you keep alive the spirit that you received when you were confirmed members of this Church, and may we ultimately all come back into his presence to live and grow, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
