4
Morning 
02 10 1931
Elder Richard R. Lyman 
17
18-23

None

None

It is my purpose to make a few remarks on temperance and upon upholding the Prohibition laws. 

WHAT SAYS THE LAW? 

In Utah it is unlawful to import, advertise, give away, exchange, dispense, or serve liquor in any form. In fact, he who has liquor in his hand, in his home, or otherwise in his possession, violates the Utah statute. The Federal Constitution prohibits the manufacture, the sale, or the transportation of intoxicating liquors. 

WHAT SAYS LINCOLN? 

Abraham Lincoln has been called our greatest American. He says: "Bad laws, if they exist, should be repealed as soon as possible; still, while they continue in force, they should be religiously observed." 

In this day of lawlessness and disrespect for law, my purpose is to appeal to the members of my own Church, as well as to all other good citizens, to support the laws of our state and the Constitution of our country. By disregarding or breaking the Prohibition statutes, we may bring all law into disrespect. 

By taking one glass of beer, leading and influential citizens, those who direct business and are owners of property, are encouraging disrespect for all law. Just as touching the little electric exciter brings into operation the mammoth dynamo so he who drinks a single glass of liquor ought to realize that he is helping to break down those fundamental barriers which the law provides for protecting him in his rights to his own property. 

WHAT SAYS SCIENCE? 

In this age of science and scientific investigation, it has been demonstrated beyond question that alcoholic liquor is harmful. It has been proved that alcohol is not, as was formely believed, merely a stimulant; it is a poison, it is a dangerous habit-forming drug. Always it produces stupor. It has been shown that alcohol has much the same effect on the human body and mind that ether or chloroform has.

The great mass of people today accept the teachings of science — that alcohol, even when taken in small amounts, is harmful. Says Professor Sims Woodhead of Cambridge: "A man under the influence of a small quantity of alcohol (not drunk I remind you) has no right to believe his own senses. He cannot trust them to give him facts, and he cannot rely upon his judgment for the interpretation of the facts." 

Experiments show that when men have taken alcohol they actually feel able to do more, and think they are doing more; but measurements demonstrate that the work they actually accomplish is considerably less and is inferior. Alcohol deceives. It deadens the power of judgment; he who uses it is no longer capable of drawing correct conclusions. 

WHAT SAY WE? 

Liquor may make tongues wag more freely, but the thoughts expressed are less accurate, less worth-while. Who would care to carry on a conversation even with his dearest friend if that friend were drunk or even tipsy? The use of alcohol is a curse, not only to him who indulges, but to his dependents, his kindred, and his country. To enforce Prohibition, and thus to banish alcohol as a beverage, would produce benefits immeasurable. 

WHAT SAY THE DOCTORS? 

Dr. C. P. Bells of Toledo says that he has in his files more than $11,000 in bad accounts of those who drank and did not pay their bills before 1918. Since that period his loss from unpaid bills has not exceeded $500. 

To users of liquor, Dr. Henry Smith Williams says : "You are threatening the physical structure of your stomach, your liver, your kidneys, your heart, your blood vessels, your nerves, your brain; you are decreasing your capacity for work in any field; you are lowering the grade of your mind, dulling your higher aesthetic sense, and taking the finer edge off your morals; you are distinctly lessening your chances of maintaining health; you may be entailing on your descendants incalculable misery." 

And the famous surgeon Sir Frederick Greves remarks that "the best physical condition is impossible if any alcohol is used" — that "no man is at his best who works on even a moderate amount of liquor." 

WHAT SAYS THE CHURCH? 

At the time, a hundred years ago, when Joseph Smith proclaimed to the Church and the world that strong drinks are not good for man, the daily rations of soldiers included a certain quantity of rum or whiskey. Stimulants were supposed to be necessary to fortify the soldier against fatigue and hardship, to aid him on his tedious marches, and especially to give him courage in battle. In our day, science has demonstrated that alcohol does none of these things, that its effects are the very opposite. Alcohol no longer is served to soldiers, and every effort is made to prevent them from using it. 

WHAT SAY THE PAPERS? 

The successful enforcement of Prohibition will reduce the amount of drunken driving. Look at any issue of the Deseret News, the Tribune, the Telegram; observe how much space is devoted to drunken driving, to the accidents resulting from it, and to court proceedings arising out of it. 

A recent editorial in the Salt Lake Telegram criticizes drunken drivers and also those public officials who permit these offenders to settle their cases out of court. It scores those "who cast their deadly menace across traffic, thus threatening lives and property, but who, through a streak of good luck, escape a crash." 

In an editorial dated September 27, the Tribune says Utah is bound to recognize the serious problem of drunken driving and fruitless prosecutions. The public, the police, the prosecutors, and the courts have been held intermittently to blame. 

"The public contributes witnesses who refuse to testify, * * * provides the friendly influence which seeks to tamper with officials charged with enforcement; places selfish interests above public welfare; and contributes the juror who does not take seriously his responsibility." 

WHAT ACCOUNTS FOR SUCCESS? 

We live in an age of keen competition. There may be but little difference between the work of individuals, yet one succeeds while another fails. He wins who works a little faster, a little more accurately, a little more efficiently. Intoxicants, even in small quantities, produce that little difference which changes work — changes a life — from success to failure. This poison, alcohol, if used in only small quantities, decreases efficiency. 

DO PUBLIC OFFICIALS BREAK THE LAW? 

Do public officials or other leading citizens violate the law in your presence? 

Some maintain that there is no moral turpitude in breaking a traffic law, for example; but that stealing horses or robbing banks is a very different and much more serious offense. 

Those who steal cattle or rob banks are taking only that which can be measured with money. But when prominent and influential citizens, by their example, lead young folks into a temptation that has wrecked so many human lives, they are taking from young men and women, from their fathers and mothers, and from the Republic, something that dollars cannot measure, that money cannot replace. 

WILL LEADERS LEAD? 

Social and business leaders, being strong characters, are able to resist temptation; to them I make special appeal. The success of our youth demands that leading citizens live the law and set examples they desire to have young folks follow. Will they not aid the youth to acquire those sterling qualities which mean success — honesty, honor, dependability, and sobriety? For these the world is always looking, and for these the world stands always ready to pay. 

WHAT CAN EXAMPLE DO? 

In the days of the saloon it was continuously demonstrated that many have not the ability to resist its temptations. So by the example of those who are older, the younger generation is led into a temptation that may mean ruin; to their parents it will mean disgrace. To the nation, if the great mass of the youth become drinkers, it will mean decay. 

Imagine the condition where a law-breaker has an associate lawbreaker for an arresting officer, another such associate as a prosecuting attorney, and a third on the bench as the presiding judge. What must be the Verdict when the law-breaker is looking into the faces of members of the jury who are equally guilty of breaking the law? Heaven preserve us from such a situation. Under such conditions the life of any nation would be short. Ruin would be certain; the end of the country would be near. 

Nor does it take a great stretch of the imagination to see such conditions actually existing in our own country. 

"At Milton, N. H., one night last week, ("Time", September 28, 1931) an automobile careened down the street and smashed into a telephone pole. Police approached the darkened car, peered in at a bald man, pronounced him drunk, took him to the station house. When they got him under a light and saw who he was they immediately released him, preferred no charges. He was Judge Eri C. Oakes, 42, of the State Superior Court. 

"Ironically, one of the first cases on his docket the next morning was the trial of a drunken driver. A jury found the man guilty; Judge Oakes sentenced him to jail for 90 days, but did not impose fine or costs, suspended sentence until the man could harvest his crops. * * * The following day he presided at the trial of a hit-and-run driver. As the trial got under way, a court attendant tiptoed up, whispered to Judge Oakes that an assistant attorney-general of the state wanted to See him. 

"With a tragic, white face Judge Oakes returned from his conference. 'I am obliged to call this a mistrial,' he said. Court attendants flocked around him sympathetically, watched him walk slowly out of the courtroom. When he got home he sent his motherless 14-year-old daughter away, climbed into bed, * * * and shot himself through the head." 

For our present, serious wide-spread disrespect for law, many of our well-to-do social and business leaders are in part to blame. To their patriotism I appeal, and urge that they obey the law and support the Constitution. If bootleggers were patronized only by the vicious and the wicked, their profits and business would soon disappear. 

WHAT IS OUR ANSWER? 

If you are undecided about whether or not to obey the law, or uncertain as to whether or not it will be wise to participate in no functions where the Prohibition law is broken, ask yourselves (Oral Hygiene, July, 1931): 

1. Does it improve young men and women morally, socially, or financially, to be drinkers of liquor?  

2. Can you name well-known manufacturers who hire men who drink in preference to those who do not? 

3. Can affidavits be produced from citizens who drink to prove it beneficial to their health and occupation? 

4. Can evidence be produced from bankers that their deposits fell off when the sale of liquor was discontinued? 

5. Will manufacturers testify that it is an advantage to have saloons near their plants? 

6. Do charitable organizations have more families among nondrinkers that require assistance than among those who drink? 

7. Do statistics show that a man who drinks is a better citizen than one who does not? 

8. Can letters be produced from wives or mothers who pray for saloons or government depositories, that their husbands and sons may have places in which to spend their time and money? 

9. Do we desire railroad engineers, chauffeurs, and those who drive air-planes to drink?! 

In civilized and modern America we must preserve the young people of our nation from drunkenness. Even in Russia "tremendous educational efforts are being made to eliminate drinking from the life of the peasant and worker. Everywhere, in every station, hotel, and factory, one sees posters depicting some phase of the drink evil. Most of the younger generation won't touch alcohol in any form, and I have seen the Young Pioneers (the Communist Boy Scouts of Russia) many times attempting to restrain grown-ups from overindulgence." (The Nation, June 3 and 17, 1931.) 

WHY NOT DECIDE WISELY? 

I appeal to you as citizens of our nation, to decide whether you are ready to follow the dignified and glorious example of our Pilgrim fathers, who went to Church carrying their Bibles; or whether you will follow the leadership of the few of our American Legion who recently rode through the streets of Detroit swinging their bottles and shouting for beer. 

I am not speaking of the great patriotic body of the Legion or of its high-minded, law-abiding leaders. I refer only to the drunken few. For the American Legion I have the highest regard. For the men who stood ready and willing to give their lives for the liberty of the world, I have real reverence. But in these days, when the greatest problem before America is lawlessness, I cannot countenance the breaking of the law by even a few members of the American Legion, or a few of any other organization. 

I have before made a solemn pledge, and in conclusion I make it here. Fellow churchmen, fellow countrymen — all who are living in the land of Lincoln, to you I appeal to save our country from destruction because of lawlessness and disrespect for law. This is the covenant I have made: God helping me, I promise not to participate in any function, social or otherwise, where the law is broken; and that I will not cast my vote for any candidate on any ticket unless I have reasonable assurance that the man himself lives in accordance with the law. 
