8
Afternoon 
02 10 1931
Elder Miles L. Jones
101
30-32

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I rejoice exceedingly in the opportunity of meeting with you upon this occasion. While I would much rather have remained on my seat and listened to others, yet I realize that when we are called upon we should respond and give utterance to such words as may be dictated to us by the Spirit of the Lord. 

I am happy in the work in which I am engaged, the missionary work in the East Central States. It is opening up wonderfully. During the past summer the missionaries have gone out into the country districts, especially in the county seats, and there on the county courthouse grounds and on the streets have held meetings and presented the Gospel teachings to those people. We have been instrumental in making many friends. In fact, it seems that there is scarcely any opposition wherever we go, and the foundation is being laid so that in time to come a harvest may be reaped by those who may follow after the ones who have been there this season. 

It may be well for me to refer to one particular occasion. Many of you recall that years ago the Saints living upon what is known as Harker's Island, in North Carolina, built a chapel, which, about the time that it was completed, was burned down by their enemies. A few of our Saints have been faithful there up to the present time, and occasionally the Elders have visited that locality and encouraged those few people. Some time ago, when those who were engaged in delivering Book of Mormon lectures and exhibiting pictures in connection therewith visited the island, a young Elder, J. Hopkins Smith, followed these lectures with a Gospel discourse, taking the entire evening, giving a good outline of Mormonism and showing just what we believe. They had wonderful success in these meetings. Before these brethren arrived upon the island one of the leading ministers there tried by every possible means to prevent them from exhibiting these views and giving these lectures, but there was sufficient influence brought to bear that they were permitted to go ahead with their meetings. After they had completed them this divine vilified them through the press, and the Elders answered him. The editor was kind enough to say that it was an open forum and that they were entitled to the same space as was the reverend gentleman. So they answered his accusations. If I recall aright two articles were answered. 

Recently I have had this young Elder visit various parts of the mission. He has been in the field now 28 months, and he desires to remain until after the conference that we are holding at Roanoke in October. He is now going from one district to another, and he desired very much, in connection with the president of that district, to visit this island again. They announced ahead of time that they would be there and hold four meetings. At the first meeting there were about five hundred people in attendance, and this same reverend gentleman attended the services. He brought with him a nice easy chair, seated himself directly in front of the stand, and was there at every session. At the closing session there were more than seven hundred people in attendance. After the services had closed this gentleman came up, shook hands with the Elders, and said: "God bless you, gentlemen. You have the truth." 

That shows the change in sentiment in that locality, and we find the same condition, with very few exceptions, in practically every place that we go. I have met with a number of the prominent men in the city of Louisville and other places, and have had the privilege of conversing upon the principles of the Gospel with them. It is really pleasing to me to hear of their expressions, even in public, after our conversations. So I can say that the foundation is being laid for a wonderful growth in the Church in the states in which I have the privilege of laboring at the present time. 

I rejoice in having the privilege of going into the world, even again, and assisting in this great latter-day work. I am thankful to my Heavenly Father for the blessing that I enjoy in the way of health. I have never enjoyed better health in my life than I have had while in that locality, and I am happy to say also that Sister Jones is enjoying good health and enjoying the work along with me. Your sons and your daughters are laboring energetically and earnestly in spreading this work. I am glad to meet those who have been released and who have returned home. I have met a number today, and without a single exception I have heard them say that they would be glad to come back into the field again and take up the work just where they left it off. That is the proper spirit for them to maintain, and I am happy to find them feeling that way. 

I rejoice in this work. I know as I know that I live that it is the work of the Lord, that the Gospel has been restored to the earth in this day and age of the world. 

Just a week ago last Monday a prominent minister came into my office, and we had a nice conversation which lasted for an hour or so. He said: "I can't understand how it is that you people have prospered and grown in spite of the opposition you have had to contend with from the very organization of your church." It didn't take very long to explain that, and I went on a little further and told him that when the Gospel was upon the earth, Christ said unto Peter: "I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." When Peter and his associates were killed, that same power was taken from the earth. And when the Gospel was restored in these last days who should come but Peter, James and John to restore that power. I want to say, as I said to that reverend gentleman and bore testimony to him, that Peter, James and John have come to the earth and restored the Melchizedek priesthood. This minister turned to me and he said: "Do you believe that?" I said: "No, I don't believe it; I know, it." When Jesus said: "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself," they were no idle words, and they apply today. 

I want to say to you, that a testimony of the Gospel is one of the greatest blessings that one can enjoy today. God bless you, my brethren and my sisters. Encourage your sons and your daughters that are in the mission field. Encourage others to come out and assist in this great latter-day work, and blessings will come to you. I pray that God will continue to bless you with every needful blessing, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
