13
Afternoon 
02 10 1931
Elder William R. Sloan 
97
44-45

None

None

"Then, say, what is truth? Tis the last and the first, 
For the limits of time it steps o’er: 
Though the heavens depart, and the earth's fountains burst, 
Truth, the sum of existence will weather the worst, 
Eternal, unchanged, evermore." 

We have been listening to those gems of truth this afternoon, and my heart has been made to rejoice in the testimonies of my brethren. 

During the summer just past, we took to the Alberta Temple 400 members of our mission to enjoy the blessings of that holy house, many of them driving as far as 1200 miles distance there and 1200 miles back. One of our brethren whose health was impaired and who had been unable to work for years, his wife prevailed on him to go to the temple. "We can't both go," she said, "but you go and get a blessing." The malady with which this brother was afflicted doctors pronounced incurable. He went to the temple and spent two days with us. The third morning he left for home, traveling 150 miles. They stopped at a hotel, and he said to one of our missionary elders: "I went all this distance for a blessing and I am going home without it." 

The Elder said, "Why brother, you can't go home without it, let us drive back tomorrow morning and get your blessing." You will remember brethren and sisters, that when Peter and John were entering the temple, a poor man, born with an infirmity, lay at the gates pleading for alms; and as Peter and John entered they looked upon him, and Peter said: "Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk," and he was made whole. So this brother said, "In the morning we will go back." 

They drove back and they entered the temple. The President laid his hands upon this brother's head and said, "Brother, this malady, this disease, will drop from your body as a robe being discarded, and you will be made well." 

I was in Klamath Falls only a few weeks ago and shook hands with this good brother and his good wife, and he said: "President Sloan, I never was better physically in my life, than I am today." He too was made whole. 

"Sacrifice, my brethren and sisters, brings forth blessings. 

I bring greetings to you from the missionaries in the Northwest and from the far off land of Alaska. Some of you have very vague ideas regarding Alaska — its climatic condition and size. If you could transport it and set it down in the United States, it would cover almost the entire country. That is the size of Alaska. As to climatic conditions, some call it Seward's icebox, but our missionaries have been holding street meetings during the winter months in Juneau, Ketchikan, and Wrangell, with success. We need experienced missionaries in Alaska. You brethren who can afford the finances, and who have had experience, here is a glorious opportunity. Your sons and daughters in the Northwest are marvelous boys and girls; and, fathers and mothers, their love for you is becoming intensified every day they remain in the mission. They love you for that which you are doing for them. 

We released a splendid lady missionary not long ago. Her home is in Cardston. When she arrived there with the caravan, they drove to the temple first, circled around the city for a few minutes, and then she said, "I want you to drive me out to the cemetery." They did so, and there, on the arm of her companion, she stood over the graves of her deceased father and mother, to give her first report of the missionary labors she had performed, hoping for this privilege, and now ready to go forth and discharge her greater responsibility. 

I pray the Lord to bless us in this work, to bless these men who preside; may we sustain them with our faith and prayers and our confidence I pray, in the name of Jesus, Amen.
