25
Afternoon 
03 10 1931
Elder John W. Hart 
92
74-75

None

None

This is one time in my life that I was really surprised. I was sitting very comfortably in the audience, with some of my friends, enjoying the services, as I usually do. However, being called upon I feel under obligation to respond. I never did, to my knowledge, refuse anything that was required of me by those who presided over me. I am very sorry that I missed the services yesterday. I was out in the state of Montana, and came directly from there this morning. I am very happy to get here for the second day's services. 

I hope and pray that the Lord will sustain me this afternoon for the few minutes that I occupy this position. I know that he comes to the rescue of those who are called upon to perform service in the Church. 

I was interested in the remarks of Brother Ivins this afternoon, as it was only last May that I had the privilege of visiting him in the Hawaiian Islands, and I was very happy to meet him. I was very happy also to note the progress of the work of the Lord in that island. While I was there one Sunday I had the privilege of attending the Sabbath school. I never in all my life attended a Sabbath school that was better disciplined and better organized, and that functioned any better than this Sunday school in Honolulu. There were practically all nationalities present. There were natives, Chinese, Japanese, Americans, and other people, but to my surprise, notwithstanding this great mixture there was order, and the Spirit of the Lord prevailed. 

I had the privilege of attending their sacrament meeting at night, it being Aaronic Priesthood night, I sat there and listened to the natives — and it was principally natives that had part on the program — stand up and deliver their parts in a most efficient manner, enjoying the Spirit of the Lord. Their splendid chorus of about thirty-five singers rendered most efficiently the hymn, "An angel from on high." It was wonderful! I was asked to speak a few minutes, which I did and can say that I enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord there as much as I ever enjoyed it anywhere in my life. This all goes to show, my brethren and sisters, that wherever we go, wherever we find a congregation or an organization of the Latter-day Saints, we find that same splendid, sweet Spirit of the Lord. 

I am very happy that I am a member of this Church. I have never seen the day that I have had to apologize for being a member. I have  told my own family, the people of the Rigby stake over whom I have the honor to preside, and others with whom I have come in contact, that the great thing for us to learn as Latter-day Saints, particularly the young men and the young women, is to find out God, the Eternal Father, and his Son Jesus Christ, and to know something about this great latter-day work; that if they would only inform themselves along these lines they would always have joy and satisfaction in meeting the public in any land, and discussing with them the beauties of this great and glorious plan that has been entrusted to our care as Latter-day Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, I am in strict harmony with those who preside over this Church. I know that they are men of God. The Lord will inspire them as long as they hold these positions, to direct the affairs of this people in the manner in which they should be directed. I am happy to have their confidence. I rejoice in being able to associate with them, and especially when they come to the Rigby stake to have the privilege of entertaining them. They always bring with them a splendid spirit, and when they leave we are all better for their coming. 

I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that God the Eternal Father lives, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and that these men who surround me here are inspired of God, and are the living oracles. May God help us to understand and know these things, and to maintain them all the time, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
