17
Morning 
03 10 1931
Elder Arthur Welling 
102
53-55

None

None

My brethren and sisters, I am proud to be a missionary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and am very pleased to be able to report for the North Central States mission that all of our missionaries are well and busy and happy in their work. 

When Jesus was asked by Pilate whether he were king of the Jews a part of his answer was: 

"For this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice." 

We like to feel, in a modest, humble way, like that — that for this cause came we into the world, that we might testify of the truth that God, our Father in heaven, lives; that Jesus, our elder brother, gloriously resurrected, lives; that these two heavenly beings have condescended to again appear in these last days to our Prophet, and have taught him concerning the things necessary to life and salvation. 

We are not in the world to find fault with those who find it difficult to believe as we would like to have them believe. Ours is not a message of criticism nor of argument, but we do love to testify in deep humility of what we believe to be the truth. 

Like the brethren who have reported here, we find friendship everywhere taking the place of misinformation and prejudice of the past. We rejoice in the wonderfully beneficial effects of radio broadcasts from this city and the impressions made upon tourists who visit here. The world is full of our friends, but, my brethren and sisters, in spite of that, it seems to me the work of carrying the message of Mormonism to the world is just begun. They find it difficult to believe as we believe about the things which we regard as fundamental to life and salvation.

Like the other brethren, we too have been on the air a few times in a modest way, and we have tried one small exhibit at a fair, with satisfactory results; but in the main we are plodding along, trying to reach the people personally, individually, in their homes, in their cottage meetings; trying to find an opportunity, where they have radios perhaps, to arrange a little group meeting in which they may listen to the Tabernacle Organ, or the Tabernacle Choir, or one of the speakers of the General Authorities here at home; and by such methods as that to reach the homes and the hearts of the people, for there are many who like to hear more about the truth. 

I would like to tell you a lot about things in our mission, if time permitted, but I know it does not. I Would just like to say, in passing, that if heaven holds no joy — should we ever be fortunate enough to reach there — greater than the joy I have in trying to preach the Gospel, or teach the people what we understand the Gospel to be, I shall be perfectly happy and satisfied. 

I love the people with whom it is my privilege and honor to associate. I love the work. It is the most satisfying thing I have ever yet found. 

I want to waive that thought, however, for a very brief reference, if I may, to what has been mentioned several times already — the times of stress in which we live. There is a little angle to that to which I would like to devote attention. Blessings of adversity — I like to think that. Do you remember the story of the marriage feast? I won't take time to repeat it but it seems to me we are approaching conditions like that. The man who before must prove the oxen which he had bought, or must go to inspect the farm which he had lately purchased, has time now, if we approach him in a right spirit, to listen to some of the things we. would like him to listen to. 

Those who are lovers of Dickens' works will remember the lines with which he opens The Tale of Two Cities: "It was the best of times; it was the worst of times," and so on. And I submit, my brethren — particularly those who preside — it seems to me we are facing conditions like that now. We learned yesterday that this is a good time to pursue our educational work here at home. I ask you, in real sincerity, if you do not think it may also be a good time for missionary work, not only from the standpoint of the people of the world who have a little more time to listen, but from the standpoint of the men to be sent out from Zion to teach the truth. Most of us have to wear clothes and eat some food whatever we do, and many of our young people spend a little money here and there one way and another. If they are not in school and if they are not wage-earners, contributing something to the much needed funds of the family, would it be very much more expensive to maintain them in the mission field than here at home? We are constantly striving for economy, both of means and of time — the few there are of us, only fifty-one or fifty-two — in the mission in which I serve, and there are millions of people to be reached. And so we believe that economy of both time and means is a cardinal virtue. "Dost thou love life," wrote Franklin, "then do not squander time; for it is the stuff life is made of." And in these trying times we emphasize economy of means as well. I would therefore like to urge upon you consideration of the question if this be not also a good time, from the standpoint of the expense involved, for missionary work. 

And now, in conclusion, with apologies to General Foch. These blessings of adversity, of which there are plenty — drouth, unemployment, grass-hoppers, and all — we have experienced them in the North Central States mission; but, although, as the Marshal said, his right was in retreat, and his left was broken, and his center was wavering, and so on — so it may be with us. We suffer under the continued depression and unemployment, and we are withering under the blight of the drouth, and we are still, as is perhaps the case in all the world, struggling against doubt and uncertainty and depression. But, my brethren and sisters, the situation is excellent, as the General said. So far as we are concerned we shall attack, not in criticism, not militantly, but in deep humility and in testimony of the truth, for which we go into the world. And may the Lord add his blessings and speed the right, we humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
