19
Morning 
03 10 1931
Elder Levi Edgar Young 
48
58-60

None

None

The lovely lessons that have been given to us at this session of our conference will find lodgment in our hearts. Elder Talmage's thought that we should cultivate a deeper reverence for God will find in us a ready response; and Elder Welling's message that adversity should inspire us with greater faith in divine providence is a fine truth. Elder Kimball says that we should seek the Spirit of God as we travel the road of life, that we may be able to meet the battles and to overcome weaknesses. What would we do, if we did not have the Lord to help us? 

Not long ago we had the pleasure of entertaining a Chinese priest of the religion of Buddha. He came to Salt Lake City with a letter of introduction from a noted scholar of the University of Tokyo, who had also visited our city. After a very delightful time at our home, I brought the distinguished guest to these grounds to see the buildings and to hear the great organ. As we stood before the west door of this old building, he asked if it were a place for worship. I replied that it is, and with that, he removed his hat and asked that his companion remove his. Said he in Chinese: "We are entering a holy temple of the God of the Christians." We entered the building, and I made no explanation of its history and use, but with my guests, kept silence, for I could see that the Chinese visitor and his companion wished to say nothing. Something of the spirit of beauty and prayer came over us all, and I felt that we were worshiping. 

I feel that we do not reverence our sacred buildings enough; that in our meetings there is often too much noise and confusion. To this tabernacle and to all our tabernacles, we come to hear the word of God, for every building we erect and dedicate to God, is a building for holy worship. The old tabernacle of the ancient Jews had an altar which was sacred. From these emanated the Spirit and word of God. So from this altar goes forth the word of God to all who will listen. It is a house of prayer and every meeting house built by the Latter-day Saints is a house of prayer. 

In attending our Sunday evening sacrament meetings I sometimes wonder if we really carry with us from our homes the desire to lift our thoughts to God during an hour of service. A part of the service is the administering of the sacrament or the Lord's Supper. There we enter into a covenant with our Father in heaven. In our act of partaking of the sacrament is there the spirit of reverence and worship? And during the entire meeting, are our thoughts given in thanksgiving and praise for the blessings we have from God who loves us all? This is an important question for you and me to answer. 

I recently read a book entitled "The Story of St. Michele." At the close of one of the chapters are these words: "What we keep, we lose; what we give away, we keep forever." These words express a divine truth, for as we give to God in thought and deed, the gift comes back to us ten-fold, yea, one hundred fold. So it is in all life. 

We should cultivate reverence for the things of God, and remember that every human being is a child of God and is, therefore, naturally a divine spirit. We should speak to our fellow men with reverent thought and expression; we should carry into the houses of the Lord a reverence which comes from the true spirit of worship. A beautiful lesson of reverence is conveyed in the teachings of Jesus as found in twenty-fourth chapter of St. Luke. I will read it: 

"And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? 

"And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, 

"Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. 

"And they were told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. 

"And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. 

"But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed they had seen a spirit. 

"And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts? 

"Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have. 

"And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his feet. 

"And while the yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? 

"And they gave him a piece of broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. 

"And he took it, and did eat before them. 

"And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me. 

"Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures. 

"And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day: 

"And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. 

"And ye are witnesses of these things. 

"And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high. 

"And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. 

"And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven. 

"And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: 

"And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God." 

These words express the eternal truth that Christ our Lord has risen, and has sent you and me forth to proclaim the fact unto the world. He has endowed you and me with power from on high, and the expression of this will of God, this power of God, comes in holy reverence for God's name and house; for God's home and children. May we grow in this spirit and remember the words of Paul to Timothy:

"Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the, putting on of my hands. 

"For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind." 

May we be blessed to this end and go forth with that joy and happiness that comes from within when we reverence and bless his holy name, Amen.
