27
Afternoon 
03 10 1931
Elder Elias S. Woodruff 
99
79-81

None

None

The opening song of the conference was "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." President Grant said in his opening remarks that when he sang that song he thought of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Many times recently I have sung that song with great pleasure, and I have thought of President Heber J. Grant, and his counselors, and of the Twelve, and of those brethren who are appointed with them to be prophets, seers and revelators to this people. Without reservation I have been able to sing it with great joy and thanksgiving because we do have these men to "guide us in these latter days." It is a great anchor to this people. We go out among other people who are not thus blessed, who are trying to find out something about God, and they are groping in darkness. They may be following the rules of logic and reason to the best of their ability, but they are not guided by inspiration as we are. 

In the Western States mission we have nearly seven thousand members of the Church. Any of them would be delighted to be present here today, as a few of them are, to listen to the inspired words of God's servants and to enjoy the spirit of this remarkable gathering. When I think of the greatness of this conference, as shown by the numbers of those who attend, I sometimes think that if all the members of the Church in the Western States mission were gathered in this tabernacle, it would be quite comfortably filled; and yet they are only a handful, as compared to the Church. Our Church is becoming numerous, and it is spread over every portion of the earth. The Gospel has been carried to nearly every part of the earth, and men and women have received it with joy and gladness. 

I wonder sometimes if when we think of our missionary work we do not think of it as wholly missionary work; but quite an important part of our labors consists in looking after the interests of the saints who are organized in small branches throughout our missions. The time is coming, and coming with great speed, when the larger of our branches will assume something of the perfectness of the wards of the Church. We are beginning to do things, in some of the branches, as they do them in the wards. Our auxiliary organization are following the splendid lead given to them by those who head these auxiliary organizations. Our manuals and our Church magazines are informative and helpful to them. Our people read them with joy and gladness and follow their instructions — so much so that the branches are becoming a little more proficient all the time in the work of teaching each other. 

The spirit and genius of this Church is that we help each other. Sometimes members of the Church get the impression that those who are unworthy or unfit should be cast out, and not permitted to enter into the house of worship. We welcome them that they may grow with us from a degree of weakness to a degree of strength. The Church was intended to be an organization for mutual helpfulness, and so Latter-day Saints are expected, and it is their duty, to help each other, to labor together for the improvement of each other. 

Our branches are doing those things with some degree of excellence. The missionaries are carrying on satisfactory work. We are doing our best, with the few that we have, to reach the people, to carry the message of the Gospel to them, trying to find better means all the time of engaging the attention of the people. 

Last night, when I read that our Station K-S-L was to become a fifty thousand watt station, my heart rejoiced, because I realized that it would be possible, at least in the Western States mission, and I am sure in many other missions, to hear not only the Tabernacle Organ concerts, which are now nationally broadcast, but to hear the sermons that our brethren preach, with some degree of certainty and clearness. Sometimes we hear them; sometimes we do not. If we could depend upon them — and I am sure we will be able to do so with that powerful station operating — it would be a simple matter for us to organize cottage meetings on Sunday evenings, and have small groups, directed by Elders or sisters, meet together to hear the sermon, and then perhaps continue the service by bearing testimonies and singing the songs of Zion, and thus increase in the hearts of people faith in God. 

Many of our friends who are not members of the Church listen in on the radio and are delighted with the organ recitals and with the sermons when they are able to hear them. Truly the Lord is utilizing, through his servants, the wonderful instruments of this great day for publishing the Gospel. 

I pray the Lord to bless you. I pray the Lord to bless those whose children are on missions, and who are making the struggle that they must of necessity make to care for them. I appeal to you fathers and mothers of missionaries — and I think you will hear this appeal — don't send them too much money. In spite of the hard times we do have a few parents who insist on sending their missionaries more than they need. They would be ever so much better missionaries if you limited them to forty dollars a month, or a little less than that, than they will be if you send them fifty. At least I am speaking for the Western States. I would rather know that our missionaries could have only forty dollars a month, than to know that they could have more. That should not be hard advice to take these days, and yet I know of some parents who say: "Well, my son or my daughter must not be deprived. We are willing to deprive ourselves but they must have what they need." I want to testify to you that they will do much better if you will accept this advice. I know one young man whose parents sent him so much money that it almost ruined his mission. Finally the father and mother came out to see him. They were convinced that they had been making a mistake. They rectified the mistake, and today the boy is humble and sweet in his spirit, as energetic as he can be, filling a splendid mission, and happy to know that his source of revenue has been cut off, so that he has to depend upon his own efforts for his blessings. 

I want to say, with gratitude, that we are all well, with the exception of one Elder, and we think he is in no danger. We are grateful for the blessings of the Lord, grateful for his watch-care and his favor over us. I testify to you that he does bless us, that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, and that this is his true work. Amen.
