22
Morning 
03 10 1931
Elder Charles A. Callis 
3
66-68

None

None

The Lord made this wonderful promise to Isaiah: 

"So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth: it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it." (Isa. 55:11.) 

This foreshadows the wonderful missionary work that is being done by every agency in the Church. Truly the Gospel is the leaven that is "leavening the whole lump." There is room and a congenial atmosphere in this Church for spiritually-minded people, men and women with most lofty spiritual ideals; and the intellectually great may drink from the- fountain of truth until their souls are filled with knowledge, satisfying and soul-saving. 

Recently there appeared an editorial in the New York Times in which the brilliant and scholarly editor gave an eloquent summary of the remarkable achievements of science during the year 1930, and he closed with these words: "The science that not only has such practical application, but that has faith in a continuing creation and that cooperates with 'a Creator continually on the job.' " 

Is this an echo of that glorious truth the Lord revealed unto Nephi, of old: "For my work is not yet finished; neither shall it be until the end of man, neither from that time henceforth and forever " (2 Nephi 29:9.) And again: "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Pearl of Great Price, p. 4.) 

"The works of God continue, 
And worlds and lives abound; 
Improvement and progression 
Have one eternal round." 

A noted preacher, a few weeks ago was asked this question: "What has science done to help religion?" He replied: "For example, millions of us were taught to believe in God because he made the universe out of nothing in a single week. Now we are confronted by a large array of facts showing that this particular theory of creation is untenable." 

Nearly a hundred years ago the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, by the inspiration of God, that the world was made of materials that have existed eternally: In the Book of Abraham it is recorded that the Creator said: "We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell." (Pearl of Great Price, p. 37.) 

How marvelous is the truth that the Prophet Joseph announced to the world! 

"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! 
Jesus anointed that prophet and seer — 
Blessed to open the last dispensation; 
Kings shall extol him, and nations revere." 

A sailing vessel, long from port, so the story goes, when off the coast of South America, ran short of water, and the men were in sore straits. Suddenly a sail appeared on the horizon, and when the stranger drew near this message was signaled to her: "Water, we want water!" She answered by saying, "Cast down your bucket where you are!" Again the appeal was made, "Water, we want water!" And again the answer came, "Cast down your bucket where you are!" Once more the signal fluttered from the mast, "Water, we want water!" And for the third time the answer was waved back, "Cast down your bucket where you are!" This the incredulous captain finally did and it was drawn up filled with fresh water from the Amazon river, over the mouth of which they were then sailing. 

In this Church there is a stream of living water that flows from the throne of God. Why go to the ends of the earth in search for the truth when it is here for you to partake of? Why seek for faith-destroying mystery? Oh, won't you drink of this living stream? For if you will your souls shall never thirst again. 

I testify to the glorious truth of this heavenly Gospel. The successful work those fine missionaries are doing is the best evidence that God is with them continually. 

I bear you my testimony too that the leaders of this Church are men of God, raised up and consecrated by him for the marvelous work they are divinely commissioned to do. If we are great enough to be humble and diligent we will live to see this grand and inspiring work prosper more than it has ever done, and out of these hard times there will come a magnificent revival of spirituality, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
