38
Afternoon 
04 10 1931
President Heber J. Grant 
10
128-132

None

None

I regret exceedingly that we have not had the pleasure of hearing from President B. H. Roberts of the First Council of Seventy, and from Brother Joseph W. McMurrin, both of whom have, for many years at the various conferences that I have attended, lifted their voices in testimony of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. 

The General Authorities and Officers of the Church and the Auxiliary Officers and Boards were then presented, and by unanimous vote of those assembled were sustained in their various offices and callings as follows: 

GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 

FIRST PRESIDENCY 

Heber J. Grant, Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
Anthony W. Ivins, First Counselor in the First Presidency. 
Charles W. Nibley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 

COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES 

Rudger Clawson 	James E. Talmage 
Reed Smoot 		Stephen L. Richards 
George Albert Smith 	Richard R. Lyman 
George F. Richards 	Melvin J. Ballard 
David O. McKay 	John A. Widtsoe 
Joseph Fielding Smith 

Inasmuch as some people say that we always present the name of the person nominated to fill a vacancy in the leading councils of the Church, in a group with those previously chosen and ordained, so that the people do not have an opportunity to vote against him, I shall put this separate motion: All those in favor of sustaining Brother Joseph F. Merrill as a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, filling the vacancy in that Council caused by the death of Elder Orson F. Whitney, will manifest it by raising their right hands. 

(All present raised their right hands) 

The vote is unanimous in favor of Brother Merrill. 

PRESIDING PATRIARCH

Hyrum G. Smith 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST

Heber J. Grant 

As Trustee-in-Trust for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

FIRST COUNCIL OF THE SEVENTY 

Brigham H. Roberts 	Joseph W. McMurrin 
Jonathan G. Kimball 	Charles H. Hart 
Rulon S. Wells 		Levi Edgar Young 

It is moved and seconded that we sustain Elder Antoine R. Ivins as a member of the First Council of Seventy. All in favor manifest it by raising their right hands. (All present raised their right hands) Contrary, if there be any, indicate it in the same manner. (No hands were raised) 

The vote in favor of Brother Ivins is unanimous in the affirmative. 

PRESIDING BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester Q. Cannon, Presiding 
Bishop David A. Smith, First Counselor 
John Wells, Second Counselor 

GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

CHURCH HISTORIAN AND RECORDER 

Joseph Fielding Smith, with the following assistants: Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, and A. William Lund. 

CHURCH BOARD OF EDUCATION 

Heber J. Grant 		Joseph Fielding Smith 
Anthony W. Ivins 	David O. McKay 
Charles W. Nibley 	Stephen L. Richards 
Willard Young 		Richard R. Lyman 
Rudger Clawson 	John A. Widtsoe 
Joseph F. Merrill Adam S. Bennion Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION 

Joseph F. Merrill 

AUDITING COMMITTEE 

Henry H. Rolapp 	Orval W. Adams 	John W. Hart 

TABERNACLE CHOIR 

Anthony C. Lund, Conductor; B. Cecil Gates, Asst. Conductor; David A. Smith, President. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward P. Kimball 	Alexander Schreiner 
Frank W. Asper 

CLERK OF GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Joseph Anderson 

GENERAL AUXILIARY OFFICERS OF THE CHURCH 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY 

Louise Y. Robison, President 
Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor 
Julia A. Child, Second Counselor 
with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION 

David O. McKay, General Superintendent 
Stephen L. Richards, 1st Asst. Superintendent 
George D. Pyper, 2nd Asst. Superintendent 
with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG MEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

George Albert Smith, General Superintendent 
Richard R. Lyman, 1st Asst. Superintendent 
Melvin J. Ballard, 2nd Asst. Superintendent 
with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

YOUNG LADIES' MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION 

Ruth May Fox, President 
Lucy Grant Cannon, First Counselor 
Clarissa A. Beesley, Second Counselor 
with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION 

May Anderson, Superintendent 
Isabelle S. Ross, 1st Asst. Superintendent 
Edna Harker Thomas, 2nd Asst. Superintendent 
with all the members of the Board as at present constituted. 

In case any person fails to fully appreciate the plain statement of President Ivins that the book to which he referred is to be considered as the personal opinion of the author and not as having been approved by the Church, I wish all the members of the Church to know that when any book has the approval of the Church it will have the stamp of approval of the Presidency of the Church. Therefore, no agent selling any books is justified in quoting the Church as approving a book that does not carry the stamp of approval in it. 

I believe that for the first and only time since I became the President of the Church it is not four o'clock when the time has arrived to call upon the choir to sing and for the final benediction to be pronounced. 

It has fallen to my lot on more than one occasion to make a few remarks after four o'clock. We are all willing to stay here after four o'clock, I am sure, to hear the choir in the closing anthem. Therefore, there are ten full minutes left for me, for which I am grateful. 

GRATEFUL FOR CONFERENCE 

First, I am thankful for this wonderful conference. I believe sincerely that today we have had as many if not more in attendance than is usual at our Sunday morning and afternoon meetings. It seemed to me that we were more crowded this morning than at any other time I can remember. 

I am grateful that what to me was the most marvelous sight I have looked upon in this building was that which I witnessed last night when the building was nearly filled with members holding the priesthood of the living God. Let me say that with all our faults and failings I believe we are the best people in the world. It sounds a little egotistical, but I believe every word of it, and I believe firmly that our sisters are better than the brethren, I haven't any doubt of this, none whatever. There was a magnificent showing here last night of the priesthood, and from the bottom of my heart and in the authority of the priesthood of the living God that I hold I have great pleasure in blessing the men who hold the priesthood of God, the power from heaven, and in blessing our wives who, on an average, have been more devoted, I am sure, to the work of the living God than we have been. 

LOYALTY TO PRESIDENT HOOVER AND ASSOCIATES 

I rejoice in the splendid work of the Latter-day Saints. I desire and feel to pray for the blessings of the Lord to be and abide with the President of the United States and his cabinet in this time of great trouble, in a time when we should be loyal. "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates." Let us be loyal to those who in the providences of the Lord stand at the head of our nation at the present time, in this great time of trouble. I am sure nobody will accuse me, seeing I am counted as a Democrat, of being guilty of mixing politics with religion here; but I believe that no truer, better, finer man has ever sat in the presidential chair than the man who is sitting there today. That is my opinion of President Hoover. 

A STRAW VOTE 

Some years ago for the first and only time in my life I paid some attention to a straw vote. I do not think such votes amount to a straw; that is my opinion of them. I think that if there is ever any "stuffing" in ballot boxes it is when a straw vote is being taken. I think it is properly named "straw vote." It is as weak as a straw. But I could not resist the temptation way back many years ago, when the Literary Digest asked for a straw vote, and lo and behold, I voted for Hoover. That was my opinion of the man who had done so much, such magnificent and wonderful work during the war, in feeding the people in Europe. I believe that he is absolutely honest and conscientious and that his heart is as firmly set upon doing the right thing for the people of this country, as the hearts of the leaders of this Church are set upon doing the right thing for the Latter-day Saints. 

I am happy indeed in a knowledge of the divinity of the work you and I are engaged in. I humbly pray for the blessings of the Lord to be with each and all of you, with the Latter-day Saints the world over, and the honest in every land and every clime. God bless you, Amen.
