36
Afternoon 
04 10 1931
President George Albert Smith
31
117-123

None

None 
 
I have selected a text. This is not usual with me, but the experiences of this conference have been such that I would like to refer to it if I am so led. I feel very humble to stand in the presence of this great audience and very much do I desire an interest in your faith and prayers, that the delightful influences that have pervaded our conference, and the inspiration of the Lord that has been upon those who have addressed us may be with me. 

ABSENT ONES 

These beautiful flowers are the offering of Sister Sarah Daniels, the good woman who kept house for Evan Stephens for years prior to his demise. They were brought by her in remembrance of Brother Stephens who directed the Choir in our conference a year ago. 

I have been lonesome during this conference for some of the absent brethren who were here six months ago. Since then Elders Orson F. Whitney and Rey L. Pratt have passed to the Great Beyond. They were two of the beloved leaders in Israel and nobody can take their places. Elders John A. Widtsoe and Joseph W. McMurrin are also absent in the mission field rendering service. 

LOVE FOR THE BRETHREN 

My heart is tender today and my feelings are subdued as I realize the bounteous blessings of the Lord bestowed upon me and mine. It is a priceless privilege to live in an atmosphere such as we enjoy in this Church and to associate with good men and women who are interested in benefiting all mankind. The companionship of the leaders of Israel is to me a blessing, the value of which cannot be measured. These leaders on this stand are representatives of our Heavenly Father and I love them as if they were my own flesh and blood. 

As I associate with the General Authorities, stake presidents, high councilors, bishops, and the leaders in the various departments of the Church, from the depths of my soul I feel grateful for the opportunity that has been mine in life, to have as my companions the kindest, holiest and best men and women that this world knows anything about. 

In I. John, 3rd Chapter and 14th Verse we read: 

"We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren." 

What a wonderful thing it is to belong to an organization that teaches that very thing, and not only teaches it by word of mouth, but exemplifies it in so many marvelous ways. How grateful we should be to our Heavenly Father that those with whom we are permitted to associate are dependable, and that we can love them and have their companionship. 

TEACHING THE WORLD 

A number of years ago I was riding with a man in the East. I told him where I was from, that I was a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and he asked: "Is that church still in existence in Utah?" I replied, "Yes, and growing rapidly." I thought then: Will it ever be possible for us to convince the world that this is the Lord's work? Although it encounters many obstacles it goes forward constantly. It would seem an impossible task to personally contact and teach the Gospel to all people, but with the radio countless thousands, many of them living far away, may hear the servants of the Lord teach the truth. I was recently in Winnipeg, Canada, and was there told that some of the finest programs they hear are those from Salt Lake City. Often they tune in on KSL and hear the sermons that are delivered on Sunday evening. In every case of that kind people have spoken appreciatively of what they are permitted to enjoy. 

We are living in a marvelous age, at a time when the Lord has not only inspired his children to do wonderful things to make our existence more pleasant here, but has revealed his Gospel anew and established his Church to prepare us for the celestial kingdom. It is difficult to bring people to an understanding of the fact that this Gospel is not the work of man, but is our Father's work, given to us in this latter day for the blessing of all mankind. 

INTEREST IN THE CHURCH GROWING 

During the year I have visited four of the mission fields of the United States, three of them from one end to the other, and in every mission I have found delightful people who are interested in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

In the Texas mission one young man, who was the religious editor of a newspaper, came to our meetings, and then asked if he might come to the hotel and talk with us. We visited with him. That is less than a year ago now, and only within the last two or three days I have learned that he has joined the Church because of the blessing that he feels will come to him by such a membership. 

In some places I found that our chapels are not large enough to hold the conference congregations. In several cities people came in such numbers that we could not make them comfortable, and the audiences, in many cases, were composed mostly of those who are not members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

The work of the Lord is going forward. The teachings of our Redeemer are finding a lodgment in the hearts of the children of men. The spirit of prayer is abroad, and I would like to say that it is pleasing to me, as I go into the homes of non-members, to find that many are anxious to approach the Lord in prayer, and the servants of the Lord are asked to pray with them, showing their faith in the power and blessing of prayer. But it seems strange that it is so difficult for many people to understand the plan of salvation. 

TEACHINGS OF THE REDEEMER 

The discourses that have been delivered from this stand during this conference have been delightful to me. Nothing has been said that anybody could take exception to or that anyone would not be pleased to accept. What has been said has been in conformity to the teachings of Jesus Christ our Lord. We believe in faith, in repentance, in baptism by immersion for the remission of sins and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. These are the teachings of the Redeemer of mankind, and he has called upon us in this latter day to teach all people these glorious truths and others that have been revealed. 

When I visit the sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints in the mission field, and discover how they grow in strength and power and in grace before the Lord, and how they are able in their humble way to explain the principles of the Gospel to the convincing of many of our Father's children, I am thankful indeed. I wonder if the Latter-day Saints really appreciate what a contribution they are offering to the world when they send out these young men, and in many cases young women, who are giving their time and such information as they possess in order that others may enjoy the blessings of which we partake. 

ALL CANNOT UNDERSTAND 

The scriptures inform us that all will not understand the Gospel. (See I Cor. 1:18.) 

"For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness; but unto us which are saved it is the power of God." 

Is that not true? Has your missionary experience not brought to you that realization, as it did to Paul, that those who refuse the truth are on the way to perishing? They do not comprehend, and the Gospel of Jesus Christ is but foolishness unto them Many are good men and good women, but they cannot understand. To you who have been baptized into his Church and have been obedient to his requirements the Gospel of Jesus Christ is an anchor and brings to you a satisfaction that can come in no other way. 

ANXIOUS TO DIVIDE WITH OTHERS 

As I read the scriptures, not only the Old and the New Testaments, but the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, I marvel at the goodness of the Lord to bless those who accept his teachings, for we find more comfort in these sacred records than in all the philosophies of the ages, as given to us by the wisdom of men. 

Standing here as one of the weakest and humblest among you, I feel to praise my Heavenly Father for the testimony that he has given to me that this is his Church. Oh, how I wish that the good people of all denominations might really know what we are seeking to divide with them! I meet members of the Catholic, the Presbyterian, the Baptist, the Methodist, and all the other churches, and I find in these men and women virtues that are most beautiful to me. But I find that they are so rooted in the organizations with which they are identified that when I try to explain to them what we are doing, they seem mystified; they are not able to understand. One man said to me, "Would you have us give up all that we have had, all these blessings that we have enjoyed, to join your church?" I replied: "Not a blessing, not one good thing would we ask you to give up. But we do say to you, we will be glad to divide with you, if you will permit us so to do, without cost to you, some of the blessings of our Heavenly Father that have been kept from you in the past which are now at your very door." 

It is not the purpose of this Church to make statements that would hurt the feelings of those who do not understand things. This Church is not one that goes about criticising and finding fault with others, but in the spirit of loving kindness and the desire to be helpful, its representatives carry the Gospel message to the nations of the earth. This unusual missionary service is attracting world-wide attention. By the thousands the sons of God, bearing the priesthood, and some of his daughters, have gone to the uttermost corners of the earth, paying their own expenses, for the purpose of sharing with our Father's children his precious truths which would be so helpful to them if they would but accept them and make them part of their lives. 

THE WISDOM OF THE WISE 

The scripture that I last read is followed by this: 

"For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent." 

And in another place we read: 

"The wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid." 

In analyzing the distressed condition of the world at the present time and realizing that the greatest minds of all lands in studying our problems are utterly helpless to meet the issue, I am persuaded that until they turn to him whose children they are and acknowledge the Father who is so anxious to bless, until they will give him an opportunity to inspire them, they will continue to grope in uncertainty and fail to solve the problems that afflict mankind. The difficulties for which we are now seeking remedies are the result of forsaking the teachings of the Lord and depending upon the wisdom of men. 

THE PANACEA 

If I were to voice what is in my heart it would seem egotistical to some, but I say to all men everywhere, examine the teachings of the Gospel of our Lord as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, search them prayerfully, and you shall find the panacea for the ills of this world, and it will be discovered in no other way. 

I believe that, as I believe that I live, and when I speak thus it is with the fervent desire that in some way we may be able to interest our Father's children and bring them to an understanding of his truth, that the errors and mistakes of mankind may be neutralized, that the power of evil may be turned aside, and that his children everywhere may be induced to glorify his name. 

OUR DUTY 

Think of the great and good men who have taught the Gospel of Jesus Christ, from the days of Joseph Smith until the present time, and how often their words have fallen upon dull ears throughout the world. I realize that the time is coming, however, and our Heavenly Father has so decreed, that all shall know. But in the meantime, it is your duty and mine, not only to teach the truth but to let our light so shine, by our conduct in life, that others, observing our good works, may be constrained to glorify his name. 

It is your duty and mine, as we go to and fro among our companions day by day, to radiate such an influence that they will be led to investigate the cause of the peace and happiness that dwells with those who serve God and keep his commandments. It is not necessary that we be called upon missions for that. Right here at home and in all nations there are hundreds and thousands of good men and women who are not yet touched by the Gospel of Jesus Christ, many of whom did they but understand what you understand, would be glad to conform to the requirements of our Heavenly Father and partake of his blessings. If in our homes and in our business affairs, if in our lives everywhere, we will go about radiating that love that should be in every heart, that kindness that should possess every Latter-day Saint, (and particularly in these times when condittions are so serious for many) many men and many women will rise up to call us blessed, not only for the creature comforts that we may bestow, but because of the hope of eternal life that we have been the instruments in the hands of God of placing before them in a comprehensive way. 

Some of the greatest mission fields in all the world are the abiding places of the Latter-day Saints, the towns and villages where we live, and if we would but do what our Father desires us to do, the beauty of the Gospel of our Redeemer would be realized by the children of men, and we would all be made happier to see our Father's children — every one of them dear to him and precious in his sight — drawing near to him, that they might obtain the blessings that he has promised those who serve him and keep his commandments. 

THE AUTHORITY OF THE LORD 

I know that the authority of the Lord is here. I know that the man who stands at the head of this Church is inspired, and I wish that all of you might know of his willingness to sacrifice for the blessing of those to whom he ministers. I wish you could all know of the faith and devotion of his counselors, as they sit hour by hour giving the very best that is in their lives, to plan for the good of humanity, not only for us but for all mankind. 

I wish you could be associated as I have had the privilege of being with the good men who lead the Church, the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, the Patriarch, the First Council of Seventy and the Presiding Bishopric, these men whose lives are devoted to the blessings of mankind. I wish you could know them as I know them. I want to say that if you did, no one would come to you with any suggestion of wrong-doing charged against them without being defended by you, realizing that they are indeed the servants of the Lord 

GRATITUDE FOR BLESSINGS 

I am grateful for my fellowship in this Church. I have never asked for positions of honor. I have always been pleased to work wherever I have been called, and in the mercy of the Lord he has given me strength, thus far, to carry out in part the requirements that have been made of me. I stand here my heart filled with gratitude to him who rules and reigns on high, for the privilege that I enjoy at this moment, being with this marvelous congregation, and of talking to you as I am permitted to do, and I hope that his children who may be listening in will feel the blessing that we enjoy, as this service proceeds under the direction of the Prophet of the Lord. 

GOD’S WORK 

This is God's work. It is not the work of any man. No man or set of men could have carried it forward and made it successful in the face of the opposition of the world. Many times they have felt that the end of the Church had come, and each time by the majesty of his power, the Lord has lifted it up, and it has gone forward from city to city, from village to village, from nation to nation, and here in the tops of the everlasting hills he has fulfilled his revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, that the people were to become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. 

Our work has only just begun. As I look into the future and realize the possibilities, the prayer that is in my heart is Father in heaven, help us that we may resist evil, that we may banish from our lives selfishness, that we may love one another, and wherever we may go, that those to whom we minister may feel that love and be touched thereby, that they may desire to be members of such an organization as this. 

I pray that the Lord will bless him who presides over us and bless his counselors, that they may live long to direct us, that they may continue to labor under the inspiration of our Heavenly Father, for I know that they have labored that way in the past. May we who labor under their direction, we who serve in the various departments of this Church, live so near to him who rules and reigns on high that we will know our duty when the word is spoken by those whom he has called to preside and that we may not be swayed by the fallacies, the foolishness and the philosophies of men. 

God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and his children everywhere in the world, that his power and the inspiration of his Spirit, and the knowledge of his truth may come to them, that 0this world may become filled with the glory of righteousness, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
