Afternoon
04 04 1941 

Conference reconvened at 2 o'clock p. m., Friday, April 4. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

The time has come to open the second session of our Conference. We are blessed again this afternoon with the presence of President Heber J. Grant, who is presiding, and he has asked President Clark to conduct the meeting. 

There are present on the stand this afternoon President Grant and his two Counselors; the eleven Apostles; all of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies; and all the Presiding Bishopric. 

The congregation and the Brigham Young University Chorus and members of the Provo Duo Stake Choir sang the hymn, "How Firm a Foundation" — Words by Keene. 

Elder Charles S. Clark, President of the Cassia Stake, offered the opening prayer. 

The Choir sang "Glory to God in the Highest" — Pergolesi. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

I wish all you fine people in the body of the house could see this audience from the stand. It is a wonderful sight, every seat filled and people standing, both in the doorways and in the gallery. 

I trust that I may be blessed of the Lord today, that I may express to you the feelings of my heart with reference to the work with which we are identified. After the wonderful session we had this morning I feel that it would be just too bad if I should try to talk myself and express my own personal feelings, unless the Lord helps me. 

THE COMMANDMENTS OF THE LORD GIVEN FOR OUR GOOD 

As I travel around among the people I am sometimes astonished to find that some appear to feel that they are doing the Lord a favor  belonging to His Church. They seem to have an idea that when they keep the commandments of the Lord, that they are doing something to please somebody else. 

I doubt that the people of the world realize that the reason they are in the predicament they are in today is because they have neglected to follow the advice of our Heavenly Father. The uncertainty, the distress, the anguish that is prevalent in so many parts of the world is traceable directly to violating His commandments. The Lord, when He gave to us the Ten Commandments, gave us advice for our good. It was not for His benefit, except that He is always happy when we do right. But I am thinking now of the commandments that came down from Sinai : "Thou shalt honor the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve." That was not to please Him. The advice that He gave in that regard, and elsewhere, has been for our good and for our benefit. 

 When He commanded us that we should honor the Sabbath Day to keep it holy, He only gave us the information that would help us to enjoy our lives. That is all. 

"Thou shalt not steal." When that commandment was given it was intended that if people in this world would be honest, that they would derive the benefit. Only this morning our beloved President quoted a portion from the Doctrine and Covenants, referring to the laws that govern us : 

There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven from before the foundation of this earth, upon which every blessing is predicated. 

So the Lord, in His kindness, seeing the attitude of His children, and knowing that they would need guidance, gave to us the Ten Commandments, and other commandments that have been given from time to time, to help us to find happiness. You observe people running to and fro in the world, seeking happiness but not finding it. If they would only pause long enough to accept the Lord's advice happiness would follow, but they will find it in no other way. 

BLESSINGS FOLLOW THE KEEPING OF THE COMMANDMENTS 

It is strange that any member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints should have to be urged to say his prayers, and yet there are some people who do not pray in secret or have their family prayers. Yet unless we pray we lose the protection that prayer offers. (D. &C. Sec. 20:32-34.) 

The Lord has given us the privilege of contributing one-tenth of our interest, for His Church, for the development of His work in the world. Those who pay their tithing receive their blessing. If we do not desire the blessing, we may withhold our contribution. The Lord promises His blessing if we honor His law and not otherwise. 

Everything that He has asked us to do is for our good, not for somebody else's benefit particularly, though, of course, it benefits others when we set a good example. With this great body of Priesthood and the membership of the Church assembled here, what an influence we ought to have, if we are keeping the commandments of the Lord. 

26 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April $ First Day 

The President referred to the fact, this morning, that there were offices in the Church, and that men who hold those offices ought not to expect to hold them unless they magnify them. Why? Because they receive no benefit from it, only as they keep the commandments of the Lord and magnify their callings. It is of no particular advantage to be a High Priest or a Seventy or an Elder in this Church, just to hold that office. But if we live up to the teachings of the Lord, if we do what He asks us to do, then we have promise of a blessing. The Lord, all the years from the beginning of time, has been ready to bless His children whenever they will permit Him to do it. 

There are some who do things they ought not to do, and yet they hope for a blessing. We sing: "God Bless America." What a wonderful hymn that is! How beautifully it is sung in large congregations! But God cannot bless America if the people who live in America refuse to keep His commandments. We must earn the blessing if we would receive it. 

We are commanded by the Lord to teach our children what they should do, that they should have faith, that they should repent, and that they should be baptized when eight years of age; and He says that if we fail in our responsibility, the sin be upon our heads. What does that mean ? It means, to me, that if our children fall away because of our neglect and because of our carelessness, there will come a time when we realize that we did not prepare them for the blessings the Lord wanted to give them, and the result is that they have failed to receive the blessings and the sorrow will be upon our own heads. 

I am grateful that I belong to a church that does not compel obedience. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints does not coerce. The Gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of love, intelligence, a wonderful guide for our lives. That is what it is for. It is for everybody. Yet we find people who resist the very thing that would make them happy. They will not live the Gospel but seek happiness only in the pleasures of life that will not endure. 

I think this great organization that we belong to ought to be able to set such an example that people in our neighborhoods, not members of the Church, seeing our good works, would be constrained to glorify the name of our Heavenly Father. That is the way I feel with regard to that. All that we need to do is to set an example, be good men and good women, and they will observe it. Then perhaps they will afford us the opportunity to teach them the things that they do not know. 

Every blessing that we desire must be earned by obeying the law upon which that blessing is conditioned. Now, we understand that, brethren and sisters. How unwise we are if we fail, if we ourselves decline to do the thing that will earn us a blessing, when we know that we cannot obtain it in any other way except to earn it. That is the difference in the attitude of those who understand the Gospel of Jesus Christ and the people of the world. I have had people tell me : "Oh, it doesn't make so much difference what you do. After a while everybody will be saved in the Kingdom of God." It used to be quite customary when I was in the mission field in early days, to hear that. That is what  devil is telling the world. That is the way the Adversary teaches. If he can just keep them doing wrong all the time, and neglecting that which is right, he has them just where he wants them to be, and he has us where he wants us, when we fail to do right. 

THE PRIESTHOOD TO BE HONORED 

To be ordained to the Priesthood may not prove a blessing. We should not at any time feel that it will be a blessing to us, unless we honor it, unless we magnify it, and have in our hearts the desire that the Lord intended we should have, when He bestowed that gift upon us, and we should always desire to do good. 

What a wonderful group we have enrolled in this organization! Lovers of all that is good and beautiful, marvelous choirs that come from different parts of the Church to sing for us here; to supplement the delight that the Tabernacle Choir and Organ give to us; this lovely building in which to meet, not another like it in the world. We have every blessing that the world has anywhere, plus the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Of course, the world does not understand it if we say it that way, but we ought to understand it. Everything that I can find that is good in anychurch in all the world, is a part of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. No other church can say that. 

This is the Lord's Church. I sometimes hear people speak of it as "our church." This is the Lord's Church. Our Heavenly Father ordained that it should come at this particular period of the world's history, and He directed that it receive the name of His beloved Son. Fortunate are we if while we are members of it we live up to the opportunities that it offers, lest we fall into transgression and lose our faith and forfeit the blessing that the Lord desired us to possess. 

ADVICE TO SEEK FOR IMPROVEMENT 

Now, brethren, let us do better than we have ever done before. Let us renew our determination to be real Latter-day Saints, and not just make-believe. I do not think I ought to be talking just like that to this group, because I feel that perhaps the cream of the Church, very much of it, is in this building; but I do not know anybody who can not do a little better than he has been doing, if he makes up his mind. 

I think that with the distress everywhere, with the prediction that the Lord made in the first Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, that "peace should be taken from the earth," we must feel that that time has come. Surely we ought to take stock of ourselves, and our homes should be the abiding place of prayer and gratitude and thanksgiving. Husbands should be kind to their wives, and wives considerate of their husbands. Parents should hold the love of their children by their righteous living. Our homes would then not only be the abiding place of prayer and thanksgiving, but would be the place where our Father could bestow His choicest blessings, because of our worthiness. 

I pray that the peace that cometh from our Heavenly Father may abide in our hearts and in our homes, that we who have been honored by 

28 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April i First Day 

fellowship in the Church of His Beloved Son may appreciate that honor every day, and so live when the race is run that we shall have earned an inheritance in the Celestial Kingdom. We must not surrender to temptation, but should meet our problems in the spirit of love and kindness toward all men, ever serving God and keeping His commandments. And we are always serving Him when we are blessing our kind; do not forget that. 

FAITH SHOWN BY GOOD WORKS 

We cannot expect to earn blessings without earnest effort. We will be required to make what appears to some to be sacrifices. I suppose people think when they pay their tithing that they are making a sacrifice, but they are not; they are making a real investment that will return an eternal dividend. Our Heavenly Father gives us all that we have. He places all in our hands, authorizing us to retain for our own use nine-tenths of it, and then He asks that we put His tenth where He directs, where He knows it will accomplish the most good in developing His Church. 

When we heard the reports this morning of this great Church, the financial report impressed me much. To know that a great organization like this, with its multitudes of people, functioning in so many ways, in the midst of the world's turmoil and distress is in such a condition that one of the Presidency of the Church could stand here and truthfully say to us this Church is out of debt. With the nations and most of the people in debt, yet the Church has been so managed that it is out of debt. Let us think about it. Let us sustain the Church. Let us follow the advice of the leadership of the Church. Let us so live that the Lord can bless us as He blesses the Church. 

The Lord gave one commandment to the people, in which He said this was the only church in all the world that He is well pleased with, and He emphasized that by saying, or inferring at least, that that did not mean individually. That meant the Church as a whole. But how wonderful it would be if He could say of us that He is pleased with all of us as individuals. 

God grant that we may so live and let our light so shine that others, seeing our good works, will be constrained to glorify His name. Let there be in our hearts love and compassion and consideration and charity for every soul that we come in contact with. Then we can consistently kneel down in our own homes and invoke the favor of the Lord upon those that we love, and upon all those with whom we associate, and when life's labor is complete may we find that we have listened to the whispering of that still, small voice that always guides us in the path of righteousness, and know that it has meant for us the opening of the door to the Celestial kingdom, for ourselves and those we love, to go forward throughout the ages, not unhappy eternally, but happy eternally, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 

ELDER ANTOINE R. IVINS 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

My beloved brethren and sisters, it is with a sense of extreme responsibility that I stand before you here this afternoon, realizing that to take your time is a responsible thing. I pray that you may all give me an interest in your faith and prayers, that the short time I stand before you I may enjoy a portion of the Spirit of God, our Heavenly Father. 

LOVE EXPRESSED FOR LEADERS 

I am extremely grateful this afternoon for the privilege I had this morning of listening to the testimony of my beloved uncle, the President of the Church. I hope he knows how deeply we all love him. I want to tell him that the Lord cannot extend his years too long to please us, who are so near to him. I believe that I echo the sentiments of this vast congregation when I say that. 

I am thankful, likewise, that the Lord has seen fit to spare to us, in the First Council of the Seventy, our very beloved Senior President, Brother Wells. There is nobody whom we love more than we do these men, and we would put with them Brother Clawson, who stands at the head of the Council of the Twelve. We associate with them very closely. We know their integrity and their devotion to the work of the Lord, and we would have naught but peace and joy, happiness and success to crown their future years. 

JOY IN MINISTERING AMONG THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

As we move about among the people we strive to serve you to the very best of our ability, realizing that we are your servants as well as the servants of God, our Heavenly Father. We make very many fine friends. I see many of them in the audience today, and I want to thank them for the kindly ministry that they have given unto us as we move about. 

In these visits it has been my privilege to talk with a great many of the officers of the Church, and to study the conditions that prevail throughout the Church, and I believe that we have the finest people on the earth, the finest because they have the purest belief in God, our Heavenly Father, a God to whom we can actually call for blessings, who will recognize that call, and minister unto us according to our wants. 

We would like, if we could, to find ways and means of helping each other to live nearer and closer to God our Heavenly Father, to observe better the principles of the Gospel, which we know to be the principles of life and salvation, life here in the earth, which will give us the very fullest possible growth and development, and a life hereafter, with our Heavenly Father. We struggle and we strive, with this aim and purpose. Sometimes we feel that we do not have a very great measure of success. But then frequently we find that we do sow seeds that grow and flourish and produce happiness and joy in the hearts of the people. That, it 

30 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 4 First Day 

seems to me, is our major purpose — to help you to help each other to greater joy and happiness and success. 

MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD COMPARISONS 

One thing I have noticed, as I move about among the people, that I think maybe it would be worthwhile to call to your attention. You know we minister in the Priesthood especially, and we check the activities of the Priesthood throughout the Church. For more than a year I have been comparing the number of men holding the Melchizedek Priesthood, in the different Stakes which I have visited, with the number of families in the Stakes. It startled me almost past belief, the other day, to find in one Stake that I visited that there were possibly only 43 out of 100 families with a representative in the Melchizedek Priesthood. 

Now, if we had an ideal condition prevailing, the only families not represented in the Melchizedek Priesthood would be the families of widows, because all of the men who are married would marry in the Temple, and all the young women who would marry would marry men who would marry in the Temple. But that does not seem to prevail. 

When there are as many, or as few as 43 out of 100 represented in the Melchizedek Priesthood, there seems to be a condition that we might well pay attention to. It runs all the way from 43 to above 95. I visited one Stake where that comparison was as high as 95. That seems to me to be almost an ideal condition. Now, somewhere in between there will be a happy medium. That is what we ought to seek, at least the happy medium. Let us strive to increase that proportion, by teaching our young people the advisability of marrying within the Church. Then let us strive to increase it further by teaching our young people the advantage of working in the quorums of the Priesthood, so that when the time comes that they care to marry, they can be married in the Temple, having been made Elders in the Church. 

It seems to me that those things merit our consideration. Just why it is that that proportion is so low in some places, I do not know that I can say, but I believe it is because of the environment in which the young people live in those Stakes, that most of their associations are outside of the Church, and consequently many of them are marrying outside of the Church. Now, it so happens that occasionally a marriage of this kind is rectified because the non-member party to the marriage eventually comes into the Church through conversion. It seems to me, however, that it would be infinitely better for that conversion to be realized beforehand. Isn't it a serious consideration? 

THE TEACHING OF MARRIAGE IN THE TEMPLE MOST DESIRABLE 

We have those two fields of labor, then, for our Stake missionaries, for instance, and especially for our fathers and mothers, to teach their young people that it is a highly desirable thing to marry within the Church, to marry people whose sympathies are like yours, whose faith is like yours, who understand you, and whom you can understand. And then to teach these young men their duties, so that this group, which we  the Adult Aaronic Priesthood group, will shrink to the vanishing point. It would be a wonderful thing if we could accomplish that one thing within the Church. If we could do it, even to reduce it just a little, within the next year, think what a wonderful project that would be within our Stakes and within our families. 

There is nothing we could do, perhaps, that would help our young people to a better realization of their possibilities, than to so teach them that they would marry in the Temple. There is nothing that I have ever been more grateful for than that privilege, the privilege of being sealed to my wife for not only this life but for an eternity which is to come. The very sanctity and sacredness of that thing is one of the greatest supports that we could have in life. It is one of the very finest objectives that we could have in dealing with our young people. Now, to impress upon them the sanctity of it and the desirability of it, we have to teach them some other things. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF LEADERS TOWARDS THE YOUNG 

There are far too many of us who fail to teach our young people the law of chastity. Nothing in a man's life, or that of a woman, can give the satisfaction and the joy that comes from the realization that your life has been a chaste and upright life. These young people are placed in our trust, and we have a responsibility towards them. If we can increase their happiness, their joy and their safety, by teaching them these things, it is a sacred duty on our part to do it. Let us never let a son or daughter of ours, who may be found in sin, be able to say to us that either for lack of teaching or by example we are responsible for his or her downfall. 

I hope that we may be able to so instill in their hearts a love for these things that such practices as repeatedly come to our notice, where men fail in this respect, will likewise diminish to the vanishing point. I would that every man and woman in the Church were able to bow their heads before God, their Heavenly Father, and swear that they are chaste and upright. 

I compliment you fathers and mothers on the great numbers of your boys and girls who can look us, their Presiding Authorities, in the eye, and swear that they are clean, before they go on their missions. I do not know any place in the world where you could find as high a percentage of men and women that can do so. But as near perfect as that may be, we might increase it. We might make that better, with just a little more care given to our young people. I pray that God will give us the strength and the courage and the frankness to meet them on common ground, and teach them the way of life. God bless you. Amen. Fust Day Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I sincerely trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord this afternoon, for no one can hold this position and address an audience without that Spirit which will bear testimony to all of us that this is His work. 

In the day and age in which we live the many complicated situations which arise bring us more than ever face to face with the fact that we are all individually responsible for our acts. I believe that I have an individual responsibility as well as an opportunity to do what the Lord would have me do, and that I have also the duty to encourage others to do likewise. They in turn have the same privilege. 

I do not believe as many do that the grave is the great common leveler, but rather that as we live and journey through this life, so shall we begin on the other side; that we shall begin where we left off here; that we cannot change the life that we have established; that it will take time for men and women to change their methods of living. I believe in the Prophet Alma's words, that this life is the time for men and women to prepare to meet God : 

Yea, behold, the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors. 

Alma continues : 

Ye cannot say contrary to this, for that same spirit which doth possess your body at the time of death, at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit shall possess your body in the life to come. 

It is a mistake for men and women to believe, as many are taught in the world, that when we pass away we will go immediately into the presence of the Lord, there to remain. It is not so written, but it is written that we shall go into that spirit world, and that the life that we have lived, the knowledge that we have acquired, will be with us there, and shall be with us and for us in that life where we shall go. 

We came into this world and took upon ourselves these bodies of flesh and bones willingly. We came here, away from home, to perform a work, and to test our strength. The Lord sent us on this mission. I have always felt that this experience in mortality is more or less a missionary experience. He governs and controls the destinies of the human family, according to their faith in Him and according to their work, and that training they received, and that obedience which they yielded in that eternal world from whence we all came, had much to do with the shaping of their destiny here. 

I do not place credence in the thought that things come by chance EARTHLY LIFE A MISSION  by luck. I doubt very much if there is any such thing. I think the Lord's plan is an orderly one, which He made before the foundation of this earth was laid. I believe with all my heart in the testimony of the great prophets, that we were in that world, and that we shouted for joy at the time when the Son of Man was selected to go into the world and preach the Gospel of peace among the children of men, that men who would might have a chance to prove themselves while they were in mortality. 

I repeat that I am strong for individuality. I believe in it in business and in government. I believe in it in my Church relationships. I am fully converted to Alma's statement that this is the time for men to prepare to meet God, and that that same spirit which possesses our bodies when we go out of this world, that same spirit and experience and training, will go with us into the world to come. It will be there as an asset unto us. If we have not kept the commandments of God and made good use of our time, then we have failed that much, and we have to that extent retarded His plan, for after all that plan is based upon the faith and works manifested by the sons and daughters of God. 

THE KEYS OF AUTHORITY RESTORED 

The Lord has established in your day and mine the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He gave it to the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was divinely appointed to become the great Prophet of this dispensation of the fulness of times. It was through him the Gospel was to be taught in all the world. The Lord brought into the world the authority that He gave to Joseph the Prophet, and He established it through those men who appeared unto the Prophet and gave the keys to him. This is the authority to act in the name of God. This is the Holy Priesthood, and to know this and to live in accordance with it is life eternal for the children of men. 

There are thousands and millions of good men and fine women in this world. They can only be reached by those who know the truth. A man who does not have a testimony of this Gospel cannot bear it to others. He cannot establish faith in the heart of another man or woman unless he possesses that faith himself. He must have a knowledge that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that this divine plan called Mormonism, was instituted by our Father in Heaven, and that it is the work of God. He must feel this and know it. Then he can have influence with the children of men, and by the power of his example, which often precedes precept, he can establish faith in the hearts of the children of men. 

This is the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. If men procrastinate, if they continue to be wicked, they cannot hope to inherit these blessings. Let me read what Alma further says about this : 

For behold, if ye have procrastinated the day of your repentance even until death, behold, ye have become subjected to the spirit of the devil, and he doth seal you his; therefore, the Spirit of the Lord hath withdrawn from you, and hath no place in you, and the devil hath all power over you; and this is the final state of the wicked. 

34 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 4 First Day 

EVIL HABITS LEAD MEN ASTRAY 

My brethren and sisters, let us look well to the habits we form. If they are evil habits, and if we do not repent of them and put them from us, they become a great part of us and it is not easy to shake them off or to forget them. It is not easy for men and women to get away from the vices of sin. The drinking of alcohol, for example, leads them into terrible conditions, often into destruction. That same principle will apply to every habit or form of sin that a man or a woman may acquire here in mortality. That is the thing I think that our great prophet Alma had in mind. 

ADVICE GIVEN BY THE PROPHET ALMA 

Alma offers some very encouraging advice in these words : 

Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings, and He will direct thee for good; yea, when ye liest down at night lie down unto the Lord, that he may watch over you in your sleep; and when thou risest in the morning let thy heart be full of thanks unto God; and if ye do these things, ye shall be lifted up at the last day. 

That is the promise that He offers to men and women who will follow the Lord and counsel with Him, who will attend to prayer, who will attend to their offerings, who will walk uprightly, as carefully as men and women may in mortality. And he said : "Ye shall be lifted up at the last day." 

A GREAT PROMISE 

As I read these words my mind was drawn, and has been drawn many times to a passage of scripture in the Doctrine and Covenants, in the y3rd section, the first verse. I heard President Joseph F. Smith read it once when I was in Conference, and I believed it was directed to me. I read it to you : 

Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am. 

I want to say to you, my brethren and sisters and friends, that is one of the greatest promises the Lord could offer. It is a wonderful thing for us to know that, and to know that it will absolutely come to pass. It fills us with joy to know that the Lord Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, and that He is our Father's Son; that He established faith among the children of men and raised up a righteous heritage here in the earth, to establish His Cause in the great world in which we live, and that if we are worthy we may one day look upon His face. 

THE VALUE OF TRUTH 

It is a glorious thing to know the Truth. It is a glorious thing to live it. It is a fine thing to meet men, regardless of where we may travel, and to let them know and feel in their hearts that we believe in the Gospel  and that we teach it and live it. By it we may bring souls unto Christ. 

I have lived in the shadow of the prophets for many years. I have heard their testimonies. It is a marvelous thing to hear the testimony of President Grant. I talked to a person who heard his voice this morning over the radio. He said it was inspiring and that he was deeply touched when, in his humility, the President manifested emotion. The testimony of Jesus was there. What more could men and women ask for or hope for than to know these things ? "For this is life eternal," said the Savior in His day, "to know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou has sent." 

Brethren and sisters, we are living in a day of great trouble and distress, but we have the power to use our free agency, stand for the things we know are right, and to establish faith among the children of men. Let us not be fearful of saying "No" when we ought to say it. Let us stand for the truth and uphold the hands of the prophet of the living God and those who are associated with him, for this is the work of God. The Lord bless you. Amen. 

The Choir sang "Jesu, Word of God" — Mozart. 

ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

This is a most wonderful sight, and this is a most important position which I occupy. In looking into your faces I feel very much my weakness and dependence upon the Spirit of the Lord, and I trust that I may have your faith and prayers in what I may say. 

There are a great many principles that concern us very deeply, the principles of the Gospel. We have assembled here for the purpose of being instructed, guided and built up in the faith. It is impossible for one individual, in the limited time, to attempt to cover many of these principles of eternal truth. I have been delighted in all that we have heard. We have heard much already of the greatest importance, which I humbly hope we will put into practice, if we have not already been practicing these principles of righteousness which have been mentioned here this afternoon. 

I am inclined, at this particular moment, to continue something along the line of the remarks that were made by Brother Ivins, for I believe that he touched upon one of the most important things that concern the Latter-day Saints — marriage. 

KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS IMPORTANT 

We have a great many people in the Church who would not think for a moment of stealing. They would not lie. They would never think of purposely injuring a neighbor, and they might be considered, of course, to be good citizens, because in all their acts they show the spirit of honesty and integrity so far as their dealings with their fellow men are concern36 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 4 First Day 

ed. But they do not feel that they have violated any principle of justice or right, when they violate some of the most important commandments that the Lord has given us. 

MARRIAGE FOR TIME NOT APPROVED 

Frequently I receive an invitation to attend a wedding. I look in the newspaper and I see the picture of a beautiful young lady, and the announcement made that she is going to be married, and perhaps, she being a member of the Church, she is going to marry also a member of the Church, but that the ceremony is going to be performed at the home of the bride, or at some other place selected by them, outside of the Temple of the Lord. 

While the invitation that comes to me no doubt is sent in the spirit of kindness, I always feel that I would rather not receive it, because I do not want to lend to a wedding of that kind even my presence, because I consider marriage, as the Lord has given it to the Church, one of the most vital and one of the most sacred principles that has ever been revealed. And when we violate that covenant, or refuse to enter into that covenant, we are transgressors of the law. 

We read in the scriptures that sin is the transgression of the law. Now, these people who marry by what we call civil ceremony, in other words, who are married by the Justice of the Peace, or by an Elder of the Church, the Bishop or the President of the Stake, outside of the Temple of the Lord, can only be married for time. That is all. The Lord has commanded us, as it is recorded in the revelations, that marriage among members of the Church should be performed in His Holy House, and not for time only, but for time and all eternity. Therefore, those who are satisfied to receive a ceremony for time only, uniting them for this life, and are content with that, are ignorant of this fundamental principle of the Gospel and its consequences, or they are in rebellion 

against the commandments of the Lord. 

RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS 

Now, what I want to say is intended very largely for the parents of the young people. I think the parents, perhaps, are more to be blamed, because, in many instances, very many instances, they have not taught their children the sacredness of the marriage covenant. I want to read to you one or two things that are written in the revelations. I hope that my words will carry to those who contemplate entering into this sacred ordinance, and if they have intended to have the ceremony performed in some other way, rather than that which the Lord has indicated, that they will take heed and repent, that they may receive the blessings. 

COVENANTS NOT OF GOD END WITH LIFE 

I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment — that no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord. 

And everything that is in the world, whether it be ordained of , by thrones, or principalities, or powers, or things of name, whatsoever they may be, that are not by me or by my word, saith the Lord, shall be thrown down, and shall not remain after men are dead, neither in nor after the resurrection, saith the Lord your God. 

For whatsoever things remain are by me; and whatsoever things are not by me shall be shaken and destroyed. 

I have read to you a fundamental truth, a self-evident truth. Any one, it seems to me, who believes in a Supreme Being, must acknowledge the fact that any covenant or obligation, bond, vow or performance, that is not in accord with the law which has been decreed by the Supreme Being, must of necessity come to an end. I can see no grounds for argument in regard to that. That is a fundamental truth. 

The Lord continues in this revelation and says : 

Therefore, if a man marry him a wife in the world, and he marry her not by me nor by my word, and he covenant with her so long as he is in the world and she with him, their covenant and marriage are not of force when they are dead, and when they are out of the world; therefore they are not bound by any law when they are out of the world. 

While the Church, as well as the world, would recognize that marriage while they are in the world, yet the fact remains that when they are dead the marriage comes to an end. 

Therefore when they are out of the world they neither marry nor are given in marriage; but are appointed angels in heaven; which angels are ministering servants, to minister for those who are worthy of a far more, and an exceeding and an eternal weight of glory. 

I take it that this has reference to those who have been just and honest and have been willing to keep other covenants and commandments the Lord has given them. They are members of the Church, but have not been willing to enter into this great and crowning covenant, if you please, which would exalt them to be the sons and daughters of God. And therefore, as I read further : 

For these angels did not abide my law; therefore, they cannot be enlarged, but remain separately and singly, without exaltation, in their saved condition, to all eternity; and from henceforth are not gods, but are angels of God forever and ever. 

Forever and ever! Think of it! It fills my heart with sadness when I see in the paper the name of a daughter or a son of members of this Church, and discover that she or he is going to have a ceremony and be married outside of the Temple of the Lord, because I realize what it means, that they are cutting themselves off from exaltation in the Kingdom of God. 

Now, again, the Lord continues, in this revelation, to say that if they are married by His word, then they shall pass on to the exaltation, and that exaltation is a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever. In other words, the family organization is intact throughout all eternity, and there shall be eternal increase, — and that is the crowning glory, if you please, in the Kingdom of God. First Day Verily, verily, I say unto you, except ye abide my law ye cannot attain to this glory. 

For strait is the gate, and narrow the way that leadeth unto the exaltation and continuation of the lives, and few there be that find it, because ye receive me not in the world, neither do ye know me. 

But if ye receive me in the world, then shall ye know me, and shall receive your exaltation; that where I am ye shall be also. 

This is eternal lives — to know the only wise and true God, and Jesus Christ, whom He hath sent. I am He. Receive ye, therefore, my law. 

What do you get of that? This fact, that the marriage for eternity grants unto us the privilege of eternal lives. It does not have reference to our existence hereafter, for every man will live eternally; it is the continuation of the seeds forever, which constitutes eternal lives. 

Broad is the gate, and wide the way that leadeth to the deaths; and many there are that go in thereat, because they receive me not, neither do they abide in my law. 

What is meant by the expression "to the deaths" ? It means to be stopped, to be shut off, to be denied the privilege of eternal increase. That is the deaths, and a great majority of mankind will go on into the eternity, to partake of the deaths, which means a stoppage, cutting off from these great blessings, which shall be bestowed upon those who are willing to keep the commandments of the Lord. 

May the Lord bless the Latter-day Saints. May parents teach their children, that they may understand this thing, that they might walk in the light of the truth, and that this evil that exists among us may come to an end, and that the fathers and mothers may rejoice when their children are married by some one who can seal them for time and for all eternity. 

President Joseph F. Smith has said — I have heard him say it to the members of his family and elsewhere — that he would rather take his children to the grave, one by one, and lay them away, knowing that they would come forth worthy to receive the fulness of the kingdom of God, than to have them marry outside of the temple of the Lord, and deny themselves these privileges. 

Of course, a person who marries outside of the temple may repent, and can come to the temple and have the ceremony performed by one having authority; but how much better it is, as we have already heard, to do the thing right at first. So I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord, Amen. PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITHES WORDS 

ELDER JOHN H. TAYLOR 

Of the First Council of the Seventy 

I am very happy, my brethren and sisters, to have the opportunity of speaking to you this afternoon. Along with the other brethren, I have been very much interested in the remarks, counsel and instructions that have come to us. I trust my Heavenly Father will bless me, that I may be helpful in my remarks, so that our faith and testimony may be increased. 

DREAMS AND VISIONS 

In reading in the Book of Mormon my attention was attracted to the statement of Lehi, wherein he gives an account of his vision of the iron rod. I was attracted first because, in the words of Lehi, he said : "I have dreamed a dream; in other words, I have seen a vision." It occurred to me that the dreams that one has, if they are at all worth while to the individual, or to the Church, they must be associated with that other word "vision." When one has dreams, and they are of value, they must be associated with vision from God, the Eternal Father. 

We do have people in our day, who are dreaming dreams, and they, in some instances, feel that they are very vital, and that they belong in some way to the revelations of the Lord. As a general rule, such dreams have to do with personal desires for things, — perhaps things they should not have. They may be caused by worry or nervousness or an unbalanced ration. 

I had an uncle, who was a bachelor, and a lady came to him and said she had had a dream that she should marry him. My uncle said, "That is all right, but will you wait, please, until I have had the same dream ?" 

There are people who, in order to have the things that they want, assume that they are dreaming, and that these dreams are coming from God. It is only a way of disregarding the word of the Lord, and doing the things that they want to do, whether they be right or whether they be contrary to the word of the Lord. 

THE TREE OF LIFE 

In this dream of Lehi's he said that he saw the tree of life and that it was the most precious thing above all other things, because "it sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of all the children of men." An angel who was standing by Nephi as he was receiving the interpretation of his father's dream said, "Yea, and the most joyous to the soul." 

The love of God, in the explanation that we have in the scriptures, is the tree of life. The love of God is more precious than anything else, and we can readily judge how much we love God by the way we keep His commandments. We may say we love God, but if we haven't the strength, the faith or the courage to make sacrifices for the truth, then surely we are not loving God as we should love Him. GENERAL CONFERENCE THE IRON ROD AND THE GREAT BUILDING SEEN BY LEHI 

The other thing that attracted my attention was the rod of iron which ran along the bank of a river and led to the tree of life. In the interpretation to Nephi he was made to understand that this rod of iron was the word of God, the Eternal Father, and that many men and women, hosts of them, started on their way to reach the tree of life, that they might partake of this fruit, which was precious above all other fruits. As they came and partook of this fruit, some of them, in looking around, saw a building that seemed to be standing, as it were, in the air. There was a multitude of people in this building, and they were mocking those who had come to eat of the fruit of the tree of life. Many of these people who came and had eaten of the tree of life, because of the attitude of the people who were in this spacious building, felt ashamed of the thing that they were doing, and wandered away and were lost. 

RIDICULE OFTEN THE CAUSE OF TURNING FROM THE RIGHT 

So the thought has occurred to me that often we partake of the fruit of the tree of life, or we become acquainted with the love of God, and His mercies, and then we are made ashamed by the attitude of other people. I dare say that the majority of our young people who begin to smoke or to drink, do so because in some way other people have made them ashamed of the word of the Lord, as if it were something lacking in value and need not be held to. Because of the mockery and because of the words of ridicule, our young people turn away and commence to do things that other people do. Then it becomes a habit, which makes it that much harder to find their way back again to the road that will lead them to the tree of life. 

We have people who fail to go into the house of the Lord because they have been made ashamed of its ordinances and ceremonies and of its requirements in the matter of dress. The argument is used that it is all absurd, that it is foolish and of no importance; therefore boys and girls and other people are made ashamed of the things that we have in the holy house of God, because they lack understanding and courage and because they have not loved God enough. They would rather have the things that seemingly are comfortable and easy for them, and which require no sacrifice. Thus they turn away from the love of God and the path of righteousness. 

Awhile ago I came in contact with a man, a young fellow who, attending one of our places of learning, was told that patriarchal blessings were on the same plane as fortune telling and crystal gazing, that there was no truth back of them that would be helpful to anyone. So that young man's faith in one of the precious privileges of the Church was shattered. 

May the Lord bless us and be helpful to us. May we seek after the tree of life. May we get hold of the iron rod and as we go through the destructive mists of darkness, may we hold tight to this rod and not be lost in the wilderness, and so be able to reach the tree of life, and love God as we should love Him. I humbly pray for these things. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS 

Of the Council of the Twelve Apostles 

The Apostle Peter said : "Jesus went about doing good." In these five words is the epitome of a divine life, spent in the service of humanity. 

As I listened to the report which was read this morning, particularly that part of it which referred to the Church Welfare work, I said in my heart, "this great movement is applied religion." 

MIGHTY WORKS PERFORMED BY JESUS 

It is wonderful to contemplate the care and compassion that Jesus bestowed upon the unfortunate. He healed the sick, made the blind to see and the deaf to hear. He fed the hungry multitudes, "lest they faint." When He raised the little maid to life He commanded the astonished parents "that something should be given her to eat." 

When He performed those mighty works in His own country the people were astounded and said: "Is not this the carpenter?" They could not comprehend that Jesus was Deity embodied in human form. 

I haven't heard anyone explain the full significance of the profound truth that God Almighty trained His Only Begotten Son in a carpenter shop. The Savior was no weakling. He was a muscular workman; He stood and moved in the pride and strength of manhood when He drove the money changers from the Temple. He was also considerate and kind. 

THE YOKE OF CHRIST 

He said : 

Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me: for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. 

Jesus in the carpenter shop doubtless made yokes for oxen. But the yokes He made left no sore spots. They made the burden light. The man who bears the yoke of Christ has no sore spots on him. In his heart and life there is real liberty and joy. Yes, Jesus was a carpenter and that Carpenter today is the Captain of the world's only hope. 

PRACTICAL ADVICE TO YOUNG MEN 

Our young men in Zion should learn handicraft trades; there are too many of them seeking white-collar jobs. If they want to "stand before kings" they should become skilful farmers, craftsmen, mechanics, and be diligent in their work. 

Mr. Babson said : 

W. J. Cameron, of the Ford Motor Company, told me the other day that the number of students preparing to be mechanics is only about one-seventh the number now employed as mechanics; while the number now studying for the professions is about thirteen times those engaged in the professions. 

42 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday. April 4 First Day 

This does not look good. We should not cease to teach our young men that the mechanic as well as the farmer is necessary for the progress of the community. The world is in need of mechanics, builders, plumbers, carpenters, bricklayers. I felt disappointed in reading in a newspaper, a few days ago, the following statement : 

The Ogden Air Depot at Hill Field will need 2,500 to 3,500 machinists and mechanics by the end of this year, it had been reported today by Major R. J. Minty, personnel officer. 

He explained that the army hopes to fill at least the lower grade skilled jobs with Utah men, but is certain that many of the more skilled workers must come from outside the state. 

I urge the young men to learn trades; to be craftsmen. Then they will be qualified to earn a comfortable living. The middle partition of the incompatibility between labor and culture should be pulled down. There should be no such partition. Labor is honorable. Let us pursue the splendid policy that will bring temporal independence to our young men and that will produce for us more builders, for our people are naturally builders. A new world is being built. Builders and mechanics are in demand. Every effort should be put forth to make our young men employable. 

Boys and girls stay in the country, on the farms; do not desert them, for the land is your heritage. When the bulk of the population shifts to the cities there is danger to the nation. For the real bulwark, and the strength of the nation is in the country. President Grant remarked to me the other day that cities would perish if they were not continually nourished with the good, pure blood that comes from the country. 

I know of four ranches in this State. The men who founded them were English, German, Swedish and Danish. They were solid men in the community and earned the bold independence that comes from labor. They made themselves well-to-do. But where are their descendants. Most of them wanted white-collar jobs. I have seen them punching time-clocks. They are living from hand to mouth. Strangers, not members of the Church, contented and prosperous, own and live on those ranches. 

"Sweet are the uses of adversity." I believe in this too often overlooked truth. Blessings ought not to be wasted : neither should troubles. Oh, if we had had the foresight to have prepared for the defense of this country when we were in the midst of the depression! Men could then have been trained as mechanics. They could have been employed in erecting our defenses. Instead of spending the billions of dollars in ways that probably have not brought the greatest good, work could have been provided for millions of workers who would have been glad to work. There might not have been any war in Europe if this had been done. 

THE LORD'S ADVICE TO RICH AND POOR 

The Lord gives some advice to the laboring men, and also to the rich men. This is the Carpenter speaking, the Carpenter who was exalted to a throne to sit down on the right hand of God. He it was who was rich and became poor for our sakes. Listen to His divine admonition : 

Woe unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation: The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved! 

I admire the great captains of industry. They have founded magnificent industries. They should be hailed as saviors of labor in the industrial world. But they should not honor and love mammon more than they love their humble brethren who are working for them. 

Now, to the laboring men : 

Woe unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, and who will not labor with your own hands. 

No excuse there for sit-down strikes. No encouragement for strikes which are inspired by a spirit of violence. Labor cannot do without capital. God wants both to go together peaceably. Do not blame and envy men because they are rich; do not condemn or look down upon men because they are poor. 

The capitalists, the industrialists engaged in the manufacturing industry and the working men should put aside the agitators and the professional trouble-makers and meet around the conference table with their hearts permeated with the Spirit of Christ. 

Then in that state of mind, misunderstandings, questions and disputes would be settled in reason and justice. Results would spring from such conferences which would make an end of useless and costly strikes. They would make for practices, conciliation, satisfactory adjustments and happiness that flow from the spirit of the Savior. Thus these outbreaks of violence, the strikes which disfigure and disrupt our industrial life would cease. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord Jesus will rest upon and abide with employer and employed alike. 

GRATITUDE EXPRESSED FOR LEADERS 

We thank God for President Grant. As he was talking this morning the words of the Apostle Paul came to my mind. He said : "Nevertheless, I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me." We see the influence of the spirit of the Savior in the life of our beloved President. That is the reason why he is a blessing to his people. 

May I add just one more word. With all my heart I endorse the statesmanlike address delivered by President Clark in this Conference. Every word of it I accept. It is a warning to this nation, a word of light uttered by a prophet-statesman. 

I bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE ELDER FRANK EVANS 

Former President of the Eastern States Mission 

I do not know at this moment what I shall say. I have been in this congregation since the opening of the morning meeting, very much impressed and stimulated by the discourses of the brethren, but not expecting to be called upon myself. 

It is a singular privilege to occupy this pulpit. When one reflects upon the history of it, and looks back over the years, when he examines the discourses that have been delivered here, he finds the high points in all the activities of our lives, from the standpoint of religion, of social science or educational principles; in fact, in all that is of importance to us. The finest doctrines known to men have gone out from this pulpit. It is not surprising, therefore, that those who are to speak approach it in a spirit of diffidence, certainly of humility, of deep concern, and of profound respect. 

Going back to the records of 1869 and 70, and to the General Conference of April, 1872, 1 re-read oftentimes the doctrines proclaimed here by President Brigham Young. He urged the people to come together in unity and counsel in all their undertakings. He taught the doctrine of cooperation as we see it today, and even upon a broader scale, and yet it was probably from this pulpit alone that that doctrine was then being taught. He defined clearly the benefits of cooperation and the advantages that it would bring to all the people. Since that time, every State in the Union has declared in favor of the principles which he then advocated. 

Today we see also the most advanced step, I believe, that has been taken in the direction of cooperation, in our Church Welfare Program. I trust that no man and no woman who, having the opportunity to engage in this work, will fail to do so. Let not your sons and daughters grow up to a realization of what is now being done in the line of social justice, welfare and service, to discover that you have not taken part in it. The day will come when men will stand here and relate with justifiable pride, what wilL have been accomplished in the present undertaking and the people will view it with universal approval and with a sense of deep satisfaction. 

At the April Conference of 1880, President John Taylor delivered a discourse here which for fundamental righteousness cannot be excelled by any address that I have ever read. It was the Year of Jubilee. He advocated that " we do like the Ancients, and take off the yoke from those who are in debt and unable to pay, and release them from their bondage, and cause a feeling of joy and liberty to abound among the poor." The granaries were opened, and the thirty-five thousand bushels of grain that had been gathered by the women of the Relief Society were released for the benefit of the poor. 

In that sermon, President Taylor said : 

When the Lord is blessing us, let us bless one another. He will not let us suffer if we take care not to let one another suffer. 

It will be recalled that at that time one-half of the sums due to the Perpetual Emigration Fund, amounting to more than $800,000, was turned over for the benefit of the poor — that is, these obligations were forgiven those who were unable to pay. That was, in reality, a year of jubilation. 

However, the discourses of that day were not, of course, broadcast as they are today. They reached the ears of ten thousand gathered in this great auditorium and were preserved in written or printed form, but where one thousand were reached then, hundreds of thousands may hear what is being said now. The discourses of this morning, for example, were heard throughout the West and I believe it can be said that they take rank with the noblest utterances that have ever come from this pulpit. 

Another thing that has been constantly taught here is the doctrine of thrift; not a thrift that is mean or low or selfish, but a thrift that calls for intelligent saving, for judicious spending, and for wise giving; a thrift that makes one able to be generous. President Grant has constantly emphasized this doctrine and in connection with it the principle of self-discipline, self-control, and avoidance of those things which are injurious to the physical being. While in years gone by these things have not been taken so seriously, today from every college, every medical institution, from all those trained in medical science, from the councils of people generally come an acceptance of these doctrines, especially so since they may now be judged by their fruits. And, above all, lessons of courage have come from this pulpit, both by word and by example — the courage of one's convictions such as our leaders exhibited in years gone by, and such as they exemplify today. 

As I was recently leaving the Mission office in New York, for a trip into> the field, I passed through an electric gateway at the railway station. As I approached the gate leading to the train, it opened mysteriously before me, and to my mind came the question, "What hand opened that gate for me?" The obvious answer seemed to be: "No hand at all. You simply intercepted the electric current and the power did the rest." But that was not the answer. Many hands and many minds, working over many years, opened that gate for me, and tens of thousands of men, women and children have availed themselves of that convenience which science had given unto us. I thought of the Faradays and of the Edisons and their kind and of how they had been taunted and even ridiculed, as they worked their way upward to bring a blessing to mankind. Courage kept them at their task. But more than all, I thought of the leaders of that Mission in the early days — of Wilford Woodruff, of John Taylor, of Parley P. Pratt and Orson Pratt, and such men as they. They also pointed out a gate which opened to tens of thousands of men and women and children, — a strait gate and a narrow way, one that leads to Life. That is the Way with which we are most concerned. These men, too, were taunted, were ridiculed and even persecuted, but they were never dismayed. They were men of fortitude and of unfailing courage. They were convinced of the rectitude of that for which they stood. They were 

46 GENERAL CONFERENCE 

Friday, April 4 First Day 

converted to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and there was no compromise in their souls or in their minds. 

These are the lessons which have been taught from this pulpit during all the years of its history. May we appreciate its importance, its deep significance. May we not fail in our integrity, in our courage, in our devotion to the work of the Lord, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

An anthem, "Be Thou Faithful" — Engel — was sung by the Choir. 

PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. 

First Counselor in the First Presidency 

We thank the Choir for the beautiful songs which they have sung to us today. We always know when we have the Brigham Young University Chorus that we will have good music. 

I again urge that as you leave here to drive to your homes, you drive carefully, and I ask the pedestrians to walk sensibly as they cross the roads. 

The benediction was pronounced by Elder Richard C. May, President of the Minidoka Stake. 

Conference adjourned until 10 a. m., Saturday, April 5. 


