13
Outdoor
04 04 1909
Elder Benjamin Goddard. 

It is gratifying, my brethren and sisters, to observe the crowds of our Church members so interested in the work of the Lord that they come from the south and the north,  east and the west, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, for the purpose of attending our annual conference. 

We realize the disadvantages attending this open air meeting, but we are thankful that we have not the same disadvantages nor the spirit of antagonism that we so often encounter upon the street corners of large cities, where people are not of our faith. The brethren, however, who will address you have been accustomed to street meetings. They have good voices. They are filled with the Spirit of the Lord, and I think they can make you all hear. 

Upon this block, we also have a missionary work constantly in operation. I simply want to refer to the fulfillment of prophecy in connection with our work here, as it may be particularly interesting to some of our friends who are now in the audience, and who are not of our faith. Every day in the week, every day of the year, from early morning until late at night, we are entertaining "strangers within our gates," explaining unto them the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and all that the structures upon this block stand for. Amongst other things we direct special attention to our magnificent Temple, a monument to the faith of the people, and a palpable evidence of the restoration of the gospel. In that connection, too,' these words are now verily fulfilled : 

"But, in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall come and say [mark you, they are saying it every day of the year, and this prophecy is thus fulfilled, for from every nation under heaven people are coming, and saying], Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob, and He will teach us of His ways, and we will walk in His paths; for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 

I pray that the Spirit that usually is present in our sacred gatherings may rest upon the assembly in this open air meeting, that the word of the Lord may be given unto you, and that the Spirit may interpret it to your understanding. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen.
