14
Outdoor
04 04 1909
Elder German E. Ellsworth. 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I consider it a privilege that we are permitted to gather together and worship the Lord in this, the 79th, annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With you, I rejoice in the instructions that we have received this morning; and I ask myself the question asked by President Smith, "What am I doing to keep the commandments of the Lord?" Is my heart as willing to sacrifice as were our brethren and sisters who were instrumental in establishing the church in the earth 79 years ago? I rejoice that my grand-parents were among the first to hear the message of truth, and that they had faith enough to receive and live the same. I wonder, with our opportunities, as young men and women, after our years of training, if we are as anxious to accept the truth, and as anxious to serve the Lord as they in that day. There is more truth in the world than when this church was organized,  it seems to one we are slowei to accept the truth, especially if it is called a "religious" truth. This is my experience with men and women of the world, during eight years in preaching the Gospel. 

When you tell broad-minded men and women in the world that we are the only church in the earth that is .right, they are shocked, and horrified at our "narrow" conception of the love of God; yet it is true, and when understood in the light of the restored gospel it is the broadest conception possible. I wonder if the Latter-day Saints stop to consider what a wonderful and terrible statement it must be to the people of the world, to be told that they are without the right to officiate in the name of God. and that we are the only people in the world who have the right. I told one man who has been prominent in governmental affairs in the United States the past four years, that while the people of the world mav be moral teachers, may be great educators, and may deliver truths to the children of men, and are exerting wonderful influences for the civilization of the world and for the education of the children of men, yet, on one point the great and vital point of authority we differ with them. After they have been taught the truth, and believe the same, we claim to be the only people who have the right to take a man or woman into the waters of baptism and there say, "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ I baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost." This man said to me, "I can see why all other churches unite against you, after you pit yourselves against the rest of the world with that statement." 

I often wonder if the Latter Saints appreciate that statement, and realize our position. If it be true and we believe that we are the only people in the world that have the right to officiate in the name of God, what a labor is resting upon our shoulders, and what a responsible position we occupy. Less than fifty thousand men in the world having the right to baptize the rest of the people who come to believe in the name of God. We understand that there is about one-third of the world today who, nominally, believe in Christ. There are many millions of these people who truly believe in Christ. They firmly and honestly believe in Him, from all the light that they have received, and they believe, too, that they have been initiated into the Church of Christ, and that when they die they will be saved in His presence. They believe they have done all that they need to do; and yet, as Latter-day Saints, we know, from the tesimony that burns in our bosom, there is yet something for them to do. It is encouraging to know they are fast believing that God is our Father, in very deed. They are fast acquiring a genuine belief that Jesus Christ is in very deed the Son of God; and also believing that there is something more yet to be done; that men will be called of God, sometime, to officiate in ordinances of the Gospel that have not yet been officiated in by them in their churches. 

One minister told me a few days ago, "Mr. Ellsworth, we believe in the restoration of the Gospel." "Why," I said, "that seems strange. I have never heard a minister declare that before in my life." I asked him how he believed in the restoration, and he gave me almost word for word the argument we : that there was an apostasy, and that, after the reformation, little by little God has revealed the truth to this church and that church, through this man and that woman. "We have today much more truth than we had fifty years ago; and we believe that more truth will be given to us just as rapidly as we are prepared to receive it. If it is the Lord's will that we be baptized by immersion, we will be glad to be baptized just as soon as we feel that it is an important thing. If it is important, as the scriptures hint, that we should have the laying on of hands, we believe that the Lord will make it manifest to us through our churches. If it is important that we do other things that you speak of, we believe that He will restore them to us through one church or through another. To all who are moved upon by the Spirit of God to receive those truths, they will be essential in their lives; but just as long as this or that principle does not dawn upon us, we do not feel responsible to obey it. We feel now that the most essential thing is to believe in God; and inasmuch as we believe in God, we believe we will be saved, but we believe also that it is essential to live up to all the truths that He reveals to us." 

I told him that that was a pretty good argument, and I believe that it will do good. The Lord will hold us responsible for what light we have received. As Latter-day  Saints believing that God, our Father, 79 years ago, re-established the Church, with such officers as were placed in it in the days of Jesus Christ, and that He has revealed to us all the light and blessings, and principles that have been revealed or taught by holy men of old since the world began, knowing these things to be true, it is well that we ask the question that President Joseph F. Smith asked himself and the Latter-day Saints this morning, What have I done; what am I doing, what am I willing to do, to help establish this great work? 

Proclaiming to the world that God has revealed to us all the prin ciples of the Gospel, the great things that have been hidden from the foundation of the world, and has delivered to us the responsibility of teaching them to our fellow men, it is well that we ask that question in all seriousness. Am I willing to do what my father or my grandfather did ? Am I willing to do what the first men and women who received this Gospei did for the establishment of the work of God in the earth? Is my all on the altar, am I willing to spend my time, my means, and my talents in that great cause? I say, my brethren and sisters, it is a good question to ask ourselves. May God help us to appreciate the fact that we are the only people who have this divine right to officiate in the name of God. May He help us to exercise this authority with an eye single to the glory of God, in all charity and love, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
