15
Outdoor
04 04 1909
Elder Ben E. Rich. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

Brother Ellsworth stated that 79 years ago, day after tomorrow, this church was organized, with six members. Rather a small beginning; but it was predicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith that it would continue to grow until it filled the whole earth with the righteousness  God. What a wonderful thing has been done among churches during the past 79 years. Mormonism, as it is called by the people of the world, has found iLs way into every civilized nation. As Brother Goddard stated, there is not a nation upon ttie earth where the voice of the children of God cannot be heard, saying, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob." They want to come here for the purpose of learning more of the wavs of the Lord, and to walk in the paths that will bring them back into the presence of our Father. There is not a civilized nation where our elders are not working, where we do not find members of the Church 

The work that is being done by the missionaries today is a manifestation of devotion to the principle of reciprocity. We are doing for other what others have done for us and for our parents. Recently, in the New England States, I had the privilege of holding a priesthood meeting with thirtyeight Elders, 37 of whom were born in the Church. The fathers of 15 of whom were born in the Church, and the grandfathers of 31 were members of the Church. In another conference wnere we had 12 Elders, 10 of whom were born in the Church, the fathers of 6 were born in the Church, and the grandfathers of 9 belonged to the Church. Still another conference in which there are 14 Elders, 9 of the 14 were born in the Church, the fathers of 7 were born in the Church, and the grand-fathers of 9 were members of the Ch' rch. So you see the second and third generations are out in the world preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ. God sends His spirit be them. It softens the hearts of mankind toward the Elders. While we properly think that our fathers and grand-fathers have been mighty men in the interests of the gospel, I tell you there are just as good fish left in the sea as have been drawn out with the Gospel net. This work will go on, and intellectual giants will be brought into the Church. The leaven has started to work, and it will leaven the whole lump eventually; it has been developing during the last 79 years. 

You do not hear so much of "hell-fire-and-brimstone" as was preached before God sent the truth down to earth. There are not so many people believing that there are infants in hell only a span long. Churches all over the world are becoming converted to Gospel principles which God the Eternal Father restored to earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is true ^1 — are not giving the Church credit, but they are adopting the doctrine. It is making them broader minded. It is making them better; and it is leading them nearer to the truth. Speaking to you this afternoon, as a representative from the missionary field, I want to tell you that your sons, your fathers, your husbands, who are out in the world preaching the gospel are doing more for humanity, more for the peonle of this world, than you can estimate. God is blessing them. And the students who go out into the world to study are doing excellent work. Those who are laboring in New York are helping us in a wonderful way. They are teaching the Elders to sing. They take charge of the Mutual Improvement Associations, and the Sunday school. They are ready to preach the gospel whenever called upon to  it, the same as the Elders who are called specially to devote all their time in lifting up their voices, crying, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." Many of you people remember Robert C. Easton, who has such a wonderful voice. You have not seen him for years; but the talent that God has given to that man is employed in missionary work at all times; and strangers who come into our meetings and hear him sing, especially that famous hymn, "O, my Father, Thou that dwellest," shed tears. There is nothing better than good music to soften the hearts of people, and bring them into a condition that they will patiently listen to the words the Elders have to speak unto them. 

Mormonism grows, because it is God's truth. It was prophesied, almost from the beginning, that in the last days God would do a marvelous work and a wonder upon the earth. He showed in vision to the Prophet Daniel that he intended to set up a kingdom upon the earth in the last days; that it would stand forever, and never more be thrown down. The very language conveys to us the knowledge that God has set up His work in other dispensations, and it has been thrown down; but He has shown that in the last days, the God of heaven would establish a kingdom upon the earth that never more would be thrown down or given to another people. What kind of an organization would that be? Would it be with apostles and prophets, evangelists, priests, and teachers, inspired of God, standing upon the rock of revelation, preaching the Gospel without purse or scrip, answering the question, "What shall we do to be saved?" in the same way that Peter of old answered it upon the day of Pentecost? Would it be like unto that? Why. I imagine so; I know it would. We are told that an angel should come through the midst of heaven, bringing it to the earth. The Gospel that Christ left with mankind was an organization like this we possess. The fundamental principles of that Gospel were faith in God and Christ, His Son, repentance — a godly repentance — baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by laying on of hands. You know, by reading the Word of God that those were the principles of the. organization, — and that which God has given unto us is an organization which includes them. You know also that, referring to the Gospel, when Paul ascertained that the people in one of the branches of the Church down in Galatia were trying to change it, he wrote them a strong letter in which he warned them against perverting the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and told them that any man would be cursed if he changed it; that the curse of God would even rest upon an angel from heaven if he should proclaim any other. So that, when the angel comes through the midst of heaven, bringing the everlasting Gospel, it must be like unto the one that Jesus Christ left with the people, or the curse of God would rest upon that angel. We are told by Peter that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation, that men of God wrote and spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, so that the kingdom of God that was to be set up on the earth in the last days, as shown to Daniel, and as brought by the angel shown to Tohn, must be the Gospel of Jesus Christ, just the same as that He left upon the earth. Mor is primitive Christianity, the "Everlasting" Gospel, the "Eternal" Gospel, because it is the plan of salvation established by the Everlasting and the Eternal One. There cannot be two different churches and both of them be right. "One Lord, one faith, one baptism, was the doctrine taught in the days of the early Apostles, nearly two thousand years ago. Anything more than that creates confusion; and it is written that God is not the author of confusion. If He is not the author of confusion, then He is not the author of all that goes to make up this Babel of confusion in the religious world today. Something is wrong. 

The most startling thing about this work is that from the beginning of its organization, with six members, authority was given to go out to preach the gospel, to say unto all mankind, There is knowledge for you, there is a testimony for you, if you will come in the right way to receive it. Humble yourselves. Put your faith in God. Repent with a godly repentance. Be baptized under the authority that we say has been restored to the earth. Receive the seal of the spirit; and we are authorized to say, in the name of Christ our Master, that God will bestow upon you a testimony of the truth. And how well that has been made good; father, son and grandson have received it; and they are out in the world, in all the nations of the earth, crying unto people everywhere: We have received a testimony; and God will give it to you if you seek in the same way that we have sought. Why, of course it is true: it is easy enough to know that it is true. 

I heard President Taylor upon one occasion relating a conversa that took place between two little boys. One of them said, "Johnny, do you know my papa?" And Johnny said, "No, I do not know your papa." the other said, "I know him, just as easy." It is just as easy as that to know that Mormonism is true. If you tread the path, if you obey the principles, if you humble yourselves before God the Eternal Father, he will give you a testimony that this is His work, that it has been brought to the earth by an angel, delivering to mankind a record of nations who once jived upon this continent, one of which was visited by Christ Himself, who taught them of His resurrection, and taught them the everlasing Gospel. You will find it in that book (the Book of Mormon.) It came through the midst of heaven by an angel, and he thus brought the everlasting Gospel back to earth. Read it with a prayerful heart, and the spirit of God will whisper to you, "This record is true." The doctrine is true, and it will be easy for you to have a testimony of the truth. 

A man told me when I was speaking in the world once that I might just as well tell him that the moon was made of green cheese as to tell him that Mormonism was true. I said to him: "My friend, supposing that I did tell you that the moon was made of green cheese, and tell you that I had been there and tasted it, and you knew that I had been there and tasted it, and I wanted you to taste it, and you had the privilege of so doing, but absolutely refused to walk up and take a bite, would you be in a position to truthfully contradict me?" And he said, "No." I said, "Well I want to tell you that I have tasted Mormonism, and I know what it is, but there are some steps to be tak, the first is called faith, the second repentance, the third baptism, the fourth is the receiving of the seal of the Spirit. Climb that ladder and taste Mormonism; I have tasted it, and if you will do so, you will know that it is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. If you stand there with folded hands and refuse, have you a right to contradict me when I tell you in the name of Jesus Christ that this is the Gospel of the Redeemer sent back to the earth to lead mankind back into the presence of our Father?" God bless you. Amen.
