17
Outdoor
04 04 1909
Sister Lillian V. Jones. 

(Of the Southern States Mission.) 

My dear brothers and sisters, I sincerely trust that I may have the Spirit of the Lord while I address  congregation, to guide and direct me in what I may say, that it may be for our mutual benefit and blessing. As has been announced I have labored in the Southern States Mission for nearly a year and a half, under the direction of President Ben E. Rich, and President Charles A Callis. I can say that while I labored as a missionary there I truly enjoyed every moment of the time. My Only regret is that I was released from my labors there, although my release was merely a transfer from one field to another. I consider that I was greatly privileged, to go into the world and mingle my voice with the sisters and elders in the field, in testimony of the truth of the gospel as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Of course we met a great deal of opposition; we expected that, but we also had the chance of bearing our testimonies to hundreds and thousands of people, and also proclaiming some of the truths and beauties of Mormonism to them. I have often wished that more of our girls and boys had the chance of going into the world and preaching the gospel. They not only benefit themselves, but "lay up treasures in heaven, where moth nor rust corrupt or thieves break through and steal." I feel thankful to my heavenly Father for this opportunity; and I hope that the gospel seed I have sown will some day bear fruit and be the means of bringing many people into the Church of Jesus Christ. 

I have sought the honor that comes from God rather than the honor that comes from man, and I feel that in doing so, my mission has been approved of God, and I have been of some benefit to others. I feel to bear my testimony to you that the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may rest upon each and every one of us, and especially upon the President of the Church and his counselors, and the quorum of the Apostles. I ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
