18
Outdoor
04 04 1909
Elder Melvin J. Ballard. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

The question has often been asked each of us, perhaps, and it came to me recently in correspondence that I had with a friend belonging to the re-organized church : "Why is it that the Latterday Saints came to Utah? Why didn't they remain in the east where they first were founded, and began the establishment of their organization?" There are many reasons that can be given in answer to this question, some of which I desire to call briefly to your attention. Suppose that the Latterday Saints had been permitted to remain in the city of Nauvoo; the prospects were then that they would have built up and established one of the largfest cities in the United States. When Nauvoo had 20,000 people, Chicago on the north, and St. Louis on the south were mere trading posts. Nauvoo occupied a favorable position, where, in all probability, with its water-ways, its central location between the north and south extremities of Illinois, it would have been an eligible point for the building up and establishment of a large city. Suppose that Nauvoo had been built up to become the equal of the city of St. Louis on the south  800,00 or more, inhabitants the probabilities are that all the Latter-day Saints would not have resided in that one city, as they do not now belong to one particular locality. When they lived in that section, they were scattered over a large area of country. It is apparent that God had in mind taking this people from a thickly settled portion of the country, a country that did not require much energy or effort to develop. The Divine idea was to take them away from crowded centers, and have them locate where they could be as "a city set upon a hill," so that their light could be seen and their works be made manifest. Here, where no one else cared to live, where men said there was no opportunity to establish civilization, their feet were planted; and they remained here, although there was California on the west with its great enticements for the Saints to go and settle there. You remember that Captain Brannon, who landed in California shortly before the Saints located in this valley met the pioneers east of this valley, and invited them to come to California, telling the wonderful advantages of that climate and soil, where it would be possible to build up great communities quickly, and where the people could enjoy the blessings of that fertile land. 

In anticipation of the movement that would transfer all the Saints to the west, the Prophet Joseph thought of Oregon, the great land to thie northwest, as a desirable place to go; this was his first thought. Oregon would have furnished more opportunities, larger advantages in a commercial way, for the Latter-day Saints, or any others, in its fruitful fields, its extensive valleys, and with its splen facilities to build up cities. But. if the Latter-day Saints had gone there, or to California, they would soon have been face to face with their old enemies, who were following them. They would soon have been outnumbered; and whatever would have been done in the building up of that community, the credit would have been given to other people. But this forbidding country, where no other people were willing to locate, was the chosen resting place. You remember, when the women of that party landed on the banks of City Creek, one of the weary women sat down and wept, and said she would rather go a thousand miles further, notwithstanding the hardships she had gone through, to find a more desirable place than this barren desert land. Yet this was the place, for the prophet had said that here, in vision, .he had seen the tents of Israel cover the earth. The people remained here, notwithstanding the enticements offered in California, with its gold and the many advantages . that, seemingly, would have come to them there in a commercial and financial way. Thousands of the immigrants did not look with favor upon this place, because it evidently would require great labor to develop it, to bring out of this sterile condition a fruitful field. But God planted His people here, and through faith, labor and diligence, and industry, they have attracted the attention of the world. 

It is only a few years ago that the President of the United States visited this city, and, speaking of the wonderful achievements and developments which had come to this barren section of the country, said something to this effect: You have become prominent in the  in material things, in the development of the soil; all the world can come here and learn of you; learn that by industry, thrift and perseverance, wonderful achievements have been accomplished in this desert land, results also of fidelity and frugality. It is probable there never would have been such praise accorded to the Latterday Saints, they never would have had the opportunity to develop themselves in this direction, or have merited the praise of the world in these things, had they gone to a land that would have yielded returns more easily to their effort and toil. The work has been done well, by men and women of virtue and strength, driven by enemies to settle here and battle with the elements, to subdue this desert land. They have made of it a paradise, and assuredly merit in honor, and right, and truth the praise of the world. , 

But beyiond these temporal things, beyond these achievements, there is something greater to be accomplished, a labor to be performed, that should attract the attention of the world beyond our material things, that should call for their further admiration and praise. I refer to that which we value beyond all earthly things, the establishment of the Church and Kingdom of God, and the proclamation of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is what the world needs today more than anything else, that which will bring most joy to their souls. The day shall come when the good, and the great, and the wise men and women of all the world shall say. "Come, let us go up to the Mountain of the house of the God of Jacob, that we may learn of His ways and walk in His paths." They may learn not only of material things, but great and mighty truths that tell of man's being, his existence upon the earth, his relationship to his Creator, the purpose God had in placing us here; and so the world shall yet acknowledge that we know things of value beyond all earthly possessions. 

I feel, as a young man born and raised in this Church, having the opportunities and privileges that come by reason of my association in it, like Benjamin Disraeli did when he made efforts to obtain membership in the house of Parliament in Great Britain. Three times he made the effort and failed in accomplishing what he desired; but he persevered, though he understood well that he hlad the hatred and prejudice of the masses of the people against him, on account of his religion and his race. But he finally succeeded in accomplishing the desired end. He obtained the seat, and many of his friends, relying upon the ability of the man to defend himself and the cause of his people, said, as soon" as he was heard, he would accomplish great things. But when he had the opportunity to stand before that great body of law makers, and endeavored to speak, his voice was silenced by hisses, and noise, and disturbance in that assembly. He repeated his efforts, and each time was silenced, but, as he sat down, he cried out at the top of his voice, "The day shall come when you will hear me." With that determination, he stuck to his task, working to accomplish the fulfillment of his prophecy concerning himself; and the time did come when thev gave him the exalted honor of being prime minister of England three times. England's lords and statesmen often listened  his wise words, no matter how many hours he spoke. And so I feel that, though there are those who have attempted to blacken our character, who despise us, and seek to make us outcasts, yet the time of our triumph shall come, because of the honest effort, the integrity, the virtue and moral strength of the young men and young women of this Church. We have resolved in our hearts, as Benjamin Disraeli did, never to cease our efforts, nor to slacken our endeavors to make the world hear us, until ignorance, and prejudice, and hatred shall be banished from the earth, and the love of God, and a knowledge of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, shall find its way into the hearts and homes of the millions who know nothing of us this day. 

We stand in a most enviable position in the world. Our mission is not only to benefit ourselves in these valleys, but our mission extends to the east, west, north and south; all the world is our field. God sent us to labor in His vineyard. He called us here to train us to be teachers to the nations of the earth, not only to attain blessings and honor ourselves, but to bestow the same on them also. May God keep before us the high ideals that our fathers had, preserve us in the truth, as He preserved them, that when we finish our labors on the earth, we may merit the honor and praise which they have merited; God grant it, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
