21
Morning
05 04 1909
Elder Serge L. Baliff. 

(Late President of Swiss and German Mission.) 

(In introducing the speaker. President Smith said : "Brother Baliff has just returned from a long mission in Germany and Switzerland. For four years he presided over the Swiss and German mission.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters : In standing before you this morning, I feel my weakness, and I place myself in the hands of the Lord. I desire from the bottom of my heart that He will inspire me, in order that I may say a few words that will encourage some one on the path of life and salvation. 

The greatest testimony, to me, of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith is this conference — to see this vast assemblage of people who have gathered from all nations of the earth in response to the testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this great work in  we are engaged. It is inspiring to see an assemblage of such a class of people, who have gathered from all nations to serve the Lord in spirit and in truth. I have a testimony of this work. The Lord has revealed unto me that Joseph Smith is a prophet. I know, as I know that I live, that he was called of God to establish this great work upon the earth in our day. I have traveled in many large cities in the world. I have met with many people, but in all my experiences I never met such an assemblage as was present here yesterday. I never felt such a spirit, such a power of the Almighty, as was in our midst yesterday. It was a testimony to me that this is the work of the Lord, that the Lord is directing this work, and that we need not worry about the things that threaten it. I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that this work is in the hands of the Lord; He is directing it, and will continue to direct it until He brings the ship Zion to a safe anchor. 

I have had the privilege of bearing my testimony to many people, and I rejoice in this privilege. I thank the Lord for the privilege I have had of going into the nations of the earth and raising my voice in defense of the Gospel of truth. I know that God lives; I know that Jesus is the Christ; and I know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the Lord. I rejoice in the opportunity I have had to raise my voice among- the people of the world, informing them that God has again spoken from the heavens, that He has established His work upon the earth for the last time, and that the spme gifts and blessings that existed in the primitive church exist in our day. Educated men often ask the question : Why is it that we do not see the gifts, powers and manifestations in the church today that were in the Church of Christ when He was upon the earth with His apostles ? I bear testimony to you today, my brethren and sisters, that the same gifts and blessings, and powers of the priesthood, exist in this Church today that existed in the primitive church. I can bear testimony to you that I have heard men of science declare that certain children were doomed to die, that there was no power on earth that could heal them. I have myself, with my companions, entered houses of people who are not Saints, who had not made covenants with the Lord; we have spoken with these people on the principles of the Gospel, have declared unto them that the same gifts and blessings now exist in the Church of God, and the same power in the priesthood of God, as in times ancient. We have administered to children who have been given up by scientific men; and I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I have seen these children raised from their beds of affliction, they have been made whole. These people have manifested faith in the Gospel, and many of them have made covenants with the Lord. I remember one incident in particular, which took place in the city of Breslau. There was a young man, about twentytwo years of age, who was working as a bookkeeper, and who had been investigating the Gospel. One evening he came from his work and went immediately to bed. He felt sick; he did not know what was the matter, and they sent for the doctor. When the doctor came he told him that one of his lungs was  gone, that the other lung was badly affected, and that he had but a few days to live. The young man had a wife and three children. He had heard the testimony of the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and he sent for them and told them what the doctor had said. "But," he said, "I believe there is a power that is mightier; I believe there is a power that is stronger than the power of man. I believe in the sayings of the Apostle James, in the 5th chapter and 14th verse, where he says, 'If you have sick among you, call in the elders and they will anoint you, and by the prayer of faith you will be healed.' " I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this man had faith in the power of God. By his request the elders anointed him; he was made whole and is a strong man today, performing his duties. 

I want to say further, that I have demonstrated the power there is in obedience to the principle of tithing, paying an honest tithing, being honest with the Lord. The young man I refer to joined the Church, shortly after the experience I have related. His salary was such that he could just meet all of his expenses. He had no surplus at the end of the month, but he heard of the principle of tithing, and he said : "I am going to pay my tithing, and I believe that the Lord will open the way for me." That month he paid his honest tithing. The next month, without saying anything to him, his employer advanced his salary twenty marks, and this was more than the amount he had paid as tithing. This is another testimony to me that the Lord works in behalf of His children, and if they will render obedience unto Hip , he will provide ways and means whereby they can accomplish their righteous purposes. 

I rejoice in this work. I know that it is the work of the Lord, and, as I said before, I know that the Lord is directing it. I know there are thousands of people in the world today who are waiting anxiously for this Gospel. In the Swiss and German mision, during the time I have been there, we have distributed 2,294,038 tracts, from door to door. We have baptized 1,867 souls. Now, these are merely figures showing what we have actually done, but they do not represent one-thousandth part of the work that has been done in the mission field. Not long ago I was in the city of Berlin, and I was invited to the home of a man who is many times a millionaire. While I was conversing with him he said, "Mr. Baliff, I have heard of you; and I want to learn more of you; and I want to hear more of your Gospel." He brought his wife and two children and introduced them to me. He spoke the German, French and English languages. We had a pleasant time together, and he said : "I want to protect you brethren here in this city, with my means and influence; I will use my influence to bring about the liberty of the I atter-day Saints in preaching the Gospel." 

It is the influence of such men as this that brings about, and helps to maintain, our religious freedom in the city of Berlin, at the present time. I want to say further, my brethren and sisters, especially to those parents who have young men in the mission field, don't be alarmed about your sons. They are in the hands of the Lord, and He is able to take care of , and He will take care of them. In some instances your young men may be arrested, and spend a few days behind prison bars; but I say they can't be engaged in a greater work than this ministry. There are very few of our elders who have in any way suffered in those prisons. I have a son who was arrested for preaching the Gospel, and spent a little time in prison. I have a son who has been banished from one province in Germany, and many of you also have missionary sons who have been banished and driven; but the hand of the Lord has been with them. They are not suffering, even those who have been cast into prisons. Those prisons are kept clean. The officers are extremely careful to see that those arrested are clean enough to go into the prisons. As a rule, our young men are given a bath before they are permitted to eo into these prisons. (Laughter.) Probably they did not need it; at any rate they had the bath before they were put in prison. The beds in those places have iron cushions, but at the same time they are clean, so the young men are not in danger of being infected with any disease in those prisons. 

Our young men in the mission field, in Germany, Switzerland, Austria Hungaria, and France, are doing excellent work; and I feel proud to have been numbered among them. Although I have been presiding, and it is said I am released from the Swiss and German mission, I hope the time may never come when I shall be released from interest in that mission. My heart and soul is in that work; I know it is a work of greatest importance. There is the blood of Israel in Germany and Switzerland, and the people are waiting anxiously for the Gospel. Just as fast as we are able to give the Gospel to the honest in heart, I say they will accept it, because they are the blood of Israel, and they will some time receive it. I know that the Lord is no respecter of persons; I know that is a good nation, and the day will come when thousands will embrace the Gospel. My brethren and sisters, we have not one- tenth of the missionaries that we need. Do not be alarmed when you hear that your son is away up in Kiel, or on the frontier of Russia. We have not half enough elders to take care of the branches. There are many places in Germany today where one elder is presiding over three branches, and it is a hard task on him. I appeal to young Israel, to you young men who were born under the covenant; there is a great work devolving upon you. I believe the time will come when you will be called out in quorums to go and warn the nations. We are establishing branches and conferences, and we are going to establish stakes of Zion throughout all lands. The Gospel is large and comprehensive; it is not alone this nation in America that is going to receive the Gospel; but it is to be proclaimed in all parts of the earth. The people of all nations are the children of the Lord, and the Gospel is intended to save the entire human family. 

I rejoice in this work. I am grateful for the privilege of meeting with you; and I pray that the blessings of the Lord may ever attend this people. I hope the time will come when we will all observe the admonition contained in the revelation given to the Prophet John Taylor, "Set your house in order." My brethren and sisters, let us examine ourselves. I want  examine myself and my household. Am I in order? Am I a light and an example to the world? Can I stand up and say to people in the world, follow me? Can I go to nations of the earth and say, Take me as an example, as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ? I have been baptized; I have made covenants with the Lord, has it made me better? Am I a better man through having accepted the Gospel of Jesus Christ? If not, the Gospel of Christ has been without effect and without avail to me. But, I say that every person who has joined the Church and made covenants with the Lord, if they have lived up to the teachings of the Gospel, they should be, and they are lights to the world, they are a power for good wherever they go. Let us govern ourselves; let us govern our families; in order that the world may look upon us and say, They are indeed worthy of our emulation. Let us not forget the people who do not understand the ways of the Lord; let us be charitable; let us learn to love them. Let us extend the hand of fellowship to the whole world. Let us be forerunners, and prepare the way for the Lord's coming. There are millions of honest people in the world who will accept the Gospel, just as soon as they can understand it and that is our real purpose,our real motives in preaching and spreading the Gospel of life and salvation. 

May the Lord help us all to do right. I appeal to young Utah, young Zion, young Israel, t( put your whole faith and trust in the Lord. I would like to impress you with the fact that this' Gospel is a gospel of science; it contains all science. But don't allow yourselves to be misled by the word "science." The Gospel of Jesus Christ is the  of all science, all knowledge. Base yourselves on the foundation of the Gospel of Christ, and through that you will obtain the keys to all sciences that exist upon the earth; it is the fountain-head of all science. 

May the Lord bless you; may He comfort and bless Zion. May He bless you parents who have young men in the mission field. Do not feel alarmed; they are in the hands of the Lord. They are a noble band; I love them as I love my own life, and I want to say that the Lord loves them. They are keeping the Word of Wisdom, and that is another key to their success. They live near to the Lord; He is watching over them, and there is no fear. Brethren and sisters, don't send your boys too much money; the money is needed here in Zion. I do not want to be radical, but I suggest that you should send them just what you feel they absolutely need. There are many Elders in the mission field today who are spending; very little money; there are some who are not spending any, they are going absolutely without money, in a way. Let us be wise about this; not that we wart you to be scrimpy and stingy. There is a great blessing that goes to t^e missionaries who are preaching the Gospel. There is never a time when a man is more humble than when he is wholly dependent upon the Lord; and I have never seen the time, in my experience, when the Lord failed to supplv the wants of His humble and honest servants. I know He has dore it: I have proven it. I know that the Lord is waiting anxiously to Mess us, if we will just live so that we merit and deserve His blessings. May the Lord help us to  faithful and true, I ask it, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
