27
Morning
06 04 1909
Patriarch John Smith. 

The people enjoined to be true Latterday Saints.— Personal remembrances of early history. — Passing away of old friends. — Necessity for giving heed to Spiritual Monitor. — Properway to pay tithing. 

My Brethren and sisters: I was in hopes that this task would oass over; for preaching, as I have said many times, is not my forte. However, I trust that by your faith and prayers my memory may recc've strength, that something mav come to my mi"d that I may sav, which will benefit both vou and me. 

I have listened attentively to all that h^s been said, thus far, during this conference, and I can indorse every sentiment, every word, for I know all that h^>s b°en said has been inspired by our Fatber in heaven. We as a people shouH endeavor to be true Latter-day Saints; If we are not, we certainly should be. We should realize our duty and privileges and strive diligently to live in a way and manner that 105  Father in heaven will approve  so that He may be pleased to let His Spirit rest upon us, that those who adchess us may speak by that Spirit, by that intelligence, that we who listen may obtain wisdom and knowledge, and that we may remember and profit by what we have heard. 

In my reflections, my mind often goes back to early youth, to my childhood. I can remember back farther than many others who are here present, in regard to the travels of the Church. My memory goes back as far as Kirtland, Ohio. I remember when we were leaving there, our travels to Missouri, the persecutions through which we passed in Missouri, and being driven from there to Illinois. My mind is very vivid on these points. I remember our arrival in Quincy, Illinois, and proceeding to the place where was afterwards established the city of Nauvoo. I remember distinctly that the place where we settled, first n?med Commerce, but subsequently called Nauvoo, was a sickly place; many of us were sick for a year. There was a time there when corn was only ten cents a bushel, but ftisnv of us who had the ten cents could not get the corn, because so many were sick; and few were able to go out and purchase and take it to the mill, in order that we might obtain the food needed. My memory also goes ba<~k to the time we we r e crossing the plains; finally setth'ng here when this country was covered with sagebrush, and there were no houses to speak of. Often, in my reflections, I look around for tho^e whom I call, in my way of sneaking, the old boys of my youth. Thev are getting scarce and, in looking around, I oftentimes feel lonesome. For many years I have tried to get here to conference  early in. the day, that I might shake hands with old persons with whom I was acquainted in early times. But, they are getting scarce; it causes me to realize that time is gomg, and that the people are being gathered from the earth to the spirit world. 

I have been interested in the advice and instructions that have been given here in regard to closing saloons, and urging our people to live moral and upright lives; I realize that this is a necessity. As Latter-day Saints, we should strive to live in that way and manner that our Father in heaven can bestow His blessings upon us. We understand that it is our duty to pay our tithes and offerings; that we should attend to our prayers, and perform the many other duties that devolve upon us. I have said many times, every litter-day Saint has a monitor within him. If we will stop to reflect upon our duties and privileges this monitor will direct us in the true path. I believe there is no person who does a wrong but what that mon : tor within him will say that *'t is wrong, and that he should not have done it. If we happen to get under an influence which is not proper and rieht, and permit that influence to guide us, we will often err in judgment and do things that we ought not to do; but if we will listen to the promptings of that monitor, and take a stra : ghtforward course, asking our Father to assist and guide us in our labors, we will not so often make mistakes. 

I have learned by observation, and also by practice, in. regard to the law of tithing, to which some of the speakers have referred, that if we pay our tithes and offerings at the time we have the means, it is no hardship; but if we neglect payment one month after another the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  will be spent; and then, when we should pay tithing, taxes come upon us, and when we pay the taxes we have no moneyleft for tithing. If we will do our duty in this regard, and pay as we go, we will be all right. This reminds me of a little circumstance that transpired not long ago. I went into a store to buy something. The clerk said, "Shall I charge it?" I said, "No sir; if I can't pay now for what I want, I will go without till I have the money." This practice is the best. If we have not the means on hand to buy what we want, wait until we can pay for it. If we as Latter-day Saints will strive in this wise to live up to our duties and privileges, asking our Father in heaven to guide us each day, we will not often err in judgment. 

May the favor of our Father rest upon all Israel, and guide us in the true faith, qualify us for every duty, that we may be worthy of the blessings He has in store for us, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
