30
Morning
06 04 1909
Elder John Henry Smith. 

Tribute to strong, honest character of President Roosevelt. — prospect for continuance of good government — Integrity to trust in handling funds. — Laxity in discipline of children. — The young incited to acquire nobility of character. 

I have listened with intense interest to the remarks that have been made by our brethren, from the opening of the conference until the present time. It has been a joy to me to recognize the character of the spirit, as well as the nature of the words that have fallen from the lips of each of the speakers. I trust that the impress made upon our minds will remain, and be a joy to us while engaged in the performance of our duties during- the next year. 

In looking back over the past year, I recognize the fact that the bles=ines of the Lord have abounded in large degree upon this people, as well as upon all other people of the United States, and most of the nations of the world. While there have been calamities of a serious character that have fallen to 117  lot of some of our Father's children, enough at least to signify unto us that His providences are over all, and we realize that His judgments may be poured out in His own way, and in His own time, upon any of us; yet, as a rule, joy abounds in the hearts of the children of men. 

We have recently noted the change of presidents of the United States, the passing from the presidency of this great nation of ours one of the most heroic, earnest, devoted and thoroughly honest men. His efforts toward the reformation of our land should be a joy to every American citizen. While he may, in his zeal, have made mistakes, I believe that, in the writings of historians of the future, one of the brightest names in the history of the race will be that of the man who has served this nation so faithfully and well — Theodore Roosevelt. The coming into power of another man as the executive of our nation, fully equipped for the discharge of his duties, with extended experience, and a body of able men around him, I believe presages to our country continued glorious growth and development. While it is not my thought to dwell upon the question of civil government, it is a joy to recognize the fact that the nation in which we live, which we love, and which is our nation, has demonstrated power to carry itself unscathed amidst storms and tempests, amidst financial distresses, and make successful the ministry and labor of its noble and gifted sons. 

While I stand here I desire to speak briefly upon a subject that has not been spoken of at this conference, by any of my brethren — it is the question of financial integrity, sacred regard for trusts. It oc occurs, as we note in publications over the land, that men who are trusted with public and private funds go wrong. There seems to be a lack of understanding in regard to this question of the sacredness of these obligations. I hope that within each of the schools in our state, whether state or church schools, universities, academies, colleges, or grade schools, that there shall be an effort made by the faculties in those institutions to impress fully upon the minds of our young men the sacredness that attaches to public and private trusts. It is most desirable that the principles of honor, honesty, integrity, wisdom, and right shall be written in their souls, that moral principles may be so thoroughly implanted in them, through the training they receive therein, augmented by the efforts and ministry of Sabbath schools and the various associations that have been established in the Church, so that no young man of this Church or state, who shall be entrusted with the means of another person, whether it be private or public, shall be led to misuse those funds, and do that which shall bring discredit to his name, to his family, or to the people among whom he resides. I believe that more thoughtful and earnest labor is necessary in connection with these matters, in our homes, schools, and churches, and in the various organizations that have been established all over the land looking toward the betterment and uplifting of the sons and daughters of this glorious country of ours. 

In the priesthood meeting last night, President Smith briefly made reference to propositions involved in the stricter guardianship GENERAL CONFERENCE.  our children, calling attention to laxity in governing them, and a degree of recklessness that has deveioped,along certain lines,among some of our young people. From my own observation, I feel sure that we accord greater liberty to our children than is granted by a large majority of the rest of the world. 1 feel that this matter of the care and education of our children, needs consideration in every home, ward, and stake of Zion. As I remarked before, in one of the meetings in this Tabernacle, I am fearful we are becoming too much the lovers of pleasure, and too little the lovers of God; I believe that repentance and reformation in these respects are requisites among us as a people. I believe that excessive liberty comes into my own home; I know it does; and I believe it goes into the homes of too many of this people. While in no sense of the word would I curtail legitimate and proper liberty, proper enjoyment and recreation for the young, I recognize the fact that indiscriminate mingling of boys and girls in every place, and under every condition, without the guardianship of parents, is a menace to the morality, well-being, and good of our young, a hindrance to their development and growth in the cause of the Eternal Father. My brothers and my sisters, I ask you to think upon this problem of the proper care of our children. Let us instil into the minds of our young people, who are entering upon the duties of life a proper understanding and regard for the sacredness of those obligations, that they may duly recognize the principles of virtue, honestv, integrity, honor, devotion to the right, industry, perseverance and unyielding cour, with resolutions fixed upon the uplifting and upbuilding of the race, the betterment of the whole world. 

As my brethren have said before me, I testify to the mission of the Redeemer of the world, the Son of the living God. I testify to the truth that has been established through His administration. I testify to the greatness, and to the truth in its fullness, of the work of the Almighty that has been entrusted to these men and women who are under the sound of my voice. It is the grandest and truest mission that has ever been imposed upon mortal in the history of the world. 

I plead with my brethren and sisters to think of these matters, that we may understand the obligations that rest upon us in this great work; that we may understand our duties toward our children, that elements of the noblest character shall be implanted in the souls of our sons and daughters and that the country in which we live shall be uplifted through the purity and integrity shown in their lives and ministry. Amen.
