31
Morning
06 04 1909
President Francis M. Lyman. 

Some who have the Gospel Spirit possess worldly spirit also. — Responsibility of parents, and instructors: agency of children. — U. S. has gathered_ best people of all nations. — Nation favored of the Lord; the people should be righteous. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly with you, my brethren and sisters, during this conference. It seems to me it has been one of the most inspiring and edifying conferences that we have ever enjoyed. The weather has been good, and the congregations have been large and 119 . I am sure that we have verily been fed spiritually, and instructed, and I am now quite prepared for the transaction of the remaining business of the conference, and for its adjournment. 

The work of the Lord is so thoroughly fixed in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, that it is secure among men. It may not yet have reached its majority, or become strong enough to be very remarkable among the churches and peoples of the earth, but it certainly is so strongly established that it will never be shaken, nor moved. It will not be moved out of its place, for the Lord will sustain it; and He will sustain each of us, individually, through our faith, and having done the will, of the Lord. We not only recognize the results in the works of the people, but we know of the doctrine. The Lord has favored us, as He would have favored all men if they would have received His blessings, if they had been willing to listen to the truth and receive it. Not that we have been any more favored, particularly, than the rest of the world would have been, if they had been willing, if they had opened their hearts and their ears, and had listened. They could have known as we know, and they might have realized the truth of the doctrine, as well as to have recognized the good works quoted here_ by our bishop. 

We would like them to be able to quote a good many more good works than we have heard, in connection with us individually and as a people, for there is ample room for our improvement. We must correct the troubles that we complain of in regard to our children, and that we find in ourselves. At times we have to acknowledge that we are a little like the world, that  stray from our professions and the doctrines of life and truth. Unless we are careful, we may depart, in some particular, from the straight and narrow path. 

Although we have to acknowledge these things, yet there is being established and is established now, in the hearts of a large majority of the Latter-day Saints, a clear understanding of the doctrines that are so difficult for the world to comprehend, for the reason explained by the bishop — that they have not the spirit of this work, but have the spirit of the world. We, too, have the spirit of the world in quite liberal amount, so that we understand, as the world understands, the things of the world; we comprehend and agree in regard to them, and, like the world, we participate more or less and are engrossed in that spirit more than we should be. We should be more thoroughly and entirely under the influence and inspiration of the Holy Ghost; but we are improving in this regard. I say that the Latter-day Saints are improving, and I am not sure but there is improvement also in the world. There are many good people in the world, who are righteous, who are humble and faithful according to their understanding of the truth. 

Our trouble is, much as others, we have our agency, and our children, fust like ourselves, have their agency; and although we mav possibly set before them reasonably good examples, and be solicitous for them, prayerful and anxious for their salvation, yet they take their choice — your boys and mine, and our girls, they do just about as they please. I believe it is generallv understood, and advocated, that if we were better parents, better GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and mothers, attended more faithfully to our duties in teaching our children and training them, we would have better children. I presume there is much truth in it; but sometimes good people, good parents, have bad boys and bad girls. I understand that the Lord has more bad boys and girls than anybody else; yet, He teaches, and instructs, and inspires, and is ready to do everything He. can for them; and aren't you and I ready also to do what we can for our children. Although we may do all that lies in our power, set good examples, give good instructions, take pains to observe the Sabbath day ourselves, and have our children do the same, yet a percentage of them may be reckless, and some may go to destruction, and as a result our hearts may be broken. Tender fathers and mothers are very greatly distressed over the waywardness, of their children. It is our duty to care for our children, to look after them, to do all the good we can for them, and when we have done all that, why some of them, no doubt, will be lost — at least they will not do as we want them to do. They will exercise their agency, and some of them may listen to the spirit of evil that is in the world. Notwithstanding these difficulties, it is our obligation to take every pains in our power for the salvation of our children, for they are the children of God. They are entrusted to us, and we are responsible for teaching them, training and leading them by our example and precept in the ways of righteousness. When we have done our duty faithfully, and have been perfect, even as our Father in heaven is perfect, as near as we can — which I believe we can fairly well be if we will— then the  rests upon the children themselves. Parents do not rest under condemnation when they have done their duty in regard to their children. The obligation rests first with the parents, but it also rests upon the bishops and presiding officers in the wards, in the stakes of Zion, and in the Church, the leading presiding brethren, and the leading and chief sisters in the associations — a great responsibility rests upon them as well as upon the parents; they must all do their duty, so that the young people of the Church may be thoroughly trained and instructed. 

Let us take care of what the Lord has entrusted to us. He has given us everything we enjoy, the Church, the people, our families, our country. Thank the Lord for this country, of which we speak so highly, and its government — a splendid government, a splendid country; and yet there are difficulties, and troubles in the cities, the states and in the nation. We have to struggle with great questions, great difficulties, but we have the finest part of the world, the best government, and the finest people— for we have the very best people of all nations; we have gathered in this country from all nations. Ours is a gathering nation, as well as a gathering people. I do not know that there is any other nation — I do not think just now of another nation that is gathering from all the other nations of the earth. All the nations of the earth seem to be contributing to build up this nation which the Lord seems to have held in reserve; that is, He seems to have delayed the establishment of this nation, the developing of this side of the world. He has reserved this country for the accomplishment of 121 

His purposes. They are gathering to this continent, and they are gathering to this people, as to no other religious denomination^ We have represented here nearly all the civilized nations of the earth — if they are not all represented now, they will be after a little while. The choicest element seems to be moving from the old world, from among other nations, to gather upon this new side of the world — although it is sometimes regarded as the old side of the world; it has been old so long it seems to have come young again. We are developing a nation, and we are developing a people, religiously, such as is not known on any other part of the earth. 

Being thus favored of the Lord, and being called as His instruments, it behooves us to be faithful and diligent. We have been called of God; He has inspired us; He has opened our eyes and our ears, and enables us to understand. It seems that He has been unable to make others of His children see as yet, though their eyes will finally be opened. Thank the Lord that our eyes have been opened early, and that we now have the privilege of helping to build up the kingdom of God, to spread abroad in the earth the principles of truth and righteousness, to take care of the foundations of this Church which the Lord has established in our day. 

It is a wonderful thing for us to be members of this Church. The brethren sometimes say how they appreciate their membership in this Church. Why, th/ere is nothing greater, nothing finer in the world, for we are associated with the counsels, the directions, and divine inspiration and authority off th/e Father, to whom all men are ac. He inspired His prophet Joseph Smith, to lay the foundations of this work, so securely that it will never be disturbed; that is, it will never be overturned; and the work will never be given to another people,for the people who now possess it, and their posterity, and those who come to our assistance, will sustain this work, and it will never be overthrown, for God has said it. He is sustaining and directing this great work. You and T are His instruments, and we will be wondefully honored and blest in our salvation, and the salvation of our posterity, if we are faithful. Let us do our duty; da it faithfully, thoroughly, and well, so that we. shall never be condemned, nor be ashamed — through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.
