32
Morning
06 04 1909
Auditing Committee'S Report. 

Elder Heber J. Grant read the following report of the Church Auditing Committee: 

Salt Lake City, Utah, 

April 2, 1909. President Joseph F. Smith and Counselors, 

Dear Brethren : Your committee, intrusted with the auditing of the books and accounts of the various officers having charge of the financial affairs of the Church, beg leave to report that we have completed our labors, having carefully examined all books and accounts, and have found them accurate, and correctly kept. We further certify that all receipts and expenditures have been fully accounted for, and the details thereof given with great particularity. 

We desire especially to mention and commend the intelligent and GENERAL CONFERENCE. -like methods prevailing at the offices of the Trustee-in-Trust, Presiding Bishopric and minor offices of the Church. 

Very respectfully submitted, 

RUDGER CLAWSON, W. W. RlTER, 

A. W. Carlson, Henry H. Rolapp, Auditing Committee of the Church 

of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 

Saints. 

Elder Hyrum M. Smith moved that the report of the Auditing Committee be accepted and approved. 

Elder Joseph E. Robinson moved to add, as an amendment to the motion, that the members of the Church, present at this meeting, hereby express entire confidence in the administration of the financial affairs of the Church. The motion and amendment were sustained by the congregation, by unanimous vote. 

ATJTHOEITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F. Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

John R. Winder, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman, as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As Members of the Council of Twelve Apostles, Francis M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George 

Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay and Anthony W. Ivins. 

John Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelator s. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies, Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, George Reynolds, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin and Charles H. Hart. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith, as his First and Second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, A. Milton Musser, Brigham H. Roberts and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Assistant Historians. 

As Members of the General Church Board of Education — Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, John R. Winder, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings and Orson F. Whitney. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools — Horace H. Cummings, Chairman; George H. Brimhall, James H. Linford and Willard Young. 123 

Tabernacle Choir — Prest. John R. Winder, President; Evan Stephens, Conductor; Horace S. Ensign, Assistant Conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, Secretary and Treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, Librarian; and all the members. 

Auditing Committee — Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, William W. Riter, August W. Carlson, and Henry H. Rolapp. 

Duncan M. McAllister, as Clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

Faithful Elders who have died recently in mission fields. — The blessings of heaven invoked on the Saints. — Admonition to serve God. 

It is with feelings of great sympathy, on the part of the brethren who preside, and the Saints everywhere, that I have to announce that since the October conference the following deaths have occurred in the mission field : 

Brother Charles Mortenson, of Koosharem, Utah, died in Scandinavia, on January 12, 1909; cause appendicitis. 

Brother George Edwin Morris, of Mesa, Arizona, died December 12, 1908, in Samoa; cause, sunstroke. 

Brother Oliver Hansen, of Bear River City, Utah, died November 28, 1908, in Scandinavia; cause, leakage of the heart. This brother died at Chicago while en route home from his mission. 

We felt that it was our duty to mention the names of these our brethren who have fallen in the ministry, while devoting their time and the gifts the Lord bestowed upon them, in the mission field. They were faithful and true, and their memories should ever be held clear by their kindred and all the Latter-day Saints, in that they laid down their lives in the Master's service. We pray God to bless and comfort those who are bereaved more especially by their loss; and their hearts may not faint, but that they may be buoyed up in the hope of the glorious resurrection awaiting them when they and their loved ones shall, be reunited in the life and light which will never perish or again grow dim. 

I desire to express my gratitude to the Latter-day Saints who have so faithfully attended this conference. I feel to give to you, my brethren and sisters, my blessing, and to ask humbly of the Lord to bestow greatly upon you all His favors, His blessings and protecting care, that you may be prospered in your temporal labors, and that you may also be prospered abundantly in your spiritual labors and efforts to build up the kingdom of God in the earth. I trust that we may all return to our daily duties rejoicing in the spirit that has been manifested during our conference and in the excellent instructions and counsels that have been given to us by those who have spoken. Let us bear these things in mind, and go home determined more than ever to serve God and to keep His laws; to work righteousness in the earth, that our light may indeed so shine that the world may see it, and that men may be led to glorify God. 

It was announced that Prof. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

John J. McClellan, and assistants, will give recitals at 12 m. daily hereafter, on the great Tabernacle organ, to which the public will be admitted free, as heretofore. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, 

To guide us in these latter days; We thank Thee for sending the Gospel 

To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee for every blessing 

Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, 

And love to obey Thy command. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder John G. McQuarrie, and 
Amen.
