Outdoor
04 04 1909


The Tabernacle and Assembly Hall were uncomfortably crowded, and thousands were unable to obtain admittance, consequently, the weather being favorable, an outdoor meeting of the Conference was held, at 2 p. m., near the Bureau of Information building, at which 2,500 persons were present. 

Elder Benjamin Goddard presided, and Prof. Elihu Call conducted the singing. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "High on the mountain top." 

Prayer was offered by Elder Jacob F. Gates. 

The congregation sang the hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

It is gratifying, my brethren and sisters, to observe the crowds of our Church members so interested in the work of the Lord that they come from the south and the north,  east and the west, from Canada on the north to Mexico on the south, for the purpose of attending our annual conference. 

We realize the disadvantages attending this open air meeting, but we are thankful that we have not the same disadvantages nor the spirit of antagonism that we so often encounter upon the street corners of large cities, where people are not of our faith. The brethren, however, who will address you have been accustomed to street meetings. They have good voices. They are filled with the Spirit of the Lord, and I think they can make you all hear. 

Upon this block, we also have a missionary work constantly in operation. I simply want to refer to the fulfillment of prophecy in connection with our work here, as it may be particularly interesting to some of our friends who are now in the audience, and who are not of our faith. Every day in the week, every day of the year, from early morning until late at night, we are entertaining "strangers within our gates," explaining unto them the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and all that the structures upon this block stand for. Amongst other things we direct special attention to our magnificent Temple, a monument to the faith of the people, and a palpable evidence of the restoration of the gospel. In that connection, too,' these words are now verily fulfilled : 

"But, in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall come and say [mark you, they are saying it every day of the year, and this prophecy is thus fulfilled, for from every nation under heaven people are coming, and saying], Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob, and He will teach us of His ways, and we will walk in His paths; for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." 

I pray that the Spirit that usually is present in our sacred gatherings may rest upon the assembly in this open air meeting, that the word of the Lord may be given unto you, and that the Spirit may interpret it to your understanding. I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

My brethren and sisters, I consider it a privilege that we are permitted to gather together and worship the Lord in this, the 79th, annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With you, I rejoice in the instructions that we have received this morning; and I ask myself the question asked by President Smith, "What am I doing to keep the commandments of the Lord?" Is my heart as willing to sacrifice as were our brethren and sisters who were instrumental in establishing the church in the earth 79 years ago? I rejoice that my grand-parents were among the first to hear the message of truth, and that they had faith enough to receive and live the same. I wonder, with our opportunities, as young men and women, after our years of training, if we are as anxious to accept the truth, and as anxious to serve the Lord as they in that day. There is more truth in the world than when this church was organized,  it seems to one we are slowei to accept the truth, especially if it is called a "religious" truth. This is my experience with men and women of the world, during eight years in preaching the Gospel. 

When you tell broad-minded men and women in the world that we are the only church in the earth that is .right, they are shocked, and horrified at our "narrow" conception of the love of God; yet it is true, and when understood in the light of the restored gospel it is the broadest conception possible. I wonder if the Latter-day Saints stop to consider what a wonderful and terrible statement it must be to the people of the world, to be told that they are without the right to officiate in the name of God. and that we are the only people in the world who have the right. I told one man who has been prominent in governmental affairs in the United States the past four years, that while the people of the world mav be moral teachers, may be great educators, and may deliver truths to the children of men, and are exerting wonderful influences for the civilization of the world and for the education of the children of men, yet, on one point the great and vital point of authority we differ with them. After they have been taught the truth, and believe the same, we claim to be the only people who have the right to take a man or woman into the waters of baptism and there say, "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ I baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost." This man said to me, "I can see why all other churches unite against you, after you pit yourselves against the rest of the world with that statement." 

I often wonder if the Latter Saints appreciate that statement, and realize our position. If it be true and we believe that we are the only people in the world that have the right to officiate in the name of God, what a labor is resting upon our shoulders, and what a responsible position we occupy. Less than fifty thousand men in the world having the right to baptize the rest of the people who come to believe in the name of God. We understand that there is about one-third of the world today who, nominally, believe in Christ. There are many millions of these people who truly believe in Christ. They firmly and honestly believe in Him, from all the light that they have received, and they believe, too, that they have been initiated into the Church of Christ, and that when they die they will be saved in His presence. They believe they have done all that they need to do; and yet, as Latter-day Saints, we know, from the tesimony that burns in our bosom, there is yet something for them to do. It is encouraging to know they are fast believing that God is our Father, in very deed. They are fast acquiring a genuine belief that Jesus Christ is in very deed the Son of God; and also believing that there is something more yet to be done; that men will be called of God, sometime, to officiate in ordinances of the Gospel that have not yet been officiated in by them in their churches. 

One minister told me a few days ago, "Mr. Ellsworth, we believe in the restoration of the Gospel." "Why," I said, "that seems strange. I have never heard a minister declare that before in my life." I asked him how he believed in the restoration, and he gave me almost word for word the argument we : that there was an apostasy, and that, after the reformation, little by little God has revealed the truth to this church and that church, through this man and that woman. "We have today much more truth than we had fifty years ago; and we believe that more truth will be given to us just as rapidly as we are prepared to receive it. If it is the Lord's will that we be baptized by immersion, we will be glad to be baptized just as soon as we feel that it is an important thing. If it is important, as the scriptures hint, that we should have the laying on of hands, we believe that the Lord will make it manifest to us through our churches. If it is important that we do other things that you speak of, we believe that He will restore them to us through one church or through another. To all who are moved upon by the Spirit of God to receive those truths, they will be essential in their lives; but just as long as this or that principle does not dawn upon us, we do not feel responsible to obey it. We feel now that the most essential thing is to believe in God; and inasmuch as we believe in God, we believe we will be saved, but we believe also that it is essential to live up to all the truths that He reveals to us." 

I told him that that was a pretty good argument, and I believe that it will do good. The Lord will hold us responsible for what light we have received. As Latter-day  Saints believing that God, our Father, 79 years ago, re-established the Church, with such officers as were placed in it in the days of Jesus Christ, and that He has revealed to us all the light and blessings, and principles that have been revealed or taught by holy men of old since the world began, knowing these things to be true, it is well that we ask the question that President Joseph F. Smith asked himself and the Latter-day Saints this morning, What have I done; what am I doing, what am I willing to do, to help establish this great work? 

Proclaiming to the world that God has revealed to us all the prin ciples of the Gospel, the great things that have been hidden from the foundation of the world, and has delivered to us the responsibility of teaching them to our fellow men, it is well that we ask that question in all seriousness. Am I willing to do what my father or my grandfather did ? Am I willing to do what the first men and women who received this Gospei did for the establishment of the work of God in the earth? Is my all on the altar, am I willing to spend my time, my means, and my talents in that great cause? I say, my brethren and sisters, it is a good question to ask ourselves. May God help us to appreciate the fact that we are the only people who have this divine right to officiate in the name of God. May He help us to exercise this authority with an eye single to the glory of God, in all charity and love, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER BEN E. RICH. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

Brother Ellsworth stated that 79 years ago, day after tomorrow, this church was organized, with six members. Rather a small beginning; but it was predicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith that it would continue to grow until it filled the whole earth with the righteousness  God. What a wonderful thing has been done among churches during the past 79 years. Mormonism, as it is called by the people of the world, has found iLs way into every civilized nation. As Brother Goddard stated, there is not a nation upon ttie earth where the voice of the children of God cannot be heard, saying, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob." They want to come here for the purpose of learning more of the wavs of the Lord, and to walk in the paths that will bring them back into the presence of our Father. There is not a civilized nation where our elders are not working, where we do not find members of the Church 

The work that is being done by the missionaries today is a manifestation of devotion to the principle of reciprocity. We are doing for other what others have done for us and for our parents. Recently, in the New England States, I had the privilege of holding a priesthood meeting with thirtyeight Elders, 37 of whom were born in the Church. The fathers of 15 of whom were born in the Church, and the grandfathers of 31 were members of the Church. In another conference wnere we had 12 Elders, 10 of whom were born in the Church, the fathers of 6 were born in the Church, and the grandfathers of 9 belonged to the Church. Still another conference in which there are 14 Elders, 9 of the 14 were born in the Church, the fathers of 7 were born in the Church, and the grand-fathers of 9 were members of the Ch' rch. So you see the second and third generations are out in the world preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ. God sends His spirit be them. It softens the hearts of mankind toward the Elders. While we properly think that our fathers and grand-fathers have been mighty men in the interests of the gospel, I tell you there are just as good fish left in the sea as have been drawn out with the Gospel net. This work will go on, and intellectual giants will be brought into the Church. The leaven has started to work, and it will leaven the whole lump eventually; it has been developing during the last 79 years. 

You do not hear so much of "hell-fire-and-brimstone" as was preached before God sent the truth down to earth. There are not so many people believing that there are infants in hell only a span long. Churches all over the world are becoming converted to Gospel principles which God the Eternal Father restored to earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is true ^1 — are not giving the Church credit, but they are adopting the doctrine. It is making them broader minded. It is making them better; and it is leading them nearer to the truth. Speaking to you this afternoon, as a representative from the missionary field, I want to tell you that your sons, your fathers, your husbands, who are out in the world preaching the gospel are doing more for humanity, more for the peonle of this world, than you can estimate. God is blessing them. And the students who go out into the world to study are doing excellent work. Those who are laboring in New York are helping us in a wonderful way. They are teaching the Elders to sing. They take charge of the Mutual Improvement Associations, and the Sunday school. They are ready to preach the gospel whenever called upon to  it, the same as the Elders who are called specially to devote all their time in lifting up their voices, crying, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." Many of you people remember Robert C. Easton, who has such a wonderful voice. You have not seen him for years; but the talent that God has given to that man is employed in missionary work at all times; and strangers who come into our meetings and hear him sing, especially that famous hymn, "O, my Father, Thou that dwellest," shed tears. There is nothing better than good music to soften the hearts of people, and bring them into a condition that they will patiently listen to the words the Elders have to speak unto them. 

Mormonism grows, because it is God's truth. It was prophesied, almost from the beginning, that in the last days God would do a marvelous work and a wonder upon the earth. He showed in vision to the Prophet Daniel that he intended to set up a kingdom upon the earth in the last days; that it would stand forever, and never more be thrown down. The very language conveys to us the knowledge that God has set up His work in other dispensations, and it has been thrown down; but He has shown that in the last days, the God of heaven would establish a kingdom upon the earth that never more would be thrown down or given to another people. What kind of an organization would that be? Would it be with apostles and prophets, evangelists, priests, and teachers, inspired of God, standing upon the rock of revelation, preaching the Gospel without purse or scrip, answering the question, "What shall we do to be saved?" in the same way that Peter of old answered it upon the day of Pentecost? Would it be like unto that? Why. I imagine so; I know it would. We are told that an angel should come through the midst of heaven, bringing it to the earth. The Gospel that Christ left with mankind was an organization like this we possess. The fundamental principles of that Gospel were faith in God and Christ, His Son, repentance — a godly repentance — baptism by immersion for the remission of sins, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by laying on of hands. You know, by reading the Word of God that those were the principles of the. organization, — and that which God has given unto us is an organization which includes them. You know also that, referring to the Gospel, when Paul ascertained that the people in one of the branches of the Church down in Galatia were trying to change it, he wrote them a strong letter in which he warned them against perverting the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and told them that any man would be cursed if he changed it; that the curse of God would even rest upon an angel from heaven if he should proclaim any other. So that, when the angel comes through the midst of heaven, bringing the everlasting Gospel, it must be like unto the one that Jesus Christ left with the people, or the curse of God would rest upon that angel. We are told by Peter that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation, that men of God wrote and spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost, so that the kingdom of God that was to be set up on the earth in the last days, as shown to Daniel, and as brought by the angel shown to Tohn, must be the Gospel of Jesus Christ, just the same as that He left upon the earth. Mor is primitive Christianity, the "Everlasting" Gospel, the "Eternal" Gospel, because it is the plan of salvation established by the Everlasting and the Eternal One. There cannot be two different churches and both of them be right. "One Lord, one faith, one baptism, was the doctrine taught in the days of the early Apostles, nearly two thousand years ago. Anything more than that creates confusion; and it is written that God is not the author of confusion. If He is not the author of confusion, then He is not the author of all that goes to make up this Babel of confusion in the religious world today. Something is wrong. 

The most startling thing about this work is that from the beginning of its organization, with six members, authority was given to go out to preach the gospel, to say unto all mankind, There is knowledge for you, there is a testimony for you, if you will come in the right way to receive it. Humble yourselves. Put your faith in God. Repent with a godly repentance. Be baptized under the authority that we say has been restored to the earth. Receive the seal of the spirit; and we are authorized to say, in the name of Christ our Master, that God will bestow upon you a testimony of the truth. And how well that has been made good; father, son and grandson have received it; and they are out in the world, in all the nations of the earth, crying unto people everywhere: We have received a testimony; and God will give it to you if you seek in the same way that we have sought. Why, of course it is true: it is easy enough to know that it is true. 

I heard President Taylor upon one occasion relating a conversa that took place between two little boys. One of them said, "Johnny, do you know my papa?" And Johnny said, "No, I do not know your papa." the other said, "I know him, just as easy." It is just as easy as that to know that Mormonism is true. If you tread the path, if you obey the principles, if you humble yourselves before God the Eternal Father, he will give you a testimony that this is His work, that it has been brought to the earth by an angel, delivering to mankind a record of nations who once jived upon this continent, one of which was visited by Christ Himself, who taught them of His resurrection, and taught them the everlasing Gospel. You will find it in that book (the Book of Mormon.) It came through the midst of heaven by an angel, and he thus brought the everlasting Gospel back to earth. Read it with a prayerful heart, and the spirit of God will whisper to you, "This record is true." The doctrine is true, and it will be easy for you to have a testimony of the truth. 

A man told me when I was speaking in the world once that I might just as well tell him that the moon was made of green cheese as to tell him that Mormonism was true. I said to him: "My friend, supposing that I did tell you that the moon was made of green cheese, and tell you that I had been there and tasted it, and you knew that I had been there and tasted it, and I wanted you to taste it, and you had the privilege of so doing, but absolutely refused to walk up and take a bite, would you be in a position to truthfully contradict me?" And he said, "No." I said, "Well I want to tell you that I have tasted Mormonism, and I know what it is, but there are some steps to be tak, the first is called faith, the second repentance, the third baptism, the fourth is the receiving of the seal of the Spirit. Climb that ladder and taste Mormonism; I have tasted it, and if you will do so, you will know that it is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. If you stand there with folded hands and refuse, have you a right to contradict me when I tell you in the name of Jesus Christ that this is the Gospel of the Redeemer sent back to the earth to lead mankind back into the presence of our Father?" God bless you. Amen. 

(Toward the conclusion of the services, Elder Rich made the following comments.) 

Brother Goddard has asked me to read to you the words of President Roosevelt that he spoke in May, 1903, in the Tabernacle, about our people subduing this country. He said : 

"Here, in this state the pioneers and those who came after them took, not the land that was ordinarily chosen, as a land that will yield return with a little effort. You took a state which, at the outset, was called after the desert, and you literally, not figuratively — literally made the wilderness to blossom as the rose. The fundamental element in building up Utah has been the work of the citizens of Utah; and you did it because your people entered in to possess the land and to leave it after them to their children .and their children's children." 

I want to say to you that this people never had a better friend in the White House than Theodore Roosevelt. There has never been a man there that understood this people as he understood them. He has been, and he is your friend. Many a conversation have I had with him concerning the struggles of this people, and the building up of this land with the aid of our fathers. We are now enjoying what our fathers gave their lives to accomplish. You are enjoying comfortable homes that the early founders of this Church gave everything in order that their children and their children's children might inherit. 

Read the hymn written by William Clayton. Just before the Pioneers came, before they started from Council Bluffs, President Young called him and said, "Brother Clayton, I want you to write a hymn that these pioneers may sing as we travel into the unknown west." In two hours' time, William Clayton had written, set to music, and sung, to President Young that famous hymn, "Come, come ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, But with joy wend your way." Read that hymn, and then think what your fathers and grandfathers passed through that you might enjoy the comforts of life that are yours today then, be determined to maintain the same faith and determination! thkt they possessed, to give your lives, if necessary, that the Gospel may go to others who have not yet listened to the sound of it. Be prepared to go at a moment's notice, if you are wanted, into any part of the world, and preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Here is another hymn just issued, "The Hymn of the Pioneers," by Sister Kate Thomas, and I am going to read you one or two of the verses. Notice therein the spirit of the pioneers, our forefathers who risked their lives, our mothers, who had faith in their husbands and in the leaders of the Church, that God would show to them the place where He intended the prophecy uttered by the Prophet Joseph Smith, should be fulfilled, in which he declared that the people would  be established in the valleys of the Rocky mountains, and build great cities. 

"Courage, my soul! all is not barren plain. What tho' the way be long and strewed with dead; His word is sure, who knoweth 

all thy pain,  Lift up thine eyes, His heaven 

is overhead. Praise God! praise God! 

His Sun broke through the night. On — on — press on — 

His love is all His might. 

"Praise God, my soul! My children 

reap the seed Sowed by my faith and watered 

by my tears. God of the nations, God of every 

creed, 

Let them be just to what my soul reveres! Praise God! praise God! 

Omnipotent love! On — on — press on — 

Till all the world is love!" 

The hymn, "I know that my Redeemer lives," was sung as a solo by Elder Melvin J. Ballard. 

ELDER JOHN G. M'QTTARRIE. 

(Late President of Eastern States Mission). 

About eighty-nine years ago, a young man, possessing that childlike faith that knows no doubt, as the result of an earnest, humble prayer, received a visit from the Father and the Son. The first question that he was privileged to ask was, "Which of all the denominations or churches is right?" This was a boy only 14 years of age; but whether men are old or young,  they are learned or unlearned, they must each ask this very important question, when they have a desire to be reconciled to God, or to find the true philosophy of life. And those who are not asking themselves this question have not ceased to do so because of the simplicity, but rather because of the complexity of the question. There may be some who are not asking the question, "Which of all the denominations is right," but if they are not, they are trying to find for themselves, or carve for themselves, a path through the forest of theory, a road through the desert of doubt, without a chart or compass, or without ecclesiastical leadership. Without some knowledge from a divine source, it would be impossible for any one from the various philosophies of life to determine, and be able to answer this question. There are some who are susceptible to the impression of the Spirit, some who know and feel the truth through intuition, inspiration, and revelation. There are others, like Thomas, who need to have some lines of reason so tangible that they can be led up to the door of knowledge that they may knock in order to have it opened unto them. It is probably for the guidance of this class of people that the Master said, "Bv their fruits you shall know them," and that the Apostle Paul said, "Whatsoever you plant, that shall you also reap." Hence we know, from these two unquestioned authorities, that there is a natural law prevailing in the spiritual world, that our salvation comes as natural as corn grows; th^t character grows just as other products tnav grow, in harmony with natural law. 

But which of these two rules are you going to apply to deter what you shall do? Without doubt, the test of every , flower or plant, or blooming tree, is eventually in the fruit that it bears. But the farmer, in order to be even ordinarily successful, must be able to determine long before the fruit is ripened, yes, before the flower has bloomed, and even before the tiny shoot has broken through the soil, he must be able to determine what the harvest shall be. So, too, in our lives we may be able to judge something by the fruit, but if we wait until the fruit is going to ripen in our own lives, it is too late then to change the harvest so far as you and I are concerned. We want to know the kind of seed we are going to plant. 

When it comes to a test of the various seed stores, the various agricultural departments, etc., it is not in the catalogues, it is not in the pictures they paint, but it is in the seed that they furnish. So. too, in the various churches, it is not the virtues they proclaim that you can judge by. It is in the seed of eternal truth that they are able to implant; and I feel certain, my friends, that if you will get down to these seed truths and then apply your reason and see what the result will be, you can determine fairlv well what the frui f of any system may he. Some of these truths have been referred to by President Rich. They have stopped planting some of the old errors that have heretofore been planted in the hearts of men. Before leaving this analogy I would like to make this remark upon it: There is no man in this congregation but kr^ows a good peach or a good apple when he sees it. But why don't all gather good apples and peaches ? It is because you are too lazy to get the right kind of seed to plant; you do not get the right kind of trees to put into the soil; you do not prepare the soil as you should. You know what a good horse looks like; why don't you have good horses? You are too careless to get the right kind of stock to start with; you do not have the right kind of horses. So too, in examining the various churches. They go into this church and hear a fine sermon upon virtue, and say, "Anyone can believe that, that is true. They preached virtue before Christ, and from the days of Adam down to the present. Every man knows virtue." But, it is to get the seed that will produce it. I venture to say that, you can go into a community where every man and woman is a drunkard and preach that drunkenness is better than temperance, and you will be run out of that place. Stand up in a place where vice abounds, and preach that vice is better than virtue, and you would be howled down, because, instinctively, men seem to know what virtue is, even when they have lost it. 

Although they have preached charity for hundreds and thousands of years, yet we have not practiced charity. And why is it? It is because the right kind of seeds have not been planted. We can talk about charity. You can talk about the age of the brotherhood of man. But that age will never come until it is preceded by that inherent belief that there is a real relationship existing between us. One of the greatest ministers of the age preached a sermon some time ago in New York City. It was called the greatest sermon that has ever been preached on the island, since the time it was bought from the Indians for about $25 worth of; and it is in harmony with what Brother Rich testified to you. He said "How long have we heard the old slogan of 'miserable sinners,' 'depraved wretches,' 'created things!' But if you ever get anything great out of men, you must make them believe that there is something great in them; and if you make them believe they are just 'created things,' 'miserable wretches,' 'everlasting sinners,' waiting an eternal and everlasting torment and damnation, you will never get anything great out of them. If I had a boy that was going to be a chimney-sweep, I would want to make him feel that he was good enough to sweep out Vesuvius." He then related anecdotes and stories of the power that belief had over the actions of men, and then he said: "We cannot too strongly insist upon the idea that we are in reality the sons of God; that we are not 'created things,' but that we are begotten spirits. If you make a man feel that he is a tramp, he will be a tramp. If you make him feel that he is a king, he will be a king. Make him feel that in reality he is a son of God and he will strive to be like his Father." Humanity is much alike the world over, and whatever seed of thought is planted, it is bound to crop out into action. In the age when they believed, in eternal torment, when they thought that a man was a heretic when he differed from others in belief, that the Lord, the great Creator, was just waiting until he passed the portals of death to plunge men into an eternal punishment, they thought, of course, thev were only doing a little of God's service in administering a little of this punishment before thewent over there, and to give them a warning. It was not their nat meanness, it was only a natural product of the seed that was planted. Can you see the difference between a truth and an error implanted in the mind? One that you are simply a "created thing;" the other, the idea that you are a begotten spirit. That one great revelation is working a reformation throughout the world, the eternal truth is being implanted in the hearts of men, that God is an eternal being, that He is actually the father of our spirits. Following out that idea, we gradually come to feel that if God is our Father, Christ is really our elder brother, and we are all brethren, and sisters, Until men feel this, they will never act like it, because where there is no relationship understood, there will be no obligation acknowledged, and where there is no obligation acknowledged, there will be no conscience, because conscience is the obligation that we feel one toward another. Regardless of creeds, regardless of dogma, regardless, perhaps, of revelation we feel instinctively a kind of relationship to each other. But just to the degree that the idea is hazy or uncertain in the minds of men, just to that degree will our actions be selfish and insincere. You can test it. Suppose you meet a man, he is, perhaps, in prison, he has no way of helping himself. If he happens to be your own brother, you give the last dollar to help him out of trouble, because you feel that he is a part of yourself. Suppose that he is your cousin, you say: "let his brother help him," You do not feel much obligation. Suppose he is your forty-second cousin, do you feel the same obligation? You will feel that he is your brother only to that extent that you will  the relationship. There is very little conscience between the white man of Europe and the yellow man of Asia; there is no relationship acknowledged between them. There was no conscience between the black man of the south; and his white owner, because there was no relationship acknowledged between them. And just to the degree that this idea, this great, grand truth, revealed through the modern Prophet, becomes generally tondlerstood, and fully felt, to that degree will we come nearer to this age of the brotherhood of man. 

Suppose that instead of preaching, instead of believing in eternal punishment, that God's anger endures forever, you implant in the hearts of man that God's mercy endures forever, that you implant in their minds the idea that Christ designs to save the whole world, that whether men are recreant in this world or not, whether they come to Christ here or not, whether they have had an opportunity to hear him or not, that, though they may suffer for the sins they have committed, infinite punishment will not be permitted for a finite sin; when they have faith in Jesus Christ, when they have complied with these conditions, when they repent of their sins, when they turn toward God, that His mercy will be extended to them. Why, you never could treat a man that did not happen to believe or see as you do, as you would treat him if you believed that. Supposing that one principle had been implanted in the minds of men in the early days, do you think there would ever have been an inquisition? Do you think thev would have invented those terrible torment machines in order to punish men ? No. Their hearts " would have been full of charity, full of toleration. 

If men always had believed in continuous revelation, if children had been taught in their Sunday schools, "We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the kingdom of God," do you think the Christian would have wanted to kill the Mohommedan simply because the Mohammedan brought the truths that he had in competition, as they thought, with the truths of the Bible? Mormonism is prepared to receive every man's truth, to receive all revelation that God may send through whatever channels He may use, and through every window light may shine into this darkened chamber of humanity in which we live. Truth does not conflict with truth. 

You know that men have been preaching; charity throughout all the ages. Was the Christian ever charitable to the Jew? No, the Pharaohs of Egypt, the Czars of Russia, the Kings of Assyria, the godless inquisitors of Europe all united to exterminate that race of people. But when the Gospel was restored, one of the first things the prophet did was to send men to Jerusalem. To see what they would pillage and rob and take from them? No, he sent the men to bless the land, and dedicate it that the Jew might again have a home and a nation; and we feel kindly toward the Jew. Why? Because we can feel our relationship to him; and we pray for the dav when the Lord will remember His promises to them, and that they may turn and repent of their ways. The Indian too, how was he treat by the Christians even of this Christian nation? They thought it almost as lawful to hunt and kill Indians as buffalos; but when the priesthood was restored, and this Book of Mormon was given to us, we learned that we played with the Indians in the tents of Jacob. Our fore-fathers played together around the tents of the old Israelities, and we again feel friendly toward the Indian. Brigham Young said, "It is cheaper to feed them than to fight them," You will never see a Latter-day Saint who understands that record that would kill an Indian. I believe that one of our people would rather kill a white man, because he feels he is more his equal, than the Indian in his weakened condition. What causes that difference of attitude? It is not because we are different people; it is because of the seeds of truth that are springing up in our souls and bearing the harvest of charity, and toleration, and fellowship. 

Mormonism has a message of love and peace to all the world, to the Jew, and to the Gentile, to the Indian and to the heathen, and whether they are high or low, we feel that relationship to them. If they are weak, they need our help, if thev are high, we only rejoice in it. And we owe this fruit of charity to the seeds of Gospel truths that have been implanted in our souls. Unless men have that knowledge of one supreme God, unless they do know their relationship, they cannot possibly know their relationship to each other, and without knowing their relationship to each other, without feeling- that relationship, that brotherhood, the age of the brotherhood of man never could come about; but by feeling it, by really  it, it never could be staid. If we can convert man to it, until right down in their souls they believe and feel that one eternal truth, then the success of the world, the triumph! of righteousness, is secured. I hope that, as Latterday Saints, we will appreciate this heritage of truth that has been given to us, and that we who have enlisted under the standard of righteousness will glorify the cause, and continue to fight under that flag until righteousness shall triumph, until the kingdoms of this world shall become the kingdoms of our God, whose right it is to reign. 

I bear my testimony to you, my brerthen and sisters and friends, that I do know that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the living God, and that the Gospel had been restored to the earth in this day and age of the world. As President Joseph F. Smith said this morning, and as Brother Ellsworth testified, all of you who are under the sound of my voice can receive 'this same testimony, by applying the principles of the Gospel to your lives. 

I ask God's blessings upon you all, that He may seal upon your minds the truths that you have heard in this conference, and I ask it in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

Prof. Elihu Call sang the favorite hvmn, "O my Father, Thou that dwellest." 

SISTER LILLIAN V. JONES. 

(Of the Southern States Mission.) 

My dear brothers and sisters, I sincerely trust that I may have the Spirit of the Lord while I address  congregation, to guide and direct me in what I may say, that it may be for our mutual benefit and blessing. As has been announced I have labored in the Southern States Mission for nearly a year and a half, under the direction of President Ben E. Rich, and President Charles A Callis. I can say that while I labored as a missionary there I truly enjoyed every moment of the time. My Only regret is that I was released from my labors there, although my release was merely a transfer from one field to another. I consider that I was greatly privileged, to go into the world and mingle my voice with the sisters and elders in the field, in testimony of the truth of the gospel as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Of course we met a great deal of opposition; we expected that, but we also had the chance of bearing our testimonies to hundreds and thousands of people, and also proclaiming some of the truths and beauties of Mormonism to them. I have often wished that more of our girls and boys had the chance of going into the world and preaching the gospel. They not only benefit themselves, but "lay up treasures in heaven, where moth nor rust corrupt or thieves break through and steal." I feel thankful to my heavenly Father for this opportunity; and I hope that the gospel seed I have sown will some day bear fruit and be the means of bringing many people into the Church of Jesus Christ. 

I have sought the honor that comes from God rather than the honor that comes from man, and I feel that in doing so, my mission has been approved of God, and I have been of some benefit to others. I feel to bear my testimony to you that the Gospel is the power of God unto salvation. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may rest upon each and every one of us, and especially upon the President of the Church and his counselors, and the quorum of the Apostles. I ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President of Northwestern States Mission.) 

The question has often been asked each of us, perhaps, and it came to me recently in correspondence that I had with a friend belonging to the re-organized church : "Why is it that the Latterday Saints came to Utah? Why didn't they remain in the east where they first were founded, and began the establishment of their organization?" There are many reasons that can be given in answer to this question, some of which I desire to call briefly to your attention. Suppose that the Latterday Saints had been permitted to remain in the city of Nauvoo; the prospects were then that they would have built up and established one of the largfest cities in the United States. When Nauvoo had 20,000 people, Chicago on the north, and St. Louis on the south were mere trading posts. Nauvoo occupied a favorable position, where, in all probability, with its water-ways, its central location between the north and south extremities of Illinois, it would have been an eligible point for the building up and establishment of a large city. Suppose that Nauvoo had been built up to become the equal of the city of St. Louis on the south  800,00 or more, inhabitants the probabilities are that all the Latter-day Saints would not have resided in that one city, as they do not now belong to one particular locality. When they lived in that section, they were scattered over a large area of country. It is apparent that God had in mind taking this people from a thickly settled portion of the country, a country that did not require much energy or effort to develop. The Divine idea was to take them away from crowded centers, and have them locate where they could be as "a city set upon a hill," so that their light could be seen and their works be made manifest. Here, where no one else cared to live, where men said there was no opportunity to establish civilization, their feet were planted; and they remained here, although there was California on the west with its great enticements for the Saints to go and settle there. You remember that Captain Brannon, who landed in California shortly before the Saints located in this valley met the pioneers east of this valley, and invited them to come to California, telling the wonderful advantages of that climate and soil, where it would be possible to build up great communities quickly, and where the people could enjoy the blessings of that fertile land. 

In anticipation of the movement that would transfer all the Saints to the west, the Prophet Joseph thought of Oregon, the great land to thie northwest, as a desirable place to go; this was his first thought. Oregon would have furnished more opportunities, larger advantages in a commercial way, for the Latter-day Saints, or any others, in its fruitful fields, its extensive valleys, and with its splen facilities to build up cities. But. if the Latter-day Saints had gone there, or to California, they would soon have been face to face with their old enemies, who were following them. They would soon have been outnumbered; and whatever would have been done in the building up of that community, the credit would have been given to other people. But this forbidding country, where no other people were willing to locate, was the chosen resting place. You remember, when the women of that party landed on the banks of City Creek, one of the weary women sat down and wept, and said she would rather go a thousand miles further, notwithstanding the hardships she had gone through, to find a more desirable place than this barren desert land. Yet this was the place, for the prophet had said that here, in vision, .he had seen the tents of Israel cover the earth. The people remained here, notwithstanding the enticements offered in California, with its gold and the many advantages . that, seemingly, would have come to them there in a commercial and financial way. Thousands of the immigrants did not look with favor upon this place, because it evidently would require great labor to develop it, to bring out of this sterile condition a fruitful field. But God planted His people here, and through faith, labor and diligence, and industry, they have attracted the attention of the world. 

It is only a few years ago that the President of the United States visited this city, and, speaking of the wonderful achievements and developments which had come to this barren section of the country, said something to this effect: You have become prominent in the  in material things, in the development of the soil; all the world can come here and learn of you; learn that by industry, thrift and perseverance, wonderful achievements have been accomplished in this desert land, results also of fidelity and frugality. It is probable there never would have been such praise accorded to the Latterday Saints, they never would have had the opportunity to develop themselves in this direction, or have merited the praise of the world in these things, had they gone to a land that would have yielded returns more easily to their effort and toil. The work has been done well, by men and women of virtue and strength, driven by enemies to settle here and battle with the elements, to subdue this desert land. They have made of it a paradise, and assuredly merit in honor, and right, and truth the praise of the world. , 

But beyiond these temporal things, beyond these achievements, there is something greater to be accomplished, a labor to be performed, that should attract the attention of the world beyond our material things, that should call for their further admiration and praise. I refer to that which we value beyond all earthly things, the establishment of the Church and Kingdom of God, and the proclamation of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is what the world needs today more than anything else, that which will bring most joy to their souls. The day shall come when the good, and the great, and the wise men and women of all the world shall say. "Come, let us go up to the Mountain of the house of the God of Jacob, that we may learn of His ways and walk in His paths." They may learn not only of material things, but great and mighty truths that tell of man's being, his existence upon the earth, his relationship to his Creator, the purpose God had in placing us here; and so the world shall yet acknowledge that we know things of value beyond all earthly possessions. 

I feel, as a young man born and raised in this Church, having the opportunities and privileges that come by reason of my association in it, like Benjamin Disraeli did when he made efforts to obtain membership in the house of Parliament in Great Britain. Three times he made the effort and failed in accomplishing what he desired; but he persevered, though he understood well that he hlad the hatred and prejudice of the masses of the people against him, on account of his religion and his race. But he finally succeeded in accomplishing the desired end. He obtained the seat, and many of his friends, relying upon the ability of the man to defend himself and the cause of his people, said, as soon" as he was heard, he would accomplish great things. But when he had the opportunity to stand before that great body of law makers, and endeavored to speak, his voice was silenced by hisses, and noise, and disturbance in that assembly. He repeated his efforts, and each time was silenced, but, as he sat down, he cried out at the top of his voice, "The day shall come when you will hear me." With that determination, he stuck to his task, working to accomplish the fulfillment of his prophecy concerning himself; and the time did come when thev gave him the exalted honor of being prime minister of England three times. England's lords and statesmen often listened  his wise words, no matter how many hours he spoke. And so I feel that, though there are those who have attempted to blacken our character, who despise us, and seek to make us outcasts, yet the time of our triumph shall come, because of the honest effort, the integrity, the virtue and moral strength of the young men and young women of this Church. We have resolved in our hearts, as Benjamin Disraeli did, never to cease our efforts, nor to slacken our endeavors to make the world hear us, until ignorance, and prejudice, and hatred shall be banished from the earth, and the love of God, and a knowledge of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, shall find its way into the hearts and homes of the millions who know nothing of us this day. 

We stand in a most enviable position in the world. Our mission is not only to benefit ourselves in these valleys, but our mission extends to the east, west, north and south; all the world is our field. God sent us to labor in His vineyard. He called us here to train us to be teachers to the nations of the earth, not only to attain blessings and honor ourselves, but to bestow the same on them also. May God keep before us the high ideals that our fathers had, preserve us in the truth, as He preserved them, that when we finish our labors on the earth, we may merit the honor and praise which they have merited; God grant it, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

(Concluding remarks by Elder Ben E. Rich are printed in connection with his preceding discourse.) 

The congregation sang the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Heber C. Smith. 
