Afternoon
04 04 1909

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Mr. Ferris' anti-Mormon book reviewed. — Glaring mis-statments refuted in relation to Book of Mormon. — Striking evidences that American Indians are Hebraic. — Irrefutable reasons for belief in Book of Mormon. 

My brethren and sisters : — I desire very greatly that your sympathy and faith may be exercised in my behalf, during the few moments I shall occupy this afternoon. 

Tn his remarks this morning, President Smith said, among other things of which we approve, that the principles of the Gospel of Christ were founded upon everlasting truth. While he was talking, I thought of an experience which recently came under my observation, in fact, one which I had personally while at the City of Mexico. ' In connection with this , I want to read from the Bible: "Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord, but they that deal truly are His delight." 

I went into a book store in the City of Mexico, a few weeks ago, and saw there upon the shelves a took entitled, "Utah and the Mormons." I bought the book and read it. It was written by a man who had been a resident of this state, a scholarly man, undoubtedly, and one who professed to have become intimately acquainted with his subject through association with the Latter-day Saints. The book contained some things which were complimentary to the people, but upon almost every page there were misrepresentations, falsehoods, and statements which could not be supported by facts. It seemed to me that nothing more outrageous, more abominable, or farther from the truth could possibly have been written than the things which were contained in that book; and yet a larg-e edition of it, had been printed and circulated in the world. This man took particular pains to attack the doctrines of the Church. He misquoted the teachings of presiding officers in the Church. He misrepresented social conditions as they exist or ever have existed in the Church. He took particular delight in assailing ^he Book of Mormon, which he called a delusion, and claimed that Solomon Soaulding was its real author, notwithstanding the fact it is a well known truth that that story has long since been exploded. When I read it, I thought — how dangerous are lyina: lios, and what ' trouble, what misunderstanding may come to individuals or people through a lying pen. 

I shall not attempt, my brethren and sisters, to point out to you the many inaccuracies which were in this book; iime would not permit. But, to illustrate the thought that I had as I read it, I am going to quote to you, this afternoon, a part of what this man said regarding the Book of Mormon. 

"There is probably no book in the world which contains within itself so many proofs of its real origin, and one is struck with wonder that the imposture should have fastened itself upon such numbers. A portion of the Israelites are alleged to have found their way to America, and they and their descendants wrote a long book in which there is not one word of the Hebrew language. In addition to this, not a single word of Hebrew, nor a Hebrew character can be found in the language of these descendants of Israel upon the American continent." 

We must assume that men who write books, men who make history, are familiar with the subjects which they treat. They at least ought to be, and when the facilities are at their command, so that by simply investigating they may know the truth, they certainly are left without excuse if they publish to the world that which is not true. 

In the first place, this man purported to be thoroughly acquainted with the Book of Mormon, to have read and studied it, and yet he tells us that it is a book written in Hebrew characters, by people who are supposed to have come from Jerusalem. Nephi, in the very beginning of the Book of Mormon, tells us he wrote that record according to his knowledge, in the learning of his fathers, which he says is the learning of the Jews and the language of the Egyptians. Moroni, the last writer in it, says: 

"Now behold, we have written this record in characters which are called among us the reformed Egyptian, and if our plates had been sufficiently , we should have written in Hebrew; and if we could have written in Hebrew, there would have been no error in our record." 

So the Book of Mormon was not written in the Hebrew language as this publisher tells us; but, according to the testimony of the men who made the record, it was written in characters which were called among them "reformed Egyptian." That people coming from Jerusalem should have been conversant with the Egyptian language, and familiar with the civilization of Egypt, is not at all strange. You all know that for four hundred years Israel was captive in Egypt, or they sojourned there for that period of time, during a part of which they were in captivity to the Egyptians. They were the makers of their bricks; the builders of their temples, their pyramids, and other great edifices. They acquired the learning of the Egyptians, and when they went into the promised land, led by Joshua, the prophet of the Lord, they took with them the Egyptian language and civilization; and they tell us that they wrote this book in characters called among them the reformed Egyptian. So Mr. Ferris is in error in that regard. Suppose, however, that the book had been written in Hebrew characters — I want to show you how unjustified the statement of this man is, that not a trace of the Hebrew language could be found among the different dialects and tongues spoken by the Aimerican Indians. 

Garcia, the Spanish historian and ethnologist,one who studied the archaeology of America probably as thoroughly as any of the writers, says in referring to this question: 

"Similarity in character, dress, religion physical peculiarities, conditions, and customs convince me that the Americans are of Jewish origin. There do actually exist many Hebraic traces in the American languages." 

So this man finds that in the languages of the natives of this continent there are many traces of the Hebrew. Lord Kingsborough, who probably wrote more exhaustively on this subject than did any other historian, says, "The Indian dialects have much in common with the Hebrew," and Adair says : 

"The Indian language and dialects appear to have the very idiom and genius of the Hebrew. Their words and sentences are expressive, concise, emphatic, sonorous and bold; and often, both in letters and in signification, are synonymous with the Hebrew language." 

My brethren and sisters, I call attention to these facts, not being able, because of lack of time, to go into detail as one might in a thorough investigation of this question, to show you how unjustified a man is who publishes to the world the statement that this Book of Mormon contains no internal evidence of its divine authenticity, to show you that men who have investigated this question, almost without exception, reach the conclusion that there is a very strong affinity and similarity, which leads investigators to the conclusion — many of them to the definite conclusion — that the present inhabitants of the American continent, that is the natives of the country, were of Jewish origin. 

Hubert Howe Bancroft, the great historian, tells us that he himself saw a tablet of stone taken from a mound which was opened in the State of Ohio. Under this , imbeded in a clay having the characteristics of cement, a coffin was found, containing the skeleton of a man; and underneath the coffin, hermetically sealed, in a box made of stone and fastened together with cement, there was a small tablet of stone, upon which the figure of a man was engraven. Over his head, and on the sides of the tablet there were peculiar hieroglyphics. The historian tells us that these hieroglyphics, were pronounced by one of professed learning to be the Ten Commandments, written in Hebrew characters. This is very conclusive evidence that the ancient inhabitants of this continent knew something of the Hebrew. That they understood something of the civilization of Egypt there can be no doubt. Any person who has traveled irij the southern part of North America, who has visited those ruined cities, great temples, and tremendous works of masonry which exist there today can bear witness. Only a few days ago, I stood upon the top of a pyramid, out a few miles from the City of Mexico, the base of which occupies a space larger than this entire city block, more than ten acres square, solid masonry, more than three hundred feet high, built square with the world. All around it as far as the eye can reach, are mounds of the remains of ruined homes. A great city once existed there. Who were the builders of the pyramid There were none in ancient Chaldea. No pyramids were built by the Assyrians. Whatever civilization there was among the Jaredites was the civilization of Chaldea and Assyria, those early races which settled jn the valley of Mesopotamia, along the banks of the Tigris and Euphrates. But later, Israel went into Egypt. There they learned something of pyramid building. There are pyramids standing today in the valley of the Nile, almost as perfect as the day of their construction. I thought of them, the other day, as I stood on the top of this great pyramid down in the interior of Mexico. 

Jones, the historian, who has studied exhaustively the ruins of Central America and Yucatan, says : 

"The general character of the American architecture is undoubtedly Egyptian." — Now listen to what he says further — "but the resemblance is not close enough in detail to allovy of its being actually the work of Egyptian hands." He concludes that it could not have been built by Egyptians themselves. "The ancient cities of America were, therefore, built by a people who had a knowledge of Egyptian architecture." 

How beautifully this harmonizes with the truths set forth in this holy book, that these cities were the work of descendants of the house of Israel, the same people who had been the builders, to a very large extent, of the cities and monuments which exist today in the valley of the Nile. 

Further in justification of this, Professor Le Plongeon, who has recently died, in New York, spent fifteen years of his life in Yucatan exploring ruined pities, studying the language of the people, attempting to decipher the inscriptions which abound upon the walls of those great temples. He tells us, after these years of exploration, study and investigation: 

"The ancient Maya hieratic alphabet discovered by me, is as near like to the ancient hieratic alphabet of the Egyptians as two alphabets can possibly; forcing upon us the conclusion that the Mayas and Egyptians either learned the art of writing from the same masters, or that the Egyptians learned it from the Mayas." 

Professor Le Plongeon rejects the story told in the Bookj of Mormon. He does not acknowledge the fact that the builders of these great monuments were descendants of Lehi or other remnants of the house of Israel who came from Jerusalem, bringing with them as they did the learning of the Jews and the civilization of the Egyptians; but, nevertheless, he states facts which convincingly substantiate and corroborate the truths contained 'in the Book of Mormon. There are so many things which might be said upon this subject. The book itself stands before the world, and has been subject to its criticism from the time of its publication. The Spaulding story has been exploded, and so with other theories that have been advanced against it. At the time this book was published, it was not known that there was any conclusive proof indicating the Hebraic origin of the Indians of America. The declarations made in this book, that great cities were built, that temples were erected, that a great civilization existed here — which was comparatively unknown at the time the book was published — are corroborative of its truth. 

This same historian, Jones, in examining the ruins of the city of Palenque, compares the architecture of one of these great buildings to the architecture of Solomon's temple. Neohi tells us that they built a temple similar to the temple of Solomon, in all thing's except that it was not so richlv adorned. They had not the gold and silver and the precious stones,  they did have the plan; they did have the idea. This historian tells us that in the basement of one of these great buildings he found a reservoir which was undoubtedly designed to catch and hold water. Knowing nothing of the purpose for which water might be used in the basement of a temple, and knowing nothing of the ordinance of baptism, or the conveniences which are provided for its administration, he nevertheless corroborates the faith and knowledge of the Saints, by these modern discoveries. 

The book itself and the internal evidences which it contains are sufficient to establish its truth. I am not referringto these facts so much to strengthen your faith and mine, as I am to bring into question the right of any man, to discuss things which he does not understand, to publish untruths. He can not excuse himself because of lack of knowledge. Men are not expected to discuss things of which they are ignorant, when the facts are easily obtainable. So, I believe that the Lord will hold us responsible, I believe that He will hold all men responsible for the things they say that are untrue. One thought that came to me, as I read this book, was that I myself ought to be very careful how I judge the faith, how I judge the doctrine, how I judge the lives of other people until I become thoroughly acquainted with them. I believe this man thought the Book of Mormon was a delusion, just as he said it was. I believe he thought it was, hut I do not believe that he ever took the pains to find out whether it was a delusion or whether it was true; this he micht have done. 

You know that if the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon  be successfully attacked, it strikes at one of the very foundation stones of the Church — not that the Book of Mormon was absolutely essential, not that the delivery of these plates to the Prophet Joseph, and their translation into the English language and publication to the world, were sufficient authority for him to have established the Church of Christ upon the earth. We could have done without that. The first glorious visions which the Lord gave him were not authority sufficient for the establishment of Christ's church in the earth; that authority came later with the restoration of the priesthood; but they were all preliminary and preparatory moves which were necessary in the great plan of human redemption which the Lord was about to establish in this dispensation. So He gave us the Book of Mormon, containing the fullness of the everlasting Gospel, in its plainness, simplicity and truth. The Prophet Joseph Smith did not undertake to establish the divine authenticity of this book by reference to the evidences which exist in this continent, by which it may be corroborated — not at all. He gave; us the book as a truth; it was a truth that God revealed these things to him; it was a truth that Moroni delivered the plates into his hands; it was a truth that this book was translated by the gift and power of God, through the medium of the Urim and Thummim. Now, we spend a good deal of time trying to determine how that was brought about. What does it matter how it was brought about? It was done bv the gift and power of God, that is sufficient for me. It was done by means of the Urim and Thummim — not a new method either of learning the will of the Lord, for the ancients had it. The High Priests in Israel had it, and with it they ascertained the mind and will of the Lord for the guidance of the people; just as with it the Prophet Joseph was able to translate this record, and to receive the mind and will of the Lord, the covenants, doctrines and commandments, by which the Church was to be guided, as they are contained here in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. It is the truth, the everlasting truth. Nothing in the world will ever prove it to be false. Men may try to prove if false, but they never will succeed. 

Brethren and sisters, I bear this witness to you : There is a world of corroborative evidence of the divine authenticity of this Book of Mormon — read it; study it; be governed by the doctrines that are taught in it. Have faith* in it; believe in the promises that are contained in it, and you will find inspiration and hope, faith and charity, and everything that is good in human life. It stands for that which is good, for that which is true, for that whichis just, for that which is merciful, for that which uplifts, and places before us higher ideals to which we constantly aspire. May we always appreciate the word of truth. Remember, my brethren and sisters, that the law of God is truth. The Church of Christ is established upon the principles of truth and righteousness, and therefore truth and righteousness should be constantly cultivated and encouraged in the Church and out of it. We need to be taught the principle of truth, because we are not always, perhaps, truthful. A man may be untruthful in other things than what he says; he may be untruthful in what he does; he may be untruthful in the impres which, he seeks to make. Every misrepresentation of a fact is an untruth. 

I rejoice in the Gospel, and I pray our Eternal Father that He may continue to magnify the Church as He has done, that He will open the way for the accomplishment of His purposes, to bring about the redemption of His covenant people, and the day when His kingdom shall come and His will be done upon earth as it is in heaven. I pray for these blessings — I desire them for my self, for you, and for all the world, through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

EIDER DAVID 0. M'KAY. 

Two classes of mankind, builders and murmurers. — Pioneers entitled to be called benefactors of humanity. — Mormon home life the highest ideal. — Admonition against murmuring. — All Saints should be classed as builders. 

My brethren and sisters, I pray for the assistance of the Spirit of the Lord, that the words I speak while occupying this position may be in harmony with His will. 

I have rejoiced exceedingly in the testimonies that have been borne during the sessions of this conference. I was deeply impressed this morning, with the magnitude of the work as it was set before us by President Smith. I was impressed, too, with President Lund's remarks. One of his sentences, I will repeat. "Every one of us," said he, " should feel that he must do something for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God, whether it be at home or abroad." When President Lund expressed that sentiment, I thought — that the great mission of this Church is to  up — never to tear down. In the Book of Mormon, 17th chapter of First Nephi, there is recorded an incident that I wish to read. The little colony has only recently left Jerusalem; they have obtained the records; they have left the valley of Lemuel; and are near the sea shore. The historian says: 

"And we did come to the land which we called Bountiful, because of its much fruit, and also wild honey; and all these things were prepared of the Lord, that we might not perish. And we beheld the sea, which we called Irreantum, which being interpreted, is many waters. 

"And it came to pass that we did pitch out tents by the sea-shore and notwithstanding we had suffered many afflictions and much difficulty, yea, even so much that we cannot write them all, we were exceedingly rejoiced when we came to the sea-shore;and we called the place Bountiful, because of its much fruit. 

"And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been in the land of Bountiful for the space of many days, the voice of the Lord came unto me, sayin. Arise, and get thee into the mountain. And it came to pass that I arose and went up into the mountain, and cried unto the Lord. 

'And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me saying, Thou shalt construct a ship, after the manner which I shall shew thee, that I may carry thy people across these waters. 

"And I said, Lord, whither shall I go that I may find ore to molten, that I may make tools to construct the ship after the manner which thou hast shewn unto me? 

"And the Lord told me whither I should go to find ore, that I might make tools; and I did make a bellows wherewith to blow the fire, of the skins of beasts; and after I had made a bellows, that I might have wherewith to blow the fire, I did smite two stones together, that I might make fire; for the Lord had not hitherto suffered that we should make much fire," * * * 

"And it came to pass that I did make tools of the ore which I did molten out of the rock. 

"And when my brethren saw that I  about to build a ship, they began to murmur against me, saying, Our brother is a fool, for he thinketh that he can build a ship; yea, and he also thinketh that he can cross these great waters. 

"And thus my brethren did complain against me, and were desirous that they might not labor, for they did not believe that I could build a ship; neither would they believe that I was instructed of the Lord. 

"And it came to pass that I, Nephi, was exceeding sorrowful because of the hardness of their hearts; and now when they saw that I began to be sorrowful, they were glad in their hearts, insomuch that they did rejoice over me, saying, We knew that ye could not construct a ship, for we knew that ye were lacking in judgment; wherefore, thou canst not accomplish so great a work; 

"And thou art like unto our father, led away by the foolish imaginations of his heart; yea, he hath led us out of the land of Jerusalem, and we have wandered in the wilderness for these many years; and our women have toiled, and borne children in the wilderness and suffered all things, save it were death; and it would have been better that they had died before they came out of Jerusalem, than to have suffered these afflictions. 

"Behold, these many years we have suffered in the wilderness, which time we might have enjoyed our posessions, and the land of our inheritance; yea, and we might have been happy. Thus they continued to murmur against the voice of God, as expressed through His servant Nephi." 

In this little family we find the two classes into which all mankind may be divided — the builders and the murmurers, or as Emerson aptly expresses it, "the benefactors and the malefactors. The second class is vast; the first, but a handful. Why, a person seldom falls sick but the bystanders become animated with a faint hope that he will die." 

From its inception the Church has belonged to the class of benefactors. The members of this Church have been builders, but all the wfiile they have had to contend with the class of malefactors, the murmurers against God and against His word as delivered to the world through His servants. Never have the leaders of the Church been guilty of tearing down and making miserable other people. They have preached the Gospel. They have built the house of truth, and let the world compare its magnificence with the houses in which the world were living. Many thousands have left their houses of adobe and have come into the mansion of the Gospel, because they saw that it was better. But the Church does not tear down the houses of others, before erecting one that is more commodious and more beautiful, in the Church of Christ. 

The Prophet Joseph Smith was told that the churches of his day had a form of godliness but denied the power thereof, and he was told to wait, and God would establish His Church. Several years elapsed, years of preparation, and soon the Prophet, under the guidance and insolation of the Lord, established the Church of Christ. They met in a h'ttle room — it was just a little cottage meeting. The Eastern States Mission alone held, last year, over twelve Hundred such me°tings not one, perhaps, numbering so few in attendance as the Ht+1e pothering when the Church of Christ was re-established, on the fth-day of April, 1830. But a mighty work was being builded; and those whp engaged in that work were impressed with the fact that their mission was to save, that henceforth they were to build upon the rock of truth. In a revelation following that, the Prophet sent the Elders out to preach the 

Gospel; and these are the words of the Lord, through him : 

"And ye shall go forth baptizing with water; saying: Repent ye, repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand; and from this place (Kirtland) ye shall go forth into the regions westward, and inasmuch as ye shall find them that will receive you, ye shall build up my church in every region, until the time shall come when it shall be revealed, unto you from on high, when the city of the New Jerusalem shall be prepared, that ye may be gathered in, that ye may be my people and I will be your God." 

They went forth preaching the Gospel of salvation, comparing its principles and truths with the principles taught by men, emphasizing the doctrines of the Church, but leaving men to judge for themselves whether the message they gave was true and therefore for the good of humanity, or whether it was evil. Through the inspiration of God, thousands recognized the saving principles taught by those humble Elders. Hundreds gathered, soon thousands, and they began to build up the Church. Follow them from Kirtland. through the state of Missouri. Read the early history of the Church, as we were admonished this moraine, and see how the barren places of the west — for it was western country then — were made fruitful; how cities sprang up where there had been nothing but desolation. Follow them from those homes, as they were driven by the bayonet. See them camping in a marsh in Illinois, and there, in a miraculously short time, build the city of Nauvoo, the pride of the west. Builders ? Yes — benefactors to humanity. Aside from their doctrines — the doctrines of Christ, absolutely proved from the Scriptures — take the people as citizens.  men mingling- with fellow men, and you find them benefactors in every sense of the word. But notwithstanding their good works, not many years passed before they were again without homes — their farms unattended, the grain going back to the ground because there were no harvesters; the walks leading to their houses becoming grassgrown, because no feet were there to tread them; the hearth cold, because no hands were there to light the fire. Where were they? Again in the wilderness of the west; one thousands miles ahead of them nothing but buffalo. Indians, barrenness, sterility. When I recently visited Omaha, being a few miles from Florence, I was forcibly reminded of the early experiences of our parents at that place, and at Des Moines, Iowa, then on the frontier. I have heard them tell how they prepared their teams, hitching up a cow with an ox, sometimes a cow with a horse, making ready to take that thousand mile journey; where? Out into the barrenness, out into the wilderness, and yet still into the country, under the flag of the Union. What was their purpose? What was the motive? As a prominent educator in Chicago said, the other day : "Not, for the golden California, but that they might worship God Almighty according to t 1n e dictates of their conscience; and I admire them for it." Such was their motive — to build the Church and to save the principles revealed to man. They had risked all; they had risked life and everything they had, and were willing to endure any hardship — wives walked every step of the way on this long journey; mothers carrying their babes. On the 24th of July, 1847, they were here in this . What did they see? You try to picture what they saw. These words will call up the barren picture in the minds of pioneers who are with us today — God bless them and preserve them long with us for what they have done, that we might at least express our appreciation of their devotion to the truth. They saw sagebrush; they heard the howl of the coyote; they saw in the distance the smoke of the Indian fire; and the salt sea in the west reflecting the beautiful sunlight; but there was no apparent place for a home. There was nothing here inviting; in fact, they had been warned that nothing would grow; a thousand dollars had been offered for the first ear of corn that they would .produce. Yet, within a few feet of where we meet today, the Prophet of the Lord said, "Here we shall build a house to God." Now what do we see? Just look at our citv today; its climate modified; its fruit unexcelled; substantial and comfortable homes everywhere; towns and cities flourishing. To whom are we indebted for all this? The people of the Mormon Church, the pioneers of 1847, and subsequent years. They were builders, colonizers, benefactors to our nation, benefactors to humanity. Did they tear down anything? Did they destroy? Did they find fault? No. They (protected themselves, with a motive that they might continue to bless. 

It is not alone as colonizers that the Church has made its record; not alone as community builders but as home builders. Compare the teachings — no, not just the teachings; for it is not every one that sayeth, but he that doeth, that shall enter the kingdom of God. It isn't enough to say that we believe in home-building and in the purity of the home. What are we doing? Go into the homes of true Latter-day Saints, and there see if the most substantial part of the nation — the home — is not the best that can be found. The family tie is an eternal one; it is not one of experiment; it is not one of satisfying passion; it is an eternal union between husband and wife; between parents and children. That eternal bond is one that must be held sacred by the man as well as by the woman. Is it a source of safety? Is it a blessing to humanity to have such homes? The safety of our nation depends upon the purity and strength of the home; and I thank God for the teachings of the Mormon Church in relation to home building, and the impression that kind parents have made, that the home must be the most sacred place in the world. Our people are home-builders, and they are taught everywhere, from childhood to old age, that the home should be kept pure and safe from the evils of the world; and yet the murmurers, the malefactors are ready to question, even deny the purity of the Mormon home. "The motive was impure," they say, "you come out here for other purposes." They are murmurers; and the class is vast, who take that stand and attack the home. Only recentlv, in the town of Mitchell, South Dakota, a reverend brother, who was supposed to teach the word of God to the people, published a statement in the daily papers, that the Elders, your sons, are out there to undermine the homes of the people in Mitchell. Is he a benefactor or a murmurer, a builder or a tearer down ? No doubt he does it through ignorance. Men become murmur or fighters against this Church, for one of two reasons; either through sin — for sin hates truth and virtue — or through ignorance. There are many people in the world who condemn us because they are ignorant of the real facts concerning the Church of Christ. The great comfort to us, however, is that we know the purpose of the Church; we know its history — a little of it; not, however, so much as we should know, we younger people. We ought to study it more. There is inspiration in the history of this Church. There is inspiration and truth in reading the doings of the Prophet Joseph and those associated with him in the early days. Read it; study it; do not censure because of ignorance. When we read the history of the Church, we are forced to acknowledge the fact that it has blessed humanity. When we study the principles, we find that they are the saving principles, as revealed by the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. What more do we want? There is nothing done, there is nothing taught, under the guidance and inspiration of the Lord but tends to the upbuilding and advancement of the human race, and that tends to the amelioration of the evils that afflict humanity. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, as in the world so in the Church, we have two classes; we have the builders, and we have the murmurers. Let each ask himself in which class shall I be placed? We are called upon to perform duties. High Councilors with Presidents of Stakes are asked to go forth and build up their stakes and do other work in the Church. They introduce some plan of action, and many times the majority will say: Yes. we will do that; let us go to  perform the duties that the Presidency of the stake and the High Councilors call us to do. But somewhere we shall hear a murmurer, a fault-finder, who will say, no; you cannot do that. They scoff as Laman and Lemuel did; and say you can not do it. Misjudging motives, some soon find themselves with Laman and Lemuel, instead of with Nephi who expresses the voice of God. It may be in an auxiliary board. Instructions go out from the general board or from the stake board, requiring for the success of the movement the united energy of all. Most of the people interested in that association will join hands to build, they will join hands to be with the benefactors, that the children might receive the light of the Holy Spirit, that they might get the knowledge that is revealed in this Church; but somewhere there will be murmurers; there will be faultfinders. Look out for them. 

Let us watch ourselves and be true to the examples set by the Church and the brethren and sisters who have sacrificed their lives, their all, to build the Church and to advance the principles taught therein. This warning is sometimes expressed in this way: "Speak not against the authorities." What does it mean. Be not a murmurer; that is what it means. It is one of the most poisonous things that can be introduced into the home of a Latter-day Saint — this murmuring against presidents of stakes, high councilors, Sunday school superintendents,presidents of high-priests' quorums, seventies, elders, priests, teachers and deacons. They are called unto their position, what for? To benefit themselves? No, not once can you point to an instance in this Church  a man was called for his personal benefit. He was admonished, before he was called to the position, whatever it was, that he should serve somewhere and serve somebody in this Church or in the world; it was to bless somebody, some class, humanity at large. That is the mission of every man, from the president of the Church down to the latest convert in the Church. Every officer holds his position to build up, to bless; and, as President Smith said this morning, to establish righteousness, purity and virtue among mankind. That is the motive, and yet because of his weakness, because, perhaps, of some little fault that we see in an officer, we begin to murmur and find fault. Better stop murmuring, and build up. Remember that one of the worst means of tearing down an individual is slander. It is one of the most poisonous weapons that the evil one uses. Backbiting and evil speaking, throw us into the class of malefactors rather than the class of benefactors. 

"Good name in man or woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls; who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis 

something, nothing; 'Twas mine, 'tis his and has been 

slave to thousands; But he that filches from me my good name 

Robs me of that which not enriches him 

And makes me poor indeed." 

In this connection, speaking of the Church as a whole, I have often thought that we have chosen the wiser part in answering a faction that left the Church in early days, inasmuch as we did not choose to tear them down or to attack them in public or private. They call themselves the Reorganized Church. As I listened to one who has come out here presumably to teach the truth, and heard him revile and ridicule President Young and other leading brethren of the Church, I felt to say, what good does it do to tear down ? Why not build up? Tell us about what you have, and let the people then judge which is the better; it is much the wiser course. When a man begins to tear down, revile and persecute, he is doing that which injures instead of building up. Our mission should be to build. 

But you ask, would you not condemn evil? Yes, by obeying and building up the laws of right. The question in building is this : Is it right? Is that thing necessary to be done? If so, then let us do it. God revealed to Nephi the necessity of building a ship. "The means were not within his 'reach, but he felt it was right to build, and with that knowledge he proceeded to find the way to make the tools and to build the ship. Did he make mi? takes? Did he falter? No doubt, — else why did his murmuring brothers sny: "We told you you could not build a ship; we knew you did not have the wisdom." But he knew he was right, and he knew that God would strengthen him in building. That thought held him; it suoported him; and he succeeded in the task before him. So it is with us; when we are asked to do a tbinof, the question in our minds should be : Is that necessary; is that right? If so, then it shall be done, and God will open the way. 

I et us build up our state; let us build uo our homes, improve them, make them attractive and pleasing, that the world may see by our lives that we are here to benefit in every way, not only by preaching the word of God, not only by sacrific what we may be called upon to sacrifice, but by building communities, cities — a nation, if necessary; and above all by building character, after the order of the servants of God; nay, after the similitude and pattern of the Lord and Savior Himself. That is our ideal; that is what we wish. God help us, as brethren and sisters, to go forth on our mission of mercy to bless humanity, being filled with charity for one another, that our hearts may be full of love for each other; with confidence in each other, in our associations, in our societies. 

Members in the Aaronic priesthood, and members of the quorums in the Melchizedek priesthood, we have a duty to build up our quorums; let us not tear them down by being absent from Monday night meeting, or by non-preparation, or by negligence of duty. Let us feel, every one of us, as suggested this morning, that it is our duty to do something to build up the Church, as the Church's duty is to build on truth and redeem mankind from sin. Men of the priesthood, let us be one in this upbuilding; let us fall into the class of benefactors; and let no man, from the high priest to the deacon, in this great priesthood movement of Monday night, fall into the class of malefactors or murmurers. God help us to do our duty, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

When Brother Ivans mentioned the book that he found in Mexico, I thought of the introductory words of a book entitled "The Great Salt Lake Trail," written by Col. William F. Cody, more f,amililarly known to us as "Buffalo Bill" and by his companion Colonel Henry Inman. They say: 

"Over this historical highway, the Mormons made their lonely Hegira to the valley of that vast inland sea. On its shores they established a city marvelous in its inception and a monument to the ability of men to overcome almost insuperable obstacles, the product of a faith equal to that which inspired the Crusader to battle to the death for the possession of the Holy Sepulcher. * * * * An immense mass of literature on the subject (Mormonism) is to be found in every public library both in its defense and in its condemnation. The latter preponderates and often seems to be inspired by an inexcusable ingenuity in exaggeration." 

It has been a source of satisfaction to know that some people have fairly examined the question of Mormonism, and, in a measure, have done justice to this great people and to this important cause. One of these writers we recall in the person of Josiah Quincy, that polished Bostonian, once Mayor of Boston, a graduate of Harvard, and a man chosen by his alma mater to welcome Lafayette upon his second visit to this country.  Josiah Quincy visited the Prophet at Nauvoo, a short time before the martyrdom, and his impressions of the Prophet are certainly of value. Most all of you will recall the thought that he expressed in reference to the Prophet Joseph and this great work; said he : 

"It is by no means improbable that some future text book, for the use of generations yet unborn, will contain a question something like this: 'What historical American of the nineteenth century has exerted the most powerful influence upon the destines of his countrymen?' And it is by no means impossible that the answer to that interrogatory may be thus written: Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet. And  reply, absurd as it doubtless seems to most men now living, may be an obvious commonplace to their descendants. History deals in surprises and paradoxes quite as startling as this. The man who established a religion in this age of free debate, who was and is today accepted by hundreds of thousands as a direct emissary from the Most High — such a rare individual is not to be disoosed of by pelting his memory with unsavory epithets." 

Mr. Quincy goes on to say that the Prophet Joseph can not be disposed of by calling him a fanatic, — that fanatics and imposters are living and dying every day, and their memory is buried .with them; that Joseph Smith was a phenomenon yet to be explained. He speaks of the impression that "resource and capacity — were natural to his stalwart person," that one would instinctively say, in meeting him, that he was a fine looking man; and he compares him in strength of character and that kingly faculty that directs others as if by intrinsic right, with one individual only that it had been his pleasure to meet — and you will remember that Josiah Quincy was on terms of intimate association with some of the earlier presidents of the United States, and many of the early New England statesmen: He writes his reminiscences of those great men from a personal acquaintance with them, and yet he says that of all his acquaintances there was only one other individual that impressed him as did the Prophet Joseph Smith, for this rugged power, and kingly faculty. He also speaks of the attitude of the Prophet in reference to the question that later so vexed this nation and caused such streams of blood, and the loss of so many hundreds of thousands of lives and millions of treasure. He compares the words of the Prophet on that subject, to those of the retired statesman Ralph Waldo Emerson, in advocating the policy of using the revenues from the public lands of the United States in order to purchase the slaves and to free them when purchased. Josiah Quincy comments upon this matter by saying that if the retired New England statesman was entitled to be called a statesman for advocating that plan in 1855, when the war-clouds were lowering, and men's minds were agitated with the slavery question, then certainly the Prophet Joseph Smith is entitled to credit for "advocating the same policy eleven years previous to that time both in oral and in written speech. He concludes his words by saying that if the reader is unable to determine what to make of Joseph Smith, that he is unable to assist him, that he himself stands helpless before the puzzle or the phenomenon. But, give him credit for being the Prophet of God, which he was, and there is no phenomenon to explain. The whole question is clear and apparent at once, if you give him credit for being what hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saints today testify that be was — a prophet of the living God. 

Ah English traveler, writing at about the same time that Josiah Quincy visited Nauvoo, in com 1 menting upon his impression of the Prophet and his patriarch brother, said that in beholding them he thought he had beheld two of the greatest men of the 19th century. We have also the words of a congressman who met the Prophet at tbe time he visited Washington in behalf of his people, with reference to the wrongs suffered by them during the days of Missouri. This congressman heard the Pro speak, and writing of his remarks, he said that he was impressed with his sincerity. Said he: "There was no levity, no fanaticism, no want of dignity in his deportment. Throughout his whole address he displayed strongly a spirit of charity and forbearance." 

I am sure the Latter-day Saints all take pleasure in the account given by the distinguished English journalist, Mr. Phil Robinson, in his work entitled, "Sinners and Saints," written after he had traveled from one end of this state to the other, becoming acquainted with the people in their home life, realizing and testifying that there was virtue and worth in this thing called "Mormonism." 

Recently, comparatively speaking, we have had the words of Mr. Elbert Hubbard, in reference to some of the leaders of Mormonism. He speaks of the great work of Brigham Young — that he saw with the eye of the prophet the barren, sterile fields converted into fruitful gardens; that "he had the brain of a prophet and the soul of a seer." That "he was the first man in America to- put irrigation on a scientific basis," making it possible to convert the sterile plains into productive fields. As I remember it, Mr. Hubbard commences his account of Mormonism by saying that he thinks if he ever joins a Christian church, he will join the Mormons; that the Mormons believe in the Old and New Testaments, and in the Book of Mormon. He states that he. too, believes in all three and in addition to that, he . facetiously adds, the bound volumes of his own publications. He says, how any individual can believe that God handed down tablets of stone in ancient times, and will then denv that Joseph Smith had the plates of , is something more than he can understand; that it is simply a difference in time and place, that the principle involved is the same. He speaks also of the work of education upon the part of a certain individual, living in a city that I shall not name, as I shall not name the individual, whose life is given over to reviling the Mormon people. He concludes with the statement that if you would ask a terrapin its opinion of an eagle, it would be as much as the opinion of this writer in regard to our present President, Joseph F. Smith. He says, the individual who slanders you is the one who is in enmity against you. He gives as an illustration of it the individual who sifts his ashes only when the wind blows your way, and your wife has her washing on the line; he is the individual who is in hostility to you, and will say harsh things against you; and because that individual was in close proximity to the Mormon people, he argued that he necessarily knew all about them, just as though one should argue that the people who put Jesus to death knew Him a great deal better than we do ourselves. I believe, with Elder McKay, that it is those who speak evil against us who either do not understand us,or have some sinister reason for the slanders they express regarding us; and I believe that the former class very greatly preponderates. As expressed by Emerson, the philosopher, "Nothing shall warp me from the belief that all men everywhere love the;" that is the universal rule. When we, who have studied Mormonism for some years, realize what a grand system of truth it is, how vast is its compass, and what a length of time it requires to fully understand and comprehend all the principles of Mormonism, we can not wonder that some individuals who give only a passing day, or at most a few weeks, to the study of this system, this collection of truths, to the habits, ways, customs and beliefs of this great people, and the organization of the Church, we do not wonder that they are not able in that short space of time, to come to any perfect understanding, or to anything like a proper conception of this vast system and this important work. 

I pray the blessings of the Lord to rest upon this congregation of the Latter-day Saints, also on those who are not here assembled, that the prayer and the words of the brethren this day may be verified, in that the instructions and spirit of this conference may be taken to the various stakes, wards, and branches of the Church. May the Lord bless us, my brethren and sisters, and friends, and help us to endure true and faithful to the end, which I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

The choir sang the anthem, "Rouse, O ye mortals." 

Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John Smith. 
