Morning
05 04 1909


ELDER 0BS0N F. WHITNEY. 

The equality of man. — Common consent basic principle of the American government and of the Church of Christ. — Two sources of power. — The order of Enoch. — The modern Zion. — The perfect government yet to come. — All things preparing the way. 

"We hold these truths to be selfevident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that to secure these^ rights, governments are institutecTamong men, deriving their just powers  the consent of the governed." 

These words, I need not inform you, are contained in the Declaration of Independence, issued from the city of Philadelphia one hundred and thirty-five years ago, come next Fourth of July. They embody principles underlying the structure of the government of the United States, which there had its origin. Fifty-four years later, or seventy-nine years ago., come tomorrow, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized at the little village of Fayette, Seneca County, New York. 

I am proud and happy today, my brethren and sisters, to be a Latter-day Saint, and I am also proud and happy to be a citizen of this great Republic, the mightiest and best government organized by man that the sun shines upon. I am glad that I can see, as you can, a divine purpose in the founding of this Government, as in the founding of this Church. I believe there is a relationship between them, — not a union of church and state, but the relationship of a common purpose, and that purpose God's — He who was the founder of this Church and also the founder of this Nation. It was something more than a coincidence that the Gospel of Christ, now called Mormonism, but whose proper surname is the Perfect Law of Liberty, should come forth upon this land of liberty in these last days. I desire if I may have the Spirit of the Lord, to indicate some of the  of relationship between this great religious government and the great civil government that came before it to prepare its way. 

It may seem preposterous to many to refer to a nation of seventy or eighty millions of people, as the fore-runner of a movement that has a membership at the present time of only four or five hundred thousand souls. But we must bear in mind that numbers do not determine great principles, and that bigness is not always greatness. This nation of eighty millions was once a nation of three millions, sprung from a few feeble colonies comprising at the beginning only a few hundred starving, ragged souls. We must also remember that this Church began with but six members, and that it now counts its members, as stated, by hundreds of thousands. Fifty or a hundred years hence, it will be found that Mormonism has grown and prospered until no, nation under heaven need hang its head in shame at being considered its fore-runner and its friend. We must give all great movements time in which to develop themselves, and meanwhile it is more important to consider principles than the number of people who believe in them. 

It was something more than a coincidence, when the Church of Christ was organized in these days, that the same principles which underlie the structure of the American government were embodied in the foundations of the work of God. I have cited two great principles to which I wish to call your attention — the equality of man and the doctrine of common consent. Thomas Jefferson affirmed, when he wrote the Declaration of Independence, that all men are  equal. We are not to understand from this that all men are alike. All men are not six feet high; all men do not weigh two hundred pounds; all are not rich; all are not poor. All men are not leaders — there are mountains and foot-hills and plains among humanity; there will always be great men and great women to be the leaders and instructors of the rest. Yes, even in a democracy, where all men are declared to be equal. What is meant, then, by equality, as referred to in the Declaration? It is equality before the law; it means that all men are equally entitled to life, to liberty, and to the pursuit of happiness. It means that the avenues of promotion and advancement should be open to all, as God intended them to be when He sent from Heaven the gospel of salvation, which is no more nor less than a code of laws, a system of principles having in view the eternal progress of man. 

Joseph the Prophet declared that God in the beginning instituted certain laws, whereby the lesser intelligences surrounding Him might have the opportunity to advance like Himself. They were not equal there; they are not equal here; they will never be equal in every sense. God will always be supreme. "The Glory of God is intelligence," and what made Him God, was the superior intelligence that recognized those saving and ennobling principles which He instituted as the gospel of salvation, the means of eternal progress. All men are not equal in capacity, in intelligence, but they ought to be equal in opportunities for progression, and God has made them equal in this respect. The king upon his throne can obtain salvation upon no easier terms than the peasant in his cot. The poor man is the equal of the rich man when he stands before God and asks, What must I do to be saved? There is no purchasing our way into the Kingdom of Heaven; money can buy many things, but it cannot buy membership in the Church of Christ; it cannot buy the principles of truth, the blessings of the Gospel, the gifts of the Holy Ghost. All men are equal before God in respect of these things. In this great government of ours, whose basic declaration is that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed, and in the Church of God, founded upon the principle and doctrine of common consent, it is intended that all men, so far as possible, shall be equal. 

It is also intended that men shall be free; but our idea of freedom does not go so far as to shut out God from a voice in the government — this religious government to which we belong. It was necessary, when the American government was founded, that no religion should be recognized — no particular religion — no man's religion and that the people alone should be regarded as the source of civic power; because this government was organized for the benefit of all men, religious and irreligious; men of all religions and of no religion; consequently it had to recognize the people, and the people alone, as the fountainhead of authority. But in the Church of God, we are not so handicapped. We all believe alike, we all have the same religion, and we recognize God as the primal source, and the people as the secondary source of power. God speaks, and the people say amen. It is different in a secular government, such as the government of  United States. But these great Democratic or Republican doctrines — I care not which you call them, for I am not speaking in a partisan sense — these great principles involving the rights of man underlie both the government of the Church and the government of the State. 

When Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, on the 6th of April, 1830, brought the little flock together that were subsequently known as Latter-day Saints,thesei leaders were required by the Lord to present their names to that little congregation, to see whether or not they would sustain them as the presiding officers of the Church. These men had communed with angels; they had had the hands of angels laid upon their heads; Joseph had seen the Father and the Son. But these wonderful manifestations, and the powers of the priesthood which they had received, did not qualify them to preside over that congregation. There was yet something necessary, and what was it? "The consent of the governed." The people who were to be presided over by these men — the first and second Elders of the Church — had the right to consent to the exercise of that authority over them. God will select a prophet, a mouthpiece, a bearer of His priesthood, a teacher of His truth, without asking any man's permission; but He will never foist upon any man, nor upon any set of men or women^ leader,a presiding officer that they are not willing to sustain. This is a recognition of the great doctrine embodied in the Declaration of Independence — that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. You will see this great principle exemplified during this conference. 

You will be called upon to hold up your hands to vote whether or not you will sustain men and women as your leaders, your teachers, and presiding officers, and you have a perfect right to decide that question for yourselves. 

If that little congregation which I have mentioned had lifted their hands against Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowderv, what would have been the result? Would it have taken from Joseph and Oliver their priesthood ? No. Would it have blotted out the fact that they had conversed with angels, and been ordained by them ? No. Would it have made them any less God's mouthpieces to that generation? No. What would it have done ? It would simply have prevented them from presiding over that particular congregation; but they could have gone anywhere else where men and women were to be found willing to receive them, and could have organized the Church of Christ by virtue of the priesthood which God had bestowed upon them. Let us remember that God has some rights as well as the people. While the people are duly considered, and a jealous care exercised for them and for their rights, the Lord must also be taken into account. He will not be deprived of His prerogatives. It is God and the people who make up the government of the Church of Christ. 

Now as to the principle of equality — that also is one of the fundamentals of the Church. Not onlyare the Latter-day Saints equal in the votes which they cast at a conference, and in their opportunities for eternal salvation, but from the beginning it was the design to establish in the midst of this people an order that would make men equal in temporal as in spiritual . It was called the Order of Enoch, for, in the days of Enoch, when his city was sanctified and taken into the heavens, "The Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind and dwelt in righteousness, and there was no poor among them." It was the same system that the Nephites established upon this continent, and for two hundred years maintained as a promise and a foreshadowing of the Millennium, when all men will be equal and free. It was the same order of things that the. Apostles at Jerusalem sought to introduce; and it seems to have been manifested whenever the fullness of the powers of the priesthood have been upon the earth. Whenever the fullness of the Gospel has been enjoyed by men, there 'has always been this tendency, this trend toward equality, for it is the most perfect social condition. 

"For forms of government let 

fools contest; What's best administered is 

best." 

So says the poet Pope. Nevertheless, I am convinced that of all governments the greatest and the best is that government in which the people govern themselves. The Prophet Joseph Smith was asked bv a stranger visitor at Nauvoo, "How do you govern these people, these Americans, these Britons. these Scandinavians, these men from all parts of the world, all nationalities, speaking different languages, having differen customs and traditions, — how do you govern them, that they live together in peace, with a common purpose, and in the spirit of unity?" The Prophet sagely answered — and he never said a wiser thing — "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves." That government in which the people can and do govern themselves by obedience to correct principles, is manifestly superior to any government that depends upon one man's will. The word of God declares, "It is a slothful servant who waits to be commanded in all things." Even in a government where God might command and direct in everything, the condition would be inferior to what it would be in a community of enlightened freemen, enjoying the fullness of the Gospel, filled with the knowledge of the heavens, doing good of their own accord, governing themselves, loving their neighbors and doing ah things with an eye single to the glory of God. 

This blessed condition is the destiny of the Latter-day Saints, who have been called upon to build up Zion on the North American continent. The City of Enoch, and that order of equality which Enoch established, was only a token and a type of the greater Zion of the last days, which is to become the joy of the whole earth. The Prophet Isaiah spoke of it in these words. 

"Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. 

"For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darknes the people; but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and His glory shall be seen upon thee. 

"And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kins:s to the brightness of thy rising." 

And when that Zion is established which is to be a magnet to the nations, and unto which they will  their gold and glory as a tribute, a glad and willing tribute to Christ, the King — when the Saints succeed in accomplishing that wonderous work, it will be because they have put into practice the principles that recognize the equality of man, and the right of man to consent, under God, as to who shall govern him, and how he shall be governed. 

There is no time now to preach a sermon upon such a subject, but a sermon might be preached that would show still further the relationship between the government of the United States and the government of the Church of God. I believe that if we knew the whole of human history, we would see that men and nations, from the beginning, have carved out and prepared the way for other men and nations! We would find that all that has taken place in the world — God-inspired, heaven-directed — has had as its purpose the setting up of that perfect government which will yet sway the scepter over this planet, when Christ shall reign as King of kings; that Kingdom or Commonwealth for which all existing governments, knowingly or unknowingly, are preparing the way, and of which the work miscalled Mormonism is the immediate fore-runner. 

Each ray of light, each principle of power, 

Each epoch-making hap of history, 

Had it a tongue would it not testify : 

There cometh after me a mightier; 

I but prepare the way his face before; 

I but baptize with water, he with fire? 

All these movements have as their decreed fulfilment and consummation the mighty purpose of the allwise Ruler — 

"That God which ever lives and 

loves, 

One God, one law, one element, And one far-off, divine event, To which the whole creation moves." 

Sister Claudia Poulton sang the soprano solo, "Oh shining light divine." 

ELDER SERGE L. BALIFF. 

(Late President of Swiss and German Mission.) 

(In introducing the speaker. President Smith said : "Brother Baliff has just returned from a long mission in Germany and Switzerland. For four years he presided over the Swiss and German mission.) 

My beloved brethren and sisters : In standing before you this morning, I feel my weakness, and I place myself in the hands of the Lord. I desire from the bottom of my heart that He will inspire me, in order that I may say a few words that will encourage some one on the path of life and salvation. 

The greatest testimony, to me, of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith is this conference — to see this vast assemblage of people who have gathered from all nations of the earth in response to the testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, in this great work in  we are engaged. It is inspiring to see an assemblage of such a class of people, who have gathered from all nations to serve the Lord in spirit and in truth. I have a testimony of this work. The Lord has revealed unto me that Joseph Smith is a prophet. I know, as I know that I live, that he was called of God to establish this great work upon the earth in our day. I have traveled in many large cities in the world. I have met with many people, but in all my experiences I never met such an assemblage as was present here yesterday. I never felt such a spirit, such a power of the Almighty, as was in our midst yesterday. It was a testimony to me that this is the work of the Lord, that the Lord is directing this work, and that we need not worry about the things that threaten it. I assure you, my brethren and sisters, that this work is in the hands of the Lord; He is directing it, and will continue to direct it until He brings the ship Zion to a safe anchor. 

I have had the privilege of bearing my testimony to many people, and I rejoice in this privilege. I thank the Lord for the privilege I have had of going into the nations of the earth and raising my voice in defense of the Gospel of truth. I know that God lives; I know that Jesus is the Christ; and I know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of the Lord. I rejoice in the opportunity I have had to raise my voice among- the people of the world, informing them that God has again spoken from the heavens, that He has established His work upon the earth for the last time, and that the spme gifts and blessings that existed in the primitive church exist in our day. Educated men often ask the question : Why is it that we do not see the gifts, powers and manifestations in the church today that were in the Church of Christ when He was upon the earth with His apostles ? I bear testimony to you today, my brethren and sisters, that the same gifts and blessings, and powers of the priesthood, exist in this Church today that existed in the primitive church. I can bear testimony to you that I have heard men of science declare that certain children were doomed to die, that there was no power on earth that could heal them. I have myself, with my companions, entered houses of people who are not Saints, who had not made covenants with the Lord; we have spoken with these people on the principles of the Gospel, have declared unto them that the same gifts and blessings now exist in the Church of God, and the same power in the priesthood of God, as in times ancient. We have administered to children who have been given up by scientific men; and I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that I have seen these children raised from their beds of affliction, they have been made whole. These people have manifested faith in the Gospel, and many of them have made covenants with the Lord. I remember one incident in particular, which took place in the city of Breslau. There was a young man, about twentytwo years of age, who was working as a bookkeeper, and who had been investigating the Gospel. One evening he came from his work and went immediately to bed. He felt sick; he did not know what was the matter, and they sent for the doctor. When the doctor came he told him that one of his lungs was  gone, that the other lung was badly affected, and that he had but a few days to live. The young man had a wife and three children. He had heard the testimony of the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and he sent for them and told them what the doctor had said. "But," he said, "I believe there is a power that is mightier; I believe there is a power that is stronger than the power of man. I believe in the sayings of the Apostle James, in the 5th chapter and 14th verse, where he says, 'If you have sick among you, call in the elders and they will anoint you, and by the prayer of faith you will be healed.' " I testify to you, my brethren and sisters, that this man had faith in the power of God. By his request the elders anointed him; he was made whole and is a strong man today, performing his duties. 

I want to say further, that I have demonstrated the power there is in obedience to the principle of tithing, paying an honest tithing, being honest with the Lord. The young man I refer to joined the Church, shortly after the experience I have related. His salary was such that he could just meet all of his expenses. He had no surplus at the end of the month, but he heard of the principle of tithing, and he said : "I am going to pay my tithing, and I believe that the Lord will open the way for me." That month he paid his honest tithing. The next month, without saying anything to him, his employer advanced his salary twenty marks, and this was more than the amount he had paid as tithing. This is another testimony to me that the Lord works in behalf of His children, and if they will render obedience unto Hip , he will provide ways and means whereby they can accomplish their righteous purposes. 

I rejoice in this work. I know that it is the work of the Lord, and, as I said before, I know that the Lord is directing it. I know there are thousands of people in the world today who are waiting anxiously for this Gospel. In the Swiss and German mision, during the time I have been there, we have distributed 2,294,038 tracts, from door to door. We have baptized 1,867 souls. Now, these are merely figures showing what we have actually done, but they do not represent one-thousandth part of the work that has been done in the mission field. Not long ago I was in the city of Berlin, and I was invited to the home of a man who is many times a millionaire. While I was conversing with him he said, "Mr. Baliff, I have heard of you; and I want to learn more of you; and I want to hear more of your Gospel." He brought his wife and two children and introduced them to me. He spoke the German, French and English languages. We had a pleasant time together, and he said : "I want to protect you brethren here in this city, with my means and influence; I will use my influence to bring about the liberty of the I atter-day Saints in preaching the Gospel." 

It is the influence of such men as this that brings about, and helps to maintain, our religious freedom in the city of Berlin, at the present time. I want to say further, my brethren and sisters, especially to those parents who have young men in the mission field, don't be alarmed about your sons. They are in the hands of the Lord, and He is able to take care of , and He will take care of them. In some instances your young men may be arrested, and spend a few days behind prison bars; but I say they can't be engaged in a greater work than this ministry. There are very few of our elders who have in any way suffered in those prisons. I have a son who was arrested for preaching the Gospel, and spent a little time in prison. I have a son who has been banished from one province in Germany, and many of you also have missionary sons who have been banished and driven; but the hand of the Lord has been with them. They are not suffering, even those who have been cast into prisons. Those prisons are kept clean. The officers are extremely careful to see that those arrested are clean enough to go into the prisons. As a rule, our young men are given a bath before they are permitted to eo into these prisons. (Laughter.) Probably they did not need it; at any rate they had the bath before they were put in prison. The beds in those places have iron cushions, but at the same time they are clean, so the young men are not in danger of being infected with any disease in those prisons. 

Our young men in the mission field, in Germany, Switzerland, Austria Hungaria, and France, are doing excellent work; and I feel proud to have been numbered among them. Although I have been presiding, and it is said I am released from the Swiss and German mission, I hope the time may never come when I shall be released from interest in that mission. My heart and soul is in that work; I know it is a work of greatest importance. There is the blood of Israel in Germany and Switzerland, and the people are waiting anxiously for the Gospel. Just as fast as we are able to give the Gospel to the honest in heart, I say they will accept it, because they are the blood of Israel, and they will some time receive it. I know that the Lord is no respecter of persons; I know that is a good nation, and the day will come when thousands will embrace the Gospel. My brethren and sisters, we have not one- tenth of the missionaries that we need. Do not be alarmed when you hear that your son is away up in Kiel, or on the frontier of Russia. We have not half enough elders to take care of the branches. There are many places in Germany today where one elder is presiding over three branches, and it is a hard task on him. I appeal to young Israel, to you young men who were born under the covenant; there is a great work devolving upon you. I believe the time will come when you will be called out in quorums to go and warn the nations. We are establishing branches and conferences, and we are going to establish stakes of Zion throughout all lands. The Gospel is large and comprehensive; it is not alone this nation in America that is going to receive the Gospel; but it is to be proclaimed in all parts of the earth. The people of all nations are the children of the Lord, and the Gospel is intended to save the entire human family. 

I rejoice in this work. I am grateful for the privilege of meeting with you; and I pray that the blessings of the Lord may ever attend this people. I hope the time will come when we will all observe the admonition contained in the revelation given to the Prophet John Taylor, "Set your house in order." My brethren and sisters, let us examine ourselves. I want  examine myself and my household. Am I in order? Am I a light and an example to the world? Can I stand up and say to people in the world, follow me? Can I go to nations of the earth and say, Take me as an example, as a member of the Church of Jesus Christ? I have been baptized; I have made covenants with the Lord, has it made me better? Am I a better man through having accepted the Gospel of Jesus Christ? If not, the Gospel of Christ has been without effect and without avail to me. But, I say that every person who has joined the Church and made covenants with the Lord, if they have lived up to the teachings of the Gospel, they should be, and they are lights to the world, they are a power for good wherever they go. Let us govern ourselves; let us govern our families; in order that the world may look upon us and say, They are indeed worthy of our emulation. Let us not forget the people who do not understand the ways of the Lord; let us be charitable; let us learn to love them. Let us extend the hand of fellowship to the whole world. Let us be forerunners, and prepare the way for the Lord's coming. There are millions of honest people in the world who will accept the Gospel, just as soon as they can understand it and that is our real purpose,our real motives in preaching and spreading the Gospel of life and salvation. 

May the Lord help us all to do right. I appeal to young Utah, young Zion, young Israel, t( put your whole faith and trust in the Lord. I would like to impress you with the fact that this' Gospel is a gospel of science; it contains all science. But don't allow yourselves to be misled by the word "science." The Gospel of Jesus Christ is the  of all science, all knowledge. Base yourselves on the foundation of the Gospel of Christ, and through that you will obtain the keys to all sciences that exist upon the earth; it is the fountain-head of all science. 

May the Lord bless you; may He comfort and bless Zion. May He bless you parents who have young men in the mission field. Do not feel alarmed; they are in the hands of the Lord. They are a noble band; I love them as I love my own life, and I want to say that the Lord loves them. They are keeping the Word of Wisdom, and that is another key to their success. They live near to the Lord; He is watching over them, and there is no fear. Brethren and sisters, don't send your boys too much money; the money is needed here in Zion. I do not want to be radical, but I suggest that you should send them just what you feel they absolutely need. There are many Elders in the mission field today who are spending; very little money; there are some who are not spending any, they are going absolutely without money, in a way. Let us be wise about this; not that we wart you to be scrimpy and stingy. There is a great blessing that goes to t^e missionaries who are preaching the Gospel. There is never a time when a man is more humble than when he is wholly dependent upon the Lord; and I have never seen the time, in my experience, when the Lord failed to supplv the wants of His humble and honest servants. I know He has dore it: I have proven it. I know that the Lord is waiting anxiously to Mess us, if we will just live so that we merit and deserve His blessings. May the Lord help us to  faithful and true, I ask it, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

The law of tithing a temporary substitute for consecration. — Faithful observance of this lower law absolutely essential. — Attitude of those who do not pay full tithing. — Good reasons for regular and prompt payment. 

My soul has been fed, during this conference, by the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, which has been with us, and by the testimonies which have been borne, as well as the valuable instructions given by the servants of the Lord as they were actuated by His Holy Spirit. 

I very earnestly desire that the time which I shall occupy, this morning, may be profitable unto us all. To this end I pray the Lord to bless me, and I solicit your sympathy and prayers of faith. 

"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.* * Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." 

I read a stanza from a hymn in our hymn book: 

"Glorious things are sung of Zion, Enoch's city seen of old; 

Where the righteous, being perfect, Walked with God in streets of gold. 

Love and vitrue, faith and wisdom, Gra^e and gifts were all combined; 

As himself each loved his neighbor; 

All were one in heart and mind." 

Quoting from the first speaker this morning, Whenever the Gospel has been upon the earth in its fulness, the law of consecration and united order has been given unto the people of the Lord, such as obtained with Enoch and his people, when they attained such a degree of excellence in faith and righteousness. They not only loved the Lord with all their hearts but, as represented in the hymn, "As himself, each loved his neighbor." That is what we may properly call the higher law, the law of consecration, the united order. Some may ask, — If that law has been given to the people whenever the Gospel in its fulness has been upon the earth, how is it that we Latter-day Saints, living in the dispensation of the fulness of times, when the Gospel in its fullness has been restored to the higher law. It was taken from high law of consecration? In answer I might say that the law was offered unto Israel in these last days, as I understand it, but the people were not prepared to live the higher law. It was taken from us, and, for the time being at least, we have been given the law of tithing, the revenue law of the Church, and we are reauired to live this law. Great promises are given unto us if we will be faithful in observing this law, and condemnation is predicated upon us if we reject it. I am reminded here of ancient Israel and their experiences. Paul, in speaking of them to the Hebrews says : "For unto us was the Gospel preached, as well as unto them : but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed With faith, in them that heard it." In his epistle to the Galatians, he writes to this effect: The law of carnal commandments was given to Israel as a schoolmaster, to bring them up to a condition of faith where  could receive the higher law and enjoy the blessings of the holy priesthood. The Lord revealed, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, that Moses and the Holy Priesthood were taken out of the midst of Israel, because of the hardness of their hearts. But, we ought to be worthy to receive this higher law and be able to live it. That people, whose faith was of such a weak character that they were not permitted to enjoy the blessings of the Holy Priesthood, such as we enjoy today, were given the law of tithing. Israel had to pay tithing. The tribe of Levi was selected from the other tribes to minister in the priest's office, and they were supported by the tithes of the people of the other tribes; while they in turn had to pay their tithing upon all that came into their hands. In view of the greater blessings given to us, we ought to be more faithful than were the children of Israel under those conditions; but the truth is that some are not living up to this law of tithing as strictly as we ought to do. Since we are in this condition, it would be useless to give unto us a higher law, requiring greater sacrifices. The observance, on the part of the Latter-day Saints, of the law of tithing, such as the Lord has given to us, as recorded in the 119th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, is an absolute necessity for the upbuilding of the kingdom of our Father in the last days. A true observance of this law is necessary for our temporal and spiritual blessing, and eternal salvation. The Lord has promised that, if we observe this law, He will bless us temporally. We had an example related here by Elder Baliff, where the man who paid his tithing had his wages increased. That is only  instance out of thousands that might be cited, illustrating how, in a temporal way, the Lord has blessed those who have paid their tithes faithfully. He has said, as recorded in Proverbs, 3rd chapter, "Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the first fruits of all thine increase; so shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine." Then, He has told us, through Malachi, some of the things that will befall those who do not keep this commandment. When Israel failed to comply with this law, He charged them as being robbers, "vea robbers of God," and called them to repentance. I take it that the same terms might be applied to us if we disregard that law today; yet, it is a fact that some deserve it. 

I remember, as I read in the Scripture, that, when the law of consecration was in vogue among the Saints at Jerusalem, a certain man and wife, Ananias and Sapphira, were commanded to dispose of their property and bring the proceeds of the sale in to the common treasury of the Church. You will remember their fate, that which befell them because they undertook to deceive the servants of the Lord. They sold their properties and brought only a part of the proceeds to Peter, and Peter, bv the power of the Holy Ghost, discerned and understood the intended deception on the part of Ananias. By the power of the Lord, Ananias was stricken dead; and because his wife was a party to the deception, she also, by the same power was stricken. 

I sometimes think of our attitude on this question, as a people. The Lord has said — "one-tenth of your interest annually." If we part with this world's goods and obtain  life we will be rich, but if we lose eternal life, lose our faith, go into darkness, apostatize from the truth and lose our hope of eternal life, we will indeed be poor. I fear that because we have not complied faithfully with the requirements of the Lord pertaining to this particular law, some of us are in darkness, and the light of the Spirit does not shine in our souls; therefore, we can not have the hope of a glorious resurrection and eternal salvation in the celestial kingdom of our Father. We are told, in the revelations, that we must have an assurance that our course of life is approved of the Lord, or we can not exercise that faith which is necessary to take hold upon the blessings of eternal life. If I neglect to comply with the law, or only partially comply with the law, do I know that my course is approved of the Lord? Nay, verily, but the reverse; I would know better than any other man in the world that my course of life is not approved of the Lord; and it would be impossible for me to exercise faith sufficient to take hold upon the blessings of eternal life. Hence, the danger in neglecting our duty in relation to this very important law. I said that it is absolutely necessary for the welfare of the Church, and the advancement of the work of the Lord, that the Latter-day Saints pay their tithing. This is another great reason whv the Lord has commanded that we should give a tenth of our interest annually, that the Church may be maintained, that its temporal interests may grow and develop. The law, as given in the words of the Lord to Joseph Smith, states that we shall pay our tithing, a tenth of our interest annually. Because the law is so stated, many of our people have gotten the idea that they need pay no tithing until the end of the year, and then, when they have decided what they owe as a tithing, make settlement — providing they are able to do so. In too many instances they are not able to make full settlement when the end of the year comes. It is a dangerous procedure, and a wrong interpretation of the law. As the Lord gives to us we should tithe, at the very time that it is given. The Church needs the tithing just as much in the commencement of the year, and during the middle of the year, as it does at the end of the year. Demands upon the Trustee-in-trust are continuous, and enormous. For our own good, and for the welfare of the Church, we ought to pay when it is due, and remove far from us the temptation to withhold our tithings;knowine. as we ought to know, the injury there is to ourselves and the Church in failing to pay an honest titHnsr. If we put it off until the end of the year, the temptation is greater: when we come to figure out what we justly owe to the Lord — one-tenth of all our interest — it looms up big before us. We have used, perhaps, all our means as it has come into our hands; we have felt that it was necessary to live to "the full extent of our income. We have not felt able to curtail our expenses, to live within our means, and lay by a little for the payment of our tithing. The result is that when the end of the year comes, there are a multitude of demands made upon us — our winter supply of fuel, taxes, clothing for the family, innumerable obligations, some of them unexpected and unlocked for. In addition to all these demands we have before us the settlement of our tithing. We find that  are no better prepared to pay even one month's tithing at the end of the year than they were in the month of January, February, or March, to pay the tithing due at that time. Of course, there are some who do not receive their interest monthly. This will not apply to them entirely; but when funds come into their hands, whether it be once in three months, once in six months, or at the close of the year, they should make settlement with the Lord as they obtain their substance. With the farmers, if we put our grain into bins and our hay in stacks and reserve it, holding for a better price, that we may get a little more credit" on the tithing records, we are endangering our ability to meet the obligation later on; it is an unsafe proposition. The thing to do is to take our grain from the thresher and give onetenth to the Lord; and hay from the field and do the same, and so with other products and interests. This requires less exercise of faith and there is less temptation to withhold any part of our tithing. We pray, "Lead us not into temptation;" the Lord expects us to help ourselves and avoid temptation. This is one means by which we can do so; and I recommend to the Latter-day Saints that henceforth we pay tithing as we go along — a just and full tithing, that we may be conscientious and our minds be free and easy, that we may know so far as complying with that law is concerned, we have done the will of the Lord and can claim the promised blessing. 

In order that the law of tithing may be made universal and general — realizing that we are prone to say that such instructions are for some one else, and not apply them directly to ourselves — I recommend  a course be taken such as has been taken with respect to the Word of Wisdom. It is not unusual to hear a president report in a stake of Zion that all the stake officers, and all the ward officers, in his stake keep the Word of Wisdom, as well as a very large percentage of the people. Why? Because they have adopted a system of beginning at the head, with the presidencies of stakes, to see that this law is observed — just as we have begun with the Presidency of the Church, the Twelve, the First Council of Seventy, the Patriarch and Presiding Bishopric; all these general authorities observe that law, and this movement has gone from the officers of the Church to the people. They have felt the influence of this movement, and it has become universal, or at least popular among us as a people to observe the Word of Wisdom. If we adopt the same means with this law of tithing-, which is of more importance, if possible, than the Word of Wisdom, I believe we will be able to achieve the same results. If we do so, the blessings of the Lord will be poured out upon us. We will be perparing ourselves to make the greater sacrifice, to yield obedience to the higher law, which must come before our salification. As long as we disregard the lesser law, in part, we know that we are not prepared for that sanctifying law of consecration. The greater the sacrifice the greater the blessing, for sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven. Let us try it. 

God heln us to be faithful in the observance of this law, and all His laws and commandments. Let us live according to our profession of faith, that we may indeed be a light unto the world, that the world see our good works may be led to glorify God and to serve and worship Him. May the Lord bless us to this end, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 
