Morning
06 10 1913

How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord, Is laid for your faith in His excellent word! What more can He say than to you He hath said, You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled? 

Prayer was offered by Elder James Wotherspoon. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn: 

O, say, what is Truth? 'Tis the fairest gem 

That the riches of worlds can produce; 

And priceless the value of truth will be, when 

The proud monarch's costliest diadem Is counted but dross and refuse. 

ELDER GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. 

Marvelous power of Faith manifest in modern as well as ancient times — Faith obtained by doing 1 God's will. 

This morning we have met together in a continuation of the feast we have enjoyed during the last two days, and I hope that the prayer which has been offered may be realized, that our Heavenly Father will pour out His Spirit upon those who address us, that we may continue to be edified and our faith increased. 

Tn reading the scriptures, which I  this great congregation is accustomed to do, not occasionally but frequently, our faith is strengthened and our minds are directed towards the Throne of Grace. In the 11th chapter of Hebrews, we find recorded : 

"Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. For by it the elders obtained a good report. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. 

"By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gift's: and by it he being dead, yet speaketh." 

"By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God." 

"But without faith it is impossible to please him; for he that cometh to God must believe that He. is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." 

"By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark" and was able to save himself and family from a watery grave. Abraham, by reason of his faith, was able to go into the mountains with his son Isaac, of whom it was said, "In Isaac shall thy seed be called," and would have offered him as a sacrifice, assured that God would raise him from the dead and fulfil His promise. But the Lord provided another sacrifice, accepting his obedience and accounting it unto GENERAL CONFERENCE.  for righteousness; and verily in his seed have all the nations of the earth been blessed. By faith Moses led the children of Israel from bondage, passing through the Red sea as by dry land, which, the pursuing hosts of the Egyptians essaying to do, were drowned. The multitude were fed with bread from heaven. When Moses smote the rock in Horeb, water gushed forth to slake their thirst; and, passing through the wilderness, they were led to the promised land. By faith the three Hebrew children, who were cast into the fiery furnace, had their lives spared; and the prophet Daniel was taken from the lion's den unharmed. 

It was by faith that all the miracles were wrought by the Redeemer of the world, and by those who were associated with Him. From the beginning of time until now it has been the faithful man who has had power with God. 

In this latter dispensation it was because of his implicit faith in God that the boy prophet went into the woods and knelt down and prayed, and received the first great heavenly manifestation that came to him, by which the personality of the Godhead was again made known to mankind. It was by faith that he was able to go to the hill Cumorah and receive from the hands of the angel those sacred records that he later translated by the gift and power of God. It was by faith he led his people from Kirtland to the land of Missouri and back to Illinois, and though repeatedly plundered and driven from their homes, the faith that had been planted in their hearts remained with them, and they knew that God was mindful of them. It was by faith that the great city of Nauvoo was found, under the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith; and by faith the glorious truths contained in the Doctrine and Covenants were received by him. 

It was by faith that Brigham Young lead the people into this western land; and, when he arrived upon the summit of the mountain and looked over the valley, God gave to him a witness that this was the place where Israel should be planted. It was by faith that the irrigation system was perfected, by which it was made possible to develop this great intermountain country. It was by faith that the people laid the corner stone of this great Temple, in their weakness and in their poverty, believing that God would prepare the way and provide the means whereby the structure might be completed. It was by faith that the mercy of our Heavenly Father was extended to the people, when, in their distress, they saw their crops being consumed by the crickets, with no means of preventing it, and, in the providence of God,- their prayers were answered, and they received a witness of it in the coming of the gulls to preserve their harvest and deliver them from starvation. 

It has been by faith that the elders of Israel have gone forth, leaving home and loved ones, and enduring the reproach of the world, to bear witness that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord. By faith your sick have been healed, your dead have been raised to life. Were the records available of the miracles wrought among this people during the past century, it would be a testimony of the power of God. through faith, unsurpassed in any age of the world. 103 

It is this principle, my brethren and sisters, that points us heavenward, that gives us hope in the battle of life. When we become confused, and find ourselves confronted by obstacles we, seemingly, cannot overcome, having faith in the Redeemer of the world, we can go to Him and know that our prayers will be answered for our good. Only a few days ago, one of our sisters, visiting in the east, in a conversation , with an educated man, was told by him, "I cannot believe as you do but I wish that I could. It is beautiful." And so it is with many of our Father's children, who, observing the character of this work, watching the actions of the men and women who have embraced the .truth, they are filled with amazement at what has been accomplished, and the peace and happiness that follows the sincere believer, and wish that they too might have part in it; and they could if they had faith. 

We know that faith is a gift of God; it is the fruitage of righteous living. It does not come to us by our command, but is the result of doing the will of our Heavenly Father. If we lack faith let us examine ourselves to see if we have been keeping His commandments, and repent without delay if we have not. It has been by faith that the men who have stood at the head of this work have been inspired, from time to time, to give the instructions that we have needed. It is by faith that we are edified on occasions like this, by those who minister in the name of the Lord, and the Comforter quickens their understanding, bringing things past to their remembrance and showing them things to come; thus evidencing the spirit of revelation. 

May the Lord increase our faith,  may we live to be worthy of it. May we inspire faith in the hearts of our wives and children, by lives of righteousness and devotion at all times; and may every soul that comes in contact with us, whether they be of Israel or not, be able to recognize in us virtues worthy of children of God. May we prove ourselves deserving of our opportunities in this dispensation, -and when the time comes to be gathered home may we receive the welcome plaudit, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord," is my prayer for you and all our Father's children, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER DAVID 0. M'KAY. 

Appreciation of Gospel truths increased by study— Treasures of Truth in Doctrine and Covenants — Latter-day Israel should not "halt between two opinions," but choose to obey God — Spiritual and physical power obtained by obeying God's laws — "What is the use of hearing and not doing?" 

This conference has indeed been an inspiration to Israel. I pray that the same spirit that has guided the brethren who have addressed the different congregations may direct my thoughts and remarks during the next few minutes. My heart has been filled with thanksgiving as I have listened to the admonitions from the Presidency of the Church, the council of the twelve, and others who have adressed us. 

It seems to me that more specific instructions and admonitions have been given to the Saints this conference than ever before at any parGENERAL CONFERENCE.  conference. My heart is in hearty atune with the suggestion of President Smith, that the Latter-day Saints think more about the Gospel and spiritual things, that they give more attention to these matters, devote more time to the real things in life, and less time to those things that will perish. It is also in hearty accord with the admonition to resist the various temptations in our midst. Thos'e two suggestions alone, if Latter-day Saints would adopt them in their lives, would be sufficient to make this people a light upon a hill, a light that could not be hid. We refer to such teachings sometimes as little things, but indeed they are the greatest in this life. If we were to pay more attention to such advice and devote more study to the modern revelations as contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, we would grow in appreciation of the magnitude of the great work that has been established in this dispensation. It is often said that the Church is the greatest thing in the world — it is — but the more we give attention to it, and realize how well adapted it is to our individual life, to our home life, to our social life; when we study it from the standpoint of our environment from the standpoint of scientific discoveries, our hearts are made to rejoice for God's goodness unto us in giving us the privilege of knowing the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

Nearly every passage in the Doctrine and Covenants is replete with admonitions, full of inspiration and wonderful revelations to men. Sometimes those revelations are couched in but few words, but by careful study one sees how closely related they are to all truth. Take for example the wonderful revelation, simply expressed, in regard  government by the priesthood: "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by the priesthood only by persuasion, long suffering, gentleness, meekness and with love unfeigned." Just think of that use of the word "unfeigned." Love pretended has no influence. Love unfeigned always has the power to reach the heart. To continue : "Reproving at times by sharpness, and afterwards showing forth greater love towards him whom thou hast reproved lest he esteem thee to be his enemy." Why it is a wonderful admonition and lesson in regard to the government, not only in quorums of priesthood in the Church offices but in our home life and in all phases of association in society. Consider, again, the suggestion in regard to the worth of souls, "Remember the worth of souls is great." Also the revelation in regard to the true riches, "Seek after the riches I shall give, wisdom" and so on, "and the riches of the world will be added also." Such things are the real things in the world. And so we might continue, revelation after revelation as given in the Doctrine and Covenants, if studied and paid attention to by the Latter-day Saints, will establish faith in their hearts and make them rejoice at this great and wonderful organization placed among men for their salvation. 

Not the least among these by anv means is that revelation on the word o^ wisdom. Now there are just one or two little paragraphs in it that refer to the use of strong drink : "If any man among you use strong drink, behold it is not good." Just a simple statement; it is unqualified, but there it stands. "Wine and strong drink are not good." That revelation was given over 105  years ago — the Word of God, not only to the people who are members of His Church but to the inhabitants of the world wherever that book has been published; wherever it has been distributed by the elders of the Church the word of God has been sounded to the world. People have thus been told by revelation that it is not good to indulge in these intoxicating beverages; but they have wavered, and some Latter-day Saints have wavered. They have been very much as ancient Israel with the gods of Baal. You remember when Elijah came amongst them denouncing their worship of idols. He had been hidden for several months, and during the three and a half years faming had kept away from the king. The famine became so sore that the people gathered near Mount Carmel, a projecting peak near the Mediterranean Sea. Elijah, determining to reveal himself told one of his friends to inform the king that he, Elijah, was there. The man hesitated to go. Elijah said, "This day I will show myself to him," and he did : and when the king saw him he said, "Art thou he that troubleth Israel?" and the prophet answered. "I have not troubled Israel, but thou and thy father's house in that ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord, thou has followed Baalim." Then Elijah suggested, "Now therefore send, and gather to me all Israel unto Mount Carmel, and the prophets of Baal, four hundred and fifty and let us determine here today whether the god of Baal is the true god or whether the God of Israel is the true god." The people assembled in that picturesque place and Elijah adressed them : "How long halt ye betzvecn tit'o opinions f If the Lord  God, follow Him, but if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered not a word." It is suggestive. There the people were halting: many of them knew in a way that Israel's God was omnipotent, that He it was who could save them, and yet the other gods offered pleasure, offered indulgence } and the people halted; some trying to serve and yield obedience to both. "How long halt ye between two opinions?" said the prophet; "If the Lord be God follow Him, if Baal be god, follow him;" but don't try to mix in trying to serve one today and then falling back in obedience to the teachings of the other tomorrow. Well, you know the test that was decided upon; you know the result, and the death that came to the priests of Baal. 

While listening to the word of God as given in this conference by our President, who admonished Israel to refrain from indulgence in tobacco, and to refrain from indulgence in strong drink, I thought that instruction has been given to us now for eighty years, and still we falter in obedience. How long, Israel, halt ye between two opinions ? The Lord has said that strong drink is not good. Eighty years ago that was declared. Only a few weeks ago, in this country, at a meeting of brewers, a man rose and said : "We don't want the people to drink more beer, but we want more people to drink beer." Which teaching will you heed? Which will the nation accept? Whose voice will the people heed? One declared in the voice of Omnipotence that beer, alcoholic beverages, are not good; the other declared it is good, and he wants to develop the appetite of the people so more people will drink. "How long halt ye between two GENERAL CONFERENCE. ?" What does it mean to obey God's word ? to refrain from indulgence in narcotics, and alcoholic beverages ? It means stronger manhood; it means brighter intellects; it means stronger and more perfect physical organism; it means better and truer husbands, more devoted and affectionate fathers; it means parenthood that will transmit to children clean habits, and power in the will to resist temptations of appetite and greater temptations of passion that may come to them; it means happy Homes, contented wives, well dressed and better educated children; it means a safe and sound citizenship which goes for the building of a safe and sound nation; it means salvation for the individual in the kingdom of God. A little thing? On the other hand, what does indulgence mean? Weakened manhood, a weakened will, a physical organism that will transmit weakness to unborn generations; it means the cutting off of life by slow suicide; it means the derangement of mental faculties; it means the breaking up of homes, it means broken hearted wives, destitute children, a weakened society and an underminded Republic — that is what it means. Recent investigations by scientists confirm these statement. 

The American Society for the study of alcoholic beverages and narcotics, recently made a report also to this effect. You will find it in the Senate Document no. 48 issued May 17th, 1909. Their conclusions are these : that alcohol is not safe as a common beverage in any of its present commercial forms, or for ordinary prescriptions; that it is a thief of all the vitality of the tissues; that its promises of strength are mocking lies; its semblance of  is simply nerve center disturbances that end in ultimate weakness and destruction. That the whiskey problem is a greater problem today in this country than the great white plague. The intemperance in the United States today costs this country over one billion, eight hundred and eighty-three million dollars; that today in this Republic there are over three million drinkers who have been taught that alcohol is a mild stimulant and a pleasant tonic, and the worst of it is that nearly all these will say they can quit it, each says, "I can leave it alone." The demon is lying to them always, promising them something which it cannot give. 

I believe, Latter-day Saints, that it is time for this people to stand up in earnest in the strength of true manhood and declare against these evils. Let us think about them now; go from this conference determined, so far as we are concerned, that we will live in accordance with the admonitions given. This means that in our individual life we will refrain from the use of these things — whiskey, tobacco, tea and coffee. As you know the Latter-day Saints are not alone in declaring against the use of these beverages. Men have proved by scientific research that the word of God as given to the prophet Joseph Smith eighty years ago is the word of life and salvation to man. Then as individuals let us refrain. It grieved me yesterday, as I passed into a restaurant, to see some of our people indulging in some of those beverages, after having listened to the teachings of this conference. What is the use of hearing and not doing? Think! Be strong enough to introduce the principles into active life; and after doing that, as indi107 , see that it is cleared up in our homes, use your influence with your children; and remember example in the home will go further in helping our children than our teaching. Parents, you cannot afford for the sake of your children, to use these things. You may want to, but I tell you you have no right to transmit such an appetite and a weakened will to those unborn children whom God may give you  you have no right to do it. Children are entitled to a kingly birth, whether they must live in a mud hovel or in a palace; it makes no difference — a kingly birth, inherited strength, physical strength, moral strength, and a tendency towards spiritual uplift. 

Then after freeing our homes from forbidden things, let us clean up our towns, eliminate saloons from every city and county. I congratulate the Latter-day Saints that in nearly every town where members of the Church are in the majority, the saloons are closed. I trust that the time is not far distant when they will be eliminated from every town in our state, and from every city and state in our country. I believe with all my heart the sentiments of David Starr Jordan, as expressed in that excellent little work, "The Strength of Being Clean," part of which is as follows : 

"So far as the drink of the drunkards is concerned, prohibition may not prohibit; but to clean up a town, to free it from corrosion, save men and boys, and girls too, from vice; and who shall say that moral sanitaion is not as much the duty of the community as physical sanitation? The city of the future will not permit the existence of slums and dives and tippling houses; it will prohibit their existence for the same reason that it now prohibits pig-pens and dung heaps and cess-pools, for where  these things are — slums and cesspools, saloons and pig-pens — there the people grow weak and die." 

, "Why halt ye, Israel, between two opinions? If God be God, follow Him; if Bacchus, then follow him." 

God help us all to know the truth and to have strength to live it, is my prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

PKESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I think the natural inquiry that would arise in the minds of all present this morning after listening to the remarks which we have heard would be, can we as intelligent men and women, professing to be honest before God, resist the force, the justice and the righteousness of the appeals that are being made to us? Can we do it? I say we cannot and be Latter-day Saints. 

Sister Amelia Margetts sang a soprano solo, "The plains of peace." 

ELDER ANTHONY W. IVINS. 

Past 83 years of Church's history proves its divine origin — Prophecies fulfilled concerning re-establishment of Church — Multitude of details confirming fact that this is God's work — No other people fulfilling prophecies, nor possessing completeness of Christ's Gospel. 

"Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil. 

"For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled." 

I have been thinking of these words of the Savior, my brethren and sisters, since the beginning of this conference, and applying them to the establishment and developGENERAL CONFERENCE. , of the Church. More than eighty-three years have elapsed since the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established. At its organization, on the 6th of April, 1830, there were but six persons present who were recognized as members of the Church, and who participated in the business which was transacted. Now, after the lapse of these years, hundreds of thousands of people profess membership in the Church. Many thousands of those people are here in-this city, and are participating in the exercises of this conference. At the time of its establishment, men who were not familiar with the forces which were at work in its development, and which had brought it into existence, unbelievers, might with a degree of consistency have thought, or said, that it was just another movement in which a new religious denomination was being established by a man who had discovered errors in existing religious organizations, or that it was the work of a simple enthusiast who believed that the Lord had called him to establish a new church, or that it was the deliberate plan of an imposter who sought to take advantage of the wave of religious reform which was sweeping over the country, to the accomplishment of his own selfish ourposes. In either event it might have been thought, as was often said, that if left alone it, like many such movements which had preceded it. would come to naught. It is not unusual that, in their inception, the success of many great movements which have resulted in inestimable benefit to mankind has been doubted. It is not at all unusual that movements which have been inaugurated with every prospect of success have proven to be failures. 

So it is only after experience has given evidence by which we may reach conclusions that we may intelligently determine results. 

Men who have addressed us at this conference have borne strong testimony to the divinity of this work and to its ultimate triumph. That testimony, if unsupported by evidence, our faith, even devotion to that which we may believe, if we are professed Christians, must be supported by the word of the Lord. I am a believer in these words of the Savior which I have read, as I am in all of His words; and if He spoke the truth then we and the religious world must be in harmony with the law and the prophets, for if they are to be fulfilled not one jot or tittle is to pass. Then if we profess faith in Christ and claim, as we do, that He is the author of the establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we ought to be able to show that in its development as well as in its establishment, it is in harmony with the law and with the prophets, for by this measure sometime all religious denominations will have to be judged. 

Then I have thought as I have looked into the faces of these magnificent congregations of Latter-day Saints, which have assembled here, that if the words of the prophets are true, Christ Himself, being the greatest of them all, we know, we have this assurance, that at sometime subsequent to the period in which He ministered in the flesh. His gospel must come back to earth and be established again among men. He taught this to His disciples from the beginning, that He must leave them, that He must suffer for the sins of the world, but just as He testified of His glorious 109  from the dead, so He told them that the time would come when His gospel would again be preached upon earth for the redemption of his covenant people. Regarded in a general sense, that would be a little indefinite, and so they asked Him what should be the sign of His coming and of the end of the world. He warned them that they be not deceived, that many should come in His name and deceive many, that false prophets would arise and false Christs would arise, and that if possible their sophistry would be such that it would deceive the very elect; but, this He gave them as a guide, wherever the body is there will the eagles be gathered together, or in other words, wherever My gospel is preached, wherever the Church of Christ shall exist, there will the fruits of the Gospel be manifest among the people. That restoration was to be in the latter days. It was to be in a time when kingdoms would be divided, one against the other; it was to be in a time when there would be religious confusion, when one would cry lo here and another lo there, a time when there would be war in the land and contention and earthquakes, and when the sea would heave itself beyond its bounds, and the people of the world be in confusion. 

Now that is not all that was associated with this idea of the restoration of the Gospel. He told us just how it should come, not handed down continuously from the time of the apostles to be preached to the inhabitants of the earth, but to come through the ministry of an angel, which John saw in that glorious vision that was given him of the Savior, while upon the isle of Patmos, having the everlasting 

Gospel to preach to them that dwelt upon the earth, calling men to repentance with a loud voice, warning them that the judgments of the Almighty were at hand. And that was not all, it was to be at a period of restitution, the restitution of all things spoken by the mouths of the holy prophets, these prophets to which I have referred, the priesthood, the ordinances of the Church, the hearts of the fathers were to be turned to the children, and vigorous work for the dead established, inaugurated in the day of the establishment of God's Church. It was to be a dispensation of gathering, not only restoration so far as the doctrines of the Gospel were concerned, but a time when scattered Israel should be gathered, for the prophets had said to them that though they be scattered to the uttermost parts of heaven, yet the Father said "will I gather you from thence and bring you back to the lands of your inheritance, and will fulfil the promises that I have made to your fathers." So we may expect not only a restoration of the Gospel but a restitution of the ordinances of the Church and a gathering together of the Lord's people. 

And more than that, He made clear the condition under which that gathering should take place, that He would send out His messengers unto the world, and they should hunt them out from among the nations, they should bring one of a city and two of a family, and they would come out to some place that they called Zion with songs of everlasting praise. We are not left in doubt either so far as that place is concerned. It was to be in the mountains. Do you not remember that Isaiah said in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord GENERAL CONFERENCE.  be established, and that it should be established too in the tops of the mountains, and that all nations should flow unto it, that many people should come and say "Let us go up to the mountain of the Lord's house, to the house of the God of Jacob, that we may be taught His ways and learn to walk in His paths." It was not a fruitful land but a desert land, if the prophets are to be fulfilled; for this same man told us that the wilderness should be made glad because of them at the time of this gathering together, and it shall rejoice abundantly and blossom as the rose; that in the desert streams of water should break forth and pools in the desert places. 

Now, my brethren and sisters, I cannot take time to continue quotations of this character which indicate to me and which I love to study and to contemplate, and which have been, outlined by prophets of God which have lived before us, and refer to the dispensation in which we live. Read the scripture, study it, and you will find that I have only mentioned a few of that great multitude of details which must be brought harmoniously together wherever the work of the Lord is to be accomplished. Then I have looked back over these eighty-three years and asked myself the question, does the history and development of the Church fit in to these prophesies? Are they being fulfilled? Have they been? The testimony of the spirit comes to me that in every detail from the organization of the Church until this year of grace, 1913, gradually but surely the Church of Christ has justified the declaration which we make to the world that it was divinely established and that it is established for  redemption of His covenant people. The Gospel came just as the Lord said that it should come. Joseph Smith did not assume, as other men had assumed, to establish a new church, another sectarian Christian denomination until God had authorized him to do it. He understood full well that he could not give that which he himself did not possess. Notwithstanding the fact that in that glorious vision the Father and Son had manifested to him, notwithstanding the fact that he had there been told that there was a great work for him to perform, notwithstanding the fact that Moroni had visited him and talked with him and instructed him, and entrusted to him the plates from which this Book of Mormon was translated, which he did, for those things are true and certain as any truth of heaven, but yet he made no effort, he took no steps looking to the establishment of a church, but as he read there he found, as he undoubtedly had observed before, that baptism was essential to the salvation of man. Christ had said that a man could not enter into the kingdom of heaven except he were baptized, born of water and of the Spirit, and as he translated from those plates he found that doctrine reiterated there, and in the humility of his soul, just as he had done before, he went to the Lord. I have never thought that he anticipated that which was to occur. He believed that his prayer would be heard and answered, but he himself and Oliver Cowdery who was with him, declared that the human mind cannot conceive the joy that entered into their souls when John the Baptist, descending in a cloud of light, came from heaven, laying his hands upon their heads, ordained them to Ill  Aaronic Priesthood and conferred upon them the keys of that priesthood which holds the right of the preaching of the Gospel of repentance, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins. 

Then this gospel dispensation was opened; then they had authority to confer upon others that which the Lord through His servant had conferred upon them, to preach the Gospel, to administer in the ordinances of the Church which belong to that lesser order of the priesthood. Then came the restoration of the Melchizedek Preisthood; then came the keys of the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers, and which authorizes the work which is being done in these temples of the Lord. Then came authority to go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature, and to gather up the outcasts of Israel, bring them here to the tops of these mountains that they might be taught the word of the Lord and learn to walk in His paths, this desert land which has been made to blossom, this desert land where pools of water now stand, streams have broken forth, where the voices of music and children are heard upon the streets, in a country which was' once a barren waste, this land which is full of gold and silver, just as the prophets said that the land of gathering should be. 

So, my brethren and sisters, I thank God that from the very beginning we have been in harmony with the law and with the prophets, that they are being fulfilled. I testify to you of it. I know that Joseph Smith was no imposter. I know that he assumed to do nothing except that which he was authorized to do of the Lord. I know that the men who  succeeded him have followed in his footsteps, every one of them, and that today in the Church its strength is greater and its influence for good is greater than it has ever been before in its history, and' that nothing under heaven except transgression by the people themselves can stay the progress and development of this work of the Lord, because the law and the prophets are to be fulfilled as Christ declared, and if they are to be fulfilled you may look in all the world in vain to find a people who are fulfilling them away from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

My brethren and sisters, become familiar with the prophets, become familiar with the scripture, understand, so far as it is possible, and it is possible to understand because God will help us if we desire, the importance of this great work in which we are engaged, and that there are yet many of those sacred and precious promises and prophcies in future. This is Christ's Church, it is entrusted to us, we are His shepherds, we are developing it, establishing it, gathering in His covenant and scattered people, to the end that He may come to the Church, which He will do, because that is another one of the prophecies, that He will come in the clouds of heaven to us to vindicate our work and bear witness to the world of the everlasting truths of the doctrines which we preach and the work which we have accomplished. 

The Lord help us to keep the faith, that we may be prepared for His glorious kingdom and coming, when it shall be established in fullness, in power and dominion upon the earth, I pray, through Jesus Christ. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

PATRIARCH HYRUM G. SMITH. 

I am very grateful, my brethren and sisters, for the privilege of being present at this conference, to hear the word of the Lord, and the testimonies of His servants. I can bear testimony to the truthfulness of all that has been said. I rejoice in the testimony of the Gospel. I know that this is the work of the Lord, and that He has intrusted it unto us. It is our duty to deliver it unto the world. It has been given unto us freely, and freely we give it unto them; and as the different individuals all over the world accept the Gospel, — without regard to race, nationality, or creed — and live according to its teachings, they join with us in the love which is common to all faithful Latter-day Saints. 

During this conference we had the pleasure of listening to a prayer by one of our brothers of another race, offered in our language, and I rejoiced in his prayer. I rejoice with all my brethren and sisters who accept and faithfully live the Gospel, no matter where they come from. The Gospel is sweet to me, and to all who join in that common love for the truth, when it has been made plain unto them, and they have been blessed with courage and strength to obey its teachings. We rejoice together in the knowledge of the plan of redemption, for we are given the privilege to walk according to the teachings of our Savior, and by obeying them we shall return unto Him and share in that eternal love of our Father which is in heaven. This is my testimony and I rejoice in it. 

I thank the Lord for the many privileges that have come to me in associating with the general authorities of the Church, those whom the 

Lord has called to direct His work in the earth today. I rejoice in the teachings of the Gospel, and in the testimonies that have been borne in this conference, and in the instructions we have received; they are the word of the Lord to us. The many thousands gathered together in the different sessions of this conference have listened to these words, and they are words' that should be remembered by all. It is our duty now, as Latter-day Saints, as children of our Father in heaven, to carry these teachings home and make use of them. We are weak — for we are earthly; we need reminding; we are frail creatures, to a certain extent, and are subject to weaknesses both of mind and body. We are very dependent creatures and need constant reminding of our duties. That is one of the purposes of this great gathering, and of other gatherings at our homes in the wards and stakes of Zion. 

I pray that our Father in heaven will give us strength, even if we are weak and mortal, to carry to our homes the great teachings which we have been reminded of, and then live according to our duties as Latter-day Saints. 

You know, brethren and sisters, that we are not of the world. We have come out of the world, therefore we are different from the world; these worldly things that we are prone to adopt in our lives, we have been warned to leave alone; and where they have taken possession of us, and we look upon them as weaknesses, from a spiritual and progressive standpoint, they should be overcome. We should go forth in the strength which our Father has given us, that spiritual strength by which we live, and we will grow fly receiving and putting into prac113  the teachings of this conference, and those we receive from the Lord, through His servants, from time to time. Let us rise above our weaknesses by commencing today to live better lives. It is a simple thing to commence, but it takes faith to endure to the end. There may be weaknesses in our lives which have grown upon us and become habits, so that it will be somewhat difficult for some of us to leave them off at once, or of our own strength, we must have the help of the Lord; and it can be secured through humility in prayer and in obedience to the laws of His Gospel. 

I thank the Lord for the teachings of the Gospel, and do pray that His Spirit will give us strength to commence now to reform and live as Latter-day Saints, and not as if we were living in Babylon. We can overcome our tendencies toward disease, sin, and decay, by heeding the remindings and teachings given by President Smith in the first session of this conference. 

Now, with the power that has been given to me to bless, I desire to bless this congregation and all Israel, that we may see and study the conditions by which we are surrounded, and in the strength that has been given us have power to overcome them, become better, and conform more nearly to the teachings of our Master; that we may prepare this earth for His coming. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus' Christ. Amen. 

ELDER JOSEPH E. EOBINSON. 

(President of California Mission.) 

With you, my brethren and sisters, I rejoice in the testimony of the brethren who have addressed us and in the fact that we are pointed  to first principles. It is a matter that I had thought upon because of some recent experiences. I had recalled the testimony of Paul to the ancient Galatians, wherein he said he marveled because they had been called so soon to another gospel which, however, was not a gospel, for there is but one, which is the power of God unto salvation; and as He told Timothy, men have lulled themselves to sleep, having itching ears, and they have had teachers after their own lusts, who have pleased their fancies and have drawn them away from the truths of the everlasting Gospel. In the world, men are declaring today that there is no such thing as sin, only as a person may conceive it in his own mind; that all things are as they should be, and that evil is only to those who think evil. One of our greatest churches, one of late growth too, is largely responsible, I take it, for this mental atitude of the people abroad. I was astounded, while coming to this city, to find among five gentlemen, who are well read and widely traveled, thest very thoughts that I am expressing to you now, and that the pleasures of life were more desirable than the things which we look upon as of eternal worth, and that they were more punctilious in the observance of the so-called pleasures than they were in the obligations to uphold and defend the right and preserve the morals of the public, and to help maintain civic probity. So I take it as most timely, to the Latter-day Saints, that we should be admonished anew of the things for which our fathers came out of the old world and for which they planted us securely in the tops of the mountains, for which they denied their own appetites and made it possible GENERAL CONFERENCE.  us to enjoy here, through their experiences, the blessings and the blessedness of the everlasting covenant. 

I rejoice today in noting the strength that has returned to Elder George Albert Smith, and I want to add just one testimony to the testimony of faith as expounded by him namely; that it is through faith that his life has been spared and that you heard him speak in such good voice and form today. I think I know as well as any man, the trials which he has undergone, how humble and patient he has been through it all, striving only to magnify his office and calling, and asking if he could not do so, that God would take him away from this earth that another might fill his place. The prayers of the Saints have prevailed, thank the Lord for that, and for his presence today. 

f miss, as I never believed I could, the presence of my fellow servant the late Elder Ben E. Rich; I miss the earnest and warm grasp of his hand, his kindly expressions, bis spontaneous wit and humor and cheerfulness that would disarm an enemy, and his magnanimous generosity that would make a friend of that same enemy. I have looked upon him as the ideal Seventy, almost, of this people : I have regarded him as an ideal missionary, and in the rich heritage of his testimony, in word and deed and pen. I feel that incumbent upon me with my co-laborers is the obligation that we shall sustain and uphold the standard of truth and of righteousness and the restored Gospel of the Christ as Ben E. Rich ever did in the world. 

I want to admonish you, my brethren and sisters, that we cannot neglect our duties and hope to  punishment. As Paul said, how can we unto whom this great salvation has come hope to escape, if we neglect so great salvation; and there is such a thing as believing in vain. For, in addressing the Corinthian saints, telling them of the Gospel in which they then stood and by which they will be saved, he said, "unless ye have believed in vain." It has made me sad to hear, — I was going to say the admonitions, and I may say the spirit of some of those admonitions, that prove to me that among us at home, those from whom we expect so much, whom we hold up to the world as the very ensamples of light and truth, of honor and sobriety, proves that we have neglected at home, and that we forget and are unmindful of the teachings of our brethren and of the obligations that are laid upon us and that we ourselves have assumed. You expect much of us, my brethren and sisters, who are in the missionary . field; you expect that we shall walk the line of strict propriety, that no untoward thing shall be done by us who are missionaries, that shall bring disrepute upon you at home and upon the cause of the Master, but that we shall give our whole heart-power, and all the virtues that we are possessed of to maintain the excellency of your good repute. Can we not expect as much of you ? Have we not the right, when we turn our eyes Zionward. as we speak of these mountains and valleys, to think that here are the very elect of the earth, the salt of the earth, and that here there can and shall be no iniquity flourish? that there the standard of probity in all things shall be made unsullied? 

I want to tell you one little experience on the coast last year, that I had when speaking of the evils in 115  world. I was confronted with the fact that in Idaho and Utah alone, of all these United States, was book-making- for the races indulged in the open race courses obtaining-. I am glad to know that that has been curtailed since the time I am speaking of. I want to tell you that not only the eyes of some of the philosophers of the world, the thoughtful men, — and students who are loking into the future for the conservation of the integrity of the American people and the people of the world, not only the eyes of these men are upon us but from the lowly walks of life we receive daily testimony that we are being watched ' in all of our ways and all of our doings. A young elder bore testimony to me, three weeks ago, that frequently in San Francisco, recently, he had been asked by individuals : "Do you people intend to build here? Are you doing anything towards establishing yourselves in this city? We want to know." And his curiosity was aroused, and so to one man who seemed very earnest in the matter, he said : "Why do vou ask this question?" He replied : "Because I want to tell you, young man, we are watching you. and if your people go out of here, some of us wil be close behind you." Thus indicating the fact that he felt in the actions of the "Mormon" people could be found an example that could be safely followed even in material things. 

Through the graciousness of the Trustee-in-trust, and some of our good friends who have assisted us, and the Saints in the mission field, we have been able to erect a most beautiful chapel in Los Angeles, with a home for the presiding authority of the mission, also mission home and office for our office force  elders. Commercially speaking, since this has been done, our stock has advanced a hundred per cent and more. People who before were indifferent towards us, when they see what we have done, have been led to interest themselves and to seek our society, to ask advice and counsel at our hands, and they want to know what we think of various conditions other than that which we call religious. This offers an opportunity for tellingsomething of the Gospel; and it is good to know that the man who thinks, sees the hand of the Lord in our success in reclaiming the waste places of Zion and in building up in the greater centers of the land an evidence of the fact that God is with this people; that there is something virile and potent in the Gospel for by it and with the excellency of our institutions we realize many blessings — the longevity of the lives of our people, as recorded by the statistics given, the peace that obtains in our homes, the binding power of the everlasting covenant, the keeping of the word of wisdom, — all an outgrowth and product of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus. Men used to look upon our success rather from a commercial standpoint, as communism and cooperation, but today they are beginning to see there is more than that in it; and it is significant to me, when men will say that they read in it the essence of religion, and that if it be the result of "Mormonism," so-called, that they see the need of "Mormonism" in their own homes, in their own communities, and in their own churches. I bear witness unto you that God lives; that Jesus is the Christ; that Joseph Smith was a prophet; that we have, as we sang, founded our faith on a sure GENERAL CONFERENCE. , not only of prophets, apostles, evangelists, and pastors, and deacons as we have them, to dispense the living word to us daily, but in that same testimony that came to Peter when he bore witness to the Christ that He was the Son of God, and the Master said: "Man hath not revealed this unto thee but my Father which is in heavens, and upon this rock shall I build My Church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." In this statement I read more than the fact that a knowledge was revealed to Peter, a philosophy, or an understanding that Jesus was the Christ, but the testimony itself, burned into his soul, that Jesus was the Son of God, that he knew that God lived; and this, we are told by the Master, is life eternal, and surely the gates of hell shall not prevail against the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ. 

May the Lord keep us in His love for ever more, guide us to His praise, and wean us away from the vanities of the flesh and the world, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn, "Love at home." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Joseph S- Geddes. 

Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. 


