Afternoon
06 10 1913

President Joseph F. Smith called the meeting to order. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

For the strength of the hills we bless Thee, 

Our God, our fathers' God; Thou hast made Thy children mighty, By the touch of the mountain sod. 

Prayer was offered by Elder James W. Lesueur. 

The choir and congregation sang the hymn : 

God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform; 

He plants His footsteps in the sea, And rides upon the storm. 

ELDER JAMES E. TALMAGE. 

Our bodies gifts from God— Spirit and. body combined constitute the soul of man — The fall of man consisted in a violation of what we now call the Word of Wisdom — The Fall not a breach of law of chastity — Adam and Eve were and are beings of exalted station — Knowledge of good and evil, how gained — Pre-existence and life beyond the grave — Modern theologians preaching what was once exclusively "Mormon" doctrines. I am very grateful for the opportunity of adding my testimony to the many strong testimonies towhich we have listened during this conference. As I listened to the opening address, I heard echoing through the alcoves of my mind, what I have since heard in song and quotation: "We thank Thee, O God for a Prophet;" and many times during the course of subsequent addresses I have said in my heart, "I thank Thee, O God, for prophets in Israel, who are not afraid to speak out and tell the people the needs of the hour, and preach unto them the doctrines of the day, and call attention to the things of present moment and importance." I was heartily in accord with the instruction given in that first address as indeed I have been with all the instructions given, but I have in mind particularly that relating to the neglect which we oft'117  manifest in regard to spiritual things. We have been warned against giving too much attention to things of this world, to the neglect of the things that are of greater worth. On the other hand, we have heard much concerning practical duties, practical affairs, temporal religion if you please; and we have been, by implication, warned against' devoting ourselves exclusively to that other worldliness which is quite as dangerous as extereme wordliness. 

We have been told, as many of us know, and knew before, that this life is a necessary part in the course of progression designed by our Father. We have been taught, again, to look upon these bodies of ours as gifts from God. We Latter-day Saints do not regard the body as something to be condemned, something to be abhorred, and something to be subdued in the sense in which that expression is oft-times heard in the world. We regard as the sign of our royal birthright, that we have bodies upon the earth. We recognize the fact that those who kept not their first estate, in the primeval existence, were denied that inestimable blessing, the taking of mortal bodies. We believe that these bodies are to be well cared for, that they are to be looked upon as something belonging to the Lord, and that each may be made, in very truth, the temple of the Holy Ghost, the place into which the Spirit of God shall enter and where He shall delight to dwell, if He shall find there cleanliness and order and purity and uprightness of thought and conduct. 

It is peculiar to the theology of the Latter-day Saints that we regard the body as an essential part of the soul. Read your dictionaries,  lexicons, and encyclopedias, and you will find that nowhere, outside of the Church of Jesus Christ, is the solemn and eternal truth taught that the soul of man is the body and the spirit combined. It is quite the rule to regard the soul as that incorporeal part of men, that immortal part which existed before the body was framed and which shall continue to exist after that body has gone to decay; nevertheless, that is not the soul; that is only a part of the soul; that is the spirit-man, the form in which every individual of us, and every individual human being, existed before called to take tabernacle in the flesh. It has been declared in the solemn word of revelation, that the spirit and the body constitute the soul of man; and, therefore, we should look upon this body as something that shall endure in the resurrected state, beyond the grave, something to be kept pure and holy. Be not afraid of soiling its hands; be not afraid of scars that may come to it if won in earnest effort, or in honest fight, but beware of scars that disfigure, that have come to you in places where you ought not have gone, that have befallen you in unworthy undertakings; beware of the wounds' of battles in which you have been fighting on the wrong side. 

I read that when our first parents were placed in the place provided for them, that at their creation, at the creation of the first man, his body was prepared; then God, the God of life, breathed into him the breath of life, and then and not before did man become a living soul. It was the advancement from the spirit state to the soul state that marked the great gift of God unto man, namely, life here upon the earth, an existence that shall' preGENERAL CONFERENCE.  us for the life that lies beyond the grave. The resurrection of the body, the resurrection from the dead, is the redemption of the soul; and as Christ was the first to break the bonds of death and to take up His body, the body that had been slain, from which the spirit had temporarily departed, as by. Him and through Him came the resurrection, by Him and through Him came the redemption of the soul, and hence He won for Himself the title that belongs to none other, on earth or in heaven, the Redeemer of mankind. 

We have heard much in regard to the dutes we owe to these bodies in keeping from them the things that are hurtful, the things that are degrading, the things that poison the tissues, the things that break down the very organism that God has created. Time has not permitted those who have spoken before me to dwell at length, any more than it permits me to dwell at length on that important revelation of God unto man, of God unto Israel in these the last days, by which man may be wise — the Word of Wisdom. This, like other revelations that have come in the present dispensation, is not wholly hew. It is as old as the human race. The principle of the Word of Wisdom was revealed unto Adam. All the essentials of the Word of Wisdom were made known unto him in his immortal state, before he had taken into his body those things that made of it a thing of earth. He was warned against that very practice. He was not told to treat his body as something to be tortured. He was not told to look upon it as the fakirs of India have come to look upon it, or profess to look upon it, as a thing to be utterly contemned, but he was told that he  not take into that body certain things which were there at hand. He was warned that, if he did, his body would lose the power which it then held of living for ever, and that he would become subject to death. It was pointed out to him, as it has been pointed out to you, that there are many good fruits to be plucked, to be eaten, to be enjoyed. We believe tn enjoying good food. We think that these good things are given us of God. We believe in getting all the enjoyment out of eating that we can; and, therefore, we should avoid gluttony, and we should avoid extremes in all our habits of eating; and as was told unto Adam, so is it told unto us, "Touch not these things; for in the day that thou cloest it thy life shall be shortened and thou shalt die." 

Here, let me say, that therein consisted the fall — the eating of things unfit, the taking into the body of the things that made of that body a thing of earth; and I take this occasion to raise my voice against the false interpretation of scripture, which in some instances has been adopted by certain people, and is current in their minds, and is referred to in a hushed and half-secret way, that the fall of man consisted in some offense against the laws of chastity and of virtue. Such a doctrine is an abomination. What right have we to turn the scriptures from their proper sense and meaning? What right have we to declare that God meant not what He said? The fall was a natural process, resulting through the incorporation into the bodies of our first parents of the things that came from food unfit, through the violation of the command of God regarding what thev should eat. Don't go around whispering that the fall con119  in the mother of the race losing her chastity and her virtue. It is not true; the human race is not born of fornication. These bodies that are given unto us are given in the way that God has provided. Let it not be said that the patriarch of the race, who stood with the gods before he came here upon the earth, and his equally royal consort, were guilty of any such foul offense. The adoption of that belief has led many to excuse departures from the path of chastity and the path of virtue, by saying that it is the sin of the race, it is as old as Adam. It was not introduced by Adam. It was not committed by Eve. It was the introduction of the devil and came in order that he might sow the seeds of early death in the bodies of men and women, that the race should degenerate as it has degenerated whenever the laws of virtue and of chastity have been transgressed. 

Our first parents were pure and noble, and when we pass behind the veil we shall perhaps learn something of their high estate, more than we know now. But be it known that they were pure; they were noble. It is true that they disobeyed the law of God, in eating things they were told not to eat; but who amongst you can rise up and condemn? I listened not long ago to a lesson conducted as a model lesson, in a Sunday School class; it had to deal with the fall of man. The one who was appointed to pass criticism thereon, expressed his hearty approval of the lesson as it had been rendered, and particularly complimented the teacher on having been able to conduct a lesson "on such a delicate subject as that, with a mixed class of young boys and voting girls, and not offend!" What is there delicate about the fall of ? The sexual element does not enter into the subject. The fall consisted in disobedience of the commands as to what things were fit for the body, and we have been falling in the same way ever since; and you have been warned about it by authoritative voices here in the several sessions of this conference. If you would live to the full measure of your days, as God intended you to, then live according to the command of God in all these things. Ye may eat of the fruits of all these good trees; you may partake to the full, within the limits of- wisdom and propriety, but of that tree of the knowledge of terrible evil you ought not to partake. Oh, if you do, you will get experience that you otherwise would not get; you will know more about evil, and by contrast can perhaps estimate, in a different way, the good; but, nevertheless, you will find that you have purchased that knowledge at very great price. We are to be judged by what we know, as much and as well as by what we do not know. For, do you remember, after they, our first parents, had undertaken to set up their own judgment above the judgment of the God who made them and who prepared the place for their abode, and who gave them commandment, they had knowledge that they did not possess before, and when next they were called by the voice of God, they hid themselves; for they had awakened to the fact that there was something vile about them, something unseemingly, something unclean, and they hid themselves; and mark you the words with which their guilt was brought home. When Adam declared that he had heard the voice of God calling him, and he had GENERAL CONFERENCE.  himself because he had become aware of the fact that he was naked, the question was : "Who told thee that thou wast naked ?" Where did Adam and Eve get that knowledge? Not by keeping the commandments of God, but by violation thereof. So I sometimes say when I find young men and young women showing by unguarded words or actions, that they know things they ought not to know, who told you that? Where have you been? What have you been doing? The time has not come for you to learn those things yet; and you never would have learned them at this stage of your advancement, and in this way, if you had not transgressed the laws of God. 

What has been said concerning our duties to our bodies in this life and the strict attention we should give to spiritual things, tells us of the life that is to come and of the relation between this life and that. We hear much nowadays as to the speculative ideas of men concerning the condition beyond the grave; but the admission that there is an individual existence beyond the grave, is a declaration that there must have been an individual, intelligent creation before we came here in the flesh. Life beyond the grave postulates a pre-existent state to which reference was made yesterday. While the world admits the pre-existence of Christ and points to Him as one who before mortal birth shared with His Father in the honors of the godhead and in the powers of the Creator, they deny to the souls that are now upon the earth, and those that had lived as mortals, a pre-existent condition. I want to read to you one scripture bearing upon that subject and I read to you from the Book of Abraham,  scripture with which some of our people are better acquainted today than they were a year ago, because of the futile attempts that have been made to discredit it. By the failures that have resulted in these attempts, the strength of the faith of our people has been increased. The great patriarch says : "Now, the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was, and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; and God saw these souls that they were good, and He stood in the midst of them and He said, 'These I will make my rulers;' for He stood among those that were spirits, and He saw that they were good, and He said unto me, Abraham, 'Thou are one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born.' " Read the rest of that scripture for yourselves. 

I am happy to see that the saving principles proclaimed by the prophets of this dispensation are spreading through the world, in spite of all attempts to the contrary. If the morning papers have correctly reported a lecture delivered in this city last night, there is in our midst a scholar from London who has proclaimed not only that the scriptures prove that there is and must of necessity be an intelligent individual existence beyond the grave, but that in that state there will be opportunity for repentance and for progression. Now, that is a "Mormon" doctrine which never had been broached in the modern religious world until the voice of the Prophet Joseph Smith was heard. Sectarian ministers now tell us that no longer are the scriptures to be twisted; that by the figure which says, "Where the tree falleth there shall it be," we are not longer to understand that a 121  who dies can never progress. Learned divines and theologians are lifting their voices today in declaration of the fact that God has provided a means by which His sons and daughters may progress and advance through the eternities that are to come. I read further that it was declared : That there is to be a resurrection of the just as distinct from the resurrection of the unjust. Another doctrine which in the way now presented was at one time peculiar to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. But, because there is hope of repentance beyond the veil, procrastinate not the day of your repentance; for, as the Prophet Alma has pointed out, you may find that the gift of repentance will be withheld from you there for a long, long time on account of your unworthiness. For repentance is a gift from God, and when man forfeits it he loses the power to repent; he can't turn away from his sins with a contrite heart and with a desire to forsake them, once and for ever. O, Latter-day Saints, ye men and women of Israel, listen unto the voices of those who speak to you under the inspiration of the power of God, and heed them; for by hearing we are condemned, if we follow not in the path that is pointed out to us as the path of our duty. 

You have heard but little in the way of new doctrine in this conference, perchance, — all the more reason you should be diligent in not forgetting again, as we have forgotten from time to time the things that are most needed. We make the excuse — that is one of our weaknesses, to make excuses — we make the excuse that our memories are at fault. Our memories are all right; altogether too good to suit some of us. We would like to forget things  we cannot. Memory is the library of the mind, in which we find stored away the valuable as well as the worthless things that have come to us. Recollection is the librarian, and he is very often sluggish and sleepy, often neglectful of his duty; he doesn't know where to put his hand on the book or the document we need, just when we need it. We have had our recollections aroused in this conference, and I pray that we may ever remember the things that are most needed, the things of greatest worth; and that you and I and all of us may progress with the work of God, for it shall progress no matter what man shall do or how he may attempt to hinder its advancement. May the blessings of Israel's God be with Israel, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER EEY L. PRATT. 

(President of Mexican Mission.) 

I trust, my brethren and sisters, that I may have the Spirit of the Lord to assist me to bear my testimony to this vast congregation. I have been truly edified and built up in that which I have heard. I have been edified and built up in my faith and strengthened by hearing the testimonies of my brethren who have spoken during the conference, and my heart has been touched; it has been hard for me to keep back the tears, at times, as I have felt the sweet influence of the Spirit of the Lord that has prevailed throughout the conference. As Brother Talmage has just said, the very thought and the fact that we have not heard any new doctrine, but the fact that our attention has been called back to these simple principles and truths that our fathers and grandfathers stood for, and died for, has touched GENERAL CONFERENCE.  tender chord in my life. I know that the work we are engaged in is true. I know that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. I know that the work that was brought forth by his instrumentality is the power of God unto salvation. 

I have been engaged in the missionary work, and I have carried this testimony to hundreds and thousands of people that have never heard it before, even a people that is dark and benighted, a people that we call the Lamanites; and I wish to bear my testimony that the Gospel is doing a great work among the Lamanites, and many of them are interested in the redemption that is to be brought to them through the Gospel we are preaching. We are having success in the Mexican mission, in spite of the fact that there is war and trouble in that land. There has never been a time in the history of the Mexican mission, so far as I have been able to know, and at least during the seven years I have labored there, that the people have been more susceptible to the teachings of the Gospel than thev have during this time of strife and bloodshed there. We have been able to baptize fifty-six souls this year, and they are just as honest and faithful as any other Latter-day Saints who live in accordance with the teachings of the Gospel. I have full faith in the promises of the Lord unto that people; and I desire, mv brethren and sisters, to lift my voice in defense of all the principles of the Gospel. I am thankful for the privilege I have had of going out into the world, and I desire to continue to do my duty and to labor wherever the Lord calls me to labor, as long as I am able. It is a mistaken idea that a great many of us have, my brethren and sisters, and 

I have come in contact with it at times at home, that there are places of preference in the Lord's work. I learned a little piece of poetry, w hen I first went into the mission field, that has been a great help to me, I never have even discovered who was its author, but it reads like this: 

"Just where you stand in the conflict, that is your place; 

Just where you think that you are useless, hide not your face; 

God placed you there for a purpose, whate'er it be; 

Think He has chosen you for it; work loyally." 

If the Lord has chosen me to go to the Lamanites, that is my place. If He chooses me next year to go to Siberia, I want to go there with the same faith and determination to carry the Gospel message to those that do not know it in that place. I trust that this is the faith all of us have, and I believe it is, my brethren and sisters, and I pray that the blessings of the Lord may continue to be with us forever, which I do in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH. 

I know that a great many would be pleased to know that Brother Pratt is a grandson of the late Brother Parley P. Pratt, one of the Twelve. 

ELDER SAMUEL 0. BENNION. 

(President of Central States Mission.) 

I rejoice very much, my brethren and sisters, in having had the privilege of attending this conference, and listening to the many instructions that we have received; and I earnestly hope that, for one, I shall be able to profit by them. I have 123  in the short, experience I have had in the mission field, to a small extent at least, what it means to have the Spirit of the Lord with a man to keep him in the path ot duty; and I have had it impressed more firmly in my mind, during this conference, that the only safe way lies in the path of duty, and that there is not and cannot be any real reason for men, from today at any rate, who have been in this conference, going wrong knowingly. 

The Lord has revealed the duty of the Latter-day Saints, through His servants the prophets; as Amos said, "Surely the Lord God will do nothing save He reveal it through His servants the prophets." The Lord, as recorded in section one of the Doctrine and Covenants, has given us to understand that whether He speaks Himself or whether by His servants, it is the same. We have a prophet at the head to guide and instruct, the one whom the Lord speaks through for the good of His people, for the better direction of His Church in the earth; and the Lord has revealed unto us again what it 'means to be observers of the word of wisdom, how a man can obtain strength and power and salvation through an observance of it, and what it means not to observe it. 

T thank the Lord, my brethren and sisters, for good and wise men who stand at the head of this Church. As a member of the Church, I am very thankful for the many long years of life of our presiding brethren; for the years of experience of President Smith, and of President Lyman, men who have written history, together with their associates here, which the world must acknowledge to be great and glorious. I pray for their success; 

I pray for the lives of these men, the leaders of this Church. I, for one, wish them to know that I love them, and I believe that I can voice the opinion of every man and woman in this congregation when I say that we love the leaders of this Church, the general authorities from President Smith down. It has taken a long time to make them great men of God, they are not made in a day, it takes a lifetime; and I hope, for one, that I shall be able to profit by what I hear. 

That Israel may be strengthened, that the Church may grow stronger, that men and women may be more valiant in the performance of their duties, 1 humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER MELVIN J. BALLARD. 

(President Northwestern States Mission.) 

Above all earthly things I esteem my standing in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. My heart rejoices in the joy and confidence which come through the security this feeling gives me, while the wars and strife are on in the world of religion, and new developments are taking place in the world of science, constantly disturbing other denominations,' we are unmoved. We stand solidly and squarely where we began, or where the Lord planted our feet, and there is no necessity for the revision of creed, for changing the doctrines that have been given to this Church from the beginning, notwithstanding, when these glorious truths were given, many of them were new and ran counter to the opinions and theories of men, both in religion and science. The glorious doctrine we have heard so much about at this GENERAL CONFERENCE , known as the Word of Wisdom, there were no scientists advocating such truths when it was given. The Prophet did not give argument and reason in this revelation but announced, as all prophets do, the word of the Lord, to stand for itself without argument, to be finally demonstrated as a truth. 1 say the fact that we do not have to change our opinion with respect to these matters is a joy to me. One of the greatest testimonies to me is the fact that while this Church, founded as it was in a day of doubt, darkness and of superstition, still it took solid ground; clear cut, positive statements were made with respect to religion, the morals of life, the doctrines of God and of His Christ, with respect even to some of the sciences, notwithstanding a positive stand and position was taken by the Prophet Joseph Smith, we have not had to renounce any of these things. They stand as strong and firm today as the truth, vindicated by our experiences and by the wisdom that the Lord has given to men of learning and of knowledge. 

I have had the privilege, during the last summer, of attending some conventions, and conferences of some of the leading denominations, and what a difference as compared with the experiences we have had during the last day or two! Contention over the dogmas of religion occupied a very large part of the time. I thought with joy in my heart* of the great wisdom the Lord had displayed in organizing this Church, with its ministry called from the body of the people — not hirelings, nor men working for filthy lucre's sake. The elders of this Church, who bear the word oi God to the world, are called from  ranks, from the lowly walks of life, fired with the power of God and imbued with His Holy Priesthood, even as living fires among the people, warning them, stirring the hearts of men, and bringing hundreds and thousands to repentance. The world has laughed at the method of our preaching and the kind of preachers we had, but I listened recently to splendid arguments, in one of the great denominations of our own land, denouncing the hired ministry and pleading for a change in the calling of men to the ministry, patterned and fashioned after the method the Lord has established in this Church. They want lay-men, men whose hearts are in the work and who are not filled with selfishness and covetousness, to enter the ministry. Behold how well the Lord established His ministry and the method of preaching the Gospel. When the world laughed at and criticized the efforts of this Church to establish the financial method the Lord revealed, in the payment of our tithes and offerings, for the building and establishment of His Church, it created a good deal of amusement among religionists; but this summer almost onehalf of the time of one of the great conferences was occupied in a. plea to establish the financial system this Church has received at the hand of God. They are now copying and imitating that which the Lord revealed to us many years ago. What a joy it is, I repeat, to be possessed of these truths and to stand as an organization that does not have to shift, while others are only now changing and moving toward the standards the Lord has fixed and established in this Church. 

Brother Talmage referred to the changing opinion of men with ref125  to the continuity of life after death. I thought while he was speaking, and have thought since this question has been discussed recently in one of the largest scientific gatherings in the world, by able scientists, that "Mormonism" gives to the world the greatest and best evidences there are that life exists after death, and that men and women are the same individuals, possessed of the same knowledge, the same intelligences after death that they had here, and are even added unto. Certain evidences have been given to the world from so-called spiritualists, who pretend to reveal the fact that life exists after death. Much deception evidently has been practiced, for some of these supposed mediums have given to the world communications from great men who have once lived upon the earth, Daniel Webster is supposed to have spoken, George Washington, Shakespeare and others; but the feeble efforts that come from those supposed sources are such doggerel as to be far beneath, in character, the wisdom and knowledge displayed by these men while in life. One able paper said, if these are true communications from those individuals, then heaven must blight the intellect and dwarf the mind of man, and they become weaklings. Deception has been practiced whenever one represents that he is a certain character who once lived on the earth, when the information given is beneath and inferior to that which the same character displayed while he was here upon the earth, you may know that it is a deception. 

This Church is founded upon the truth that men possess the same identity after this life. Behold the glorious revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith by the Lord 

Jesus Christ Himself, as contained in the book of Doctrine and Covenants. I assert that it reveals that Jesus is possessed of the same intelligence, the same knowledge, the same powers and understanding that He had while He dwelt on the earth. To make this claim is not to depreciate in one particular from the glory, knowledge and intelligence of the Lord Jesus, for the revelations contained in that book are the equal of anything that Jesus ever gave to man while upon the earth, and more comprehensive in some respects. This word of wisdom, the revelation of the Lord Jesus; is there anything in the scriptures or anywhere else in the world on that subject that is better, more to the point, than this? Think of the revelation known among us as the Vision. Where is there anything more splendid than that wonderful conception the Lord Jesus gave to the mind of the Prophet Joseph with reference to life here and hereafter, and man's place in it? Some of our ablest men have said, in commenting upon certain passages of the Doctrine and Covenants, that there is nothing in the English language superior to it. It is not doggerel; it is sense, the best of sense; and it displays, I assert again, the fact that the Lord Jesus, who gave these revelations is the same intelligent, all-wise Son of God that He was when He lived upon the earth, and that Joseph Smith told the truth when he said he received this knowledge from the Lord Jesus. It could not have come from any one with less knowledge and understanding than that source from which he claimed he received it. 

The world has marveled and wondered at the gathering of Israel in latter days from the nations of the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  and planting their feet in this goodly land, and it has all been done so successfully while others have failed. Here in this desert waste, the marvelous thing has been accomplished. Where did we get the key by which this was done? The Prophet Joseph Smith declared that Moses appeared to him in the Kirtland Temple, the great leader of ancient Israel, who held also the keys of the gathering of modern Israel, and he delivered those keys and the knowledge that comes with them, into the hands of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I can believe that Moses has presided over many of the movements of Israel in modern days as a great instrument in the hands of God, a presiding genius looking after the welfare of the gatherings of Israel, directing many of these movements; and does it detract from Moses to say that we give him credit for delivering the keys of the gathering of modern Israel to the Prophet Joseph? Nothing since the time Moses was upon the earth and since Israel was gathered in his day excels, or comes up to the wonderful work that has been accomplished in the gathering of modern Israel; so that I assert again that Moses lives and is possessed of the same intelligence, knowledge and power he had while he dwelt among men upon the earth, and even excelled his former work as manifested in this great gathering in modern days, and we have not seen the end of that work. 

When the Prophet Joseph declared that Elijah delivered to him the keys of the salvation of the living and the dead he asserted a wonderful truth. Was Elijah possessed of the same knowledge and intelligence he had while he dwelt upon the earth? It has been asserted by  that the Prophet Joseph Smith obtained from masonry some or most all of the ceremonies had by us in our temples. Recently I have had an opportunity to investigate most thoroughly the history and connection of the membership of the Church with masonry, when certain lodges were organized in the city of Nauvoo and other places; and I satisfied myself, and without giving you the detailed evidence, I assert to you that the evidence given by masons themselves proves conclusively that Joseph Smith never knew the first thing of masonry until years after he had received the visit of Elijah, and had delivered to men the keys of the holy priesthood, and the ceremonies and ordinances had by us in these sacred temples, and had given the endowments to men long before he knew the first thing pertaining to the ordinances and the ceremonies of masonry. What is masonry ? Why, a fragment of the old truth coming down perhaps from Solomon's temple of ancient days, and but a fragment, as Christianity is but a fragment of the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. ' It was only to be had and enjoyed by those who hold the holy priesthood. The prophet Elijah revealed these truths; he possessed them anciently and he gave them in their perfectness, and simplicity and purity to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 

I rejoice, my brethren and sisters, to know we are possessed of such splendid evidences of the truth of the statements of the Prophet, and to know that we have with us, as the brethren have expressed it, living inspiration that directs Israel. In my heart I say, Amen, to all of the counsels that have been given at this conference. I bear testimony to you that the brethren and sisters 127  this Church who will repent of their sins and accept the counsels of this conference, obey the word of wisdom, become moderate, become temperate in their dress and in their manner of life, they and their children shall win the plaudits of the world even in excess of that which their fathers and grandfathers have received. We may not build any more bridges; we may not subdue desert wastes but there is something for us to do, and we must round up our shoulders and do it, or the Lord Almighty will cast out those who do not do it. We have listened to these counsels a long, long time. Now, shall we respond? Shall we repent of these evils, master ourselves, and live in harmony with the counsels of this conference ? If we do, great shall be our reward, eternal our glory, and the world will look to us as a pattern, an ensample in these things that are greater in their achievement than anything in the past. Our fathers and mothers believed and received the word of wisdom, on the statement of the prophet that it was God's counsel. In addition to that we have scientific evidences, proving the correctness of this counsel, greater is our condemnation, for we have the word of the. Lord and the scientific evidences that His word is true. We can satisfy our reason, and judgment on these things as well as our faith, hence the greater condemnation for our disobedience. 

God help us to put these things into practise, and not merely talk about it, but go home and do it. Fathers and mothers should set that example in their families; put aside the forbidden things. Let our example and precept be consistent before our children and joy shall be ours in this life and the life to come;  may the Lord grant; in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS. 

(President of Southern States Mission.) 

Members of the Church in the Southern States Mission mourn over the death of President Ben E. Rich. Never was there a more dauntless soldier of the cross than he was. For a long, long time the mission field will be lonely without President Ben E. Rich. 

As I listened to the splendid instructions during this conference, the words of the Apostle Paul came forcefully to my mind. In summing up his powerful and splendid defense of the Christian religion before King Agrippa, he said :" Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue to this day, witnessing to both small and great and saying none other things than those which the prophets and Moses did slay should come." 

My brethren and sisters, if we stand upon the revelations of Jesus Christ as contained in the standard \ works of the Church, we stand on solid ground; on other grounds are sinking sands. Joseph Smith preached and taught nothing but what the prophets of God predicted he would preach and teach. Martin Luther, in standing before that hostile council, said in defense of his position: "Here I stand, I can do no other; may God help me." Joseph Smith saw the Father and the Son. Like Paul he was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision, for he said that God knew that he had seen this vision, and if he denied it he would come under condemnation of the Lord; but praise be to God he did not deny the testimony, and he did preach the things which GENERAL CONFERENCE.  prophets of God had foretold he would preach, and he did do the things which they foretold he would do. Our sectarian friends are great lovers of the prophecies, but they hate like the mischief the manner in which they are fulfilled. Look at this mighty stream of truth proceeding from this Church! When Columbus and his associates saw a mighty river issuing from the mainland, one of his men said, "That river drains an island." Columbus said: "It is a mistake. Such a majestic river comes from a continent." So this great stream of truth does not proceed from a man, nor from an isolated sect or church, but it proceeds from the only true and living Church of Jesus Christ on the face of the earth. And this river is going to grow and spread until, like a sea of glory, it spreads from pole to pole. 

In Chattanooga, this summer, we have witnessed two reunions that have stirred my soul to its depths. Last May, the Confederate veterans met in their annual reunion, and I "saw those men to the number ot twelve thousand marching down the street, under the shadow of Lookout Mountain, within a stone's throw of the bloody battle-field of Chickamauga. When I saw those old veterans, some with empty coatsleeves, being carried in wagons, the thought came to my soul, how can it be denied that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God ? They were brave men, those confederate veterans, splendid characters, men who bravely fought for what they sincerely believed to be a principle; and as they marched down the line, being saluted by the cheers of thousands of admirers, I said again and again in my heart, Surely Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. 

Only a few days ago, the veterans of the Union army met in an annual reunion in -Chattanooga; and as I watched those brave, splendid men marching down the street, some with empty coat-sleeves, many bearing the scars of battle, I said again in my heart, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and that his prophecies have been literally fulfilled. Not that the prophet desired that the bloodshed and carnage should come, but God foreknew it would come, and He warned this nation, through his prophet of the great Civil war. His prophet proposed a remedy, a solution of the great question that caused the war, and which would have avoided the awful bloodshed and misery; but the solution was rejected. President Brigham Young said that where a prophet's words are fulfilled they are more solid proof of his divine mission as a prophet than all the miracles he can work. Another great man, not of this Church, said that prophecies are permanent miracles. Go look at the National Cemetery in Chattanooga, and the cemeteries in other cities, that are so well taken care of by the federal government, and look at those veterans, wounded and maimed and battlescarred, marching past — all these bear eloquent and powerful testimony to the fact that Joseph was indeed a prophet of God. Talk about miracles! Talk about the day of miracles being past, so long as this war is a memory, so long as those granite monuments pierce the clouds, so long as' those mighty monuments which people from the South and the North have erected to commemorate the valor of their sons, and brothers, and fathers! So long as these monuments stand, so long will there be a standing and 129  miracle to testify to the people that the days of prophets and apostles have not gone to return no more forever. 

Look at the communities in this great state and in the surrounding states. Did not the prophet predict that the people should be driven from Illnois and become a great and mighty people in this western land? Has it not been fulfilled? Behold a miracle, not only on this Temple block but throughout Zion; and these miracles are increasing. O, brethren and sisters, confronted by these miracles, do you think we shall stand or "halt between two opinions ?" A thousand times no! But we will stand with our leaders, and with them we will fight the good fight. We will finish our course; we will keep the faith; we will, with God's help, win the crown of eternal life which God, who cannot lie, promised before the world began. Amen. 

ELDER JOHN I. HE&RICK. 

(President of Western States Mission.) 

My soul was made to rejoice upon the opening session of this conference, when our beloved prophet and president enunciated to this people a theme for our consideration which I believe to be a vital thing for, not only us in the valleys of the mountains, but for the people at large in the United States to consider. Solomon said : "Wine is a mocker; strong drink is raging; whosoever deceiveth himself thereby is not wise." At this late hour it would be presuming indeed for me to particularize regarding the Word of Wisdom, and the conditions that grow out of a failure to observe it, but will simply direct attention to a few figures  came under my observation, recently, in contemplating the subject. It seems apparent, from carefully compiled statistics, that the United States is vieing with other countries of the world to see which can consume the most liquor, and when I say other countries I refer more especially to France, England and Germany. In the year 1911, there was consumed in the United States 17.79 gallons of intoxicants for each man, woman and child. In 1912 that startling quantity had been increased by nearly five gallons for each man, woman and child, at a cost, as we heard this forenoon, from Elder McKay, of nearly two billion dollars. Besides that, there was consumed just about two billion gallons of beer, enough, I presume, if it were turned into a channel, to float a battleship; and then, too, there was more than two hundred and fifty million dollars worth of coffee used. When we come to tobacco we have probably a more stupenduous showing in figures, and maybe in evil results, than anything else, because of its almost general use throughout the country. During the calendar year 1911 there was used in the manufacture of tobacco, snuff, cigars, and cigarettes, sixteen and one-half billion pounds. I do not know what the average cost of the tobacco would be per pound, but I should say, since it was made into expensive cigarettes and cigars, that perhaps fifty cents a pound would be fair. So putting these figures together I take it that each man, woman and child in the United States consumed ten dollars worth of alcoholic liquors, coffee, tea, and tobacco each month of that year. Imagine, if you will, what absoGENERAL CONFERENCE.  unbelievable figures that would make if that money were saved. Ten dollars for a hundred million people would mean a billion dollars a month saved to this country, or twelve billions annually, if we desisted from using intoxicants and tobacco, tea and coffee. There would soon be no national debt, or scarcely any other debts, could that vast sum be used for more legitimate and necessary things. 

Emerson, I believe, said that "a man ought to be strong enough to overcome anything that can come to him. He is the strong man who can say No, and he is the wise man who through all his life can keep his mind, his soul, and his body clean." 

Speaking for one of the missions of this country, I cannot but refer to the occasion which brought five or six thousand people together in this building two weeks ago, yesterday, to pay tribute to the memory of our beloved friend and associate, President Ben E. Rich, a man whom I believe to have been one of the great missionaries of our Church. "And every one who hath forsaken houses, or brothers, or sisters, or fathers, or mothers, or children, or lands, for my name's sake shall receive an hundred fold and shall inherit everlasting life." So said the Savior of the world, as recorded by Matthew; and I think if there is any man who is entitled to eternal life, and to an hundred fold of blessing, it will be such men as Ben E. Rich, who have given the best part of their lives to this work, and those who die martyrs, as he did, to the cause of Christ. 

Let us, my brethren and sisters, heed the admonition of the prophet,  and revelator to Israel. His warning voice made it known to us at the beginning of this conference that we should observe the Word of Wisdom; that we should heed the whisperings of the Spirit, that we should keep our bodies clean and our minds holy. May we be able to do so under the inspiration of heaven, I ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER GERMAN E. ELLSWORTH. 

(President of Northern States Mission.) 

I am pleased, my brethren and sisters, to have the privilege of bearing my testimony to the Latter-day Saints who have assembled in this conference. I bear witness to you that we have heard the word of the Lord to Israel. It is fncumbent upon us, whether we have only heard, or whether we will go home and put it into practice; the one who is a hearer only bringeth condemnation upon himself. I rejoice my brethren and sisters, in the testimony of all our brethren who have addressed us this conference time, not only with what has been said, but with the spirit in which it has been said, for it has come from the Lord. I am happy, indeed, to have this opportunity of fulfilling a covenant once made with the Lord to bear witness of His name and of His Son, and of the Gospel that has been restored for the salvation of the children of men. 

I am pleased to have the privL lege of representing the Northern States mission. I have spent . a good deal of time with our missionaries after they have come home, and have told them that there is just as much joy and satisfaction and even a greater opportunity here to win 131  for Christ if they will only keep the missionary spirit. If they will but keep the love that they had in their hearts for their fellowmen, while out in the field, and use it to bless their friends and neighbors at home, they would bring more souls to a knowledge of the truth, and feel more joy and peace than they did while in the mission field. 

I rejoiced, my brethren and sisters, in hearing the word of the Lord concerning our deportment before our fellow men. I believe that if we would live as the missionaries live, after they have been in the field a short time, that we would indeed be a light to the world, a light set upon a hill. It has been said that the Lord, in the last days, would cut a stone from the mountains, which would roll forth and fill the whole earth. The world has recognized jhis stone and called it a giant that should be crushed. It would indeed be a giant example of righteousness if we fully kept the word of the Lord concerning the Word of Wisdom. If all would refrain from the use of tea, coffee, liquor and tobacco, in the spirit of the word of the Lord, the love of God would reign in our hearts, and we could go forth, under the calling of the holy priesthood, and bear witness of the truth in such power that the world would stop and listen. 

I remember, on one occasion, being in the dining car upon a railroad train, on a hot, dusty day, from Canada to Minneapolis. I think every man and woman on the dining' car, with the exception of mvself, had a bottle of beer, and, while I had never been addicted to it in my life, I confess that it looked very cooling, but I did not order it. 

(You don't know that, but I do, and therein lies the testimony I received.) Before I had finished my meal, the four people sitting opposite to me, were talking about their visit to the Temple block. They began to discuss what a superstitious people we are, and how there was something mysterious connected with the acoustic properties in this building. When I had finished my meal, I handed them my card, and said: "My friends, no matter how far you travel, you never know in whose presence you may be talking. I am a 'Mormon' elder, and what you have been saying about the superstition of my people is not true." After we retired from the dining car I had the privilege of talking to them about an hour, correcting their false impressions. The thing "that has come to my mind, time and time again, has been: Had I indulged in a bottle of beer, knowing the instructions and teachings that I have had from my youth, would I have had the courage to defend my religion? Would I have had the courage to tell them who I was, and what people I represented in the world? It has been a testimony to me, my brethren and sisters, that God is present in us, and we are the greatest witnesses of. our sincerity by our conduct before our fellow-men and before God our Father. 

Joseph Smith said that man might just as well put out his puny arm and try to stop the mighty Mississippi river in its onward course to the sea, as to try to stop this work. That is true, my brethren and sisters; but it would progress much faster if the third generation, who have been born without a desire for tea, coffee, tobacco or liquor, would not cultivate the GENERAL CONFERENCE.  for those deleterious articles. If we would rise in the strength and purity of our birthright we could more effectively aid this work, and it would roll on more rapidly, and the light thereof would become brighter than it has ever been before. The world will yet rise up and bless our names, and the names of our parents and grand-parents who, under the sound of the voice of the prophet of God, repented of their sins, lived a godly life, and gave us such a royal birth. 

In the face of the light that we have received, the instructions that have been given to us, and of the pleadings and warnings of the servants of God for us to live righteously, what condemnation will come upon us should we cultivate an appetite for tea, coffee, liquor and tobacco. Some of our fathers and mothers, and particularly our grandfathers and grandmothers, had these habits when the Gospel found them; but hundreds of them forsook these things and lived a godly life, and by so doing have transmitted to us very little desire for the things the Lord said were not good for man. Light has come in to the world and condemnation will come upon those who reject the light. The word of wisdom is a revelation, and command to the third generation. If they heed it not and turn aside from the instructions and pleadings of the presiding officers of" this Church they will lose their place and station, and the honest young men and women of the world, who hear the voice of God, through His servants, will come in and take their places. 

God bless Zion. God bless the rising generation, that we may build upon the foundations that have been so nobly laid by our par, and that we may follow the instructions of .our God-inspired leaders, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER WALTER P. MONSON. 

(President of Eastern States Mission.) 

I can say, with my brethren who have preceded me, that I have rejoiced extremely in the spirit of this splendid conference, and the appropriateness of the singing, which has been soul-inspiring hymns, with music by our own composers, in nearly every instance. I feel that it is good to be here. I have received spiritual food in listening to the remarks and testimonies that have been borne in our hearing this afternoon, as well as in the other sessions of this conference. 

The Latter-day Saints have not turned their eyes unto a setting sun of spiritual glory; they are calling upon the world to look upon the dawn of a new era, and spiritual light has again been shed forth upon the souls of men. They are calling upon all mankind to rejoice in' the advent of the dispensation of the fullness of times, when God will bring together all- the dispensations that have ever been upon the earth, with all of their attendant blessings, all will be included in this last dispensation. We have heard, from the brethren, of the restoration of the keys of the gathering of Israel, keys delivered by Elijah, the prohet. All the keys and blessings that were enjoyed by the prophets and people of ancient days have come to us, and we are made partakers of those blessings. 

The Latter-day Saints do not have to look back into the days of Adam and of Abraham to find examples of sacrifice. While we were 133  to the remarks of Elder Roberts, the beautiful tribute paid by him, suggested by monuments, that commemorate the sacrifice and achievements of God's people, I thought we must not forget that in this great American desert, the wilds of the western land and mountains, God has raised up a people whose sturdiness is not equalled in the world; and they have excelled notwithstanding their impoverished condition. They have produced literally, from elements that were rough and unhewn, an empire that stands for the glory of God in these the latter days. 

. . My brethren and sisters, I bear my testimony to you, before taking up my labors in the Eastern States Mission, that I know that God lives; that I know that Jesus is the Christ, and that the doctrines you have heard expounded in this conference are doctrines that receive the divine approval of Jesus Christ our Lord, and God our Heavenly Father. I also bear testimony to the divine mission of Joseph Smith, the prophet, who was instrumental in these the last days in restoring anew the Gospel light, which seems to stir the whole spiritual world from center to circumference. My heart is filled with gratitude and praise, and has been thrilled by the testimonies which have been borne. The Spirit of the Lord has caused me to see the glorious truths that have been portrayed. I uphold and sustain the prophet, seer, and revelator, who spoke to us in the opening session of this conference. He manifested the power of inspiration and the influence of the Spirit of the Lord; for the topics touched upon are the most timelv that the Latter-day Saints could have presented before them. While I was in England,  three years ago, I had charge of what was known as Earl's Court Booth. I simply mention a little incident that occurred there to show how thinking people of the world are turning attention toward the Latter-day Saints, and occasionally show that they approve of their lives and actions in some respects. While I was handing out our literature and selling our books, at Earl's Court Booth, I met a learned man from the Oxford University, whom I was informed had set apart more church of England ministers than any other man who had held the same position in the history of the Oxford University. I had the oportunity ot passing to him a six-penny booklet, that was written by Doctor James E. Talmage, "The Story of Mormonism." On the front was a triangular heading, with "The Story of Mormonism" inscribed within the triangle. He came back, in two or three weeks, and I recognized him when he came to the booth, and 1 asked him if he had read the little book that he bought when he was there before. He said, "Yes, I have; but why do you call this work 'Mormonism ?' " I replied "we are called 'Mormons' for the same reason that John is sometimes called Jack. People gave us a nick-name, and the more we protest the more they love to call us that name; but we have no objections, inasmuch as 'Mormonism' stands for 'moregood.' everything that is pure and holy in the lives, -of men." He said : "You did not catch my idea. ' If you would remove that name, 'Mormonism,' the whole world would be more ready to accept those glorious truths." He asked me if T was acquainted with Doctor Talmage, the writer. I told him that I was not intimately acquainted, but that 1 GENERAL CONFERENCE.  him. He said : "When you go home I want you to bear to Doctor Talmage one suggestion with respect to his work." I told him that I would, and I have delivered it. He said; "Instead of having this triangular affair on the front cover, and standing within the triangle, 'The Story of Mormonism, by James E. Talmage,' there should be a star or a crescent, more the shape of a horse-shoe, placed on the front cover, in two lines, and between these two lines it should read, 'These are they that have come up through great tribulation.' " I thought that, of all the beautiful delicate compliments that ever have been paid to the Latter-day Saint people, this by Rev. J. Barker Smith of the Oxford University was one of the finest. 

My brethren and sisters, I bear you my humble testimony that I know the work we are engaged in is the plan that has been established by our Heavenly Father for the redemption of human souls. May God bless us and help us to appreciate these blessings; that we may live not by bread alone, .but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God; which is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

A tenor solo, "O Lord rebuke me not in Thine anger," was sung by David E. Smith. 

BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. 

We have had a splendid conference from start to finish, and now we are about at the close. It is not my intention to make any extended remarks, for there is not time. There is one matter, however, thai it is desired I should call to your attention. 

You are all acquainted with the unfortunate condition of our people who hav.e been expelled from Mexico, and who have had to leave their property and all they possess, ana flee for their lives. Quite a number of them are still located near the borders of Mexico, at El Paso and other places, but there is a large number scattered in the settlements, wards and stakes of Utah, Idaho, Arizona and the outside stakes. Brethren and sisters, wherever you can help our afflicted brothers and sisters who are in need — and they are all in need of assistance — -to get work or secure employment, do all that you can in this direction, and where they are in actual need of sustenance, of food or clothing, it is our duty to help supply it. I know that in the abundance that you have, you will not withhold from these brethren and sisters, who are in this condition of want. 

We all hope that the time will soon come when conditions will be more settled in that land, and all who wish to return to their possessions, or that which is left of them, can do so, but that time seems to be a considerable distance ahead, and no man can tell just when it will be. In the meantime, let us do our duty towards them. 

Let me add another word, also. The Lord is showering His blessings upon the Latter-day Saints in rich abundance. The earth is wonderfully productive this season, in all of our settlements, and all the products of the field, farm and range are bringing fairly good prices. In the midst of all these blessings none of us should forget the obligations that we are under to sustain the Church of God with the means, or part of it. that He puts into our possession. 135 

I believe that this is the best people in all the world — I know they are, and yet we are surely not any better than we should be, or than we could be. There is room for improvement in the direction of paying our tithes and offerings, and sustaining the Church. The mission work abroad is now taking a great deal of the means of the Church. The improvements that you heard about during this conference, take considerable . money. The operation of our temples, the building of meeting houses, and the general necessities of the Church, all require means. I believe that our attendance at this conference will remind us of this obligation to the Lord and His Church, that we will come forth with our tithes and offerings and help to build up the great work of God which is being established in the earth, and which is doing so much, and will do still more, if we only do all that we should to promote its interests. Amen. 

PBEST. CHAKLES W. PENROSE. 

I am requested to present a matter before you, very briefly, which is in your interest and particularly in the interest of the newspaper which is recognized as the organ of the Church, the Deseret News. I am not now intimately associated with the paper, but I take interest in its welfare and progress, and wish to recommend to the Latter-day Saints that they subscribe and pay for the Deseret A r ezvs; those who can receive it, should take the daily, and those who are in distant points, not connected with the railroads, take the semi-weekly. It is a good, reliable, able newspaper, as well as  the organ of the Church. There are many obstacles in its way. A newspaper is not generally supported financially by its subscription lists, but by its advertisements. There are classes of advertisements which cannot be admitted into the columns of the Deseret News, so that the paper is handicapped in that matter in a way that is not felt by other newspapers in this city. The Nezus does not admit advertisements that relate to the sale of liquor and tobacco and other things talked about in this conference which are forbidden to the real Latter-day Saints. There are many other advertisements such as quack medicines, et cetera, which are not admitted into the columns of the Deseret News. And then there is the opposition of all supporters of the "underworld" and the lower elements in this city and other cities of the State, because the Deseret News stands all the time in support of the Word of Wisdom and of all the counsels and instructions of a moral and practical kind given by the leaders of the Church. 

Now, I will not enlarge upon the matter, because the time is almost up for closing our last session of this conference, but I recommend to my brethren, the presidents of stakes and their counselors, and the bishops and their counselors, that they endeavor to do what they can to circulate that paper and to help in its support by every legitimate means; and they will find that wherever that paper finds its way in the various parts of Zion a good influence is used and the work of the Lord is accelerated. The Lord has blessed that paper from the beginning; may it continue to prosper and receive the support of His people. Amen. GENERAL CONFERENCE, 

AUTHORITIES SUSTAINED. 

Elder Heber J. Grant presented the names of the General Authorities of the Church, to be voted upon by the assembly, as follows : 

Joseph F- Smith, as Prophet, Seer and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as First Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Charles W. Penrose, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 

Francis M. Lyman as President of the Twelve Apostles. 

As members of the Council of Twelve Apostles: Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Rudger Clawson. Reed Smoot, Hyrum M. Smith, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards, Orson F. Whitney, David O. McKay, Anthony W. Ivins, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and James E. Talmage. 

Hyrum G Smith, as Presiding Patriarch of the Church. 

The Counselors in the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles and the Presiding Patriarch, as Prophets, Seers and Revelators. 

First Seven Presidents of Seventies : Seymour B. Young, Brigham H. Roberts, Jonathan G. Kimball, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, Charles H. Hart, and Levi Edgar Young. 

Charles W. Nibley, as Presiding Bishop, with Orrin P. Miller and David A. Smith as his first and second Counselors. 

Joseph F. Smith, as Trustee-inTrust for the body of religious worshipers known as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

Anthon H. Lund, as Church Historian and General Church Recorder. 

Andrew Jenson, Brigham H Roberts, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and August W. Lund, Assistant Historians. 

As members of the General Church Board of Education : Joseph F. Smith, Willard Young, Anthon H. Lund, George H. Brimhall, Rudger Clawson, Charles W. Penrose, Horace H. Cummings, Orson F. Whitney, and Francis M. Lyman. 

Arthur Winter, Secretary and Treasurer to the General Church Board of Education. 

Horace H. Cummings, General Superintendent of Church Schools. 

Board of Examiners for Church Schools : Horace H. Cummings, chairman; George H. Brimhall, Willard Young, and C N. Jensen. 

Auditing committee: William W. Riter, Henry H. Rolapp, John C. Cutler, Heber Scowcroft and Joseph S. Wells. 

Tabernacle choir : Evan Stephens, conductor; Horace S. Ensign, assistant conductor; John J. McClellan, organist; Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon, assistant organists; George C. Smith, secretary and treasurer; Noel S. Pratt, librarian; and all the members. 

General Board of Relief Society : Emmeline B- Wells, president; Clarrisa S. Williams, first counselor; Julina L. Smith, second counselor; Amy Brown Lyman, general secretary; Susa Young Gates, corresponding secretary; Emma A. Fmpey, treasurer; Lizzie T. Edward, music director; Edna H. Coray, organist. Members of the board : Sarah Jenne Cannon, Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Emily S. Richards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phoebe Y, Beatie, Ida S. Dusenberry, Carrie S. Thomas, 137 

Alice M. Horne, Priscilla P. Jennings, Elizabeth S- Wilcox, Rebecca N.! Nibley, Elizabeth C. McCune, Edna May Davis, Sarah M. McLelland, Elizabeth C. Crismon and Jeanette A. Hyde. 

General Board of Deseret Sunday School Union: Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; David O. McKay, first assistant general superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, second assistant general superintendent; George D. Pyper, general secretary; John F. Bennett, general treasurer. Members of the board : Joseph F. Smith, David O. McKay, Stephen L. Richards, Levi WRichards, Francis M. Lyman, Heber J. Grant, Hugh J. Cannon, Andrew Kimball, John F. Bennett, John M. Mills, William D. Owen, Seymour B. Young, George D. Pyper, Anthon H. Lund, George M. Cannon, James E. Talmage, Horace H. Cummings, Josiah Burrows, William A. Morton, Horace S. Ensign, Henry H Rolapp, Harold G. Reynolds, Charles W. Penrose, Charles B. Felt, George H. Wallace, Howard R. Driggs, Sylvester D. Bradford, Nathan T. Porter, Milton Bennion, Edwin G. Woolley, Jr., Hyrum G. Smith, Charles H. Hart, Joseph Ballantyne and J. Leo Fairbanks. 

General Board Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association : Joseph F. Smith, general superintendent; Heber J. Grant, assistant superintendent; Brigham H. Roberts, assistant superintendent; Moroni Snow, secretary- Aids : Francis. M. Lyman, J. Golden Kimball, Junius F. Wells, George H. Brimhall, Edward H. Anderson, Thomas Hull, Willard Done, LeRoi C. Snow, Rudger Clawson, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin. Bryant S. Hinckley, Brigham F. Grant, Hyrum M. Smith, Joseph F. Smith, 

Jr., Lewis T. Cannon, Benj. Goddard, George Albert Smith, Thomas A- Clawson, Lyman R. Martineau, Charles H. Hart, John A. Widtsoe, James H. Anderson, Anthony W. Ivins, Oscar A. Kirkham, Anthon H. Lund, George F. Richards, Nephi Anderson, John H. Taylor, Charles W. Penrose, James E. Talmage, Hyrum G. Smith, Henry C. Lund, George J. Cannon, Frank W. Penrose, Nicholas G. Morgan, Claude Richards, John F- Bowman, Levi Edgar Young, Roscoe W. Eardley. 

General Board Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association : Martha Horne Tingey, president; Ruth May Fox, first counselor; Mae Taylor Nystrom, second counselor; Joan M. Campbell, secretary; Alice Kimball Smith, treasurer; Margaret Summerhays, music director. Aids: Maria Young Dougall, Adella W. Eardley, Sarah Eddington, Agnes S. Campbell, Ann M. Cannon, May Booth Talmage, Emma Goddard, Rose W. Bennett, Julia M. Brixen, Augusta W. Grant, Estelle Neff Caldwell, Emily Caldwell Adams, Mary E. Connelly, Elen Wallace, Lucy Woodruff Smith, Jane B. Anderson, Edith R. Lovesy, Letitia T. Teasdale, Laura Bennion Dimond, Rachel Grant Taylor, Clarissa A- Beesley, Sarah E. Richards and Lucy Mack Smith. 

Members of the General Board of Primary Associations : Louie B. Felt, president; May Anderson, first counselor; Clara W. Beebe, second counselor; Frances K. Thomasson, secretary;Tda B. Smith, librarian; Isabella S. Ross, physical director; Ann Nebeker, assistant physical director; Emma Ramsey Morris, chorister; Ivy Allen, organist. Advisors to the board : George F. GENERAL CONFERENCE. 

Richards and Anthony W. Ivins. Aids: Lillie T. Freeze, Josephine R. West, Aurelia S. Rogers, L. LGreene Richards, Camilla C. Cobb, Eliza S. Bennion, Margaret Hull Eastmond, Edna H. Thomas, Alice L. Howarth, Emma Romney, Rebecca N. Whitney, Zina Y. Card, Amy Lyman, Laura Foster, Edith Hunter, Erma Bitner Evans, Myrtle B. Shurtliff and Ella Jeremy. 

General Board of Religion Classes : Anthon H. Lund, superintendent; Rudger Clawson, first assistant superintendent; Hyrum M. Smith, second assistant superintendent; Edwin S. Sheets, secretary. Members of the board : Horace HCummings, Rulon S. Wells, Joseph W. McMurrin, John Henry Evans, William A. Morton, Joseph J. Cannon, George Albert Smith, Charles W. Penrose, Orson F. Whitney, James E. King, George F. Richards, Heber J. Grant, Anthony W. Ivins, George H. Brimhall, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., P. J. Jenson and Willard YoungGeneral Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah: Anthon H. Lund, president : Charles W. Penrose, vice president; Joseph F. Smith, Jr., secretary and treasurer; Joseph Christenson, librarian; Anthony W. Ivins, D. M. McAllister and Heber J. Grant. 

Duncan M. McAllister as clerk of the Conference. 

Each and all of those named were duly sustained in the positions designated, by unanimous vote of the Conference. 

PRESIDENT JOSEPH P. SMITH. 

CLOSING REMARKS. 

Gratitude expressed to all who assisted in Conference proceedings — Blessing invoked upon all engaged in the ministry! and all seekers after truth. 

Just a moment or two more of patience. I desire to express my gratitude to my brethren and sisters who are present for the attention they have given to this conference, and to the meetings of this day. I want to thank my brethren who have spoken from the beginning to the end, for the most excellent spirit they have manifested, and for the most excellent words they have spoken. I desire to thank our choir for their presence here on the Sabbath, and for the other members of the choir that have been able to attend during Saturday and today; and also to our beloved brother and fellow-worker, one worthy of honor and credit for his service to the Church, Brother Evan Stephens, for his music, for the poetry of his soul, and for those songs that have been written by him, which we often hear sung and which we sing ourselves with great satisfaction; and to our beloved brother, John J. McClellan. and his assistants at the great organ; and all others of our brothers and sisters who have taken part in the exercises of our conference. 

I think we have had one of the best conferences that we have held within my own recollection, and I can go back in my recollection to the early days, the days of Nauvoo at least. And the Lord bless you, my brethren of the holy priesthood, the presidents of stakes and their counselors, and high councils, the bishops and their counselors, and all taking part in the labor of the ministry whether in the regular quorums and councils of the priesthood or in the auxiliary organizations, we feel to express our gratitude for your presence and your heartfelt interest in the work of the Lord. We beseech you to continue 139  be faithful and more faithful than ever before. Let us all try to be a little better than we have been in the past, and let us try to treasure up the most excellent instructions that have been given to us during our conference. 

I know that the Lord is pleased with the proceedings of our conference, and that His blessing has been with us, and His spirit has been made powerfully manifest in all that has been said and clone. The Lord bless the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and all honest, earnest seekers after the truth, everywhere, throughout the world. May the Lord bless those who, though ignorant of the revelations that the Lord has given to the world in these latter days, are still seeking to serve Him according to the light they possess, and the knowledge that they have. May God's blessing rest upon them, that they or their children after them may come to the knowledge of the truth at last and be exalted in the kingdom of God through the ordinances of the Gospel and obedience to all the requirements thereof. 

Sixty-six of our brethren have taken part vocally during our con. I expect we will have quite as many take part during the next conference, who did not have the privilege of being heard at this conference. We have a list of you all and we expect to give all a chance as far as we can, and we would like you to come prepared. 

Announcement was made that the daily organ recitals would be discontinued until further noticeThe choir and congregation sang, "The Doxology." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Rudger Clawson. 

Conference adjourned for six months. 

Prof. Evan Stephens conducted the singing of the choir and congregation at the Conference meetings in the Tabernacle, and Prof. John J. McClellan played the accompaniments, interludes, etc., on the great organ, assisted by Edward P. Kimball and Tracy Y. Cannon. 

The stenographic reports of the discourses were taken by Elders Franklin W. Otterstrom, Frederick E. Barker, Gladys Barker, and Clarence Cramer. 

Duncan M. McAllister, 

Clerk of Conference. 



HISTORY OF THE CHURCH 

Compiled by the Church Historians and published by the Church 

Six Volumes Now Ready 

COMPLETING THE FIRST PERIOD 

"The History of the Prophet Joseph Smith," with introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. 

A remarkably low price has been placed on the History by the First Presidency to secure the widest possible circulation. 

Every Association, Sunday School, Quorum and Private Library should have a set; 

Cloth — Embossed, per vol $1.50 postpaid 

Half Morocco— Gilt Top, per vol 2.50 

Half Calf— Gilt Top, per vol. 2.50 

Full Morocco— Full Gilt Edge,, vol. . . . 4.00 

Deseret News Book Store 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 

THREE IMPORTANT 

NEW BOOKS 

The Restoration of the Gospel 

By OSBORNE J. P. WIDTSOE, A. M., Principal of the Latter-day Saints' High School. With an introduction by Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the Twelve. 

Adopted by all L. D. S. Church Schools. Bound in cloth, 75c postpaid. 

The Reign of Antichrist 

The series of articles on The Apostasy, by J. M. SJODAHL, which appeared some time ago in The Deseret News, are now offered the public in a booklet entitled, "The Reign of Antichrist." Numerous requests have been received that the articles referred to be preserved in a more convenient form than that of a series of contributions to a daily newspaper, and the book now appears in response to such requests. 

Cloth binding, 50c postpaid. Paper, 25c postpaid. 

Joseph Smith's Teachings 

This book contains the Prophet's sermons and religious doctrinal writings, gathered from the six volumes of the authorized "History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," and arranged according to subject in alphabetical order. Price, postpaid, 75c. 

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 

No. 6 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 







