Outdoor
05 10 1913

A meeting was held in front of the Bureau of Information, at 2 p. m. Elder George F. Richards presided, and the Liberty stake male chorus sang the musical selections. 

The hymn, "Nearer to Thee," was rendered by the male singers. 

Prayer was offered by Elder Israel Call. 

"The wondrous cross" was sung by the male choir. 

ELDER NEpHI L. MORRIS. 

(President of Salt Lake Stake.) 

The fact that we are forced to hold an open-air meeting is a source of gratification to me, and must be  you all when you consider that the spacious Tabernacle and Assembly Hall are not commodious enough to hold the hosts of Israel who have assembled to hear the word of the Lord. It is indeed a glorious and marvelous change since the day when our enemies predicted that the death of Joseph Smith would bring about the end of "Mormonism." Through the machinations of evil and designing men he became a martyr like many prophets before him, but it did not place the period to "Mormonism." Our enemies then foretold the end of our Church with the death of Brigham Young, but it does not appear today as though the death of either of our first great leaders had brought the end of "Mormonism," or in any way hindered its growth. For indeed, "Mormonism" has not only increased steadily in membership, but has become a more and more important factor in the betterment of mankind. I am thankful to be one who, by the kind providence of God has espoused that cause. 

I am reminded of a prediction made by the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he stood by the side of a little jail, which had at one time held him and some of his brethren as prisoners. He prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer many persecutions, and that they would be driven west; many of them should die because of the hardships and vicissitudes through which they should pass, and that they should build many cities and towns and become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. That was in the year 1842. Scarcely seventy-five years have elapsed, and we see a remarkable fulfillment of the prophecy. Do not these Rocky Mountain states, with  million of prosperous people, afford a complete fulfillment of that prophecy ? 

I do not know that we have any real enemies today. I have heard of a million women, (the W. C. T. U.), who wanted to do us some harm on different occasions, but I think their animosities have arisen out of their ignorance, because their minds have been pre j diced against the Latter-day Saints. I believe the world has grown more and more to an appreciation of the Latter-day Saints through the fruits of their social, industrial and religious efforts. 1 believe no man of modern civilization, not blinded by bigotry, would undertake to break down, or even limit the efficacy of "Mormonism" for human service. "Mormonism" has brought into existence in this great western country one or two generations of men that compare most favorably with the manhood of the country at large. "Mormonism," by its practical views and activities, has given to our nation this splendid country, teeming with its wealth and treasure, and its infinite possibilities. "Mormonism" has given to society, to the state, and the nation, thousands of splendid, patriotic, intelligent and forceful men and women that have been a distinct asset to the great national life. None but the bigot, the narrow-minded would undertake to restrain or crush an institution which can contribute so generously to the public welfare. 

What has been the dominating power, the element of strength in holding together this people? The Prophet Joseph Smith was once asked the question, how it was that he governed his people so well. His reply was, "I teach them correct principles and they govern them." This has been fundamental with the Latter-day Saints. It has been stated by those who would detract from us, that " 'Mormonism' thrives best where ignorance abounds." There could be nothing farther from the truth than this statement, and I speak as one on the inside, one born and reared in "Mormonism" and more or less active in its various institutions. I have grown through years of service, small though it may be, to regard "Mormonism" as a gigantic institution of education. If you will take time and pains to study the organizations of the "Mormon" people, I think you will agree with me in this idea, viz., that all the teaching and institutional work of the "Mormon" Church is educative in the broadest and highest sense. 

The great mission of the Church is to carry the message of truth to man, and teach him to live in conformity to that truth for his present and eternal welfare. 

Aside from that great office of the Church, which it performs most splendidly, the organizations within the Church, which have been designated "helps in government," contribute as auxiliary institutions to the great undertaking. The first auxiliary organization of the Church was established in the days of the Prophet and is known as the Woman's Relief Society. For over half a century it has ministered to the relief and comfort of the poor, the sick and the unfortunate. There is no more beautiful work in all the world than that done in the name of "sweet charity." 

The Relief Society sisters contribute systematically to the blessing of mankind wherever the Church is organized, without regard to race, creed or color. They hold regular meetings, with courses of study, choosing such subjects as will help them to become better wives and mothers, daughters and sisters, and more useful members of the community. Anything which makes for the refinement and preservation of the woman, the mother, the wife, is certainly a source of strength and power and virtue. Surely this is a work no one will undertake to destroy. It is a work which represents effort, expenditure of means and time and the betterment of all who participate in the work, as well as the benefit and blessings of those who are administered to. And behind it all is the element of education, the men and women thus engaged become more proficient in the service of their kind. 

Then we have the Sunday School, of which we may be justly proud, for I believe it surpasses all similar organizations in the world in point of efficiency and membership. One hundred fifty thousand children and men and women are enrolled in this splendid organization. They meet every Sunday morning, divide into their various grades and departments with trained teachers in charge of each class, who instruct them in those . subjects which are best adapted for the physical, moral and spiritual welfare. 

It is primarily a system of education. "Where ignorance abounds, 'Mormonism' thrives?" It is exactly the reverse. The main strength of "Mormonism" lies in the intelligence of its members, and every institution in the Church aims at their education. Do you not know this to be true? Take the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, with from thirty to forty thousand members. They meet weekly to discuss such subjects as will make  better citizens, better members of their Church, and better members of society. Are these the means which would be employed by an institution that wished to keep its members in ignorance? Then there is the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, numbering sixty-five thousand, where the ladies assemble at least once a week to study domestic arts, science, literature, history, and everything that will tend to make of them a higher and more refined type of womanhood. Then you have the Primary Association, where once a week, or oftener, young ladies of scholastic training meet in the meetinghouse or in the schoolhouse, where it is permitted, and there teach the little children the first principles of service to mankind, and reverence for God. And then comes the last of our institutions, known as the Religion Class Work. 

The moral education of the youth is one of the most serious problems which is presented to the educators of our nation. The Bible has been tabooed for many years. I am not advocating religious training in public schools, but I do believe that there is not sufficient moral and religious training among the youth of our land today. The Latter-day Saints believe that children should be taught reverence for God and have developed in their hearts faith in Him, and a comprehension of their obligation even as children to God. Therefore the "Mormon" people have established this Religion Class Work to promote faith and moral growth in connection with the education of the youth. Now then, under these circumstances, it occurs to me that this is one great gigantic institution of which we may all be proud. 

May the Lord preserve and prosper this people to serve mankind and to promote His cause on the earth, is my prayer, in His name. Amen. 

ELDER CHARLES A. ORME. 

(President of Tooele Stake.) 

My brothers, sisters and friends, I have listened, with interest and rejoicing, to the discourse delivered by President Nephi L. Morris. I feel to congratulate our people on their achievements, on their success, and what they have accomplished and are accomplishing along an educational line, for the uplifting of the children of men, for the advancement of the human race, for acquiring the high intellectual condition that our Father in Heaven desires His children should reach while they are here upon the earth, that we may become educated and qualified for the future existence it is destined that the children of our Father should attain unto. All throughout this conference, the splendid meetings and discourses that we have had on this Temple Block, the declarations of the faith that this people have in Israel's God, and the demonstration thereof in the works that they have produced, show their desire to serve Him and to keep His commandments. Think of what appeared to the children of men an insignificant organization in the beginning, with only six members, poorly equipped or qualified  to promulgate the truth, and destined to build up a marvelous missionary system in the future. Add to this system that which has been spoken of by President Morris, it seems to me would be worthy of our consideration for a little while. 

In the beginning, with only six men to start out and face an opposing world, nearly, all whom the elders came in contact with were opposed to that which they set forth. Even from the time when Joseph Smith the Prophet first declared the visitation of the Father and the Son, until the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, the sena ing forth of the first elders to preacn unto the people the words that had been given unto that youthful prophet, I say, to look at it from that beginning it would seem impossible to accomplish what we have at the present time. Consider also that they had not sufficient means to publish to the world the record that had been committed into their hands by a holy angel, to present unto the world as a testimony and a witness that God had not confined His ministrations, or His prophets, to one hemisphere, but that it had been extended further. Since that time we have succeeded in sending out thousands of elders to the various nations of the earth, at a great expense, amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars annually, for the promulgation of this Gospel. Many of our elders have been well equipped from an educational standpoint, and supplied with proper literature, so that they could visit the homes of the rich and the learned in civilized nations, as well as the poor, and present unto them those glorious truths that had been revealed unto the Prophet Joseph, giving unto the world a new witness for God and for Jesus Christ. 

There had been errors creep into the churches that had been organized by men, errors relating to the existence of God, His being and attributes. Men had no faith in the declaration made by Joseph Smith, that he had seen a vision, and that God had manifested Himself unto him, and that He was indeed a personage like unto man, and that the Son was in His image and likeness, as the scriptures had told. But the minds of men had been darkened on this subject, and it seemed impossible for them to believe his statement. He declared in very deed that he had seen God, and His Son Jesus Christ. The young man, fearlessly desiring to discharge the duty that the Lord had placed upon him, declared that God was not, as had been proclaimed, without body, parts or passions, but that He possesses a body, with limbs, head and all' parts and organs as a man has them. He testified that he knew this, for he had seen with his eyes, that he had heard Their voices, and that he had conversed with Jesus Christ who was crucified on Calvary, according to the testimony of the apostles whom He had chosen from among men. 

That Christ had arisen from the grave, and ascended bodily into heaven, is a fact which seems to have been lost sight of by the children of men. This young man declared that it was a fact. He was a witness of it for he had seen Jesus and the Father. He had heard Their voices, and this testimony had been given unto him, and it was his privilege and his duty, as a new witness for God, to stand forth and declare unto the world, in this dispensation, those things that had been known in former dispensations, the saving powers and principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It was that testimony, borne by humble elders, sent forth without worldly means, but rich in spirit and with a testimony that God lived, and that His work had been established upon  earth. That was what brought our parents and grandparents, and many of us, into this goodly land, where we are surrounded with favorable conditions, with institutions for advancement and learning, that we have heard about this afternoon. 

I bear my testimony to the truthfulness of this work, that the world calls "Mormonism;" it is the biggest proposition before the children of men today, both from a worldly standpoint and from a spiritual or religious standpoint. I make that statement partly on the grounds of the educational system that is in our midst, making us acquainted with the things of the world, with the science and arts of the day, the high accomplishments and achievements along these lines. As for spiritual advancement, the greatest thing before the world, we believe in that also, and with all our hearts, for it deals not only with men in this life, for their betterment, both temporally and spiritually, but it reaches beyond the vail. We are informed that before this earth on which we live was framed, the spirits of men did in reality exist, that they were organized by the great Head, and He saw among them great and mighty spirits, choice men and women, as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, chapter 3. Our Father in Heaven, recognizing the intellectual greatness of many of those beings that had been organized in that spiritual stage of existence, remarked to those in the Council with Him, something like this : "See, here is space, let us go down and create an earth on which these spirits may dwell." From that we learn and understand that this earth was created and made habitable for mankind, He said, "They who keep theii  estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate, shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; they who keep their second estate, shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever." 

My brothers and sisters, here is something for us to consider : intelligences in the beginning, before the organization of this earth, and this earth being brought into existence for their benefit, that they might become educated and qualified to become as their Father, God. The Savior of the world said that the children of men should become perfect as their Heavenly Father is perfect, and that they could reach that position by keeping the laws of God in these two estates. Latter-day Saints and all Israel should awaken to a realization of the condition that we are in here. We have obeyed the principles of faith and repentance, and yielded obedience to the doctrine of baptism in water by immersion for the remission of sins, and have had hands laid upon our heads for confirmation in the Church of Christ, and for the baptism of the Holy Ghost. W e should comprehend our true condition and exercise ourselves in the performance of duty and responsibility before our Father, for, in yielding obedience unto these doctrines, we made a covenant to serve Him forever, to keep His commandments, and observe all His laws. If we fail to do this, we shall fall short of the glory that has been promised to all the children of our Father who are obedient unto His commandments. 

I believe that it is easy for men to fall from grace, even after they have received the principles of the doctrine of Christ and become con. I believe that they can become lukewarm, as did one of the Churches in olden times. The Apostle John, the Revelator, seeing their condition, declared that they were neither cold nor hot, and only worthy to be spued opt of his mouth. I believe, that even Latter-day Saints can become in that condition. We ought to be faithful in the payment of our tithes, in observing the word of wisdom, attending to our prayers and our sacrament meetings, and take advantage of the institution? of learning that have been orgamzeu for our benefit and education, and accept the revelations of our Father, that He has given unto the children of men. I pray God to strengthen our testimony and create within us a desire to serve Him unto the end, which I ask through Jesus Christ. Amen. 

The male chorus rendered a selection entitled "Just Beyond." 

ELDER BENJAMIN GODDARD. 

(President of Bureau of Information.) 

Brethren, sisters and friends, I have great pleasure in greeting you this afternoon, and trust that I shall enjoy the same spirit that has characterized the remarks of my brethren. If there be any strangers among you, from that which has already been said, they must be impressed with the comprehensiveness of what is called "-Mormonism." Our last speaker dwelt briefly upon our belief in the preexistence of spirits showing that our existence did not commence upon this earth, but that we were fore-ordained to come and dwell here for a season, to perform the mission which God had given unto us. President Morris, in his remarks dwelt upon the organization of the Church, and the auxiliary branches thereof, and endeavored to make clear to you the special work of our Relief Societies, our Young Ladies and Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associations, our Primary Associations, our Sunday Schools and Religion Classes, and the wide field of activity occupied by these auxiliary organizations of the Church, for the special benefit of the various members thereof. But the Church does not exist by virtue of these organizations. God has given unto us something more than auxiliary work. One of the brethren referred to the fact that the Prophet Joseph Smith received revelations from the Almighty. We declare that God the Father, and God the Son, appeared unto him in vision, and made clear unto him his great mission upon earth. In that connection he was assured that other messengers should come, who would confer upon him greater powers and give other instructions. 

Upon this block, I have the honor of meeting from day to day many of the strangers who come among us. At least two hundred and fifty thousand visitors come to Utah each year many coming to this "City of the Saints" that they may learn something of our faith. I am impressed with the fact that one of the revelations, often referred to by our elders, has been fulfilled in greater detail than we sometimes declare, not only by the gathering of the Saints who have fulfilled to -the very letter these words, but by the coming of the strangers : "For it shall come to pass in the last days that the mountain of the Lord's House shall be exalted above the hills and all  shall flow unto it, and many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, and He will teach us of His ways and we will walk in His paths." Although many may not so view it, yet they do come to learn something of the ways of the Almighty with regard to the work of this people in the Rocky Mountains. And we have pleasure in telling them the story that has been recited in your hearing, with regard to the commencement of this great work, and that subsequently another heavenly personage came unto the prophet Joseph Smith. 

We declare in all soberness that the revelation is true, that John the Baptist, who holds the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood, placed his hands upon the head of Joseph the Prophet and ordained him to that priesthood, giving him all the keys and authority pertaining thereto. And we go still further, to the astonishment of some who have never heard "Mormon" doctrines before. We declare that even then the Church was not fully organized, it was not organized as fully as God intended. They who were chosen by the Savior when He was engaged in His ministry upon the earth, they of whom He said : "Ye have not chosen Me, but I have chosen you and ordained you," even Peter, James and John, the resurrected apostles of the Lord, Jesus Christ came unto that youthful prophet, placed their hands upon his head and gave unto him the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood. Now what does it mean? It means that the Church in the Latter days has been organized as perfectly as in former days, with prophets, pastors, teachers, deacons, , etc.' "for the perfecting of the Saints." And hence we say unto you, the Melchizedek Priesthood has been bestowed upon the children of men, and there are men within the sound of my voice who hold that priesthood, High Priests, Seventies, Elders, who possess all the authority possessed by the ministry in the days of the Lord Jesus Christ. And there is also the Aaronic Priesthood, which we term sometimes the Lesser Priesthood, with its Priests, Teachers, and Deacons ministering for the salvation of men. 

Do you realize how much these truths have been impressed upon the hearts of our children ? Let me tell you one little circumstance that occured upon this block. Sometime ago, while glancing through the window, I perceived a little group of strangers on the steps of the Assembly Hall, the building opposite to us. I wondered who was conversing with these strangers. It was of interest to me to find out, it being part of my work to observe that the teachings here are given by men and women who are authorized to do the work. I therefore joined the company. A stake conference was being held in the Assembly Hall, President Nephi L. Morris presiding over the meeting, but the group of strangers stood on the outside. Mingling with them I perceived that they were being entertained by a boy, a little fellow, who was standing on the steps so that they could see and hear him. The strangers were asking questions : "Well, my boy, are you a 'Mormon'?" 

"Oh, yes sir." 

"Well, are you a minister?" 

"No, sir." 

"What are you?" 

"I am a deacon, sir." 

"What is a deacon?" 

"A deacon's office is the first in the Aaronic Priesthood, and I have to work as a deacon, and that is why I am at the door." 

"And what is the Aaronic Priesthood?" was the question. The boy, not more than twelve or thirteen years of age, answered promptly : 

"Sir, the Aaronic Priesthood is the authority given by John the Baptist when he laid his hands upon the head of Joseph Smith, and it has come down and I have been ordained a deacon, and X I hold the Aaronic Priesthood." 

Oh! bless the soul of that boy. I don't know today who he was but I felt like hugging him, because of the testimony he was thus bearing; for in the simplicity of his heart and by his youthful appearance he impressed those strangers so that, at least, they recognized the earnestness, frankness and sincerity of the Latter-day Saints. 

Our children understand these things. They are taught unto them and, hence, without hesitancy they declare that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is organized, fully and completely, for the salvation of man in the latter days. When we talk to the people in this manner they acknowledge that it is a wonderful work, and as they gaze at the beautiful building, our Temple, — that monument in stone so eloquently spoken of yesterday by Elder B. H. Roberts, they invariably ask "what is the building for?" We declare that it stands as a testimony of another principle pertaining to the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. For we not only believe, as President Orme has said "that from the eternities we were prepared for this probation and that through this probation we are to minister to the children of men, giving the warning message pertaining to the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ," but we are to extend that mission beyond the vail. We never expect to be through with our work. We worked before we came here, we minister while we are living, and we shall minister after we are dead. . I remember a few friends standing near the gates here, some years ago, when the President of the Ministerial Association was entertaining them. Unobserved I joined them and listened a little while to the conversation and then pleasantly asked, "My reverend friend, can I assist you a little?" He turned, astonished to see me, and remarked to his friends, "This man will tell you the other side of the story." "No," I answered, "I may not; there is only one side, the true side, and, in your ministerial garb, you surely would not give any other." As he turned away he said, "You may tell them what you believe in. Now be careful, (speaking to his companions), or he will get you." "Now," I remarked, (calling him by name), "don't make your friends nervous, we shall get you by and by." "Oh! no, you never will," he retorted and turned away angrily. "Now, my dear friend," I said, "be good natured. Don't forget our teachings. We not only preach here, but we shall preach to the spirits in prison, and follow men throughout all eternity, or until they repent of their sins and accept the Gospel of Christ; that is our faith." The Master declared, "I. if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me." Some years ago, Rev. Mr. Guthrie, a Scotch divine said, when quoting a familiar passage of scripture referring to the Redeemer, "He is the propitiation  our sins and not for ours only but for the sins of the whole world." "The whole world. Some say that this is a dangerous doctrine, but it is God's doctrine." Just so far he was preaching "Mormonism," for (pointing to the Temple), that sacred Temple stands for the redemption of the dead, for the ministry to "the spirits in prison," for the continuation of this work beyond the grave. 

Let us so live, according to the will of God, that we may be worthy to minister to the living and for the dead, is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER HUGH J. CANHON. 

(President of Liberty Stake.) 

My brethren and sisters, it seems to me that I was born with a testimony of "Mormonism." "Mormonism" has always appealed to me. In the early days of my life, this faith was naturally due to the teachings which I received from my parents. Later on, when I was called to go out into the world, of necessity I had to be able to give a reason for the hope that was within me. But never in my life have I doubted the divinity of this work. As has already been stated, the Church provides for every spiritual and temporal need of its members. 

Here in Utah we have a school system which is the equal of any system in the United States. That is in addition to all these auxiliary organizations which have been mentioned, and the priesthood quorum work which we are doing. We have a system which appeals to the educated men of the world, and they investigate the Church and its teachings with great interest because of  time and attention which have been given to this subject. 

Brother Orme spoke about our belief in pre-existence. Brother Goddard spoke of that very briefly and also alluded to our belief in the hereafter. I desire to refer briefly to our present temporal condition. One of the greatest horticulturalist experts in the United States made the statement the other day in my hearing that "the horticultural exhibit at the Utah State Fair could not be equalled by any state in the United States." 1 heard the other day, at the dedication of this Seagull Monument, from one of the pioneers, that Jim Bridger had said when our people came here that there was frost every month of the year in this valley. In spite of that statement, and as we believe through the blessing of the Almighty upon this land, we are able to produce an exhibit, according to the testimony of this man, which cannot be equalled in the United States. There are certain sections outside of Utah, as you know, which pride themselves upon their peaches; certain sections which boast of their apples, etc. We can produce as good apples as the best sections which specialize on apples. We can produce as fine peaches, as fine prunes, as fine pears, as fine grapes, as can be produced in the sections which specialize on these particular fruits. Why is it ? I give the Almighty the credit for it. He inspired his servant to say, "This is the place." And He has blessed this land and has made it fruitful because His children that were driven from the civilized communities were forced to come here and came with faith in Him, - and wholly dependent upon Him. He has blessed the land for their sake. 

Think what this people has done for years and years in its missionary movement alone. I figured, very roughly in my mind, while sitting here, that we are spending perhaps more than one million dollars a year to preach the Gospel in the world. That money is going out of this community, and I think that one million dollars would not nearly cover it, and especially if we put a reasonable price upon the time of the men who go abroad. It would take very nearly a million dollars, as I figured it, in cash to support our missionaries, and then there is their time which would be converted into means if they remained at home. Where can you find a community in all the world that could stand year after year a drain of this kind? And still, what is the temporal condition of this people? I have not all the statistics in mind; I did not expect to speak this afternoon, and have not had any opportunity to get figures since I was asked to address you, but I believe that there is no community in all the world where the people are in as comfortable circumstances as they are in Utah. There is no community in the world where there is as large a percentage of the people who own their homes, and whose homes are free from mortgages, in spite of the fact that we are sending out one million dollars annually for which we get no apparent returns. Judged from the standpoint of the world, not one cent of that vast sum spent in preaching the Gospel to the world ever returns to us in the shape of money. But the Lord has made up to this people for that which they do in this respect as well as in all others, and I find in it a testimony of the Gospel, just as I find a testimony of the Gospel in all these other things which have been alluded to this afternoon. We have every reason to be proud of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and I thank the Lord from the bottom of my heart that I was born in the Church, and that the Lord was kind enough to me to give me a testimony of this work. 

May our light so shine that the world will see our good works and glorify our Father in Heaven, is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

ELDER GEORGE F. RICHARDS. 

Free agency of man a Divine law — The latter-day Gospel, the old Gospel restored — The Priesthood also restored — "Mormonism" the greatest organization on earth. 

While there have been a great many people moving to and fro upon these grounds I have been pleased to note that there are hun-' dreds of people immediately in front of us who have scarcely moved out of their tracks during the time of this service. This is an evidence to me of the interest they have in this great work which we represent, and of which we have been speaking, and in the things which they have heard. We have a message to those who have not united themselves with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a message of peace, of good will and of salvation, if they will but receive it. We would not if we could, force our views upon them and oblige .them to join with us in this work. One of Satan's objects from the beginning was to destroy the free agency of man. But the Son, who gave himself willingly as a ransom for the sins of the world, secured to us our free agency. This principle is  most beautifully in one of our hymns which reads : 

"Know this that every soul is free, To choose his life and what he'll be; For this eternal truth is given, That God will force no man to heaven; He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love and light; In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind." 

As a witness for the Lord I testify to you, my friends, that the things which have been spoken in your presence this afternoon are the things of God, the truth of God, whether you receive them or reject them. This is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation, and a savor of life unto life or death unto death, according as it is received and obeyed, or as it is rejected and fought against. It is the Gospel which Enoch taught to his people and was made a savor of life unto them, because they received it with glad hearts, and it wrought perfection in their lives, so that they obtained translation and salvation. It was a savor of death unto death unto the people in Noah's time, because they rejected it and gratified without restraint their carnal desires to their destruction and condemnation. This is the same Gospel that originated in the heavens before the world was. It is the same that was taught to our first parents, Adam and Eve. It is the same Gospel that was taught by our Savior and His Apostles of the Primitive Church. It is the Gospel which John the Revelator saw in vision, and declared as recorded in the 14th chapter, of Revelations : 

"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell upon the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue and people, saying:  a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him; for the hour of His judgment is come; and worship Him that made heavens, and earth, and the sea and the fountains of waters." 

This Gospel has been restored to earth in this dispensation of the fullness of times, when all things which have been spoken of by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began are to be restored in preparation for the great day of the coming of our Lord, when He is to take possession of His kingdom, and reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. It has come in the way that was predicted, having been delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith by an angel; and by the gift and power of God he translated the records of the Book of Mormon, which contains the Everlasting Gospel as it was taught to the ancient inhabitants of this continent by Christ our Savior, after He left His disciples at Jerusalem. He told them in going that He had other sheep which were not of that fold, that He had to visit. And He visited the Nephite nations; He organized His Church, and told them that He had come in fulfillment of what He had told His disciples at Jerusalem. 

We have this Gospel, and there is just one Gospel recognized of God, that which He instituted in the heavens from the foundation of the world; as Paul declared to the Galatians : "Though we or an angel from heaven preach any other Gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed;" just the one Gospel which has in it the power of God unto salvation. In connection with this message of the Gospel, the Lord delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith the keys of the Priesthood of 

Aaron, and also the keys of the Priesthood of the Son of God, with power and authority to build up His church and kingdom, here upon the earth, and authority to admister the saving ordinances of the Gospel unto all who are prepared byfaith and repentance to receive it. This Gospel, in connection with the Church and Kingdom of God which has been established upon the earth in this dispensation, through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, constitutes what is know as "Morrrionism"; and it is the biggest thing in this world, the most important thing with which mankind have to do. 

Reference has been made to the perfection of the organization of the Church; study of the organization with its quorums of priesthood its auxiliaries and helps in government, and the character of the work each is doing, convinces one of the superiorty of the organization and divinity of its origin. A few years ago at a Ministerial Convention being held in California a declaration was made by a member of that Association, that "The thing called 'Mormonism' is the greatest organization upon the earth, save possibly the German Army." And during the past summer, in a convention of Ministers in Portland, Oregon, one of those Ministers declared without any reservation, that "it is the greatest organization upon the earth." I bear testimony to the truth of his statement. 

It remains for us, my brethren and sisters, and friends, while here in mortality to receive the Gospel which is offered unto us gratuitously, and make use of our time and talents is establishing ourselves in faith and devotion to the cause of God, that we may have His favor and His blessing in life, and that we may obtain, as a reward of our integrity and faithfulness, eternal life in the world to come. God help us to these great blessings, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"Thy way not mine, O Lord," was sung by the male choir. 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Charles S. Martin. 


