Morning
05 10 1913

Conference was called to order by President Joseph F. Smith. 

President Smith announced that, .for the benefit of the great number of people unable to obtain admission to the Tabernacle, overflow meetings will be held in the adjoining Assembly Hall this morning, and afternoon, and in front of the Bureau of Information at 2 p. m. 

The Tabernacle choir sang the hymn : 

Awake, ye Saints of God, awake! 

Call on the Lord in mighty prayer, That He will Zion's bondage break, 

And bring to naught the fowler's snare. 

Prayer was offered by Elder James Duckworth. 

The choir sang the hymn : 

Though deep'ning trials throng your way, 

Press on, press on, ye Saints of God! Ere long the resurrection day 

Will shed it's life and light abroad. 

PRESIDENT FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 

Extended comments on Paul's sayings about Bishops — Admonitions applicable to all the Priesthood — A field of labor for every man ordained — Reponsibility of every man and woman to minister to others — Marriage for time and eternity should be the rule. 

I trust my brethren and sisters, that the same good spirit enjoyed by the President in speaking to us yesterday may be with us on this occasion. I do not remember ever enjoying a more profitable spiritual feast than was given to us in the  day of this conference. If I had been privileged to talk to you during the last year as I have been talking to a few of the stakes of Zion, I would not undertake to speak as I desire to just now; because I have been speaking upon this subject during the last year in some stakes, but I feel that my chosen text may be profitably presented to you, as I believe it has been where I have labored latterly. I believe that I shall not live long enough to talk to you upon this subject in your homes, stakes or wards, and hence I desire to take this opportunity, although our time is so brief and I shall have to treat the subject briefly. I am pleased, however, with this privilege to be heard by this vast congregation, and I trust that you shall all hear what I say and consider it critically and carefully. 

Ministers of the day, I believe, quite generally refer to the scriptures that have been handed down to us from the Apostle Paul, and I desire to take a text of his this morning and paraphrase it and give it a little extension — in fact, considerable extension, so that it may meet the necessities of all Latterday Saints. Paul seems to have given it application to one important class of officials, that is to the Bishops, but I believe if he were here, and should discover that I had made an extended application of his injunctions to bishops, he would be satisfied with the application that I give to his words. I will read the text and refer to parts of it as I read. In his first letter to Timothy the third chapter, the first verse of that chapter, there is a text that is very familiar to the bishops, for we rarely ever ordain bishops but what we read this text to them, but I believe it has not been usual for us to give the application to others so seriously and directly. Paul says, "This is a true saying, if a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work." I desire to say that if any man desires any office in this Church he desireth a good work, and yet I believe that no man in this Church should seek after either the office of a bishop or any other office, but yet should be ready and prepared to receive anyofficial responsibility which the Lord has to bestow upon him. "A bishop," then Paul says, "must be blameless." I say that any official member of this Church, as well as a bishop, should be blameless. "A bishop should be the husband of one wife;" he should be a married man. I say that any man who holds office in this Church should be a married man, as soon as it is proper and right for him to marry. A bishop should be "vigilant," and so should every other official in this Church. A bishop should be "sober," Paul says; I say every other official in this Church should be sober. "A bishop should be of good behavior," is Paul's declaration; mine is, that every other official in this Church, bearing divine authority should be of good behavior. A bishop should be "given to hospitality," and so should every other man. Paul says a bishop should be "apt to teach." I hold that every man in this Church, bearing divine authority, should be apt to teach. I do not know that he has made, in these declarations of his, anything , or of greater importance for the salvation of men, than the fact that every official should be apt to teach; for it is a very great accomplishment, an accomplishment that many, very many men have not yet attained to. A bishop should "not be given to wine," nor should any other man. 

I do not believe that Paul intended in his injunctions to the bishops that every other man should be allowed to do otherwise; I don't think he intended that; he would not intend it if he were here today, and would approve of the suggestions that I make to you. "Not a striker;" I hold that every other man as well as the bishops should be a man of peace. "Not greedy of filthy lucre;" nor should any other man be greedy of filthy lucre; but if any man is entitled to, and should enjoy, and possess the lucre of this world, I think that bishops should be well supplied, that they may be hospitable and minister to the necessities of the poor. "But patient." Bishops should be patient, Paul says; I hold that every other man in this Church should be just as patient as a bishop. "Not a brawler nor covetous;" neither should other men be tolerated in these conditions. A bishop should be "One that ruleth well his own house;',' so should every other man who stands at the head of a family. "Having his children in subjection with all gravity;" so with all the rest of the brethren. "For if a man" — now Paul comes to the common ground that I have taken, that not only the bishop — "know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God?" "Not a novice;" he should be a man of experience and understanding, of skill and judgment; so with every other man. Moreover, and in addi to these injunctions already referred to "He must have a good report of them which are without." I hold it is just as important, and necessary, that every other man who has office or position, or responsibility in this Church, should have a good report of those that are without as well as the bishop of a ward. 

Now that is the measure of the text that I have selected this morning. I discover that in our days of worship, various occasions of worship and serving the Lord, and partaking of the sacrament, and of the proper time for us to remember our prayers before the Lord, an important percentage of the Latter-day Saints have not yet reached that success that should attend upon all members of this Church. The Lord anticipated, no doubt, in the revelations given to us in latter times that men would be faulty in regard to remembering Him. He is jealous, for our good and our salvation, that we should remember Him, and honor Him, and keep His commandments, and He has laid down the rule that has been, I fear, seriously overlooked by our brethren who preside in our wards, the fact that "if any man observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people." I say, also, extending this scripture a little to harmonize with the extension I gave to that from Paul, that not only the man who neglects his prayers, in the season thereof, should be had in remembrance before the judge of the people, but those who are not attentive to partaking of the sacrament on the Sabbath day, those who do not come to ' the house of the Lord on the Sabbath day, those who do not suitably rest as they should upon that day,  keep that day sacred and holy, should be had in remembrance before the judge of the people. That, I believe, is the word and will of the Lord. 

Now, I am delighted because this congregation is so large, so many thousands here today, for you will return to your homes, to your own wards and stakes, and to your families, and we like you to take to them what you have heard here, and what you shall yet hear before this conference closes, for it is very important that the word and will of the Lord should be known, should be appreciated and observed by the Latter-day Saints. For that we live; for that we labor; for that we have been brought together from the world; for that we have been instructed, and for that we have been inspired by the Spirit of the Lord, that we may labor for the salvation of man. So that every man who bears the priesthood has a mission and ministry, and it was not designed, it has' never been designed of the Lord that men should receive responsible positions in His Church, and then disregard them, give no thought or attention to them; but they are required to listen to the counsels and commandments of the Lord and to observe them most perfectly. 

Now I desire to give the application of these requirements, so definite to the bishops of wards, also to all my brethren who bear the priesthood, from the deacon who has a ministry, who is a teacher in his life and labors, and required to be by revelation, and the teacher in the lesser priesthood, and the priest; these young men, as a rule, that are brought into the school so early, it is intended that they should have primary training and teaching, so that when they are ordained to the Melchizedek priesthood they will be prepared for the foreign ministry, or the extensive ministry of the holy Melchizedek priesthood. They are expected to receive home training under the direction of their bishops; and as we are very careful, you will notice in the theory of the Church, the practice of the Church, that whenever a president is wanted it is because there is a labor for him. When counselors are wanted in presidencies and in bishoprics, and in high councils, there is always a ministry for every man who is ordained and blest. When a man is called to go out into the field, into the world, to preach the Gospel there, to preside or otherwise, he goes because there is a ministry for him to perform. We never ordain a bishop, we never ordain a patriarch, we never ordain a man to any office in this priesthood, or give him a responsible position of presidency or superintendency but what there is a field of labor for him. No man is endowed with divine authority until there is something for him to do. Now we desire to draw attention of the bishops, and of presidents of stakes and quorums, and superintendents of associations and organizations among the brethren, that whenever this ministry comes to them it is expected that they will commence their labor that day. It has been so with us who 'have more responsible positions. When the Lord has called us — and He has no more definitely, and positively, and properly called the president who presides over us in this Church, than He has called -the deacon; deacons are called of God, and the teachers and priests, as well as the presiding brethren; and every elder, every seventy, every high-priest, and the  who preside over them, are responsible to employ, to instruct and lead those brethren in the ways of righteousness and truth. 

Now what I have said in regard to my brethren I desire now to give application to our sisters also, and all members of this Church; .: for when a man is converted, if he be not called to bear divine authority of the priesthood, if he comes into this fold and is converted, it is his duty to convert his brother; and that is just as true with the sisters as with the brethren. This ministry can not be perfectly and properly accomplished until the brethren and sisters devote themselves to the conversion of their neighbors — the husband to convert the wife; the wife to convert the husband, the brother to help his brother, and the sister to help her sister, until every man and woman is emplojyed and occupied, and is accomplishing something in the ministry, every day. 

If a bishop should be the husband of one wife and every other man should be a married man, I hold that every woman should be the wife of one husband, that not a woman in this Church should be without marriage in due time, just as men should pray in the season thereof, just as men should partake of the sacrament in the season thereof. Men and women should be married, suitably married, properly and eternally married, and so remain. So that we desire to draw the attention of our sisters, as well as our brethren to the fact that they are expected, it is designed by the Lord, that they should be the educators and trainers as well as the mothers of men. I was going to say, women are the better, finer and more desirable part of man, but men  be pure and clean in their lives, for their virtue is just as important as that of women, and they are just as desirable and should lead the weaker sex. They should be the leaders, but in some instances wives are stronger in the faith, stronger in spirituality and in the gifts "and graces of the Lord than men, and much is required of them. 

I desire to direct the attention of presiding brethren — they are before me here; I don't know when I will have an oportunity of seeing so many of them gathered together at one time. It is an important responsibility resting upon these presiding men that they should look after the brethren and sisters who are at large, and who are not frequently gathered together, that do not gather, as they should do, to partake of the sacrament, and who are not attentive as they should be in regard to their prayers and obligations, family prayers and secret prayers and the like. I desire to impress upon every bishop, that it is his duty, that it is his business to know every man in his ward, every family, and have them under his direction, through the teachers that assist him. All men are teachers who bear the priesthood, even the office of a deacon is that of a teacher, that is his responsibility and labor as the Lord has laid it down; when occasion requires deacons should assist the teachers. I interpret, that the occasion always requires that the deacon should help the teacher, that the teacher should help the priest, that the priest should help the elder, and occasion always requires that the elder should help the seventy, and the seventy the high priest, and so forth, from the junior to the senior we should help each other. Then I say that our  in their calling, and those who preside particularly, should see to it that they have in hand the work that belongs to them, that belongs to the Relief Society, to the Young Ladies' Association and the Primary Association, and those who have care of religion class labor. These women should have in hand the organizations that are in their care and under their supervision, until there shall be an awakening among the Latter-day Saints to the outer edges, to those that are scattered and far away, and that are sickly also. They are to be visited, those that are sick physically; those that are sick spiritually need the physician and should have attention. Our young people should be taken care of, they should be thoroughly instructed; every boy should be instructed at the suitable age in his life; every daughter should be suitably instructed by her mother, and thoroughly trained. Our young people who are contemplating marriage should be united for time and for eternity, as the rule. There are exceptions, and the exceptions are those who are not quite worthy, or are not prepared and not ready for marriage for eternity, who haven't made themselves worthy. I suppose there will always be the unworthy amongst us; but those that are worthy and prepared should be so suitably instructed that they would never think of marriage except for eternity, which embraces time, but not be satisfied with time marriages alone. 

O what splendid instructions we had yesterday from the President, and from the brethren who followed him during the day — a most glorious time. Now, as I give this application of these matters to our presiding brethren and to our presiding sisters, I desire to exhort them that they shall not be satisfied and content until they have all in their charge, in training, and in care and consideration, as carefully as have the brethren who imediately preside over us. Where we are laboring we always furnish employment; the presidency furnish employment to the Twelve; the Twelve and presidency are furnishing employment to those who preside over the stakes of Zion. We want the presidents of stakes to hold their bishops responsible, we want them to hold the presidents of the priesthood, the presidents of Seventies and of Elders responsible to know that the brethren in their care are properly trained and prepared, so when they are needed in the ministry, either to travel and preach the Gospel or to labor and minister at home, that they are in proper condition, I believe that we have not enjoined, quite so strongly as we should, this responsibility which rests upon those who preside. 

I have only a small company of men over which I preside, the Twelve, but we are in good fellowship and we give attention to each other we counsel together, frequently, and we know each other and know our lives. The life of every man should be known who bears divine authority in this Church. If there are some who have not received the priesthood, all such should have careful attention from brethren who labor among them, who do bear the priesthood, until every soul shall be thoroughly instructed. Bishops will be held responsible, just as I feel that I am held responsible, and my brethren are held responsible to give attention to the affairs of the Church and kingdom throughout the earth. 

Where there are missionaries needed, they go out from under our hands with our blessing, and with instruction, and we train them as well as we have opportunity to do. Our Council is not large; we have one of our number in Europe, and one in congress, and there is always one or two sick and afflicted. We have our troubles the same as other men; so that there is just about a majority of the Twelve that are at liberty to take care of the kingdom, under the direction of the presidency. We are solicitous and anxious, and when we come to your stakes you know that we labor with you, we consider your conditions and circumstances and inquire after you. We have not been indifferent, you know we respond to your necessities and requirements, and if there is anything to be set in order and regulated we are always on hand to do it. We want you to do the same among the people where you are; we want you to take care of your quorums and train them, and instruct them, and prepare them so that whenever they are wanted in the ministry, young men or others, that they are ready for this important labor. The welfare of this Church rests upon your shoulders as well as ours; you must labor with us in detail, and give attention; and the honor, the credit and glory will be just as great for you as for us. Your souls are just as precious as ours, and the souls of our brethren just as precious as ever souls have been in this world, and we want to take care of them and look after them. 

Very much depends upon our sisters; we want their care, their help and their attention. We need their sympathy, their love and affection : and we want them to. assist  help us here, and we want to help them. We will not be satisfied until Israel is trained, and they all come together to worship the Lord, until there is not room for them in our houses of worship, and meetings upon the earth outside will also be necessary. In the days of the Savior, among the Nephites, He commanded that they should be seated upon the earth in order to partake of the sacrament; and when they were called together in great companies, too large for one apostle to stand up and speak to them, they were divided. We have to divide the people here today; and the time may come — how delighted I would be to see the time — when the Latter-day Saints will gather here in such numbers that not only this house and assembly hall will fail to accomodate them, but that the grounds all about here would be necessary for the apostles and others to administer among them. The sacrament of the Lord might be given to them, the emblems of the body and blood of our Lord, Jesus Christ, who has redeemed us, and by whom we are. The very earth upon which we live, which we occupy here is His. In honor of Him, and in remembrance of His sufferings, and His body and blood, and the redemption that has been wrought out for us, we need to partake of the sacrament. 

I pray the Lord to bless us, my brethren and sisters. I thank the Lord that we are alive. I want to live for a long time, and I want you to live, but I think every man should do his duty so that he is always prepared to die — let death come whenever it pleases. Whenever the time comes and our work is finished, thank God that we are prepared and have done our duty faithfully and . I make this exhortation and counsel and instruction to Israel gathered here today. Take these things to your homes and administer to the people there that can not come, that never do come. The people that are here today are the people that are always here, every time. This same bod}' of the priesthood, and the presiding brethren right here before me, are the ones that were here six months ago; they will be here next April, also, and so on; and the body of the house is filled with the very same people, as a rule, with a little variation. But the great majority of the people are at home, and must be at home; they can not come here; so we go to them and administer among them as best we can, as opportunity offers. We find that the time is short, our time for speaking and exhortation and counsel is quite short, and, of course, a few brethren like the presidency or the Twelve here can only administer publicly. We can not administer in the homes of the people; the people are too numerous; and you must labor and perform the work in detail; for they can be reached by the bishops and their assistants — this splendid organization that has placed almost every man in the Church in a responsible position, so that every man bearing the priesthood has a ministry that should be magnified and honored every day of our lives. It is a reproach to a man to lie down at night if he can not look back over the clay and think of some good thing- accomplished, some young man instructed, some neighbor trained, helped and encouraged, and strengthened in his faith. Every man should do that, and when it is done the Saints of this Church will be instructed; they will be exhorted; they will be restrained and they will be encouraged, and every blessing that they require will be administered unto them. God bless you, my brethren and my sisters throughout Israel. That Israel may triumph and prosper gloriously in the earth, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

"The Pioneer," a soprano solo, was sung by Sister Edna Anderson; words and music by Prof. Evan Stevens. 

ELDER CHARLES H. HART. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) After listening with you to the splendid talks of the brethren yesterday and today, giving comprehensive reviews of Gospel principles, I feel very much in need of the sustaining power of the Lord to properly direct your thoughts during the time that I may stand before you. As suggested by President Lyman, we have before us many of the same faces, brethren and sisters who meet here at these half yearly . conferences. We miss some of them, however. 

For my part, I have not yet become accustomed to the absence from this upper stand of President Winder, President John Henry Smith, and Patriarch John Smith; and I miss, from these missionary seats, President Ben E. Rich, that valiant preacher of the Gospel who, I believe, would have passed through the hardships of an Apostle Paul if necessary to perform his duty as a preacher of righteousness. I miss also from the seats of the presidents of stakes, President George Osmond, who served many years as a bishop, a faithful bishop, having the qualifications that the Apostle Paul  have a bishop to possess, who labored many years as an efficient counselor to President Budge of the Bear Lake stake, and who afterwards served as the President of the Star Valley stake. I make this reference because none of the general authorities of the Church were privileged to attend the funeral of this faithful worker in the Church, and testify of their appreciation of the noble work that he performed, such service as hundreds of these brethren whom I face this morning are now performing in the Church. 

We meet beneath the shelter of this dome twice a year, under varying circumstances; in April we meet about the seed-time, men hopeful as to what the result will be of their planting, hopeful, at the same time anxious. At this season of the year we might almost celebrate the harvest-home. I contrasted, the other day, at those splendid exercises in dedication of the seagull monument, the meager life-saving harvest of 1848, with the rich harvests of 1913, and thought of how the capacious elevators, and the large and well filled grain bins have taken the place of the partly filled meal sack of those early pioneer days. Well may we sing, as did our sister so beautifully a moment ago. of the labor of the great pioneer. As he looked out over this valley, with the vision of inspiration, it required no report of an agricultural college to determine whether or not this land would produce crops to sustain the people; he was prepared to realize that a new system of agriculture among the Anglo-Saxon race, namely, that by irrigation, could be successfully inaugurated here, and later he had a further vision of the possibilities of this land. McDonald, the agronomist of the Transvaal for the Brit nation, in his book on dry farming, properly gives President Brigham Young credit for foreseeing the day when our bench land, above the irrigation ditches, should be almost as valuable as our irrigated land. Little did the brethren — unless they had the same prophetic foresight as their leaders — realize the fortunes that were being divided to them when an acre of ground in this city, and a ten-acre or twenty-acre lot outlying a short distance, were parceled out to them. They little dreamed that, within the life-time of many of those who then lived, that these possessions would be worth a small fortune. Our ideas of the richness and value of these mountain valleys increase year by year. High as our standard may be one year, we realize that the fertility of mountain and meadow, of the plain and of the bench land, is even more valuable than we supposed they were and contain greater possibilities for wealth producing. 

We are indeed a blest people, living under the protection of this great republic, the inauguration of which has been properly said to be the greatest single achievement of the eighteenth century. When we contrast our happy lot with that of our unfortunate brethren in Mexico, torn and bleeding Mexico, we can understand the great blessing it is to live under the protection of a great government which secures us "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" day and night, whether we realize that this protecting power is thus about us or not. We are fortunate also in having abiding places in these splendid commonwealths in the Rocky Mountains, which also give us a large measure of security, and protection which conduces to prosperity and happiness. 

We are greatly privileged, also, in living at a time when divine truth has been restored, and when divine authority has been again committed to man. We are trying to accomplish a work among the people, with this splendid organization that has been given unto us by inspiration in this age. We are trying to accomplish an important mission among mankind. It is true our labors are not understood. Some of the world realize something of the potency, for either good or evil, of this great and perfect organization, and they speak of it as the "oncoming giant," and they think that it should be crushed, because they know not that its fruits are good; but occasionally there are those who realize the important mission that this Church is performing. The late poet of the Sierras, Joaquin Miller, realized this when he gave through the mothers of "Mormonism," that splendid tribute to "Mormonism." With your indulgence I will read a part of his words. His lines were suggested by the welcome that the mothers here gave to the President of the United States upon his visit to Salt Lake City, in appearing at his public reception with their babes in their arms : 

A ROUNDELAY OF SALT LAKE. 

Beneath our forty stars is she The purest woman, sweetest, best, Who loves her spouse most ardently And rocks the cradle, oftenest; Whose home is filled, whose heart is fed 

With halo of a baby's head. ' 

How pitiful that we must pay And pension man for killing man, While woman brings forth as she may, Unpaid, unpensioned, as she can; Gives life while man takes life away. 

Gives life, gives love because she must, How sad that we must pension, pay Our tallest, bravest and our best For killing brave men, east or west, Until our race is in the dust, As Greece is in the dust today; A tomb of glory gone away. 

I say the mothers of strong men, Strong men and merry men and tall, Must build, must man the Spartan wall And keep it stoutly manned as when Greece won the world, nor wrecked at all. 

I say that she must man the wall. The wall of breasts, unshielded, bare, The wall to do, the wall to dare, The wall of man, or we must fall. I say that she, strong-limbed and fair Deserves the pay, the pension, care. 

Of all brave, heartfelt welcomes found Where flowers strew the fragrant ground 

And rainbow banners fret the air By city, hamlet, anywhere, In Midland, Southland, Northland, West', 

I reckon Utah's first and best. 

Not guns to greet the nation's chief, Not trumpets blaring to the sun, Not scars of glory and of grief, Not thrice told tales of battles fought, Not seas of flowers at his feet, Not bold to glitter and to greet, But Utah brought her babes, and brought 

Not one babe fretted or afraid. Not one that cried or wailed, not one. Oh, what to this the booming gun? Oh, what to this the loud parade? Proud troop to troop poured manifold In battle banners rampt with gold? 

Just babies, babies, healthful, fair From where the Wasatch lion leaps, From sunless snows, from desert deeps. Just babies, babies, everywhere; just babes in arms, at mother's breasts, And robust boys with girls at play, With pounding fists, too full to rest; As chubby, fat, as fair as they. 

Behold yon seas of alkali Of sand, of salt, of dried up seas, Then sheltered by these watered trees And humbly dare to question why These countless babes, these mothers, aye, 

The maid in love, the lad at play, 

All seem so gladsome, bright and gay? 

Who tented here, who brake the sod. Subdued the Artemisia's strength With patient Ruth at ready call? Who faced the red man at arm's length And she beside him first to fall, And while he prayed the living God Who gat such babes as never man Had looked upon since time began? And why? Because the loving sire Loved life and hated low desire; He loved his babes, he loved his kind By desert waste of mountain wind; He watched his happy babes at play The while he gloried, glad as they. 

This John the Baptist, naked, lean,' Lorn, crying in the wilderness, This half fanatic, Luther, Huss, Whom we once mocked in his distress, Stands better than the best of us; Stands nearer Jesus, God, because He loves his babes, obeys His laws — Because his hands, his feet are clean; Because he loves his hearth, his home, And patient heaps the honey comb. 

Behold yon million desert miles With scarce a plow, with scant a tree, Save where this desert garden smiles And robust babes leap merrily; Behold our boundless seas, as chare Of sails as yonder peaks are bare! 

Then give us babes, babes of our own, My meddling, congressmen and men Of cloth, with great brains in the chin; Glad babes like these to plow the seas. Strong babes like these to plow or spin, 

And let this Bedouin alone Yea, give us babes at home, where now Ye hide and house on every street Such things as 'twere a shame to meet — 

Glad babes to build and guide the prow, 

Possess the isles, protect and bear The star-built banner here or there! Till then, hands off, my Pharisee, And tend your own affairs, as they, Of Utah tend their own today, Lest from the mouths of babes ye be Condemned and damned eternally! 

This condition could not have been brought about if our mothers had thought more of aping the fashions imported from decadent France  they thought of home-building and of child-bearing. 

It was a very timely rebuke that was given by our President yesterday and I thought is it possible that any complaint will be made, as was suggested, at his stand upon this important subject? Yet J remember that all those who stand for important reforms in the world have to bear the criticism of the world. If a high official has the courage to omit the wine-cup from his banquet, setting a great precedent in favor of temperance, there will not be wanting the thoughtless ones who will criticize him for this act of courage and of reform. So men may expect, when they set their faces like flint against the evils of the world, to have some criticism directed towards them. We are not ashamed of this work that we are seeking to perform, such work as indicated in the splendid review of the organization, and of the work and labors expected of the brethren, just given us by President Lyman. We are seeking to develop men and women who will be an honor, not only to the Church, but to the nation; strong men and women, strong in their integrity, strong in their love of truth and of righteousness and of virtue. 

Mark Twain, the humorist and philosopher, realized the dangers that Were warned against yesterday when he said : 'When one thinks of the tremendous forces of the upper and the nether world which play for the mastery of the soul of a woman during the few years in which she passes from plastic girlhood to the ripe maturity of womanhood, we may well stand in awe before the momentous drama! What capacities she has of purity, tenderness, goodness; what capacities of vileness, bitterness, and evil. Nature must needs  lavish with the mother and creator of men and center in her all the possibilities of life. And a few critical years can decide whether her life is to be full of sweetness and light, whether she is to be the vestal of a holy temple, or whether she will be the fallen priestess of a desecrated shrine." We would have all our young girls to garnish their thoughts and their lives with virtue, casting a glorious halo and light about them, just as the electric lamps from the beehive upon the Hotel Utah cast a soft, brilliant glory upon the Temple of our God. We would have our young people know that sin is the barbed wire that cuts and scars, and sometimes leaves the poison of its rust within the wound, to destroy the body and to contaminate the soul, and we would safeguard them from all these dangers and evils that threaten them. 

May the Lord bless us in this work of conserving the youth of Zion, and of training them up so that they shall .be men and women of whom the Church and our nation may be justly proud, I pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. 

ELDER LEVI EDGAR YOUNG. 

(Of the First Council of Seventy.) 

I sincerly hope that our hearts will remain in tune with the Lord and His work during the sessions of this conference, for we have certainly enjoyed the Spirit of God up to this moment. In standing before you I want your faith and prayers that something may be saidon this occasion and at this moment that will help each and every one of us. 

I am proud of the majesty of this people. I am proud of their achievements. I am proud of the great expression that has been made during the last hundred years, of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the hearts of men and women. Not long ago in taking a small crowd of strangers through this building and around these grounds, a man turned to me and said: "You seem to have a pride in the work of your people, and what they are doing today," and my answer was that if I haven't a pride then it is because my soul cannot rise to the majesty of their work. This people have done a great work, but we are just beginning and the glory of it all is, that in this beginning we are in the imperfect stage, but going on to perfection with the Gospel of Jesus Christ to direct us. One of the most glorious essays that I have read is a little book put out by a professor at Harvard College entitled, "The Glory of the Imperfect," wherein he goes to show that through our ignorance of the laws of nature and the divine spark of man, because of the sin of the human race, we are living in imperfect days when it comes to life and action. We do not understand the great laws that govern this earth and the universe. The glory of it all is for each person to work in life, to take hold of life, and though he sees the imperfections of the children of the Great Creator, he stands as one loving life, and nature and working at the imperfect to make it perfect, whereby he shall realize his divinity and become likened unto a God. This is, in substance Mormonism or the Gospel of Jesus Christ. There have been writers of late who have wondered why the "Mormon" people were not lead to the Pacific Coast, either to California or to Oregon. 

There are many reasons why those countries would have been better places to build and yet there is a glory in knowing that after all the arid lands of the world have produced the greatest civilizations both anciently and in modern times. A recent economic critic in the Atlantic Monthly declares that the people who plant settlements and maintain small towns where all the people take part in civic and religious lives are placing the highest and best and broadest foundation for the development of modern civilization and culture. 

The settlements, that were developed in this arid west in the early days are a lesson to the world in civic life, and here was planted the old Teutonic township form of government, the finest type of democracy on the face of the globe; and according to Charles Gross of Harvard University, the one place outside of New England where there has been developed a civic life that is the equal of any other place in the world's history. I want to say here that in Utah was developed a democracy even greater than the democracy in New England, "because in our town mettings, in our civic centers, not only were the men permitted to take part and to vote on the great questions of life, but the women were given that privilege as well, which is an announcement to the world that we absolutely believe in equality and the right of the woman to take her part in the great civic life of humanity. Our history, my brethren and sisters, is not a chronological history; it is a history of great expressions of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It has expressed itself in great economic civic, intellectual, social and ethical institu and these are what we should study and learn and love and abide by, just as the Book of Mormon itself becomes a book of majesty and repute, because of its description and maintenance of the great Semitic institutions of ancient times. Over a hundred years ago when Benjamin Franklin was at the court of England he was asked by one of the parliamentarians why the American people were giving to the world the great expression that all men are created equal and are endowed with rights and privileges that are sacred, the rights and privileges to live and to live before the law, both of God and of man. He answered it in a very eloquent manner when he said that "the reason why we announce that, as a people is because it is the new light that has come to a new land." In the 28th chapter of the Book of Alma we have there possibly one of the greatest statements in all literature and history why the race has become unequal, why there is an inequality among men. The Prophet Alma says it is because men have sinned and iniquity has come because of the different degrees of sins. Equality will come when we abide by the laws of righteousness and truth. The Book of Mormon becomes then a great work for us to study for its institutional history. In the Book of Mosiah, again, we find some of the most splendid examples in the history of the old Semitic townships, and Hebrew townships, which were pure democracies. We find in the book of Alma examples of economic thrift which a modern man at the university of Berlin has declared to be fundamentally the broadest conception of economic activity known to the world's history. We have then muCh, we  done much, we have accomplished much and we have served a notice upon the world that we stand above all for Christ and Him crucified; and if I were asked today what I should like to see more than anything else it would be to have Christ in our homes more and more and to know the Messiah, to understand Him, why He gave His blood for the redemption of the world. I wish that in every home in Zion the name of the Savior would be used sacredly every day, and that if you and I were asked who it is that we hold up as greater than anyone else our reply would be Jesus the Christ, whom we love, whom we worship and whom we obey. The world needs Christ more than ever. If ever in the past it has needed Him, very well and good; but certainly Christ and Him crucified is needed today more than ever. 

And I want to say here in passing another point, a reference to the early history of this state. Some have said that we are growing in knowledge and in power; I grant that. It is true. In many ways we are growing in knowledge and in power, but when it comes to culture, when it comes to morality, when it comes to faith, sublime faith in God. the highest form of culture, we are far behind our fathers and mothers. There was a stamp of culture in the early days of this state that was magnificient, where women were really stylish in the true sense of the term, artistic, because they dressed in accordance with the cleanliness of their honest souls, where they never knew debt, where they worked and had faith, and their dress became in a sense an expression of that work and faith. There was a culture in the dance and in the theatre, and Mr. M. B. Leavitt, the historian of the American Theatre, and the oldest manager today in America, says in his late book that of all people in the world who have held the theatre, the drama on a high plane and kept up the highest standard of dramatic appreciation, it is the "Mormon" people living in the Rocky Mountains. He obtained this idea from a study of the early ideals of this people toward literature and the drama, history and art. We have much to learn, but we have done a great work. It is for us to know it and keep it in mind, and I want to say that for one I appreciate the culture that has been in this state among our fathers and our mothers, the cleanliness and the purity of the lives of the Pioneers of this state; for they were a great people, and you women, you sisters, played your part gloriously in the development of this work. 

Mr. Claxton, the United States commissioner of education spoke here last July, and in his magnificent address, he told the assemblage of teachers in this Tabernacle, that the poet Goethe in "Faust" gives us the ideal of education when he said every man should become a worker for the light and every child should be taught that his soul is divine before his God, and it is for him to work out his salvation before his maker; and he quoted from "Faust"" those words where he ^ays "there are two forces contending for the control of my * soul — light and darkness." Then Faust says, "I shall, through the will that God gave me, overcome wrong, seek the light and find the giver of life." Mr. Claxton said that when we teach our children that this is the funda of religion and education, then shall we have partly solved our problems. 

I wish to say in conclusion that this is the idea of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; that is gloriously oui dream, our ideal, that every human being is a child of the living God, and when he is touched with the knowledge of his divinity he shall go on to perfection, salvation by obedience to the laws of God, and an understanding of the laws of nature. May the Lord help us to see these great truths, to understand them, to put them into life. There is a majesty to our history, there is a majesty to this people, and a pride. We have the right to lift up our eyes and be proud — not proud in pride, but proud in humility, proud that God has given us a knowledge of the Gospel, proud that we are becoming ministers for the Most High in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, living with our heads up, with our eyes toward God, always with the knowledge that we are the servants of the Lord Jesus Christ, to administer in His holy ordinances for the salvation of the human race. May the Lord help us to see these things and sense them keenly and put them into practice, and to have a pride in our people, in our history, and above all a pride in and a love for God, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The choir sang the anthem, "Palm Branches." 

Benediction was pronounced by Elder Wiremu Takana (Duncan), a native of New Zealand. 

Corrference adjourned until 2 p.m. 


